# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document..
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum radio frequency performance of
UTRA FDD repeaters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.143: \"UTRA Repeater Conformance Testing\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.113: \"Base Station and Repeater Electromagnetic
Compatibility\".
[4] ETSI ETR 273-1-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); Improvement of radiated methods of measurement (using test
sites) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties; Part 1:
Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment characteristics;
Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".
[5] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"RF System Scenarios\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"UTRA(BS) FDD; Radio transmission and Reception\".
[7] CEPT ECC Decision (13)03, \"The harmonised use of the frequency band
1452-1492 MHz for Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks Supplemental Downlink
(MFCN SDL) \".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Donor coupling loss:** is the coupling loss between the repeater and the
donor base station.
**Down-link** : Signal path where base station transmits and mobile receives.
**Operating band** : the frequency range in which UTRA FDD operates, that is
defined with a specific set of technical requirements.
NOTE 1: The operating band(s) for an UTRA Repeater is declared by the
manufacturer according to the designations in clause 5.1, Table 5.1.
NOTE 2: Unless specified, operating band refers to the uplink operating band
and downlink operating band.
**Pass band:** The frequency range in which the repeater operates in with
operational configuration. This frequency range can correspond to one or
several consecutive nominal 5 MHz channels. If they are not consecutive each
subset of channels shall be considered as an individual pass band. A repeater
can have one or several pass bands.
**Repeater:** A device that receives, amplifies and transmits the radiated or
conducted RF carrier both in the down-link direction (from the base station to
the mobile area) and in the up-link direction (from the mobile to the base
station). In operating bands specified with only down-link or up-link, only
the up-link or down-link as specified for the operating band is repeated.
**Up-link:** Signal path where mobile transmits and base station receives.
## 3.2 Symbols
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BS Base Transceiver Station
DL Down Link (forward link)
DTT Digital Terrestrial Television
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FFS For Further Study
IMT2000 International Mobile Telecommunication-2000
ITU International Telecommunication Union
RCDE Relative Code Domain Error.
RF Radio Frequency
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UL Up Link (reverse link)
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
WCDMA Wide band Code Division Multiple Access
# 4 General
This specification applies only to UTRA-FDD repeaters.
Unless otherwise stated, all requirements in this specification apply to both
the up-link and down-link directions, where applicable.
## 4.1 Relationship between Minimum Requirements and Test Requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The repeater test specification 25.143 section 5 [2]
defines Test Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for
each test. The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in
this specification to create Test Requirements.
The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ETR 273 Part 1 sub-part 2 section 6.5
[4].
## 4.2 Regional requirements
Some requirements in TS 25.106 may only apply in certain regions. Table 4.1
lists all requirements that may be applied differently in different regions.
Table 4.1: List of regional requirements.
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments 5.1 Frequency bands Some bands may be
applied regionally. 5.2 TX -- RX frequency separation The requirement is
applied according to which frequency bands in Clause 5.1 that are supported by
the Repeater. 5.3 Channel arrangement The requirement is applied according to
what frequency bands in clause 5.1 that are supported by the Repeater. 6.1
Maximum output power In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal
conditions may apply also for some conditions outside the ranges of conditions
defined as normal. 9.1. 2 Operating band unwanted emissions The mask specified
may be mandatory in certain regions. In other regions this mask may not be
applied. Additional spectrum protection may apply regionally. 9.2.1.1 Spurious
emissions (Category A) These requirements shall be met in cases where Category
A limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329
[1], are applied. 9.2.1.2 Spurious emissions (Category B) These requirements
shall be met in cases where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as
defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [1], are applied. 9.2.3 Spurious
emissions: Co-existence with other systems in the same geographical area These
requirements may apply in geographic areas in which both UTRA FDD Repeater and
GSM900 DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or UTRA FDD operating in another frequency
band are deployed. 9.2.4 Spurious emissions: Co-existence with co-located and
co-sited base stations These requirements may be applied for the protection of
other BS receivers when GSM900 DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or FDD BS
operating in another frequency band are co-located with a UTRA FDD Repeater.
9.2.5 Spurious emissions: Co-existence with PHS This requirement may be
applied for the protection of PHS in geographic areas in which both PHS and
UTRA FDD Repeaters are deployed. 9.2.6.1 Spurious emissions: Co-existence with
UTRA-TDD and/or E-UTRA TDD - Operation in the same geographic area This
requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA UE in geographic areas
in which both UTRA TDD BS and UTRA FDD Repeaters are deployed. 9.2.6.2
Spurious emissions: Co-existence with UTRA-TDD and/or E-UTRA TDD - Co-location
This requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA TDD BS receivers
when UTRA TDD BS and UTRA FDD Repeaters are co-located. 9.2.8 Spurious
emissions: Protection of public safety operations This requirement may be
applied for the protection of public safety systems in geographic areas in
which both UTRA FDD Repeater and public safety systems are deployed. 11.2
Input Intermodulation: Co-location with BS in other systems The requirement
may be applied when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or UTRA FDD BS
operating in another frequency band and UTRA-FDD Repeaters are co-located.
11.3 Input Intermodulation: Co-existence with other systems These requirements
may apply in geographic areas in which both UTRA FDD Repeater and GSM900,
DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or UTRA FDD operating in another frequency band
are deployed.
* * *
# 5 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 Frequency bands
a) A UTRA/FDD Repeater is designed to operate in one or several pass bands
within either of the following operating bands;
Table 5.1: Frequency bands
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Operating Band | UL Frequencies | DL frequencies | | | | | | | UE transmit, Node B receive | UE receive, Node B transmit | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | I | 1920 - 1980 MHz | 2110 -2170 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | II | 1850 -1910 MHz | 1930 -1990 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | III | 1710 - 1785 MHz | 1805 - 1880 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | IV | 1710 - 1755 MHz | 2110 - 2155 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | V | 824 - 849MHz | 869 - 894MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VI | 830 - 840 MHz | 875 - 885 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VII | 2500 - 2570 MHz | 2620 - 2690 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VIII | 880 - 915 MHz | 925 - 960 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | IX | 1749.9 - 1784.9 MHz | 1844.9 - 1879.9 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | X | 1710 - 1770 MHz | 2110 - 2170 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XI | 1427.9 - 1447.9 MHz | 1475.9 - 1495.9 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XII | 698 - 716 MHz | 728 - 746 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XIII | 777 - 787 MHz | 746 - 756 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XIV | 788 - 798 MHz | 758 - 768 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XV | Reserved | Reserved | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XVI | Reserved | Reserved | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XVII | Reserved | Reserved | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XVII | Reserved | Reserved | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XIX | 830 -- 845 MHz | 875 -- 890 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XX | 832 -- 862 MHz | 791 -- 821 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XXI | 1447.9 -- 1462.9 MHz | 1495.9 -- 1510.9 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XXII | 3410 -- 3490 MHz | 3510 -- 3590 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XXV | 1850 -- 1915 MHz | 1930 -- 1995 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XXVI | 814 -- 849 MHz | 859 -- 894 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XXXII | N/A | 1452 -- 1496 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
b) Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded.
## 5.2 TX - RX frequency separation
a) A UTRA/FDD repeaters is designed to operate with the following TX to RX
frequency separation
Table 5.2: TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
Operating Band TX-RX frequency separation I 190 MHz II 80 MHz. III 95 MHz IV
400 MHz V 45 MHz VI 45 MHz VII 120 MHz VIII 45 MHz IX 95 MHz X 400 MHz XI 48
MHz XII 30 MHz XIII 31 MHz XIV 30 MHz XIX 45 MHz XX 41 MHz XXI 48 MHz XXII 100
MHz XXV 80 MHz XXVI 45 MHz
* * *
b) A UTRA/FDD repeater can support both fixed and variable up-link to down-
link frequency separation.
c) The use of other up-link to down-link frequency separations in existing or
other frequency bands shall not be precluded.
## 5.3 Channel arrangement
### 5.3.1 Channel spacing
The nominal channel spacing is 5 MHz, but this can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.3.2 Channel raster
The channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands, which means that the centre
frequency must be an integer multiple of 200 kHz. In addition, a number of
additional centre frequencies are specified according to the table 5.3, which
means that and the centre frequencies for these channels are shifted 100 kHz
relative to the general raster.
### 5.3.3 Channel number
The carrier frequency is designated by the UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency
Channel Number (UARFCN).
For each operating band, the UARFCN values are defined as follows.
Uplink: N~U~ = 5 * (F~UL~ - F~UL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~UL_low~ ≤ F~UL~ ≤ F~UL_high~
Downlink: N~D~ = 5 * (F~DL~ - F~DL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~DL_low~ ≤ F~DL~ ≤ F~DL_high~
For each operating Band, F~UL_Offset~, F~UL_low~, F~UL_high~, F~DL_Offset~,,
F~DL_low~ and F~DL_high~ are defined in Table 5.3 for the general UARFCN. For
the additional UARFCN, F~UL_Offset~, F~DL_Offset~ and the specific F~UL~ and
F~DL~ are defined in Table 5.4.
Table 5.3: UARFCN definition (general)
+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Band | UPLINK | D | | | | | | | (UL) | OWNLINK | | | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | tr | UE | | | | | | | ansmit, | r | | | | | | | Node B | eceive, | | | | | | | receive | Node B | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | UARFCN | Carrier | UARFCN | Carrier | | | | | formula | fr | formula | fr | | | | | offset | equency | offset | equency | | | | | | (F~UL~) | | (F~DL~) | | | | | F~UL_ | range | F~DL_ | range | | | | | Offset~ | [MHz] | Offset~ | [MHz] | | | | | [MHz] | | [MHz] | | | | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | F~U | F~UL | | **F~DL\ | * | | | | L_low~ | _high~ | | _low~** | _F~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~_ * | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | 0 | 1922.4 | 1977.6 | 0 | 2112.4 | 2167.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | II | 0 | 1852.4 | 1907.6 | 0 | 1932.4 | 1987.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | III | 1525 | 1712.4 | 1782.6 | 1575 | 1807.4 | 1877.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | IV | 1450 | 1712.4 | 1752.6 | 1805 | 2112.4 | 2152.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | V | 0 | 826.4 | 846.6 | 0 | 871.4 | 891.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VI | 0 | 832.4 | 837.6 | 0 | 877.4 | 882.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VII | 2100 | 2502.4 | 2567.6 | 2175 | 2622.4 | 2687.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VIII | 340 | 882.4 | 912.6 | 340 | 927.4 | 957.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | IX | 0 | 1752.4 | 1782.4 | 0 | 1847.4 | 1877.4 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | X | 1135 | 1712.4 | 1767.6 | 1490 | 2112.4 | 2167.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XI | 733 | 1430.4 | 1450.4 | 736 | 1478.4 | 1498.4 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XII | -22 | 700.4 | 713.6 | -37 | 730.4 | 743.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIII | 21 | 779.4 | 784.6 | -55 | 748.4 | 753.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIV | 12 | 790.4 | 795.6 | -63 | 760.4 | 765.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIX | 770 | 832.4 | 842.6 | 735 | 877.4 | 887.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XX | -23 | 834.4 | 859.6 | -109 | 793.4 | 818.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XXI | 1358 | 1450.4 | 1460.4 | 1326 | 1498.4 | 1508.4 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XXII | 2525 | 3412.4 | 3487.6 | 2580 | 3512.4 | 3587.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XXV | 875 | 1852.4 | 1912.6 | 910 | 1932.4 | 1992.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XXVI | -291 | 816.4 | 846.6 | -291 | 861.4 | 891.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XXXII | - | N/A | N/A | 131 | 1454.4 | 1493.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 5.4: UARFCN definition (additional channels)
+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Band | UPLINK (UL) | DOWNLINK | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | UE transmit, | | | | | | Node B | UE receive, | | | | | receive | Node B | | | | | | transmit | | | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | UARFCN | Carrier | UARFCN | Carrier | | | formula | frequency | formula | frequency | | | offset | [MHz] | offset | [MHz] | | | | | | | | | F | (F~UL~) | F | (F~DL~) | | | ~UL_Offset~ | | ~DL_Offset~ | | | | [MHz] | | [MHz] | | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | I | - | **-** | **-** | **-** | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | II | 1850.1 | 1852.5, | 1850.1 | 1932.5, | | | | 1857.5, | | 1937.5, | | | | 1862.5, | | 1942.5, | | | | 1867.5, | | 1947.5, | | | | 1872.5, | | 1952.5, | | | | 1877.5, | | 1957.5, | | | | 1882.5, | | 1962.5, | | | | 1887.5, | | 1967.5, | | | | 1892.5, | | 1972.5, | | | | 1897.5, | | 1977.5, | | | | 1902.5, | | 1982.5, | | | | 1907.5 | | 1987.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | III | - | - | - | - | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | IV | 1380.1 | 1712.5, | 1735.1 | 2112.5, | | | | 1717.5, | | 2117.5, | | | | 1722.5, | | 2122.5, | | | | 1727.5, | | 2127.5, | | | | 1732.5, | | 2132.5, | | | | 1737.5 | | 2137.5, | | | | 1742.5, | | 2142.5, | | | | 1747.5, | | 2147.5, | | | | 1752.5 | | 2152.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | V | 670.1 | 826.5, | 670.1 | 871.5, | | | | 827.5, | | 872.5, | | | | 831.5, | | 876.5, | | | | 832.5, | | | | | | 837.5, 842.5 | | 877.5, | | | | | | 882.5, 887.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | VI | 670.1 | 832.5, 837.5 | 670.1 | 877.5, 882.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | VII | 2030.1 | 2502.5, | 2105.1 | 2622.5, | | | | 2507.5, | | 2627.5, | | | | 2512.5, | | 2632.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2517.5, | | 2637.5, | | | | 2522.5, | | 2642.5, | | | | 2527.5, | | 2647.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2532.5, | | 2652.5, | | | | 2537.5, | | 2657.5, | | | | 2542.5, | | 2662.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2547.5, | | 2667.5, | | | | 2552.5, | | 2672.5, | | | | 2557.5, | | 2677.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2562.5, | | 2682.5, | | | | 2567.5 | | 2687.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | VIII | - | **-** | **-** | **-** | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | IX | - | - | - | - | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | X | 1075.1 | 1712.5, | 1430.1 | 2112.5, | | | | 1717.5, | | 2117.5, | | | | 1722.5, | | 2122.5, | | | | 1727.5, | | 2127.5, | | | | 1732.5, | | 2132.5, | | | | 1737.5, | | 2137.5, | | | | 1742.5, | | 2142.5, | | | | 1747.5, | | 2147.5, | | | | 1752.5, | | 2152.5, | | | | 1757.5, | | 2157.5, | | | | 1762.5, | | 2162.5, | | | | 1767.5 | | 2167.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XI | - | - | - | - | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XII | -39.9 | 700.5, | -54.9 | 730.5, | | | | 701.5, | | 731.5, | | | | 706.5, | | 736.5, | | | | 707.5, | | 737.5, | | | | 712.5, 713.5 | | 742.5, 743.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIII | 11.1 | 779.5, 784.5 | -64.9 | 748.5, 753.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIV | 2.1 | 790.5, 795.5 | -72.9 | 760.5, 765.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIX | 755.1 | 832.5, | 720.1 | 877.5, | | | | 837.5, 842.5 | | 882.5, 887.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XX | - | - | - | - | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XXI | - | - | - | - | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XXII | - | - | - | - | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XXV | 810.1 | 1852.5, | 845.1 | 1932.5, | | | | 1857.5, | | 1937.5, | | | | 1862.5, | | 1942.5, | | | | 1867.5, | | 1947.5, | | | | 1872.5, | | 1952.5, | | | | 1877.5, | | 1957.5, | | | | 1882.5, | | 1962.5, | | | | 1887.5, | | 1967.5, | | | | 1892.5, | | 1972.5, | | | | 1897.5, | | 1977.5, | | | | 1902.5, | | 1982.5, | | | | 1907.5, | | 1987.5, | | | | 1912.5 | | 1992.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XXVI | -325.9 | 816.5, | -325.9 | 861.5, | | | | 821.5, | | 866.5, | | | | 826.5, | | 871.5, | | | | 827.5, | | 872.5, | | | | 831.5, | | 876.5, | | | | 832.5, | | 877.5, | | | | 836.5, | | 881.5, | | | | 837.5, | | 882.5, | | | | 841.5, | | 886.5, | | | | 842.5, 846.5 | | 887.5, 891.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XXXII | - | - | 87.1 | 1454.5, | | | | | | 1459.5, | | | | | | 1464.5, | | | | | | 1469.5, | | | | | | 1474.5, | | | | | | 1479.5, | | | | | | 1484.5, | | | | | | 1489.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
# 6 Output power
Output power, Pout, of the repeater is the mean power of one carrier at
maximum repeater gain delivered to a load with resistance equal to the nominal
load impedance of the transmitter.
Rated output power, PRAT, of the repeater is the mean power level per carrier
at maximum repeater gain that the manufacturer has declared to be available at
the antenna connector.
## 6.1 Maximum output power
Maximum output power, Pmax, of the repeater is the mean power level per
carrier measured at the antenna connector in specified reference condition.
### 6.1.1 Minimum Requirements
The requirements shall apply at maximum gain, with WCDMA signals in the pass
band of the repeater, at levels that produce the maximum rated output power
per channel.
When the power of all signals is increased by 10 dB, compared to the power
level that produce the maximum rated output power, the requirements shall
still be met.
In normal conditions, the Repeater maximum output power shall remain within
limits specified in Table 6.1 relative to the manufacturer\'s rated output
power.
Table 6.1: Repeater output power; normal conditions
* * *
Rated output power Limit P ≥ 43 dBm +2 dB and -2 dB 39 ≤ P \ 37.5kHz from the channel edge
* * *
# 10 Modulation accuracy
## 10.1 Error Vector Magnitude
The modulation accuracy is defined by the Error Vector Magnitude (EVM), which
is a measure of the difference between the theoretical waveform and a modified
version of the measured waveform. This difference is called the error vector.
The measured waveform is modified by first passing it through a matched root
raised cosine filter with bandwidth 3.84 MHz and roll-off α=0.22. The waveform
is then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute phase, absolute
amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the error vector. The EVM
result is defined as root of the ratio of the mean error vector power to the
mean reference signal power expressed as a %.
The measurement interval is one power control group (timeslot). The repeater
shall operate with an ideal WCDMA signal in the pass band of the repeater at a
level, which produce the maximum rated output power per channel, as specified
by the manufacturer.
### 10.1.1 Minimum requirement
The Error Vector Magnitude shall not be worse than 12,5 %.
## 10.2 Peak code domain error
The peak code domain error is computed by projecting the power of the error
vector (as defined in subclause 10.1) onto the code domain at a specified
spreading factor. The code domain error for every code in the domain is
defined as the ratio of the mean power of the projection onto that code, to
the mean power of the composite reference waveform. This ratio is expressed in
dB. The peak code domain error is defined as the maximum value for the code
domain error for all codes. The measurement interval is one power control
group (timeslot).
### 10.2.1 Minimum requirement
The peak code domain error shall not exceed -35 dB at spreading factor 256.
## 10.3 Relative Code Domain Error (RCDE) for 64QAM modulation
The Relative Code Domain Error is computed by projecting the error vector (as
defined in 10.1) onto the code domain at a specified spreading factor. Only
the active code channels in the composite reference waveform are considered
for this requirement. The Relative Code Domain Error for every active code is
defined as the ratio of the mean power of the error projection onto that code,
to the mean power of the active code in the composite reference waveform. This
ratio is expressed in dB. The measurement interval is one frame.
The requirement for Relative Code Domain Error is only applicable for Repeater
supporting 64QAM modulated codes.
### 10.3.1 Minimum requirement
The average Relative Code Domain Error for 64QAM modulated codes shall not
exceed -21 dB at spreading factor 16.
# 11 Input Intermodulation
The input intermodulation is a measure of the capability of the repeater to
inhibit the generation of interference in the pass band, in the presence of
interfering signals on frequencies other than the pass band.
## 11.1 General Requirement
The following requirement applies for interfering signals in the frequency
bands defined in sub-clause 5.1, depending on the repeaters pass band. The
requirement shall bet met with the repeater operating at maximum gain.
### 11.1.1 Minimum requirement
For the parameters specified in table 11.1, the power in the pass band, shall
not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as measured in
the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained without
interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the 3^rd^ order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre of
the pass band.
Table 11.1 specifies the parameters for two interfering signals, where:
\- f_offset is the separation between the centre frequency of first or last 5
MHz channel in the pass band and one the interfering signals.
Table 11.1: Input intermodulation requirement
* * *
f_offset Interfering Signal Levels Type of signals Measurement bandwidth 3,5
MHz -40 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
* * *
## 11.2 Co-location with BS in other systems
The requirement shall bet met with the repeater operating at maximum gain.
### 11.2.1 Minimum requirements - Co-location with GSM, DCS, PCS, UTRA FDD
and/or E-UTRA FDD
This additional input intermodulation requirement may be applied for the
protection of FDD Repeater input when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850, E-UTRA
FDD and/or UTRA FDD BS are co-located with a UTRA FDD Repeater.
For the parameters specified in table 11.2, the power in the pass band shall
not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as measured in
the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained without
interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the lowest order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre
of the pass band.
NOTE 1: The lowest intermodulation product corresponds to the 4^th^ and 3^rd^
order for the GSM 900 and DCS 1800 bands, respectively.
Table 11.2: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in
other systems
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Co | F | Int | Type of | Mea | Note | | -located | requency | erfering | signals | surement | | | other | of | Signal | | b | | | systems | int | Levels | | andwidth | | | | erfering | | | | | | | signals | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM900 | 921 ‑ | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | | 960 MHz | | carriers | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | VIII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DCS1800 | 1805 ‑ | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | | 1880 MHz | | carriers | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | III, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | PCS1900 | 1930 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | | 1990 MHz | | carriers | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | II or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XXV, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM850 | 869 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | or | 894 MHz | | carriers | | req | | CDMA850 | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | V or | | | | | | | XXVI, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 2110 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band I | 2170 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 1 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | I, since | | | | | | | it is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1930 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band II | 1990 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 2 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | II or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XXV, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1805 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band III | 1880 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 3 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | III or | | | | | | | band IX, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 2110 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band IV | 2155 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 4 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | IV or | | | | | | | band X, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 869 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band V | 894 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 5 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | V or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XXVI, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 860 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band VI | 890 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or XIX | | | | | uirement | | or | | | | | does not | | E‑UTRA | | | | | apply to | | Band 6, | | | | | UTRA FDD | | 18 or 19 | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | VI, XIX | | | | | | | or XXVI, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 2620 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band VII | 2690 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 7 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | VII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 925 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band | 960 MHz | | carriers | | req | | VIII or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 8 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | VIII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1844.9 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band IX | 1879.9 | | carriers | | req | | or | MHz | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 9 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | III or | | | | | | | band IX, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 2110 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band X | 2170 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 10 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | IV or | | | | | | | band X, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1475.9 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band XI | 1510.9 | | carriers | | req | | or XXI | MHz | | | | uirement | | or | | | | | does not | | E‑UTRA | | | | | apply to | | Band 11 | | | | | UTRA FDD | | or 21 | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XI or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XXI, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXXII, | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | 1475.9 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | 1496 | | | | | | | MHz, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 728 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band XII | 746 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 12 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 746 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band | 756 MHz | | carriers | | req | | XIII or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 13 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XIII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 758 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band XIV | 768 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 14 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XIV, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E‑UTRA | 734 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band 17 | 746 MHz | | carriers | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 791 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band XX | 821 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 20 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XX, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 3510 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band | 3590 MHz | | carriers | | req | | XXII or | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 22 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 2180 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 23 | 2200 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 1525 -- | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 24 | 1559 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1930 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band XXV | 1995 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 25 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXV, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | | | | | | | For UTRA | | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | II, it | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | 1990MHz | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | 1995MHz, | | | | | | | while | | | | | | | the rest | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 859 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band | 894 MHz | | carriers | | req | | XXVI or | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 26 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXVI, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | | | | | | | For UTRA | | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | V, it | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | from 859 | | | | | | | MHz to | | | | | | | 869 MHz, | | | | | | | while | | | | | | | the rest | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 852 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | For UTRA | | Band 27 | 869 MHz | | carriers | | FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXVI, it | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | from 852 | | | | | | | MHz to | | | | | | | 859 MHz, | | | | | | | while | | | | | | | the rest | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 758 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 28 | 803 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 717 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 29 | 728 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 2350 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 30 | 2360 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 462.5 -- | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 31 | 467.5 | | carriers | | | | | MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1452 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band | 1496 MHz | | carriers | | req | | XXXII or | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 32 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XI, XXI | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | XXXII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | BS and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | co- | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | 11.2 do | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epeaters | | | | | | | pass | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | range is | | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | range of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | co- | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | 11.2. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | current | | | | | | | state-of | | | | | | | -the-art | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | chnology | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | generic | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | co- | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | quencies | | | | | | | for 30 | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | Rep | | | | | | | eater-BS | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | | However, | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | site-eng | | | | | | | ineering | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | olutions | | | | | | | that can | | | | | | | be used. | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | chniques | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ddressed | | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | | 25.942 | | | | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | assumes | | | | | | | that two | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | bands, | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | ranges | | | | | | | would be | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | lapping, | | | | | | | are not | | | | | | | deployed | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | geog | | | | | | | raphical | | | | | | | area. | | | | | | | For such | | | | | | | a case | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | peration | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | rlapping | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | arra | | | | | | | ngements | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | geog | | | | | | | raphical | | | | | | | area, | | | | | | | special | | | | | | | co-e | | | | | | | xistence | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | that are | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | specifi | | | | | | | cations. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 11.2.2 Minimum Requirement - Co-location with UTRA-TDD and/or E-UTRA TDD
An additional input intermodulation requirement may be applied for the
protection of FDD BS receivers when UTRA TDD and/or E-UTRA TDD is co-located
with a UTRA FDD Repeater.
The requirements in this chapter assume a 30 dB coupling loss between
transmitter and receiver.
The current state-of-the-art technology does not allow a single generic
solution for co-location with UTRA-TDD on adjacent frequencies for 30dB BS-
Repeater minimum coupling loss.
However, there are certain site-engineering solutions that can be used. These
techniques are addressed in TR 25.942 [5].
Table 11.2A: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in
UTRA and E-UTRA TDD systems
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Co-located | Frequency | Interfering | Type of | Measurement | | other | of | Signal | signals | bandwidth | | system | interfering | Levels | | | | | signals | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1900 - 1920 | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | Band a) or\ | MHz | | carriers | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 33 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2010 -- | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | Band a) or\ | 2025 MHz | | carriers | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 34 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA-TDD | 2570 - 2620 | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | Band d) or\ | MHz | | carriers | | | E-UTRA TDD | | | | | | Band 38 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1880 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | Band f) or\ | 1920MHz | | carriers | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 39 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2300 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | Band e) or\ | 2400MHz | | carriers | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 40 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | 2496 - 2690 | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | Band 41 | MHz | | carriers | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | 3400 - 3600 | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | Band 42 | MHz | | carriers | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | 3600 - 3800 | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | Band 43 | MHz | | carriers | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | 703 - 803 | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | Band 44 | MHz | | carriers | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | in | | | | | | Table 11.2A | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeaters | | | | | | pass band | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range is | | | | | | adjacent to | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in the | | | | | | T | | | | | | able 11.2A. | | | | | | The current | | | | | | state | | | | | | -of-the-art | | | | | | technology | | | | | | does not | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | single | | | | | | generic | | | | | | solution | | | | | | for | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | with other | | | | | | system on | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for 30 dB | | | | | | Repeater-BS | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | However, | | | | | | there are | | | | | | certain | | | | | | site- | | | | | | engineering | | | | | | solutions | | | | | | that can be | | | | | | used. These | | | | | | techniques | | | | | | are | | | | | | addressed | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | 25.942 | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | table above | | | | | | assumes | | | | | | that two | | | | | | operating | | | | | | bands, | | | | | | where the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | ranges | | | | | | would be | | | | | | o | | | | | | verlapping, | | | | | | are not | | | | | | deployed in | | | | | | the same | | | | | | g | | | | | | eographical | | | | | | area. For | | | | | | such a case | | | | | | of | | | | | | operation | | | | | | with | | | | | | overlapping | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | a | | | | | | rrangements | | | | | | in the same | | | | | | g | | | | | | eographical | | | | | | area, | | | | | | special | | | | | | c | | | | | | o-existence | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | may apply | | | | | | that are | | | | | | not covered | | | | | | by the 3GPP | | | | | | spec | | | | | | ifications. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 11.3 Co-existence with other systems
The following requirement may be applied when GSM 900, DCS 1800, PCS1900,
GSM850, E-UTRA FDD, E-UTRA TDD BS and/or UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD BS operating in
another frequency band and UTRA-FDD Repeaters co-exist. The requirement shall
bet met with the repeater operating at maximum gain.
### 11.3.1 Minimum requirements
For the parameters specified in table 11.3 and table 11.3A, the power in the
pass band shall not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the
repeater as measured in the centre of the pass band, compared to the level
obtained without interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the lowest order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre
of the pass band.
NOTE 1: The lowest intermodulation product corresponds to the 4^th^ and 3^rd^
order for the GSM 900 and DCS 1800 bands, respectively.
Table 11.3: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in
other systems
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Co-e | F | Int | Type of | Mea | Note | | xistence | requency | erfering | signals | surement | | | with | of | Signal | | b | | | other | int | Levels | | andwidth | | | systems | erfering | | | | | | | signals | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM900 | 876 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | | 915 MHz | | carriers | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | VIII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DCS1800 | 1710 ‑ | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | | 1785 MHz | | carriers | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | III, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | PCS1900 | 1850 ‑ | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | | 1910 MHz | | carriers | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | II or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XXV, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM850 | 824 ‑ | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | or | 849 MHz | | carriers | | req | | CDMA850 | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | V or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XXVI, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1920 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band I | 1980 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 1 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | I, since | | | | | | | it is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1850 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band II | 1910 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 2 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | II or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XXV, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1710 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band III | 1785 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 3 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | III or | | | | | | | band IX, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1710 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band IV | 1755 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 4 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | IV or | | | | | | | band X, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 824 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band V | 849 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 5 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | V or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XXVI, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 815 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band VI | 8845 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or XIX | | | | | uirement | | or | | | | | does not | | E‑UTRA | | | | | apply to | | Band 6, | | | | | UTRA FDD | | 18 or 19 | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | VI or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XIX, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | the UL | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | V or XX. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 2500 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band VII | 2570 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 7 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | VII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 880 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band | 915 MHz | | carriers | | req | | VIII or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 8 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | VIII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1749,9 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band IX | 1784,9 | | carriers | | req | | or | MHz | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 9 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | III or | | | | | | | band IX, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1710 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band X | 1770 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 10 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | IV or | | | | | | | band X, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1427.9 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band XI | 1447.9 | | carriers | | req | | or XXI | MHz | | | | uirement | | or | | | | | does not | | E‑UTRA | | | | | apply to | | Band 11 | | | | | UTRA FDD | | or 21 | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XI, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 1447.9 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | | 1462.9 | | carriers | | req | | | MHz | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXI, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | | | | | | | For UTRA | | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXXII, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | 1447.9 | | | | | | | MHz to | | | | | | | 1452 | | | | | | | MHz, | | | | | | | while | | | | | | | the rest | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11. 1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 698 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band XII | 716 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 12 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 777 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band | 787 MHz | | carriers | | req | | XIII or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 13 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XIII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 788 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band XIV | 798 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 14 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XIV, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E‑UTRA | 704 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band 17 | 716 MHz | | carriers | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 832 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band XX | 862 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 20 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XX, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 3410 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band | 3490 MHz | | carriers | | req | | XXII or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 22 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXII, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E‑UTRA | 2000 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 23 | 2020 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E‑UTRA | 1626.5 | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 24 | -- | | carriers | | | | | 1660.5 | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1850 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band XXV | 1915 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 25 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXV, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | | | | | | | For UTRA | | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | II, it | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | 1910MHz | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | 1915MHz, | | | | | | | while | | | | | | | the rest | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 814 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band | 849 MHz | | carriers | | req | | XXVI or | | | | | uirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 26 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXVI, | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | | | | | | | For UTRA | | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | V, it | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | 814MHz | | | | | | | to 824 | | | | | | | MHz, | | | | | | | while | | | | | | | the rest | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E‑UTRA | 807 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | For UTRA | | Band 27 | 824 MHz | | carriers | | FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXVI, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | 807MHz | | | | | | | to 814 | | | | | | | MHz, | | | | | | | while | | | | | | | the rest | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E‑UTRA | 703 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 28 | 748 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E‑UTRA | 2305 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 30 | 2315 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E‑UTRA | 452.5 -- | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 31 | 457.5 | | carriers | | | | | MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | co-e | | | | | | | xistence | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | Ta | | | | | | | ble 11.3 | | | | | | | do not | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epeaters | | | | | | | pass | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | range is | | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | range of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | co-e | | | | | | | xistence | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | Tab | | | | | | | le 11.3. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | current | | | | | | | state-of | | | | | | | -the-art | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | chnology | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | generic | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | co-ex | | | | | | | istence. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | assumes | | | | | | | that two | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | bands, | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | ranges | | | | | | | would be | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | lapping, | | | | | | | are not | | | | | | | deployed | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | geog | | | | | | | raphical | | | | | | | area. | | | | | | | For such | | | | | | | a case | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | peration | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | rlapping | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | arra | | | | | | | ngements | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | geog | | | | | | | raphical | | | | | | | area, | | | | | | | special | | | | | | | co-e | | | | | | | xistence | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | that are | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | specifi | | | | | | | cations. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 11.3A: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in
UTRA and E-UTRA TDD systems
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Co-e | F | Int | Type of | Mea | Note | | xistence | requency | erfering | signals | surement | | | with | of | Signal | | b | | | other | int | Levels | | andwidth | | | systems | erfering | | | | | | | signals | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1900 -- | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band a) | 1920 MHz | | carriers | | req | | or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 33 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | I, band | | | | | | | II or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XXV. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 2010 -- | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band a) | 2025 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 34 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-TDD | 2570 -- | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band d) | 2620 MHz | | carriers | | req | | and or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | TDD Band | | | | | apply to | | 38 | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | VII. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1880 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | Ap | | Band f) | 1920MHz | | carriers | | plicable | | or\ | | | | | in | | E-UTRA | | | | | China. | | Band 39 | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | II or | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | XXV. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 2300 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band e) | 2400MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 40 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 2496 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 41 | 2690 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 3400 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | Band 42 | 3600 MHz | | carriers | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | UTRA FDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | XXII. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 3600 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 43 | 3800 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | 703 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band 44 | 803 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | co-e | | | | | | | xistence | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | Tab | | | | | | | le 11.3A | | | | | | | do not | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epeaters | | | | | | | pass | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | range is | | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | range of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | co- | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | Tabl | | | | | | | e 11.3A. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | current | | | | | | | state-of | | | | | | | -the-art | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | chnology | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | generic | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | co- | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | quencies | | | | | | | for 30 | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | Rep | | | | | | | eater-BS | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | | However, | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | site-eng | | | | | | | ineering | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | olutions | | | | | | | that can | | | | | | | be used. | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | chniques | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ddressed | | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | | 25.942 | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | assumes | | | | | | | that two | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | bands, | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | ranges | | | | | | | would be | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | lapping, | | | | | | | are not | | | | | | | deployed | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | geog | | | | | | | raphical | | | | | | | area. | | | | | | | For such | | | | | | | a case | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | peration | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | rlapping | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | arra | | | | | | | ngements | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | geog | | | | | | | raphical | | | | | | | area, | | | | | | | special | | | | | | | co-e | | | | | | | xistence | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | that are | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | specifi | | | | | | | cations. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 12 Output intermodulation
The output intermodulation requirement is a measure of the ability of the
repeater to inhibit the generation of intermodulation products signals created
by the presence of an interfering signal reaching the repeater via the output
port.
The output intermodulation level is the power of the intermodulation products
when a WCDMA modulated interference signal is injected into the output port at
a level of 30 dB lower than that of the wanted signal. The frequency of the
interference signal shall be ±5 MHz, ±10 MHz and ±15 MHz offset from the
wanted signal, but within the frequency band allocated for UTRA FDD downlink
as specified in subclause 4.1.
The requirement is applicable for downlink signals.
### 12.1 Minimum requirement
The output intermodulation level shall not exceed the out of band emission or
the spurious emission requirements of section 9.1 and 9.2.
# 13 Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR)
## 13.1 Definitions and applicability
Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR) is the ratio of the RRC weighted gain
per carrier of the repeater in the pass band to the RRC weighted gain of the
repeater on an adjacent channel.
The requirement shall apply to the Uplink and Downlink of Repeater where the
donor link is maintained via antennas (over the air Repeater).
## 13.2 Minimum Requirements
In normal conditions the ACRR shall be higher than the value specified in the
Table 13.1.
Table 13.1: Repeater ACRR
* * *
Repeater maximum output power as in 9.1.1 Channel offset from the centre
frequency of the first or last 5 MHz channel within the pass band. ACRR limit
P ≥ 31 dBm 5 MHz 33dB P ≥ 31 dBm 10 MHz 33dB P \< 31 dBm 5 MHz 20dB P \< 31
dBm 10 MHz 20dB
* * *
#