# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes spreading and modulation for UTRA Physical
Layer TDD mode.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.201: \"Physical layer - general description\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.211: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.212: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.213: \"Spreading and modulation (FDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.215: \"Physical layer -- Measurements (FDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.221: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (TDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.222: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (TDD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.102: \"UTRA (UE) TDD; Radio Transmission and Reception\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.105: \"UTRA (BS) TDD; Radio Transmission and Reception\".
[11] 3GPP TS25.308: \"High Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[12] 3GPP TS25.224: "Physical Layer Procedures (TDD)"
[13] 3GPP TS25.321: "Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification"
# 3 Symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
C~p~: PSC
C~i~: i:th secondary SCH code
C _~CSC,\ m~^(k)^:_ CSC derived as _k_ :th offset version from _m_ :th
applicable constituent Golay complementary pair
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
16QAM 16 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
CCTrCH Coded Composite Transport Channel
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access
CSC Cell Synchronisation Code
DPCH Dedicated Physical Channel
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
HS-PDSCH High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Channel
IMB Integrated Mobile Broadcast
MBSFN MBSM over a Single Frequency Network
MIB Master Information Block
MU-MIMO Multi-User Multiple Input Multiple Output
OVSF Orthogonal Variable Spreading Factor
P-CCPCH Primary Common Control Physical Channel
PN Pseudo Noise
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PSC Primary Synchronisation Code
QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying
RACH Random Access Channel
SCH Synchronisation Channel
SF Spreading Factor
SFN System Frame Number
TDD Time Division Duplex
TFC Transport Format Combination
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 General
In the following, a separation between the data modulation and the spreading
modulation has been made. The data modulation for 3.84Mcps TDD (including 3.84
Mcps MBSFN IMB) and 7.68Mcps TDD is defined in clause 5 \'Data modulation for
the 3.84 Mcps and 7.68Mcps options\', the data modulation for 1.28Mcps TDD is
defined in clause 5A \'Data modulation for the 1.28 Mcps option\' and the
spreading modulation in clause 6 \'Spreading modulation\'.
Table 1 shows the basic modulation parameters for the 7.68Mcps, 3.84Mcps
(including 3.84 Mcps MBSFN IMB) and 1.28Mcps TDD options.
Table 1: Basic modulation parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Chip rate | 7.68 Mchip/s | same as FDD | Low chiprate: | | | | basic | | | | | chiprate: 3.84 | 1.28 Mchip/s | | | | Mchip/s and | | | | | 3.84 Mcps | | | | | MBSFN IMB | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Data | QPSK,16QAM | QPSK,16QAM | QPSK, | | modulation | (HS-PDSCH, | (HS-PDSCH, | 8PSK,16QAM | | | MBSFN S-CCPCH | MBSFN S-CCPCH | (HS-PDSCH, | | | and E-PUCH | and E-PUCH | E-PUCH, MBSFN | | | only) | only) | S-CCPCH only), | | | | | 64QAM | | | | | (HS-PDSCH | | | | | only) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Spreading | Orthogonal | Orthogonal | Orthogonal | | c | | | | | haracteristics | Q | Q | Q | | | chips/symbol,\ | chips/symbol,\ | chips/symbol,\ | | | where Q = | where Q = | where Q = | | | 2^p^, 0 \ = \
The PSC is generated by repeating the sequence \'a\' modulated by a Golay
complementary sequence and creating a complex-valued sequence with identical
real and imaginary components.
The PSC, C~p~ , is defined as C~p~ = \
where{width="3.9166666666666665in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
and the left most index corresponds to the chip transmitted first in time.
The 12 secondary synchronization codes, {C~0~, C~1,~ C~3,~ C~4,~ C~5,~ C~6,~
C~8,~ C~10,~ C~12,~ C~13,~ C~14~,C~15~ } are complex valued with identical
real and imaginary components, and are constructed from the position wise
multiplication of a Hadamard sequence and a sequence z, defined as
> z = {width="3.2083333333333335in" height="0.2222222222222222in"} , where
>
> b = {width="4.625in" height="0.25in"}
and x~1~, x~2~, x~3~, ..., x~16~ are the same as in the definition of the
sequence \'a\' above.
The Hadamard sequences are obtained as the rows in a matrix _H_ ~8~
constructed recursively by:
{width="2.0277777777777777in" height="0.7222222222222222in"}
The rows are numbered from the top starting with row _0_ (the all ones
sequence).
Denote the _n_ :th Hadamard sequence _h~n~_ as a row of _H~8~_ numbered from
the top, n = 0, 1, 2, ..., 255, in the sequel.
Furthermore, let _h~m~(l)_ and _z(l)_ denote the _l_ th symbol of the sequence
_h~m~_ and _z,_ respectively where _l_ = 0, 1, 2, ..., 255 and _l_ = 0
corresponds to the leftmost symbol.
The i:th secondary SCH code word, C~i~, i = 0, 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 13,
14, 15 is then defined as
> C~i~ = (1 + _j_) × \ _z_(2), ..., _h~m~_(255) × _z_(255)>,
>
> where _m_ = (16×i) and the leftmost chip in the sequence corresponds to the
> chip transmitted first in time.
## 7.2 Code Allocation
Three secondary SCH codes are QPSK modulated and transmitted in parallel with
the primary synchronization code. The QPSK modulation carries the following
information:
\- the code group that the base station belongs to (32 code groups:5 bits;
Cases 1, 2);
\- the position of the frame within an interleaving period of 20 msec (2
frames:1 bit, Cases 1, 2);
\- the position of the SCH slot(s) within the frame (2 SCH slots:1 bit, Case
2).
The modulated secondary SCH codes are also constructed such that their cyclic-
shifts are unique, i.e. a non-zero cyclic shift less than 2 (Case 1) and 4
(Case 2) of any of the sequences is not equivalent to some cyclic shift of any
other of the sequences. Also, a non-zero cyclic shift less than 2 (Case 1) and
4 (Case 2) of any of the sequences is not equivalent to itself with any other
cyclic shift less than 8. The secondary synchronization codes are partitioned
into two code sets for Case 1 and four code sets for Case 2. The set is used
to provide the following information:
[Case 1:]{.underline}
Table 2: Code Set Allocation for Case 1
* * *
Code Set Code Group 1 0-15 2 16-31
* * *
The code group and frame position information is provided by modulating the
secondary codes in the code set.
[Case 2:]{.underline}
Table 3: Code Set Allocation for Case 2
* * *
Code Set Code Group 1 0-7 2 8-15 3 16-23 4 24-31
* * *
The slot timing and frame position information is provided by the comma free
property of the code word and the Code group is provided by modulating some of
the secondary codes in the code set.
The following SCH codes are allocated for each code set:
[Case 1]{.underline}
Code set 1: C~1~, C~3~, C~5.~
Code set 2: C~10~, C~13~, C~14.~
[Case 2]{.underline}
Code set 1: C~1~, C~3~, C~5.~
Code set 2: C~10~, C~13~, C~14.~
Code set 3: C~0~, C~6~, C~12.~
Code set 4: C~4~, C~8~, C~15.~
The following subclauses 7.2.1 to 7.2.2 refer to the two cases of SCH/P-CCPCH
usage as described in [7].
Note that in the tables 4 and 5 corresponding to Cases 1 and 2, respectively,
Frame 1 implies the frame with an odd SFN and Frame 2 implies the frame with
an even SFN.
### 7.2.1 Code allocation for Case 1
Table 4: Code Allocation for Case 1
* * *
Code Group Code Set Frame 1 Frame 2 Associated t~offset~  
0 1 C~1~ C~3~ C~5~ C~1~ C~3~ -C~5~ t~0~ 1 1 C~1~ -C~3~ C~5~ C~1~ -C~3~ -C~5~
t~1~ 2 1 -C~1~ C~3~ C~5~ -C~1~ C~3~ -C~5~ t~2~ 3 1 -C~1~ -C~3~ C~5~ -C~1~
-C~3~ -C~5~ t~3~ 4 1 jC~1~ jC~3~ C~5~ jC~1~ jC~3~ -C~5~ t~4~ 5 1 jC~1~ -jC~3~
C~5~ jC~1~ -jC~3~ -C~5~ t~5~ 6 1 -jC~1~ jC~3~ C~5~ -jC~1~ jC~3~ -C~5~ t~6~ 7 1
-jC~1~ -jC~3~ C~5~ -jC~1~ -jC~3~ -C~5~ t~7~ 8 1 jC~1~ jC~5~ C~3~ jC~1~ jC~5~
-C~3~ t~8~ 9 1 jC~1~ -jC~5~ C~3~ jC~1~ -jC~5~ -C~3~ t~9~ 10 1 -jC~1~ jC~5~
C~3~ -jC~1~ jC~5~ -C~3~ t~10~ 11 1 -jC~1~ -jC~5~ C~3~ -jC~1~ -jC~5~ -C~3~
t~11~ 12 1 jC~3~ jC~5~ C~1~ jC~3~ jC~5~ -C~1~ t~12~ 13 1 jC~3~ -jC~5~ C~1~
jC~3~ -jC~5~ -C~1~ t~13~ 14 1 -jC~3~ jC~5~ C~1~ -jC~3~ jC~5~ -C~1~ t~14~ 15 1
-jC~3~ -jC~5~ C~1~ -jC~3~ -jC~5~ -C~1~ t~15~ 16 2 C~10~ C~13~ C~14~ C~10~
C~13~ -C~14~ t~16~ 17 2 C~10~ -C~13~ C~14~ C~10~ -C~13~ -C~14~ t~17~ ... ...
... ... ... ... ... ... ... 20 2 jC~10~ jC~13~ C~14~ jC~10~ jC~13~ -C~14~
t~20~ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 24 2 jC~10~ jC~14~ C~13~ jC~10~
jC~14~ -C~13~ t~24~ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 31 2 -jC~13~ -jC~14~
C~10~ -jC~13~ -jC~14~ -C~10~ t~31~
* * *
NOTE: The code construction for code groups 0 to 15 using only the SCH codes
from code set 1 is shown. The construction for code groups 16 to 31 using the
SCH codes from code set 2 is done in the same way.
### 7.2.2 Code allocation for Case 2
Table 5: Code Allocation for Case 2
* * *
Code Group Code Set Frame 1 Frame 2 Associated t~offset~  
Slot k Slot k+8 Slot k Slot k+8  
0 1 C~1~ C~3~ C~5~ C~1~ C~3~ -C~5~ -C~1~ -C~3~ C~5~ -C~1~ -C~3~ -C~5~ t~0~ 1 1
C~1~ -C~3~ C~5~ C~1~ -C~3~ -C~5~ -C~1~ C~3~ C~5~ -C~1~ C~3~ -C~5~ t~1~ 2 1
jC~1~ jC~3~ C~5~ jC~1~ jC~3~ -C~5~ -jC~1~ -jC~3~ C~5~ -jC~1~ -jC~3~ -C~5~ t~2~
3 1 jC~1~ -jC~3~ C~5~ jC~1~ -jC~3~ -C~5~ -jC~1~ jC~3~ C~5~ -jC~1~ jC~3~ -C~5~
t~3~ 4 1 jC~1~ jC~5~ C~3~ jC~1~ jC~5~ -C~3~ -jC~1~ -jC~5~ C~3~ -jC~1~ -jC~5~
-C~3~ t~4~ 5 1 jC~1~ -jC~5~ C~3~ jC~1~ -jC~5~ -C~3~ -jC~1~ jC~5~ C~3~ -jC~1~
jC~5~ -C~3~ t~5~ 6 1 jC~3~ jC~5~ C~1~ jC~3~ jC~5~ -C~1~ -jC~3~ -jC~5~ C~1~
-jC~3~ -jC~5~ -C~1~ t~6~ 7 1 jC~3~ -jC~5~ C~1~ jC~3~ -jC~5~ -C~1~ -jC~3~ jC~5~
C~1~ -jC~3~ jC~5~ -C~1~ t~7~ 8 2 C~10~ C~13~ C~14~ C~10~ C~13~ -C~14~ -C~10~
-C~13~ C~14~ -C~10~ -C~13~ -C~14~ t~8~ 9 2 C~10~ -C~13~ C~14~ C~10~ -C~13~
-C~14~ -C~10~ C~13~ C~14~ -C~10~ C~13~ -C~14~ t~9~ 10 2 jC~10~ jC~13~ C~14~
jC~10~ jC~13~ -C~14~ -jC~10~ -jC~13~ C~14~ -jC~10~ -jC~13~ -C~14~ t~10~ 11 2
jC~10~ -jC~13~ C~14~ jC~10~ -jC~13~ -C~14~ -jC~10~ jC~13~ C~14~ -jC~10~ jC~13~
-C~14~ t~11~ 12 2 jC~10~ jC~14~ C~13~ jC~10~ jC~14~ -C~13~ -jC~10~ -jC~14~
C~13~ -jC~10~ -jC~14~ -C~13~ t~12~ 13 2 jC~10~ -jC~14~ C~13~ jC~10~ -jC~14~
-C~13~ -jC~10~ jC~14~ C~13~ -jC~10~ jC~14~ -C~13~ t~13~ 14 2 jC~13~ jC~14~
C~10~ jC~13~ jC~14~ -C~10~ -jC~13~ -jC~14~ C~10~ -jC~13~ -jC~14~ -C~10~ t~14~
15 2 jC~13~ -jC~14~ C~10~ jC~13~ -jC~14~ -C~10~ -jC~13~ jC~14~ C~10~ -jC~13~
jC~14~ -C~10~ t~15~ 16 3 C~0~ C~6~ C~12~ C~0~ C~6~ -C~12~ -C~0~ -C~6~ C~12~
-C~0~ -C~6~ -C~12~ t~16~ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
... ... 23 3 jC~6~ -jC~12~ C~0~ jC~6~ -jC~12~ -C~0~ -jC~6~ jC~12~ C~0~ -jC~6~
jC~12~ -C~0~ t~20~ 24 4 C~4~ C~8~ C~15~ C~4~ C~8~ -C~15~ -C~4~ -C~8~ C~15~
-C~4~ -C~8~ -C~15~ t~24~ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
... ... 31 4 jC~8~ -jC~15~ C~4~ jC~8~ -jC~15~ -C~4~ -jC~8~ jC~15~ C~4~ -jC~8~
jC~15~ -C~4~ t~31~
* * *
NOTE: The code construction for code groups 0 to 15 using the SCH codes from
code sets 1 and 2 is shown. The construction for code groups 16 to 31 using
the SCH codes from code sets 3 and 4 is done in the same way.
## 7.3 Evaluation of synchronisation codes
The evaluation of information transmitted in SCH on code group and frame
timing is shown in table 6, where the 32 code groups are listed. Each code
group is containing 4 specific scrambling codes (cf. subclause 6.4), each
scrambling code associated with a specific short and long basic midamble code.
Each code group is additionally linked to a specific t~Offset~, thus to a
specific frame timing. By using this scheme, the UE can derive the position of
the frame border due to the position of the SCH sequence and the knowledge of
t~Offset~. The complete mapping of Code Group to Scrambling Code, Midamble
Codes and t~Offset~ is depicted in table 6.
Table 6: Mapping scheme for Cell Parameters, Code Groups,\ Scrambling Codes,
Midambles and t~Offset~
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | CELL | Code | As | As | | | | PA | Group | sociated | sociated | | | | RA-METER | | Codes | t | | | | | | | ~Offset~ | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | | Sc | Long | Short | | | | | rambling | Basic | Basic | | | | | Code | Midamble | Midamble | | | | | | Code | Code | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 0 | Group 0 | Code 0 | m~PL0~ | m~SL0~ | t~0~ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 1 | | Code 1 | m~PL1~ | m~SL1~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 2 | | Code 2 | m~PL2~ | m~SL2~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 3 | | Code 3 | m~PL3~ | m~SL3~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 4 | Group 1 | Code 4 | m~PL4~ | m~SL4~ | t~1~ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 5 | | Code 5 | m~PL5~ | m~SL5~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 6 | | Code 6 | m~PL6~ | m~SL6~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 7 | | Code 7 | m~PL7~ | m~SL7~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | . | | | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 124 | Group 31 | Code 124 | m~PL124~ | m~SL124~ | t~31~ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 125 | | Code 125 | m~PL125~ | m~SL125~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 126 | | Code 126 | m~PL126~ | m~SL126~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 127 | | Code 127 | m~PL127~ | m~SL127~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+
For basic midamble codes m~P~ cf. [7], annex A \'Basic Midamble Codes\'.
Each cell shall cycle through two sets of cell parameters in a code group with
the cell parameters changing each frame. Table 7 shows how the cell parameters
are cycled according to the SFN.
Table 7: Alignment of cell parameter cycling and SFN
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Initial Cell | Code Group | Cell Parameter | Cell Parameter | | Parameter | | used when SFN | used when SFN | | Assignment | | mod 2 = 0 | mod 2 = 1 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 0 | Group 0 | 0 | 1 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 1 | | 1 | 0 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 2 | | 2 | 3 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 3 | | 3 | 2 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 4 | Group 1 | 4 | 5 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 5 | | 5 | 4 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6 | | 6 | 7 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 7 | | 7 | 6 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | . | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 124 | Group 31 | 124 | 125 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 125 | | 125 | 124 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 126 | | 126 | 127 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 127 | | 127 | 126 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
## 7.4 Synchronisation codes for 3.84 Mcps MBSFN IMB
### 7.4.1 Code generation
The primary synchronisation code (PSC), C~psc~, is constructed to be
orthogonal to both the primary and secondary SCH codes defined in subclause
7.1. The PSC is furthermore chosen to have good aperiodic auto correlation
properties and low aperiodic cross correlations with the primary SCH defined
in sub-clause 7.1.
Define:
\- a = \
The PSC is generated by repeating the sequence _a_ modulated by a Golay
complementary sequence, and creating a complex-valued sequence with identical
real and imaginary components. The PSC C~psc~ is defined as:
\- C~psc~ = (1 + j) × \;
where the leftmost chip in the sequence corresponds to the chip transmitted
first in time.
The 16 secondary synchronization codes, {C~ssc,1~,...,C ~ssc,16~}, are
complex-valued with identical real and imaginary components, and are
constructed from position wise multiplication of a Hadamard sequence and a
sequence _z_ , defined as:
\- z = \, where
\- b = \.
The Hadamard sequences are obtained as the rows in a matrix _H_ ~8~
constructed recursively by:
$\begin{matrix} H_{0} = (1) \ H_{k} = \begin{pmatrix} H_{k - 1} & H_{k - 1} \
H_{k - 1} & \- H_{k - 1} \ \end{pmatrix},\ k \geq 1 \ \end{matrix}$
The rows are numbered from the top starting with row _0_ (the all ones
sequence).
Denote the _n_ :th Hadamard sequence as a row of _H~8~_ numbered from the top,
n = 0, 1, 2, ..., 255, in the sequel.
Furthermore, let _h~n~(i)_ and _z(i)_ denote the _i:_ th symbol of the
sequence _h~n~_ and _z,_ respectively where _i_ = 0, 1, 2, ..., 255 and _i_ =
0 corresponds to the leftmost symbol.
The _k_ :th secondary synchronization code, C~ssc,k~, _k_ = 1, 2, 3, ..., 16
is then defined as:
\- C~ssc,k~ = (1 + _j_) × \;
where _m_ = 16×(_k_ \-- 1) and the leftmost chip in the sequence corresponds
to the chip transmitted first in time.
### 7.4.2 Code allocation of SSC
The secondary synchronisation code sequences shall be constructed as described
in subclause 5.2.3.2 in [4]. For MBSFN IMB operation, only the first 8
scrambling code groups are utilised.
# 7A Synchronisation codes for the 7.68 Mcps option
## 7A.1 Code Generation
The primary synchronisation code (PSC), C~p~ , is constructed as a so-called
generalised hierarchical Golay sequence. The PSC is furthermore chosen to have
good aperiodic auto correlation properties.
Define a = \ = \
The PSC of length 512 chips is generated by repetition coding and repeating
the sequence \'a\' modulated by a Golay complementary sequence and creating a
complex-valued sequence with identical real and imaginary components.
The PSC, C~p~ , is defined as C~p~ = \
where{width="3.9166666666666665in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
and the left most index corresponds to the chip transmitted first in time.
The 12 secondary synchronization codes, {C~0~, C~1,~ C~3,~ C~4,~ C~5,~ C~6,~
C~8,~ C~10,~ C~12,~ C~13,~ C~14~,C~15~ } are complex valued with identical
real and imaginary components, and are constructed from repetition coding of
the position wise multiplication of a Hadamard sequence and a sequence z,
defined as
> z = {width="3.2083333333333335in" height="0.2222222222222222in"} , where
>
> b = {width="4.625in" height="0.25in"}
and x~1~, x~2~, x~3~, ..., x~16~ are the same as in the definition of the
sequence \'a\' above.
The Hadamard sequences are obtained as the rows in a matrix _H_ ~8~
constructed recursively by:
{width="2.0277777777777777in" height="0.7222222222222222in"}
The rows are numbered from the top starting with row _0_ (the all ones
sequence).
Denote the _n_ :th Hadamard sequence _h~n~_ as a row of _H~8~_ numbered from
the top, n = 0, 1, 2, ..., 255, in the sequel.
Furthermore, let _h~m~(l)_ and _z(l)_ denote the _l_ th symbol of the sequence
_h~m~_ and _z,_ respectively where _l_ = 0, 1, 2, ..., 255 and _l_ = 0
corresponds to the leftmost symbol.
The i:th secondary SCH code word, C~i~, i = 0, 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 13,
14, 15 is of length 512 chips and is then defined as
> C~i~ = (1 + _j_) × \ _z_(1), _h~m~_(1) × _z_(1), ..., _h~m~_(255) × _z_(255) , _h~m~_(255) ×
> _z_(255)>,
>
> where _m_ = (16×i) and the leftmost chip in the sequence corresponds to the
> chip transmitted first in time.
## 7A.2 Code Allocation
Three secondary SCH codes are QPSK modulated and transmitted in parallel with
the primary synchronization code. The QPSK modulation carries the following
information:
\- the code group that the base station belongs to (32 code groups:5 bits;
Cases 1, 2);
\- the position of the frame within an interleaving period of 20 msec (2
frames:1 bit, Cases 1, 2);
\- the position of the SCH slot(s) within the frame (2 SCH slots:1 bit, Case
2).
The QPSK modulation sequences for the 7.68Mcps TDD option are unique to the
modulation sequences for the 3.84Mcps TDD option.
The modulated secondary SCH codes are also constructed such that their cyclic-
shifts are unique, i.e. a non-zero cyclic shift less than 2 (Case 1) and 4
(Case 2) of any of the sequences is not equivalent to some cyclic shift of any
other of the sequences. Also, a non-zero cyclic shift less than 2 (Case 1) and
4 (Case 2) of any of the sequences is not equivalent to itself with any other
cyclic shift less than 8. The secondary synchronization codes are partitioned
into two code sets for Case 1 and four code sets for Case 2. The set is used
to provide the following information:
[Case 1:]{.underline}
Table 7A: Code Set Allocation for Case 1
* * *
Code Set Code Group 1 0-15 2 16-31
* * *
The code group and frame position information is provided by modulating the
secondary codes in the code set.
[Case 2:]{.underline}
Table 7B: Code Set Allocation for Case 2
* * *
Code Set Code Group 1 0-7 2 8-15 3 16-23 4 24-31
* * *
The slot timing and frame position information is provided by the comma free
property of the code word and the Code group is provided by modulating some of
the secondary codes in the code set.
The following SCH codes are allocated for each code set:
[Case 1]{.underline}
Code set 1: C~1~, C~3~, C~5.~
Code set 2: C~10~, C~13~, C~14.~
[Case 2]{.underline}
Code set 1: C~1~, C~3~, C~5.~
Code set 2: C~10~, C~13~, C~14.~
Code set 3: C~0~, C~6~, C~12.~
Code set 4: C~4~, C~8~, C~15.~
The following subclauses 7A.2.1 to 7A.2.2 refer to the two cases of
SCH/P-CCPCH usage as described in [7].
Note that in the tables 7C and 7D corresponding to Cases 1 and 2,
respectively, Frame 1 implies the frame with an odd SFN and Frame 2 implies
the frame with an even SFN.
### 7A.2.1 Code allocation for Case 1
Table 7D: Code Allocation for Case 1
* * *
Code Group Code Set Frame 1 Frame 2 Associated t~offset~  
0 1 C~1~ C~3~ jC~5~ C~1~ C~3~ -jC~5~ t~0~ 1 1 C~1~ -C~3~ jC~5~ C~1~ -C~3~
-jC~5~ t~1~ 2 1 -C~1~ C~3~ jC~5~ -C~1~ C~3~ -jC~5~ t~2~ 3 1 -C~1~ -C~3~ jC~5~
-C~1~ -C~3~ -jC~5~ t~3~ 4 1 jC~1~ jC~3~ jC~5~ jC~1~ jC~3~ -jC~5~ t~4~ 5 1
jC~1~ -jC~3~ jC~5~ jC~1~ -jC~3~ -jC~5~ t~5~ 6 1 -jC~1~ jC~3~ jC~5~ -jC~1~
jC~3~ -jC~5~ t~6~ 7 1 -jC~1~ -jC~3~ jC~5~ -jC~1~ -jC~3~ -jC~5~ t~7~ 8 1 jC~1~
C~5~ C~3~ jC~1~ C~5~ -C~3~ t~8~ 9 1 jC~1~ -C~5~ C~3~ jC~1~ -C~5~ -C~3~ t~9~ 10
1 -jC~1~ C~5~ C~3~ -jC~1~ C~5~ -C~3~ t~10~ 11 1 -jC~1~ -C~5~ C~3~ -jC~1~ -C~5~
-C~3~ t~11~ 12 1 jC~3~ C~5~ C~1~ jC~3~ C~5~ -C~1~ t~12~ 13 1 jC~3~ -C~5~ C~1~
jC~3~ -C~5~ -C~1~ t~13~ 14 1 -jC~3~ C~5~ C~1~ -jC~3~ C~5~ -C~1~ t~14~ 15 1
-jC~3~ -C~5~ C~1~ -jC~3~ -C~5~ -C~1~ t~15~ 16 2 C~10~ C~13~ jC~14~ C~10~ C~13~
-jC~14~ t~16~ 17 2 C~10~ -C~13~ jC~14~ C~10~ -C~13~ -jC~14~ t~17~ ... ... ...
... ... ... ... ... ... 20 2 jC~10~ jC~13~ jC~14~ jC~10~ jC~13~ -jC~14~ t~20~
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 24 2 jC~10~ C~14~ C~13~ jC~10~ C~14~
-C~13~ t~24~ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 31 2 -jC~13~ -C~14~ C~10~
-jC~13~ -C~14~ -C~10~ t~31~
* * *
NOTE: The code construction for code groups 0 to 15 using only the SCH codes
from code set 1 is shown. The construction for code groups 16 to 31 using the
SCH codes from code set 2 is done in the same way.
###
### 7A.2.2 Code allocation for Case 2
Table 7C: Code Allocation for Case 2
* * *
Code Group Code Set Frame 1 Frame 2 Associated t~offset~  
Slot k Slot k+8 Slot k Slot k+8  
0 1 C~1~ C~3~ jC~5~ C~1~ C~3~ -jC~5~ -C~1~ -C~3~ jC~5~ -C~1~ -C~3~ -jC~5~ t~0~
1 1 C~1~ -C~3~ jC~5~ C~1~ -C~3~ -jC~5~ -C~1~ C~3~ jC~5~ -C~1~ C~3~ -jC~5~ t~1~
2 1 jC~1~ jC~3~ jC~5~ jC~1~ jC~3~ -jC~5~ -jC~1~ -jC~3~ jC~5~ -jC~1~ -jC~3~
-jC~5~ t~2~ 3 1 jC~1~ -jC~3~ jC~5~ jC~1~ -jC~3~ -jC~5~ -jC~1~ jC~3~ jC~5~
-jC~1~ jC~3~ -jC~5~ t~3~ 4 1 jC~1~ C~5~ C~3~ jC~1~ C~5~ -C~3~ -jC~1~ -C~5~
C~3~ -jC~1~ -C~5~ -C~3~ t~4~ 5 1 jC~1~ -C~5~ C~3~ jC~1~ -C~5~ -C~3~ -jC~1~
C~5~ C~3~ -jC~1~ C~5~ -C~3~ t~5~ 6 1 jC~3~ C~5~ C~1~ jC~3~ C~5~ -C~1~ -jC~3~
-C~5~ C~1~ -jC~3~ -C~5~ -C~1~ t~6~ 7 1 jC~3~ -C~5~ C~1~ jC~3~ -C~5~ -C~1~
-jC~3~ C~5~ C~1~ -jC~3~ C~5~ -C~1~ t~7~ 8 2 C~10~ C~13~ jC~14~ C~10~ C~13~
-jC~14~ -C~10~ -C~13~ jC~14~ -C~10~ -C~13~ -jC~14~ t~8~ 9 2 C~10~ -C~13~
jC~14~ C~10~ -C~13~ -jC~14~ -C~10~ C~13~ jC~14~ -C~10~ C~13~ -jC~14~ t~9~ 10 2
jC~10~ jC~13~ jC~14~ jC~10~ jC~13~ -jC~14~ -jC~10~ -jC~13~ jC~14~ -jC~10~
-jC~13~ -jC~14~ t~10~ 11 2 jC~10~ -jC~13~ jC~14~ jC~10~ -jC~13~ -jC~14~
-jC~10~ jC~13~ jC~14~ -jC~10~ jC~13~ -jC~14~ t~11~ 12 2 jC~10~ C~14~ C~13~
jC~10~ C~14~ -C~13~ -jC~10~ -C~14~ C~13~ -jC~10~ -C~14~ -C~13~ t~12~ 13 2
jC~10~ -C~14~ C~13~ jC~10~ -C~14~ -C~13~ -jC~10~ C~14~ C~13~ -jC~10~ C~14~
-C~13~ t~13~ 14 2 jC~13~ C~14~ C~10~ jC~13~ C~14~ -C~10~ -jC~13~ -C~14~ C~10~
-jC~13~ -C~14~ -C~10~ t~14~ 15 2 jC~13~ -C~14~ C~10~ jC~13~ -C~14~ -C~10~
-jC~13~ C~14~ C~10~ -jC~13~ C~14~ -C~10~ t~15~ 16 3 C~0~ C~6~ jC~12~ C~0~ C~6~
-jC~12~ -C~0~ -C~6~ jC~12~ -C~0~ -C~6~ -jC~12~ t~16~ ... ... ... ... ... ...
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 23 3 jC~6~ -C~12~ C~0~ jC~6~ -C~12~ -C~0~
-jC~6~ C~12~ C~0~ -jC~6~ C~12~ -C~0~ t~20~ 24 4 C~4~ C~8~ jC~15~ C~4~ C~8~
-jC~15~ -C~4~ -C~8~ jC~15~ -C~4~ -C~8~ -jC~15~ t~24~ ... ... ... ... ... ...
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 31 4 jC~8~ -C~15~ C~4~ jC~8~ -C~15~ -C~4~
-jC~8~ C~15~ C~4~ -jC~8~ C~15~ -C~4~ t~31~
* * *
NOTE: The code construction for code groups 0 to 15 using the SCH codes from
code sets 1 and 2 is shown. The construction for code groups 16 to 31 using
the SCH codes from code sets 3 and 4 is done in the same way.
## 7A.3 Evaluation of synchronisation codes
The evaluation of information transmitted in SCH on code group and frame
timing is shown in table 7E, where the 32 code groups are listed. Each code
group contains 4 specific scrambling codes, each scrambling code associated
with a specific short and long basic midamble code.
Each code group is additionally linked to a specific t~Offset~, thus to a
specific frame timing. By using this scheme, the UE can derive the position of
the frame border due to the position of the SCH sequence and the knowledge of
t~Offset~. The complete mapping of Code Group to Scrambling Code, Midamble
Codes and t~Offset~ is depicted in table 7E.
Table 7E: Mapping scheme for Cell Parameters, Code Groups,\ Scrambling Codes,
Midambles and t~Offset~
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | CELL | Code | As | As | | | | PA | Group | sociated | sociated | | | | RA-METER | | Codes | t | | | | | | | ~Offset~ | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | | Sc | Long | Short | | | | | rambling | Basic | Basic | | | | | Code | Midamble | Midamble | | | | | | Code | Code | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 0 | Group 0 | Code 0 | m~PL0~ | m~SL0~ | t~0~ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 1 | | Code 1 | m~PL1~ | m~SL1~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 2 | | Code 2 | m~PL2~ | m~SL2~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 3 | | Code 3 | m~PL3~ | m~SL3~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 4 | Group 1 | Code 4 | m~PL4~ | m~SL4~ | t~1~ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 5 | | Code 5 | m~PL5~ | m~SL5~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 6 | | Code 6 | m~PL6~ | m~SL6~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 7 | | Code 7 | m~PL7~ | m~SL7~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | . | | | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 124 | Group 31 | Code 124 | m~PL124~ | m~SL124~ | t~31~ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 125 | | Code 125 | m~PL125~ | m~SL125~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 126 | | Code 126 | m~PL126~ | m~SL126~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | 127 | | Code 127 | m~PL127~ | m~SL127~ | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+
Each cell shall cycle through two sets of cell parameters in a code group with
the cell parameters changing each frame. Table 7F shows how the cell
parameters are cycled according to the SFN.
Table 7F: Alignment of cell parameter cycling and SFN
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Initial Cell | Code Group | Cell Parameter | Cell Parameter | | Parameter | | used when SFN | used when SFN | | Assignment | | mod 2 = 0 | mod 2 = 1 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 0 | Group 0 | 0 | 1 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 1 | | 1 | 0 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 2 | | 2 | 3 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 3 | | 3 | 2 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 4 | Group 1 | 4 | 5 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 5 | | 5 | 4 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6 | | 6 | 7 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 7 | | 7 | 6 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | . | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 124 | Group 31 | 124 | 125 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 125 | | 125 | 124 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 126 | | 126 | 127 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 127 | | 127 | 126 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
# 8 Synchronisation codes for the 1.28 Mcps option
## 8.1 The downlink pilot channel (DwPCH)
The contents of DwPCH is composed of 64 chips of a SYNC-DL sequence, cf.[AA.1
Basic SYNC-DL sequence] and 32 chips of guard period (GP). The SYNC-DL code is
not scrambled
There should be 32 different basic SYNC-DL codes for the whole system.
For the generation of the complex valued SYNC-DL codes of length 64, the basic
binary SYNC-DL codes {width="1.2916666666666667in" height="0.375in"} of length
64 shown in Table AA.1 are used. The relation between the elements
{width="0.1111111111111111in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}and
{width="0.1111111111111111in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} is given by:
{width="2.4270833333333335in" height="0.2916666666666667in"} (1)
Hence, the elements {width="0.1527777777777778in"
height="0.2361111111111111in"} of the complex SYNC-DL code
{width="0.1111111111111111in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} are alternating
real and imaginary.
The SYNC-DL is QPSK modulated and the phase of the SYNC-DL is used to signal
the presence of the P-CCPCH in the multi-frame of the resource units of code
{width="0.3611111111111111in" height="0.2777777777777778in"} and
{width="0.3888888888888889in" height="0.2777777777777778in"} in time slot #0.
### 8.1.1 Modulation of the SYNC-DL
The SYNC-DL sequences are modulated with respect to the midamble (m^(1)^) in
time slot #0.
Four consecutive phases (phase quadruple) of the SYNC-DL are used to indicate
the presence of the P-CCPCH in the following 4 sub-frames. In case the
presence of a P-CCPCH is indicated, the next following sub-frame is the first
sub-frame of the interleaving period. As QPSK is used for the modulation of
the SYNC-DL, the phases 45, 135, 225, and 315° are used.
The total number of different phase quadruples is 2 (S1 and S2). A quadruple
always starts with an even system frame number ((SFN mod 2) =0). Table 8 is
showing the quadruples and their meaning.
Table 8: Sequences for the phase modulation for the SYNC-DL
* * *
Name Phase quadruple Meaning S1 135, 45, 225, 135 There is a P-CCPCH in the
next 4 sub-frames S2 315, 225, 315, 45 There is no P-CCPCH in the next 4 sub-
frames
* * *
## 8.2 The uplink pilot channel (UpPCH)
The contents in UpPCH is composed of 128 chips of a SYNC-UL sequence, cf.
[AA.2 Basic SYNC-UL sequence] and 32chips of guard period (GP) .The SYNC-UL
code is not scrambled.
There should be 256 different basic SYNC-UL codes (see Table AA.2) for the
whole system.
For the generation of the complex valued SYNC-UL codes of length 128, the
basic binary SYNC-UL codes {width="1.2916666666666667in" height="0.375in"} of
length 128 shown in Table AA.2 are used. The relation between the elements
{width="0.1111111111111111in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}and
{width="0.1111111111111111in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} is given by:
{width="2.4270833333333335in" height="0.2916666666666667in"} (2)
Hence, the elements {width="0.1527777777777778in"
height="0.2361111111111111in"} of the complex SYNC-UL code
{width="0.1111111111111111in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} are alternating
real and imaginary.
## 8.3 Code Allocation
Relationship between the SYNC-DL and SYNC-UL sequences, the scrambling codes
and the midamble codes
+------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Code Group | Associated Codes | | | | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | SYNC-DL | SYNC-UL | Scrambling Code | Basic Midamble Code | | | | | | | | | ID | ID | ID | ID | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Group 1 | 0 | 0...7 | 0 | 0 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | 1 | 1 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | 2 | 2 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | 3 | 3 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Group 2 | 1 | 8...15 | 4 | 4 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | 5 | 5 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | 6 | 6 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | 7 | 7 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | . | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Group 32 | 31 | 248...255 | 124 | 124 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | 125 | 125 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | 126 | 126 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | 127 | 127 | +------------+------------------+------------+-----------------+---------------------+
> Note: In a multi-frequency cell, primary frequency and secondary frequency
> use the same scrambling code and basic midamble code.
## 8.3Aa Code Allocation
For the dedicated carrier MBSFN, the basic preamble codes are segemted into
two groups, even group and odd group, and the Basic preamble Code is described
in [7].
Relationship between the scrambling codes and the preamble codes
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Code | Associated | | | | | subgroup | Codes | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | P~P,even~ | P~P,odd~ | | | | | group | group | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Scrambling | Basic | Scrambling | Basic | | | Code ID | preamble | Code ID | preamble | | | | Code ID | | Code ID | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sub-g1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sub-g2 | 8 | 2 | 12 | 3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sub-g3 | 16 | 4 | 20 | 5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sub-g4 | 24 | 6 | 28 | 7 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | . | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sub-g15 | 112 | 28 | 116 | 29 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sub-g16 | 120 | 30 | 124 | 31 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 9 Cell synchronisation codes
The cell synchronisation codes (CSCs) are constructed as so-called CEC
sequences, i.e. concatenated and periodically extended complementary
sequences. They are complex-valued sequences that are derived as cyclically
offset versions from a set of possible constituent Golay complementary pairs.
The CSCs are chosen to have good aperiodic auto correlation properties. The
aperiodic auto correlations of the applicable constituent Golay complementary
pairs and every pair of their derived cyclically offset versions are
complementary. Furthermore, orthogonality is preserved for all CSCs which are
derived from the same constituent Golay complementary pair due to this
complementary property.
The delay and weight matrices for the set of M = 8 possible constituent Golay
complementary pairs are listed in the table below:
+-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | Code ID _m_ | Delay matrices D _~m~_ and weight matrices W _~m~_ of | | | constituent Golay complementary pairs | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | 0 | > D~0~ = \, | | | > W~0~ = \ | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | 1 | > D~1~ = \, | | | > W~1~ = \ | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | 2 | > D~2~ = \, | | | > W~2~ = \ | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | 3 | > D~3~ = \, | | | > W~3~ = \ | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | 4 | > D~4~ = \, | | | > W~4~ = \ | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | 5 | > D~5~ = \, | | | > W~5~ = \ | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | 6 | > D~6~ = \, | | | > W~6~ = \ | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | 7 | > D~7~ = \, | | | > W~7~ = \ | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
A constituent Golay complementary pair of length N = 1024, defined as:
s _~m~_ = \ and g _~m~_ =
\
shall be derived from the selected delay and weight matrices:
D _~m~_ = \ and W _~m~_ =
\
as follows.
Define:
a _^(0)^_ = \ =
\ and
b _^(0)^_ = \
= \.
Then, the elements of the set of auxiliary sequences:
a _^(n)^_ = \ and
b _^(n)^_ = \
are given by the recursive relations:
_a^(n+1)^(i) = a^(n)^(i) + W~m~(n) × b^(n)^(i -- D~m~(n))_ and
_b^(n+1)^(i) = a^(n)^(i) -- W~m~(n) × b^(n)^(i -- D~m~(n))_
with element index _i_ = 0, 1, 2, ..., 1023 and iteration index _n_ = 0, 1, 2,
..., 9. Operations on the element index shall be performed modulo 1024.
The elements of the constituent Golay complementary pairs s _~m~_ and g _~m~_
are then obtained from the output of the last iteration step using:
_s~m~_(_i_) = _a^(10)^_(_i_) and _g~m~_(_i_) = _b^(10)^_(_i_) for _i_ = 0, 1,
2, ..., 1023
From each applicable constituent Golay complementary pair s _~m~_ and g _~m~_
, up to K = 8 different cyclically offset pairs s _~m~^(k)^_ and g _~m~^(k)^_
, with offset index _k_ = 0, 1, 2, ..., K-1, of length 1152 chips can be
derived. The complementary property of the respective aperiodic auto
correlation is preserved for each particular pair of sequences s _~m~^(k)^_
and g _~m~^(k)^_. The generation of the K cyclically offset pairs from s _~m~_
and g _~m~_ is done in a similar way as the generation of the user midambles
from a periodic basic midamble sequence as described in [7].
With N = 1024, K = 8, W = 128, the elements of a cyclically offset pair:
s _~m~^(k)^_ = \ and g _~m~^(k)^_ = \
for a particular offset _k_ , with _k_ = 0, 1, 2, ..., K-1, shall be derived
from the elements of the constituent Golay complementary pairs s _~m~_ and g
_~m~_ using:
_s~m~^(k)^_(_i_) = (j)_^i^_ × _s~m~_(_i_ \+ _k_ × W) and _g~m~^(k)^_(_i_) =
(j)_^i^_ × _g~m~_(_i_ \+ _k_ × W) for _i_ = 0, 1, 2, ..., N _\-- k_ × W _\--_
1,
_s~m~^(k)^_(_i_) = (j)_^i^_ × _s~m~_(_i_ _\--_ N _\+ k_ × W) and
_g~m~^(k)^_(_i_) = (j)_^i^_ × _g~m~_(_i_ _\--_ N _\+ k_ × W) for _i_ = N _\--
k_ × W, N _\-- k_ × W + 1, ..., 1151.
Hence, the elements of s _~m~^(k)^_ and g _~m~^(k)^_ are alternating real and
imaginary.
Note that both s _~m~^(0)^_ and g _~m~^(0)^_ simply correspond to s _~m~_ and
g _~m~_ respectively, followed by its first W elements as post extension and
that both s _~m~^(7)^_ and g _~m~^(7)^_ simply correspond to the last W
elements of s _~m~_ and g _~m~_ in form of a pre extension, followed by s
_~m~_ and g _~m~_ respectively.
Finally, the CSC C _~CSC,\ m~^(k)^_ derived from the _m_ :th applicable
constituent Golay complementary pair s _~m~_ and g _~m~_ , and for the _k_ :th
offset is then defined as a concatenation of s _~m~^(k)^_ and g _~m~^(k)^_ by:
C _~CSC,\ m~^(k)^_ = \
where the leftmost element _s~m~^(k)^_(0) in the sequence corresponds to the
chip to be first transmitted in time. An CSC has therefore length 2304 chips.
Note that due to this construction method, the auto correlations for all CSCs
derived from one particular constituent Golay complementary pair s _~m~_ and g
_~m~_ can be obtained simultaneously and in sequential order from the sum of
partial correlations with s _~m~_ and g _~m~_ , these CSCs remaining
orthogonal.
CSCs derived according to above have complex values and shall not be subject
to the channelisation or scrambling process, i.e. its elements represent
complex chips for usage in the pulse shaping process at modulation.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Scrambling Codes
The applicable scrambling codes are listed below. Code numbers are referring
to table 6 \'Mapping scheme for Cell Parameters, Code Groups, Scrambling
Codes, Midambles, Preambles and t~offset~\' in subclause 6.3 \'Evaluation of
synchronisation codes\'.
Code{0，4，8，12，...，120，124} are used for downlink MBSFN operation.
* * *
Scrambling Code ν~1~ ν~2~ ν~3~ ν~4~ ν~5~ ν~6~ ν~7~ ν~8~ ν~9~ ν~10~ ν~11~ ν~12~
ν~13~ ν~14~ ν~15~ ν~16~ Code 0 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code
1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 2 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1
-1 -1 Code 3 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 4 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1
-1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 Code 5 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 6 -1
1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 Code 7 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1
-1 1 1 -1 Code 8 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 Code 9 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1
-1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 10 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 11
-1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 12 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1
-1 1 1 1 1 -1 Code 13 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 14 1 -1
-1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 Code 15 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1
-1 -1 -1 Code 16 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 17 1 1 1 -1 1
1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 18 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1
Code 19 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 20 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 21 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 22 1
-1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 23 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1
1 -1 -1 Code 24 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 25 1 -1 1 1 1
-1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 26 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1
Code 27 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 28 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1
1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 Code 29 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code
30 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 31 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1
1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 32 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 Code 33 -1 -1 -1
1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 Code 34 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1
Code 35 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 Code 36 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1
-1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 Code 37 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 Code 38 -1
1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 Code 39 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1
1 -1 -1 -1 Code 40 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 41 1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 42 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1
-1 -1 Code 43 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 44 -1 -1 1 -1 -1
-1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 45 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 Code
46 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 47 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1
1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 48 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 49 -1 -1 1 1 -1
1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code 50 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1
Code 51 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code 52 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1
-1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 Code 53 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 Code 54 -1 -1 1
-1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 55 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1
-1 -1 Code 56 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 Code 57 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1
1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code 58 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 Code
59 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 60 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1
1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 61 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code 62 -1 1 -1
-1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 63 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1
-1 -1 Code 64 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 65 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1
1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 66 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1
Code 67 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 Code 68 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1
-1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 69 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 70 1 1
-1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 71 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1
1 1 -1 -1 Code 72 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 73 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1
-1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 74 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1
Code 75 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code 76 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1
1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 77 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 78 -1
1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code 79 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1
-1 -1 -1 -1 Code 80 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 81 1 1 1 1
1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 82 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1
Code 83 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 84 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 85 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 86 -1
-1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 87 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1
1 1 -1 Code 88 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code 89 -1 1 -1 -1 1
-1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 90 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1
Code 91 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 92 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1
-1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 93 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 Code
94 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code 95 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1
1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 96 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 97 1 1 -1
-1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 98 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1
Code 99 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code 100 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1
-1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 101 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 102
1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 103 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1
1 -1 -1 -1 Code 104 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 105 1 1 1 1 1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 106 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1
Code 107 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 Code 108 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1
-1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 Code 109 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code
110 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 111 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1
-1 1 -1 -1 Code 112 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 113 1 1 -1 -1 1
-1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 114 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1
Code 115 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 116 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1
1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 Code 117 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 Code 118 -1 -1
-1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 119 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1
1 -1 -1 Code 120 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 Code 121 -1 1 1 1 1
1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 Code 122 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1
Code 123 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 Code 124 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1
1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 Code 125 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 126 1
1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 Code 127 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1
1 -1 -1
* * *
###### ## Annex AA (normative): Synchronisation sequence
## AA.1 Basic SYNC-DL sequence
Table AA.1: Basic SYNC-DL Codes
* * *
Code ID SYNC-DL Codes of length 64 0 B3A7CC05A98688E4 1 9D559BD290606791 2
2CE7BA12A017C3A2 3 34511D20672F4712 4 9A772841474603F2 5 9109B1A5CE01F228 6
8FD429B3594501C0 7 25251354AA3F8C19 8 C9A3B8E0C043EA56 9 BA04B888E5BC1802 10
A735354299370207 11 74C3C8DA4415AE51 12 F4FD0458A0124663 13 A011D4E16C3D6064
14 BDA0661B0CAA8C68 15 8E31123F28928698 16 F095C1632E2906AB 17
B60B4A8A664071CF 18 AA094DCCE91E041A 19 C0C31CDA8A256807 20 D516964FB18C1890
21 30DE01834F4AACCE 22 8F700323BA5CAD34 23 1B50F4DEE0C1380C 24
443382164F56F2D1 25 E1E4005D49B846B4 26 040A97165330BFAA 27 C48E26881693AD78
28 D4354B2FE02361CC 29 5383AB6C8A10CE84 30 D417A730F2F12244 31
ABF0A0D905A939C4
* * *
## AA.2 Basic SYNC-UL Codes
Table AA.2: Basic SYNC-UL Codes
* * *
Code ID SYNC-UL Codes of length 128 0 C11C20F0D1807DB8859175B798EC094A 1
91278068081EC8E74543DBC1C9AD4235 2 38F5AEE2E513DB12A663BA04160103E5 3
7AA8A0A210F12A1E4332F2EDD33011FC 4 C180EA3B9BA1774EB9611BD249C4A508 5
B072A2C839489D496B98CE9D0132FBC9 6 B2723EAC6EB01667F2B33961C8074234 7
C4144AD060F0EC095E227B92CF7C8280 8 653036A10D3054146FCF815986C63A14 9
F899CA61435D64DC07FDF04C4A0C053A 10 B56F2D6893A8051407F4C341D88DC7DC 11
DC0BE838242142EDE6413A72C88D74AA 12 22A2FD86E4086C70A4860B13C76E579F 13
A3CBC21322C97D2A02728E7875F39588 14 D4EC4F694A082CB38E3B1558A0FCC89F 15
CC891141C4E216D235C15CF5D3F9B002 16 A1993114C50B77CB0C0725D1E22FD016 17
24F73A979DE52F82E8800CCB93842A59 18 8F878FA04659842E294D8DEAB20BA2FD 19
AC90B0442D70662B028CF76A6BECDF09 20 D94A284DF64D7B0102F0E084C29C88C8 21
8603200C7596F24E865FD3815693358D 22 B466B12CF433642BD8B08F1F452E0550 23
86A3A1772C1C99FCA7DBBA0C312E34A0 24 622A1889F72A9A2C042D46F08EFEE1AC 25
BF220A362BC0D3B0D7CE400954C6CFAE 26 D28D73C52E89CF57905C502244F63616 27
AD4E1C2103697D64D8B9D4C035D90548 28 8F081A9BA12B6C6BD024531AA984D21C 29
E4092429BE82988E1E3585BF6A6AE550 30 08BD36E0A9C061782CB38B35B335CA56 31
1CDFF3CC2685D1C44F4A1059AB03F40A 32 506ED4E88FB1CECE3243F2A27A0221A4 33
846CF58A7AB613C83A24130B5778C0E2 34 A2711A99E26A0C75AC026F4CFAECE893 35
D846EEEBA2432AC05A01043C62579DCF 36 6B16B4E851CAF2121FC4CF88820C89E7 37
AA4889A78207674A74E10C6F2BE11D48 38 8534CF8145BC991052814ED5C72709EE 39
01AEF15D2290A84A607425746D9963C7 40 999188F758245D5164FE16D852942C71 41
CF71C008599287E446E30745BD56E2D2 42 248414BA0DF8CDC4711FE7C8707ED0AD 43
EB2E263EC016191C81AB714BFE4D2B30 44 862082A7482FAC1C499793A0D8CED670 45
DE2C22B2783AB75A7342608DE413840A 46 E31AA60B727F2CA2A78DAAC10665011D 47
CEF6CD06509870AC9E0177ACD550921D 48 E52C84D499FFCDC287581691471540F2 49
B33BF6551A4322504BEE0930BCA1EC68 50 555BE6886D0FC43D72315E6C6D384148 51
8444F67451EE23CE1240C90F0B52A492 52 5C290D28E84060E69D09788A261B10FF 53
337E0C35E83CD38CCC5D45804241F952 54 A7879F0D31A8982A01EE6AC4952984DC 55
A37F506508928C70A83D69A2373781B9 56 42F55208EE12909803A7CBEB19B5419E 57
57E5E268A328FCC9ED04B9E5420AC702 58 EB033AD1222F84D8642C4E3FAAD28206 59
98EE1415F026AC0E862C520451697DD0 60 6A0528AEA4B7CD6702660D81F8821E19 61
763D626A87C603BCB09E1A4C800A378F 62 EEA61897879289340C23F669D6A03762 63
A6571B3CC2D0E04F017ACC808B92DCE7 64 DDF88B52EA1831D293A803CF23C8C471 65
6CA4D333A2684140475DAB491F61C17A 66 A7D2AD23043989A13289F7C3E135580A 67
B1C752FA66B41C81904EDE27EA000E2E 68 8694BE3CC1CB36BE2A095F89CC619080 69
9C20334E1BBC596B25E151180BF99940 70 484256214F81070DD9C49A2B05A43DCE 71
401A20BCBE29B7438A7AEE44635A9E23 72 8858585C3239CBF628033FA0DF189378 73
EFA36404C1BA5118CC5F9052FD28D9C3 74 155609873D8A042D496E6477B747C4F8 75
8446077883A6D7D2549CC9742E3FD023 76 E630142B189AA209371A6F0FFDBC30A7 77
C46060535AC6DBB2095F1D7826D0CD5C 78 E00D19E48797148B28DEDA9D429362E2 79
645DE447E938485489416CAFCC1C571F 80 DA10AFBF2AE61C593A1D88584DE30598 81
BB248AEA5FD3FE210CD48FC401E1A686 82 A89F146BD9191F445301C081CB6F5625 83
15BBF04F247C59150208949EB6B9CC58 84 08F48BFA7804B5B2CC2E96510232E062 85
9AA2BE74005A3679C626B209580B8D03 86 9D40664A2C808F2F293E255398B37E6A 87
6869C98A8AAD81CAE41A23C83FF9EEA0 88 576E8948E61BD0927C4140C3C04C4CF3 89
0F942C67A1137B6EAA058C2A74872C73 90 9D058E27ED546C10632684BBC84E5BC1 91
79D4B840E20148B134F90B51164BCBD0 92 0E35E1D8D1214C05FAC790B69B239150 93
FFA1BB0232CD71480BE5CA1C2A269F89 94 B2956F5F4E270446F9211584792628DB 95
F56CCA23421C8EC8F8A41F7DA4A41EA2 96 0B5ECA04F1789A7148C80C39D57D05F6 97
A10B538E8A8CFC8F8925C485F2A88660 98 9925C2C715001D9FC78ACCC51DA1AF34 99
0DAC9CFDEA40429A8B12C7D320D60F70 100 377FC9A097017958440914E83118E39D 101
8421096FA8B47E4E943B6473671955CC 102 574086183477C4F68540CB7E858263B1 103
895B6A8980C6703C779F49F40C5CFC19 104 D0D253E157BC19262150CEA668679E71 105
B8889C60EBA812BD7F0B6498823296D2 106 A13FB9F3A08528E44B13C12CF0D461AA 107
8D4DCFBE43D6E2024B1F8470224AA330 108 536D159E119E0893838657B12A074E64 109
DCFD49C504AD3A2F049A0CB70238EC8A 110 D363DB4C46C11757FA8FB18139789102 111
424A1E8A1D4DA256E4CA3BC8C2201BE3 112 417B619ED30FEB0A847CC3A191A20398 113
843FBBC95453C61786D1332612B45B4D 114 F26CACC0732CF8ED0C5BC1462B1620B4 115
88E0FE440C70E9249A92A7AF94638880 116 99A52B7D8C950308057E0661D7459960 117
A5C28218BF5D16E63E42698A0A6B0896 118 B2763BEEC784A12E8C50778536921806 119
987B2B6A3A77A059B30A082457AB84E0 120 820DB500F1B206358D7A7F210AB85AA8 121
97760A5CFC5E03EB439C914590045938 122 896A720E8857C8708A59F8C94DE0841E 123
2D101F0CF95263843412577340DEBB11 124 E8E5214B4DCF5D11A245B0149D49C87C 125
51224EAA10099ACDE384834A5ADF03D8 126 64E51253554A230C186FDE4E8781BC09 127
A499E391E69ED08890AC1A82A6115BEC 128 EE54C6E1834210D3EC1B07A456B92AA8 129
949DB5CA82420B54C1E0BCC111E704D9 130 9439EE9A9E4C447D1AA350926495047F 131
AD095CC0E7438AECE38D60980B3F2D00 132 83089C254C5EE9788072BC3D9282F798 133
A27DC1A457BC5A56563D8A9B11203615 134 713053A9C0B1B08B14705FF5A7244DB4 135
D36D4B9F4007354E0EC1B0CA8C8C7124 136 82E7C990612114F1CCE1BD9509FD4386 137
C8D83FF0B48B14830D2015D53F8C0672 138 08AF223C869A36B169148FDDABB7D120 139
B6C284C600AD0A99F86C449F8F4C53A6 140 DC741B320C07682AF92AC4DBDE0C28C2 141
89B8D84FA902265850C0FA6FF0EB2C4F 142 A69445B3A52201DB984BC03D1956D7F3 143
0FE0F7224B7AD72E4D4530D0223F590C 144 1B8C06F051434048EB925133AD3BD3F9 145
E133D4C3C942726A351300C37E55D0DF 146 9E09481D1881A66F562D8B453BC83AB2 147
2397B04B60A3C5700907BDBBA4E818C8 148 8F81F7A08CC6C8DA3D692AD34F50C012 149
9AB325352981BCCFA072F8FDE3009221 150 4FA88B7F1F8A620C31B0D486C52AC2F6 151
097AF0ADD16D7D39851049F0130EE444 152 A5027732DACFF11C388D5820A4A9BA49 153
1CD981EA2EDB46218A407C7E20D4BE84 154 D0FD94279FA67EC61A3904C0AD8ACA04 155
EA73A9415EC2004D49E9D0F645961C75 156 005AF0614A7552041194DEECBF8DD016 157
B514481533DA0A731705B93CF634E40D 158 983054521841A6E4FF34B2C07B5684FE 159
C46D927D0FD2B2F509550025677C6871 160 2AD85C08127487C87ECE014D65169102 161
0F617852FA3930AA7EE74B400B2CC831 162 AE9D395004C6E27540C378625D36E0D6 163
DC4FA55750F10B0636248F12C212FFE4 164 D3602B8D6CBF1809C88B827185631ECF 165
A94825850708E7723EA8F22C44BF78B2 166 A62D231C16AEEFE0B0026B306662945A 167
9C7BE810A86465A50551F89125D93B12 168 9712D9338B9CC60485C10172F50F121F 169
A3902CE0E0B9912591FF28C695728257 170 4167057891AB29473A9E0F67F3658921 171
B3368B91EC12A284BC414C8F0D7F8D20 172 EE21888101ABF06C1175828CB58B598D 173
E43923A00ECC32CCC2D162A4A44BD7F4 174 CC9E30B8538AD51703EEB6F70801AB22 175
B908AD2F1501DA1C156811736CD798CD 176 2B46302ACCC2F808797FC648A614326D 177
8A54494F1BE27235B8764023AA0FBCFA 178 BC1041E6F636421E89277DC154439103 179
275B39A63029B974E3561AE0A8FC8032 180 9283F6FE819B80492A22B85CE5CE5DC4 181
4CCB52C0CE058A78022C22DF5788CBCC 182 B0DF9608DE549A6F6C581516919A81E6 183
2CA185163CC36060D1E85BB0A7FBB988 184 66101D2846155CAC986FC790D2124EFC 185
8016E3904644D2093579B83BD7AB5071 186 531CAB7085BEC14257439658023647CF 187
DF2910165AA5051E41F6EB198E4D491C 188 BA32052042B0FB2188DE7857DA1B6788 189
9E6D075AFF0EA4153615E140BF380666 190 9ACC5A037902534642A3BE391AA40F9B 191
4D741A3B4499843010D7E5FA8988DC80 192 FA1421C96EDC6092726154560B1C2FC8 193
882946076223CAE0B0BFE3EDA59826D5 194 CEBB288C28B7472A0D3917012276C034 195
BD35A6E00C9528DB38289CF823C34F30 196 E2C93618B6B2800D51171A5F85746A55 197
B43EF39A1A64F0E220AF740F9494291B 198 AC537817C2612744A58132A8AFBC44A3 199
98A321249A821DDBF81C38235A371A14 200 AE1D46069090D81BB6B08FED9E687285 201
7EAE2415DC2CD60AE083249A33B56E05 202 3D942AAA9BC9F27289421CE0B301FB98 203
1548BA6D08530727AC6D059C005C6C42 204 FF47C21142C65B502DA70647BAE831D1 205
C83AA7FEAC5E51A08091E10DB0C233D9 206 E86EDD2EC2DAA3104229EDC43471A16A 207
22FAFB9C184B78B56EE91B6602C03244 208 E45631DC509B1290C08D2C1A1F15DBFE 209
D203C51207092B56568FDAD9E2D44473 210 2AA87F31A7D1AB1C90024F936006C4A5 211
913136153593DEABC7305BF0C5A62180 212 D8DA5FE401F2758642A082C53A6A5CB8 213
23C2295213147F324DE8EC1C103BAE88 214 883AF097FCDE82B366A1844245E0D727 215
79E5E9F8C933159ACADC22A06F900A70 216 FE40502B44A9E44B2C336250D47538CC 217
670452E19172C843176F1278FE41D584 218 B7EAA436078E6886A3024F593AD57580 219
1044D4CDD7230E7B1953AD1232DF07E2 220 4D821ECAC3D845A2E1011695624576FF 221
96622ED2FBD44D1B859D70601999F438 222 CCC31C3D6D5B41B8D82FF4522A4C0146 223
4A84F7CD62E0C712980E6A0C89BF394F 224 10E56751F000927284DBE174E68ECC4C 225
A3DE70921356F026E084CFE302A210A9 226 B12DA0621B343A8C3FE941A32EA5D571 227
D653135DE825A74B743E275C19020C71 228 5CAD301BF846B2EE921D33A3D4BB1220 229
1292445ACBB548C668FC3853578474E6 230 B94B4B89C0654688C9E007D9061DF5FE 231
75A2C91E76061A8680884E8BFD14A64A 232 83726F3070B47ECE21504A5065D74A36 233
964A471444A270840919F7FE07382D14 234 A582701EBFCA899B8497088C3560F300 235
64FCB63E21CAC63002D1E09FD1543274 236 B1E1C83F689ADF422C865F98D288838A 237
A06A0D822165D3F3416B47419ECCB547 238 1D2068039A32B7EF728914ECE07CB416 239
64C0CF81F78E8823ECC8661A5295422A 240 902A7243F593F2180E5A306A8438E6A9 241
A4CCED356D56BF1B41C28E1504301FE8 242 82AE90E2F76B3055A2E3A966025CC01A 243
8B90D5A62364E18574145C5895CEFF60 244 43F7EA1AB0D19032551AD9DE21307353 245
DD5D8424AC60360B1C14E65815C9B15E 246 C632A67382ECB2681DFB8525140E2878 247
3A6ACF212B6F8B9C53FF224C2E00C16C 248 86A90C267B1171093F362FE5CB14E3A0 249
EA262EC36E6589C3BB005426AF2590F4 250 200F03126C5B0D7B901128E7757C5F70 251
68FC090C2221AA98BF0D24E85066EFC2 252 9E26CEC67832FC42A87E92FA1015212E 253
ACD889634F79506F2582EA03240F2A07 254 AA65407E1F4A33BF9A62860A3D6A4CC0 255
B1B950AC76A608AA32D04B03C7FF24D3
* * *
###### ## Annex B (informative): Generalised Hierarchical Golay Sequences
# B.1 Alternative generation
The generalised hierarchical Golay sequences for the PSC described in 7.1 may
be also viewed as generated (in real valued representation) by the following
methods:
[Method 1.]{.underline}
The sequence y is constructed from two constituent sequences _x~1~_ and _x~2~_
of length _n~1~_ and _n~2~_ respectively using the following formula:
\- y(i) = x~2~(i mod n~2~) * x~1~(i div n~2~), i = 0 ... (n~1~* n~2~) \- 1.
The constituent sequences _x~1~_ and _x~2\ ~_ are chosen to be the following
length 16 (i.e. _n~1~_ = _n~2~_ =16) sequences:
\- x~1~ is defined to be the length 16 (N^(1)^=4) Golay complementary sequence
obtained by the delay matrix D^(1)^ = [8, 4, 1,2] and weight matrix W^(1)^ =
[1, -1, 1,1].
\- x~2~ is a generalised hierarchical sequence using the following formula,
selecting s=2 and using the two Golay complementary sequences x~3~ and x~4~ as
constituent sequences. The length of the sequence x~3~ and x~4~ is called n~3~
respectively n~4~.
_\- x~2~(i) = x~4~(i_ mod _s + s*(i_ div _sn~3~)) * x~3~((i_ div _s)_ mod
_n~3~),_ _i_ = 0 ... (_n~3~* n~4~_) - 1.
\- x~3~ and x~4~ are defined to be identical and the length 4 (N^(3)^=
N^(4)^=2) Golay complementary sequence obtained by the delay matrix D^(3)^ =
D^(4)^ = [1, 2] and weight matrix W^(3)^ = W^(4)^ = [1, 1].
The Golay complementary sequences x~1~,x~3~ and x~4~ are defined using the
following recursive relation:
_a_ ~0~(_k_) = δ(_k_) and _b_ ~0~(_k_) = δ(_k_);
_a~n~_(_k_) = _a~n~_ ~-1~(_k_) + _W^(j)^~n~_ · _b~n~_ ~-1~(_k_ -_D^(j)^~n~_);
_b~n~_(_k_) = _a~n~_ ~-1~(_k_) - _W^(j)^~n~_ · _b~n~_ ~-1~(_k_ -_D^(j)^~n~_);
_k_ = 0, 1, 2, ..., 2**N^(j)^ -1;
_n_ = 1, 2, ..., N _^(j)^_.
The wanted Golay complementary sequence x~j~ is defined by a~n~ assuming
n=N^(j)^. The Kronecker delta function is described by δ, k,j and n are
integers.
[Method 2]{.underline}
The sequence y can be viewed as a pruned Golay complementary sequence and
generated using the following parameters which apply to the generator
equations for a and b above:
(a) Let j = 0, N^(0)^ = 8.
(b) [D~1~^0^,D~2~^0^,D~3~^0^,D~4~^0^,D~5~^0^,D~6~^0^,D~7~^0^,D~8~^0^] = [128,
64, 16, 32, 8, 1, 4, 2].
(c) [W~1~^0^,W~2~^0^,W~3~^0^,W~4~^0^,W~5~^0^,W~6~^0^,W~7~^0^,W~8~^0^] = [1,
-1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1].
(d) For n = 4, 6, set b~4~(k) = a~4~(k), b~6~(k) = a~6~(k).
#