# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Access Stratum (AS) part of the Idle Mode
procedures applicable to a UE. The non-access stratum (NAS) part of Idle mode
procedures and processes is specified in [5].
The present document also specifies cell selection and reselection processes
applicable to UEs in connected mode. Invocation of these processes is
described in [4].
The present document specifies the model for the functional division between
the NAS and AS in a UE.
The present document applies to all UEs that support at least UTRA, including
multi-RAT UEs as described in 3GPP specifications, in the following cases:
\- When the UE is camped on a UTRA cell;
\- When the UE is searching for a cell to camp on;
NOTE: The details for those cases are described in the specifications of the
other RAT.
The present document presents also examples of inter-layer procedures related
to the idle mode processes and describes idle mode functionality of a multi-
RAT UTRA/GSM/E-UTRA UE.
The present document also specifies how idle-mode and reselection procedures
are affected by the provision of MBMS services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 43.022: \"Functions related to Mobile Station in idle mode and
group receive mode\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio Interface Protocol Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.303: \"Interlayer Procedures in Connected Mode\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); protocol specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"NAS functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle
mode \".
[6] 3GPP TR 25.922: \"Radio Resource Management Strategies\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.211: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (FDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.221: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (TDD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.133: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management
(FDD)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.123: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management
(TDD)\".
[12] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[13] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 25.224: \"Physical Layer Procedures (TDD)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification, Core
Network Protocols - Stage 3\".
[17] 3GPP TS 25.346: \"Introduction of the Multimedia Broadcast Multicast
Service (MBMS) in the Radio Access Network (Stage-2)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\".
[19] 3GPP TS 25.321: \"MAC Protocol Specification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection for
Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2".
[22] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[23] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[24] IEEE 802.11-2012, Part 11: \"Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and
Physical Layer (PHY) specifications, IEEE Std.\".
[25] Wi-Fi Alliance Technical Committee, Hotspot 2.0 Technical Task Group:
\"Hotspot 2.0 (Release 2) Technical Specification\".
[26] 3GPP TS 25.215: \"Physical layer -- Measurements (FDD)\".
[27] 3GPP TS 25.225: \"Physical layer -- Measurements (TDD)\".
[28] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via
non-3GPP access networks\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions and the
definitions in [12] apply.
**Absolute priority layer:** A priority level can be defined for a UTRA
frequency, a group of GSM frequencies or a E-UTRA frequency.
**CSG whitelist:** A list provided by NAS containing all the CSG identities
and their associated PLMN IDs of the CSGs to which the subscriber belongs.
NOTE: This list is known as Allowed CSG List in Rel-8 Access Stratum
specifications.
**Acceptable Cell:** A cell that satisfies certain conditions as specified in
4.3. A UE can always attempt emergency calls on an acceptable cell.
**Available PLMN:** A PLMN for which the UE has found at least one cell and
read its PLMN identity.
**Barred Cell** : A cell a UE is not allowed to camp on.
**Camped on a cell:** UE has completed the cell selection/reselection process
and has chosen a cell. The UE monitors system information and (in most cases)
paging information.
**Camped on any cell** : UE is in idle mode and has completed the cell
selection/reselection process and has chosen a cell irrespective of PLMN
identity.
**Camped on MBSFN cluster** : UE has completed the MBSFN Cluster
selection/reselection process and has chosen a MBSFN Cluster. The UE monitors
system information and receives notifications for MBMS services and possibly
receives a MBMS service.
**Closed Subscriber Group (CSG):** A Closed Subscriber Group identifies
subscribers of an operator who are permitted to access one or more cells of
the PLMN but which have restricted access (CSG cells).
**CSG cell:** A cell broadcasting a CSG Indicator that is set to TRUE and a
specific CSG identity. All the UTRAN CSG cells sharing the same identity and
PLMN identity are identifiable as a single group for the purposes of mobility
management and charging.
**CSG identity:** An identifier broadcast by a CSG or hybrid cell/cells and
used by the UE to facilitate access for authorised members of the associated
Closed Subscriber Group.
**CSG member cell:** a cell broadcasting the identity of the selected PLMN,
registered PLMN or equivalent PLMN and for which the CSG whitelist of the UE
includes an entry comprising cell's CSG ID and the respective PLMN identity.
**DRX cycle:** Individual time interval between monitoring Paging Occasion for
a specific UE.
**EHPLMN:** Any of the PLMN entries contained in the Equivalent HPLMN list
stored on the USIM [5].
**Equivalent PLMN list:** List of PLMNs considered as equivalent by the UE for
cell selection, cell reselection , MBSFN Cluster selection MBSFN Cluster
reselection, and handover according to the information provided by the NAS.
**HNB Name** : The Home NodeB Name is a broadcast string in free text format
that provides a human readable name for the Home NodeB CSG identity and any
broadcasted PLMN identity.
**Home PLMN:** A PLMN where the Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile Network
Code (MNC) of the PLMN identity are the same as the MCC and MNC of the IMSI.
**Hybrid cell:** A cell not broadcasting a CSG Indicator but broadcasting a
specific CSG identity.
**Location Registration (LR):** UE registers its presence in a registration
area, for instance regularly or when entering a new registration area.
**Maximum DRX cycle:** Time interval for the longest possible DRX cycle in a
cell.
**MBMS Activated Service:** An MBMS service that the UE has joined (multicast)
or is interested in (broadcast).
**MBMS Preferred Layer (PL):** A frequency layer that is indicated by the
UTRAN to be preferred for camping for MBMS purposes.
**MBSFN cluster:** Set of cells operating in MBSFN mode providing only MBMS
service in PtM mode and seen as one cell by a UE.
**MBSFN mode:** In order to achieve higher spectral efficiency synchronized
cells operate in MBSFN mode which implies that they transmit exactly the same
content over an area that is seen as one MBSFN cell by the UE.
**Paging Block Periodicity (PBP):** Period of the occurrence of Paging Blocks.
(For FDD, PBP = 1).
**Paging Message Receiving Occasion** (TDD only)**:** The frame where the UE
receives actual paging message.
**Paging occasion:** \ (FDD) The SFN of the PICH frame where the UE monitors
its paging indicator (i.e. the SFN of the PCCPCH frame in which the PICH frame
begins).\ (TDD) The paging block, which consists of several frames. The value
of Paging Occasion is equal to the first frame of the Paging Block.
**Power saving mode:** Mode allowing the UE to reduce its power consumption,
as defined in TS 24.008 [16], TS 23.060 [21], TS 23.682 [22].
**Process:** A local action in the UE invoked by a RRC procedure or an Idle
Mode procedure.
**Radio Access Mode:** Radio access mode of the cell, FDD or TDD.
**Radio Access Technology:** Type of technology used for radio access, for
instance UTRA or GSM.
**Registered PLMN:** This is the PLMN on which certain Location Registration
outcomes have occurred [5].
**Registration Area:** (NAS) registration area is an area in which the UE may
roam without a need to perform location registration, which is a NAS
procedure.
**Reserved Cell** : A cell on which camping is not allowed, except for
particular UEs, if so indicated in the system information.
**Restricted Cell** : A cell on which camping is allowed, but access attempts
are disallowed for UEs whose access classes are indicated as barred.
**Selected PLMN:** This is the PLMN that has been selected by the NAS, either
manually or automatically.
**Serving cell:** The cell on which the UE is camped.
**Strongest cell:** The cell on a particular carrier that is considered
strongest according to the layer 1 cell search procedure [14][15]. As the
details of the layer 1 cell search are implementation dependent, the precise
definition of \'strongest cell\' is also implementation dependent.
**Suitable Cell:** This is a cell on which an UE may camp. For a UTRA cell,
the criteria are defined in subclause 4.3, for a GSM cell the criteria are
defined in [1] and for a E-UTRA cell the criteria are defined in [18].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ANDSF Access Network Discovery and Selection Function
ANR Automatic Neighbor Relation
AS Access Stratum
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
BSS Basic Service Set
CM Connection Management
CMAS Commercial Mobile Alert System
CN Core Network
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DSCH Downlink Shared Channel
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GC General Control (SAP)
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
HCS Hierarchical Cell Structure
IMB Integrated Mobile Broadcast
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast-Multicast Service
MBSFN MBMS over a Single Frequency Network
MCC Mobile Country Code
MCCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Control Channel
MDT Minimization of Drive Tests
MICH MBMS notification Indicator Channel
MM Mobility Management
MNC Mobile Network Code
MSCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Scheduling Channel
MTCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Traffic Channel
NAS Non-Access Stratum
NI (MBMS) Notification Indicator
PCH Paging Channel
PI Page Indicator
PICH Page Indication Channel
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PSM Power Saving Mode
RAT Radio Access Technology
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
TDD Time Division Duplex
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 General description of Idle mode
## 4.1 Overview
When a UE is switched on, a public land mobile network (PLMN) is selected and
the UE searches for a suitable cell of this PLMN to camp on. Criteria for cell
selection and cell re-selection between radio access technologies (RATs)
described in this document only consider radio criteria. In addition to RAT,
the PLMN type may differ as well. In this specification, the term PLMN is used
as a generic term covering both GSM MAP and ANSI-41 type of PLMNs. According
to the type of PLMN, the way to identify it can be different. If the PLMN type
is GSM, the PLMN is identified by \'PLMN identity\' and if the PLMN type is
ANSI-41, the PLMN is identified by \'SID\'
The NAS shall provide a list of equivalent PLMNs, if available, that the AS
shall use for cell selection and cell reselection.
The UE searches for a suitable cell of the selected PLMN and chooses that cell
to provide available services, and tunes to its control channel. This choosing
is known as \"camping on the cell\". The UE will, if necessary, then register
its presence, by means of a NAS registration procedure, in the registration
area of the chosen cell and as outcome of a successful Location Registration
the selected PLMN becomes the registered PLMN [5].
If the UE finds a more suitable cell, it reselects onto that cell and camps on
it. If the new cell is in a different registration area, location registration
is performed.
If necessary, the UE shall search for higher priority PLMNs at regular time
intervals as described in [9] and search for a suitable cell if another PLMN
has been selected by NAS.
NOTE: For RRC connected mode the requirements for the search for higher
priority PLMNs are defined in [4].
Search of available CSGs may be triggered by NAS to support manual CSG
selection.
If the UE loses coverage of the registered PLMN, either a new PLMN is selected
automatically (automatic mode), or an indication of which PLMNs are available
is given to the user, so that a manual selection can be made (manual mode).
Registration is not performed by UEs only capable of services that need no
registration.
The purpose of camping on a cell in idle mode is fourfold:
a) It enables the UE to receive system information from the PLMN.
b) When registered and if the UE wishes to establish an RRC connection, it can
do this by initially accessing the network on the control channel of the cell
on which it is camped.
c) If the PLMN receives a call for the registered UE, it knows (in most cases)
the registration area of the cell in which the UE is camped. It can then send
a \"paging\" message for the UE on control channels of all the cells in the
registration area. The UE will then receive the paging message because it is
tuned to the control channel of a cell in that registration area and the UE
can respond on that control channel.
d) It enables the UE to receive cell broadcast services.
If the UE is unable to find a suitable cell to camp on, or the USIM is not
inserted, or if the location registration failed (except for LR rejected with
cause #12, cause #14, cause #15 or cause #25, see [5] and [16]), it attempts
to camp on a cell irrespective of the PLMN identity, and enters a \"limited
service\" state in which it can only attempt to make emergency calls, receive
ETWS, and receive CMAS.
The idle mode tasks can be subdivided into four processes:
\- PLMN selection;
\- Cell selection and reselection;
\- Location registration;
> \- Support for manual CSG selection.
The relationship between these processes is illustrated in Figure 1.
Figure 1: Overall Idle Mode process
When NAS indicates that PSM starts, the AS configuration (e.g. priorities
provided by dedicated signalling and logged measurements) is kept, all running
timers continue to run but the UE need not perform any idle mode tasks. If a
timer expires while the UE is in PSM it is up to UE implementation whether it
performs the corresponding action immediately or the latest when PSM ends.
When NAS indicates that PSM ends, the UE shall perform all idle mode tasks.
## 4.2 Functional division between AS and NAS in Idle mode
Table 1 presents the functional division between UE non-access stratum (NAS)
and UE access stratum (AS) in idle mode. The NAS part is specified in [5] and
the AS part in the present document. Examples of different idle mode
procedures are presented in Clause 10.
Table 1: Functional division between AS and NAS in idle mode
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Idle Mode Process | UE Non-Access | UE Access Stratum | | | Stratum | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PLMN Selection | Maintain the list of | Search for available | | | allowed PLMN types. | PLMNs. | | | It can be GSM-MAP | | | | only, ANSI-41 only | If associated RAT(s) | | | or both. | is (are) set for the | | | | PLMN, search in this | | | Maintain a list of | (these) RAT(s) and | | | PLMNs in priority | other RAT(s) for | | | order according to | that PLMN as | | | [5]. Select a PLMN | specified in [5]. | | | using automatic or | | | | manual mode as | Perform measurements | | | specified in [5] | to support PLMN | | | and request AS to | selection. | | | select a cell | | | | belonging to this | Synchronise to a | | | PLMN. For each PLMN, | broadcast channel to | | | associated RAT(s) | identify found | | | may be set. | PLMNs. | | | | | | | Evaluate reports of | Report available | | | available PLMNs from | PLMNs with | | | AS for PLMN | associated PLMN type | | | selection. | and RAT to NAS on | | | | request from NAS or | | | Maintain a list of | autonomously. | | | equivalent PLMN | | | | identities. | It shall respect | | | | allowed PLMN types | | | | indications from | | | | NAS. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell\ | Control cell | Perform measurements | | Selection | selection for | needed to support | | | example by | cell selection. | | | indicating RAT(s) | | | | associated with the | Detect and | | | selected PLMN to be | synchronise to a | | | used initially in | broadcast channel. | | | the search of a cell | Receive and handle | | | in the cell | broadcast | | | selection. NAS is | information. Forward | | | also maintaining | NAS system | | | lists of forbidden | information to NAS. | | | registration areas | | | | and a CSG whitelist. | Search for a | | | NAS provides these | suitable cell. The | | | lists to AS. | cells broadcast | | | | their \'PLMN | | | | identity\' (GSM-MAP) | | | | or \'SID\' and may | | | | broadcast a CSG ID | | | | and CSG indicator in | | | | the system | | | | information. Respond | | | | to NAS whether such | | | | cell is found or | | | | not. | | | | | | | | If associated RATs | | | | is (are) set for the | | | | PLMN, perform the | | | | search in this | | | | (these) RAT(s) and | | | | other RATs for that | | | | PLMN as specified in | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | If such a cell is | | | | found, the cell is | | | | selected to camp on. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell\ | Control cell | Perform measurements | | Reselection | reselection by for | needed to support | | | example, maintaining | cell reselection. | | | lists of forbidden | | | | registration areas. | Detect and | | | | synchronise to a | | | Maintain a list of | broadcast channel. | | | equivalent PLMN | Receive and handle | | | identities and | broadcast | | | provide the list to | information. Forward | | | AS. | NAS system | | | | information to NAS. | | | Maintain a list of | | | | forbidden LAs and | Change cell if a | | | provide the list to | more suitable cell | | | AS. | is found. | | | | | | | Maintain a CSG | | | | whitelist and | | | | provide the list to | | | | AS. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Location | Register the UE as | Report registration | | registration | active after power | area information to | | | on. | NAS. | | | | | | | Register the UE\'s | | | | presence in a | | | | registration area, | | | | for instance | | | | regularly or when | | | | entering a new | | | | registration area. | | | | | | | | Maintain lists of | | | | forbidden LAs. | | | | | | | | Deregister UE when | | | | shutting down. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MBMS | Maintain priority | Maintain a list of | | | information for | TMGIs of activated | | | various services and | services. | | | participate in | | | | service selection. | Notify NAS of | | | | service availability | | | Indicate to AS if an | and request NAS to | | | offered session has | prioritise in case | | | previously been | of service | | | received. | conflicts. | | | | | | | | Report to NAS when | | | | an activated service | | | | requires action. | | | | | | | | Receive and handle | | | | the MCCH and MTCH, | | | | and, if applicable, | | | | the MSCH and MICH. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Support for manual | Provide request to | Search for cells | | CSG selection | search for available | with a CSG ID. | | | CSG(s). | | | | | Read the HNB name | | | Evaluate reports of | from system | | | available CSG(s) | information if a | | | from AS for CSG | cell with a CSG ID | | | selection. | is found. | | | | | | | Select a CSG and | Report CSG ID(s) of | | | request AS to select | the found cells | | | a suitable cell | broadcasting a CSG | | | belonging to this | ID together with the | | | CSG. | HNB name and PLMN(s) | | | | to NAS. | | | | | | | | On selection of a | | | | CSG by NAS, select | | | | any cell belonging | | | | to the selected CSG | | | | fulfilling the cell | | | | selection criteria | | | | and not barred or | | | | reserved for | | | | operator use for UEs | | | | not belonging to AC | | | | 11 or 15 and give an | | | | indication to NAS | | | | that access is | | | | possible (for the | | | | registration | | | | procedure). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 4.3 Service type in Idle and Connected Mode
This clause defines the level of service that may be provided by the network
to a UE in Idle mode and Connected Mode.
The action of camping on a cell is necessary to get access to some services.
Three levels of services are defined for UE:
\- Limited service (emergency calls, ETWS if supported, and CMAS if supported
on an acceptable cell)
\- Normal service (for public use on a suitable cell)
\- Operator service (for operators only on a reserved cell)
Furthermore, the cells are categorised according to which services they offer:
[acceptable cell:]{.underline}
An \"acceptable cell\" is a cell on which the UE may camp to obtain limited
service (originate emergency calls, receive ETWS if supported, and receive
CMAS if supported). Such a cell shall fulfil the following requirements, which
is the minimum set of requirements to initiate an emergency call and to
receive ETWS primary notification and ETWS secondary notification and to
receive CMAS notification in a UTRAN network:
\- The cell is not barred, see subclause 5.3.1.1;
\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see subclause 5.2.3.1.2;
[suitable cell:]{.underline}
A \"suitable cell\" is a cell on which the UE may camp on to obtain normal
service. Such a cell shall fulfil all the following requirements.
\- The cell shall be part of either:
  * the selected PLMN, or:
  * the registered PLMN, or:
  * a PLMN of the Equivalent PLMN list
\- For a CSG cell, the cell is a CSG member cell for the UE;
> According to the latest information provided by the NAS.
\- The cell is not barred, see subclause 5.3.1.1;
\- The cell is part of at least one LA that is not part of the list of
\"forbidden LAs for roaming\" [9], which belongs to a PLMN that fulfills the
first bullet above;
\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see subclause 5.2.3.1.2.
If the IE "Multiple PLMN List" [4] is broadcast in the cell, the cell is
considered to be part of all LAs with LAIs constructed from the PLMN
identities in the "Multiple PLMN List" and the LAC broadcast in the cell.
[barred cell:]{.underline}
A cell is barred if it is so indicated in the system information [4].
[reserved cell:]{.underline}
A cell is reserved if it is so indicated in system information [4].
Following exceptions to these definitions are applicable for UEs:
\- camped on a cell that belongs to a LA that is forbidden for regional
provision of service, and during emergency calls.
\- as an outcome of the manual CSG selection procedure the UE is allowed to
access an acceptable cell which fulfils the cell selection criteria and is not
barred or reserved for operator use for UEs not belonging to AC 11 or 15 and
inform NAS that access is possible (for location registration procedure).
NOTE: UE is not required to support manual search and selection of CSG(s)
while in RRC CONNECTED state.
A cell that belongs to a LA that is forbidden for regional provision service
([5], [16]) is suitable but provides only limited service.
If a UE has an ongoing emergency call, all acceptable cells of that PLMN are
treated as suitable for cell reselection for the duration of the emergency
call.
[suitable MBSFN cluster:]{.underline}
A cell is part of an MBSFN cluster if it is indicated in system information
[4]. An MBSFN cluster provides exclusively MBMS services. A [suitable MBSFN
cluster]{.underline} shall fulfil all the following requirements:
\- For FDD, 3.84 Mcps TDD IMB and 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD the [MBSFN
cluster]{.underline} shall be part of either:
  * the registered PLMN, or:
  * a PLMN of the Equivalent PLMN list
The MBSFN cluster shall be indicated as:
\- providing MBSFN only service
For FDD, 3.84 Mcps TDD IMB and 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD MBSFN cluster
selection/reselection process for MBSFN clusters operating on the same
frequency shall be based on reception quality. Details of the process are not
specified.
# 5 Process and procedure descriptions
## 5.1 PLMN selection
### 5.1.1 General
In the UE, the AS shall report available PLMNs to the NAS on request from the
NAS or autonomously.
UE shall maintain a list of allowed PLMN types. The allowed PLMN type can be
GSM-MAP only, ANSI-41 only or both. During PLMN selection, based on the list
of allowed PLMN types and a list of PLMN identities in priority order, the
particular PLMN may be selected either automatically or manually. Each PLMN in
the list of PLMN identities can be identified by either \'PLMN identity\'
(GSM-MAP) or \'SID\'. In the system information on the broadcast channel, the
UE can receive a \'PLMN identity\' (GSM-MAP) or a \'SID\' or a \'PLMN
identity\' (GSM-MAP) and a \'SID\', in a given cell. For a given cell, the UE
might receive several \'PLMN identities\' from the system information on the
broadcast channel. The result of the PLMN selection is an identifier of the
selected PLMN, the choice being based on the allowed PLMN types, UE capability
or other factors. This identifier is one of either \'PLMN identity\' for GSM-
MAP type of PLMNs or \'SID\' for ANSI-41 type of PLMNs.
In case that the list of allowed PLMN types includes GSM-MAP, the non-access
part of the PLMN selection process is specified in [5]. In the case that list
of allowed PLMN types includes ANSI-41, the non-access stratum part of the
PLMN selection is specified in TIA/EIA/IS-2000.5 and TIA/EIA/IS-707.
### 5.1.2 Support for PLMN Selection
#### 5.1.2.1 General
On request of the NAS the AS should perform a search for available PLMNs and
report them to NAS.
#### 5.1.2.2 UTRA case
The UE shall scan all RF channels in the UTRA bands according to its
capabilities to find available PLMNs. On each carrier, the UE shall search for
the strongest cell and read its system information, in order to find out which
PLMN the cell belongs to. If the UE can read one or several PLMN identities in
the strongest cell, each found PLMN (see the PLMN reading in [4]) shall be
reported to the NAS as a high quality PLMN (but without the RSCP value),
provided that the following high quality criterion is fulfilled:
1\. For an FDD cell, the measured primary CPICH RSCP value shall be greater
than or equal to -95 dBm.
2\. For a TDD cell, the measured P-CCPCH RSCP shall be greater than or equal
to -84 dBm.
Found PLMNs that do not satisfy the high quality criterion, but for which the
UE has been able to read the PLMN identities are reported to the NAS together
with the CPICH RSCP value for UTRA FDD cells and P-CCPCH RSCP for UTRA TDD
cells. The quality measure reported by the UE to NAS shall be the same for
each PLMN found in one cell.
The search for PLMNs on the rest of the carriers may be stopped on request of
the NAS. The UE may optimise this search by using stored information of
carrier frequencies and optionally also information on cell parameters, e.g.
scrambling codes, from previously received measurement control information
elements.
Once the UE has selected a PLMN, the cell selection procedure shall be
performed in order to select a suitable cell of that PLMN to camp on.
If a CSG ID is provided by NAS as part of PLMN selection, the UE shall search
for an acceptable or suitable cell belonging to the provided CSG ID to camp
on. When the UE is no longer camped on a cell with the provided CSG ID, AS
shall inform NAS.
#### 5.1.2.3 GSM case
Support for network selection in GSM is described in [1].
#### 5.1.2.4 E-UTRA case
Support for network selection in E-UTRA is described in [18].
## 5.2 Cell selection and reselection in idle mode
### 5.2.1 Introduction
As stated in clause 1, the present document applies to UEs that support at
least UTRA.
Different types of measurements are used in different RATs and modes for the
cell selection and reselection. The performance requirements for the
measurements are specified in [10] and [11].
The NAS can control the RAT(s) in which the cell selection should be
performed, for instance by indicating RAT(s) associated with the selected
PLMN, and by maintaining a list of forbidden registration area(s) and a list
of equivalent PLMNs. The UE shall select a suitable cell and the radio access
mode based on idle mode measurements and cell selection criteria.
In order to speed up the cell selection process, stored information for
several RATs may be available in the UE.
When camped on a cell, the UE shall regularly search for a better cell
according to the cell reselection criteria. If a better cell is found, that
cell is selected. The change of cell may imply a change of RAT. Details on
performance requirements for cell reselection can be found in [10] and [11].
The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection results in changes
in the received system information.
For normal service, the UE has to camp on a suitable cell, tune to that
cell\'s control channel(s) so that the UE can:
\- Receive system information from the PLMN;
\- Receive registration area information from the PLMN, e.g., location area
and routing area; and
\- Receive other AS and NAS Information;
\- If registered:
\- receive paging and notification messages from the PLMN; and
\- initiate call setup for outgoing calls or other actions from the UE.
### 5.2.2 States and state transitions in Idle Mode
Figure 2 shows the states and procedures in Idle Mode.
Figure 2: Idle Mode Cell Selection and Reselection\ In any state, a new PLMN
selection causes an exit to number 1
#### 5.2.2.1 Cell Selection process overview
Whenever a PLMN has been selected by NAS, the UE shall attempt to find a
suitable cell to camp on.
The NAS may control the cell selection by:
\- providing information on RAT(s) associated with the selected PLMN;
\- maintaining lists of forbidden registration areas;
\- providing a list of equivalent PLMNs;
One or several RATs may be associated with the selected PLMN. In [5] it is
specified which RAT a UE shall select to search for a suitable cell of the
selected PLMN.
The AS shall attempt to find a suitable cell to camp on as specified in clause
5.2.3.
When the MBMS frequency layer dispersion is triggered, the UE actions are
specified in [4].
If a suitable cell is found, the UE shall select this cell to camp on, and
report this event to NAS so that the necessary NAS registration procedures can
be performed. When the registration is successful, the UE enters in state
_Camped normally_ in order to obtain normal service.
If the UE is unable to find any suitable cell of selected PLMN the UE shall
enter the _Any cell selection_ state.
#### 5.2.2.2 Camped normally state overview
In this state, the UE obtains normal service and performs the tasks specified
in 5.2.5.
If after a _Cell reselection evaluation process_ a better cell is found, the
_Cell reselection procedure_ is performed. If no suitable cell is found, the
UE shall enter the state _Any cell selection_.
If a necessary NAS registration is rejected, the UE shall enter the _Any cell
selection_ state, except if the LR is rejected with cause #12, cause #14,
cause #15 or cause #25. In this case the UE shall behave as specified in [5]
and [16].
When UE leaves idle mode in order to enter the state _Connected mode_ , the UE
shall attempt to access the current serving cell. If the access attempt to the
serving cell fails, the UE shall use the _Cell reselection_ _evaluation_
procedure.
#### 5.2.2.3 Connected mode State overview
The procedures in _Connected mode_ state are specified in [4]
When returning to idle mode, the UE shall use the procedure _Cell selection
when leaving connected mode_ in order to find a suitable cell to camp on and
enter state _Camped normally_. If a suitable cell is found, then the AS
reports this event to NAS to be capable to perform necessary NAS registration
procedures. If no suitable cell is found, the _Stored information cell
selection_ procedure shall be used.
If no suitable cell is found in _cell reselection_ _evaluation_ process, the
UE enters the state _Any cell selection_.
#### 5.2.2.4 Any cell selection State overview
In this state the UE performs the tasks specified in subclause 5.2.8
The state _Any cell selection_ is also entered if the NAS indicates that a
location registration is rejected except if the LR is rejected with cause #12,
cause #14, cause #15 or cause #25, see [5] and [16], or if there is no USIM in
the UE.
If the UE received an LR reject with cause #12, cause #14, cause #15 or cause
#25, the UE shall behave as specified in [5] and [16].
If an acceptable cell is found, the UE shall inform the NAS and camp on this
cell and obtain limited service, state _Camped on any cell_. The subsequent
actions of the NAS regarding the PLMN selection are specified in [5].
#### 5.2.2.5 Camped on any cell State overview
In this state the UE obtains limited service and shall behave as specified in
subclause 5.2.9. In this state if the UE supports CS voice services, the UE
shall avoid reselecting an acceptable cell of E-UTRA regardless of priorities
provided in system information of current cell. The UE shall regularly attempt
to find a suitable cell, trying all RATs that are supported by the UE. If a
suitable cell is found, this causes an exit to number 2 in figure 2.
NOTE: The \'PLMN selection\' process may select a new PLMN at any time in idle
mode, which in Figure 2 causes an exit to number 1.
### 5.2.3 Cell Selection Process
#### 5.2.3.1 UTRA case
##### 5.2.3.1.1 Description
The UE shall use one of the following two search procedures:
a) Initial Cell Selection
This procedure requires no prior knowledge of which RF channels are UTRA
carriers. The UE shall scan all RF channels in the UTRA bands according to its
capabilities to find a suitable cell. On each carrier, the UE need only search
for the strongest cell. Once a suitable cell is found this cell shall be
selected.
b) Stored Information Cell Selection
This procedure requires stored information of carrier frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters, e.g. scrambling codes, from
previously received measurement control information elements. Once the UE has
found a suitable cell the UE shall select it. If no suitable cell is found the
Initial cell selection procedure shall be started.
##### 5.2.3.1.2 Criteria
The cell selection criterion S is fulfilled when:
Where:
Where:
the signalled values QqualminOffset and QrxlevminOffset are only applied when
a cell is evaluated for cell selection as a result of a periodic search for a
higher priority PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN [5]. During this
periodic search for higher priority PLMN the UE may check the S criteria of a
cell using parameter values stored from a different cell of this higher
priority PLMN.
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Squal | Cell Selection quality value (dB) | | | | | | Applicable only for FDD cells. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Srxlev | Cell Selection RX level value (dB) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | **Qoffset~temp~** | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as | | | specified in [4] (dB) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualmeas~ | Measured cell quality value. The quality of | | | the received signal expressed in CPICH Ec/N0 | | | (dB) for FDD cells. CPICH Ec/N0 shall be | | | averaged as specified in [10]. Applicable | | | only for FDD cells. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevmeas~ | Measured cell RX level value. This is | | | received signal, CPICH RSCP for FDD cells | | | (dBm) and P-CCPCH RSCP for TDD cells (dBm). | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Qqualmin | Minimum required quality level in the cell | | | (dB). Applicable only for FDD cells. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | QqualminOffset | Offset to the signalled Qqualmin taken into | | | account in the Squal evaluation as a result | | | of a periodic search for a higher priority | | | PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN [5] | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Qrxlevmin | Minimum required RX level in the cell (dBm) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | QrxlevminOffset | Offset to the signalled Qrxlevmin taken into | | | account in the Srxlev evaluation as a result | | | of a periodic search for a higher priority | | | PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN [5] | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Pcompensation | max(UE_TXPWR_MAX_RACH -- P_MAX, 0) (dB) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | UE_TXPWR_MAX_RACH | Maximum TX power level an UE may use when | | | accessing the cell on RACH (read in system | | | information) (dBm) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | P_MAX | Maximum RF output power of the UE (dBm) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
#### 5.2.3.2 GSM case
The cell selection criteria and procedures in GSM are specified in [1].
#### 5.2.3.3 E-UTRA case
The cell selection criteria and procedures in E-UTRA are specified in [18].
#### 5.2.3.4 CSG cells and Hybrid cells in Cell Selection
In addition to normal cell selection rules a manual selection of CSGs shall be
supported by the UE upon request from higher layers as defined in subclause
5.6.
### 5.2.4 Void
### 5.2.5 Camped Normally State
#### 5.2.5.1 UTRA case
When camped normally, the UE shall perform the following tasks:
\- select and monitor the indicated PICH and PCH of the cell as specified in
clause 8 according to information sent in system information;
\- monitor relevant System Information. This is specified in [4];
\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;
\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:
1) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in [10] and
[11];
2) When information on the BCCH used for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure has been modified
If the UE supports MBMS and MBMS is active in the cell and the UE is permitted
to receive MBMS services in the cell, the UE shall perform MBMS tasks as
specified in subclause 6.3.
#### 5.2.5.2 GSM case
The Camped Normally State is specified in [1].
#### 5.2.5.3 E-UTRA case
The Camped Normally State is specified in [18].
### 5.2.6 Cell Reselection Evaluation Process
#### 5.2.6.1 UTRA case
The cell reselection process is specified in the following sub-clauses:
##### 5.2.6.1.0 Use of MBMS PL
In the cell reselection process, an MBMS PL shall only be applicable while the
UE is receiving an MBMS session from one or more of the ongoing activated MBMS
services for which this PL is indicated.
##### 5.2.6.1.1 Measurement rules for cell re-selection when HCS is not used
The measurement rules below apply in Idle, URA_PCH, CELL_PCH states. For FDD,
3.84 Mcps TDD and 7.68 Mcps TDD, in CELL_FACH state the measurement rules
below apply only if HS-DSCH discontinuous reception, with or without second
DRX cycle, is configured, as specified in [4] and according to the
requirements specified in [10]. Otherwise, the UE is required to perform
measurements on all intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT cells
listed in system information according to requirements specified in [10]. For
1.28 Mcps TDD, in CELL_FACH state the UE is required to perform measurements
on all intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT cells listed in system
information according to requirements specified in [11]. In Idle, URA_PCH,
CELL_PCH and CELL_FACH states the UE shall only consider those cells the UE is
mandated to measure according to the measurement rules below as measured cells
in the cell reselection criteria (subclause 5.2.6.1.4).
If the system information broadcast in the serving cell indicates that HCS is
not used, then for intra-frequency and inter-frequency measurements and inter-
RAT measurements, the UE shall:
\- use Squal for FDD cells and Srxlev for TDD for Sx, and apply the following
rules.
1\. If Sx > S~intrasearch~, UE may choose to not perform intra-frequency
measurements.\ If Sx \ S~intersearch~ and MBMS PL has not been indicated, and Srxlev >
S~searchHCS~ if S~searchHCS~ is signalled, UE may choose to not perform inter-
frequency measurements.\ If Sx > S~intersearch~and MBMS PL has been indicated
and the serving cell belongs to the MBMS PL, and Srxlev > S~searchHCS~ if
S~searchHCS~ is signalled, UE may choose to not perform inter-frequency
measurements.\ If Sx > S~intersearch~, and MBMS PL has been indicated and the
serving cell does not belong to the MBMS PL, and Srxlev > S~searchHCS~ if
S~searchHCS~ is signalled, UE shall at least perform inter-frequency
measurements on the MBMS PL.\ If Sx \ Ssearch~RAT\ m~, and Srxlev > S~HCS,RATm~ if S~HCS,RATm~ is
signalled, UE may choose to not perform measurements on cells of RAT \"m\".\
If Sx \ S~intrasearch~) THEN
measure on all intra-frequency and inter-frequency cells, which have higher
HCS priority level than the serving cell
> ELSE
measure on all intra-frequency and inter-frequency cells, which have equal or
higher HCS priority level than the serving cell
> ENDIF
>
> IF (S~intrasearch~ is not sent for the serving cell) THEN
measure on all intra-frequency cells. UEs in high-mobility state may also use
this rule.
> measure on all inter-frequency cells, which have higher HCS priority level
> than the serving cell unless measurement rules for UEs in high-mobility
> state are triggered.
ENDIF
ENDIF
If HCS is used and if S~searchHCS~ or S~intersearch~ (in FDD) are not sent for
the serving cell, UE shall:
measure on all intra-frequency and inter-frequency cells.
2\. For intra-frequency and inter-frequency measurement rules for UE's in
high-mobility state:
If the number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ exceeds N~CR~,
or if the network (via RRC signalling) has ordered the UE to consider itself
in high-mobility state, then high-mobility state has been detected. In this
high-mobility state, the UE shall
IF (Srxlev~s~ \ S~limit,SearchRATm~) THEN
UE may choose to not measure neighbouring cells in RAT \"m\".
ELSE
UE shall measure on all neighbouring cells in RAT \"m\", which have equal or
higher HCS priority level than the serving cell
ENDIF
ENDIF
If HCS is used and if S~HCS,RATm~ is not sent for the serving cell, UE shall
measure on all inter-RATm cells.
2\. Inter-RAT measurement rules for UEs in high-mobility state
\- If the number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ exceeds
N~CR~, or if the network (via RRC signalling) has ordered the UE to consider
itself in high-mobility state, then high-mobility state has been detected. In
this high-mobility state, the UE shall
\- IF (Srxlev~s~ \ \- UE shall measure on all inter-RATm cells.
ELSE
\- measure the neighbouring cells in RAT \"m\", which have an equal or lower
HCS priority than the serving cell
\- ENDIF
When the number of cell reselections during time interval T~CRmax~ no longer
exceeds N~CR~, UE shall
\- continue these measurements during time period T~CrmaxHyst~
\- if the criteria for entering high-mobility state is not detected during
time period T~CrmaxHyst~
\- exit high-mobility state.
##### 5.2.6.1.2a Measurement rules for inter-frequency and inter-RAT cell
reselection when absolute priorities are used
The measurement rules below apply in Idle, URA_PCH, CELL_PCH states. In
CELL_FACH state, if (High Priority Layers is indicated in CELL_FACH Absolute
Priority Measurement Indicator [4] and SrxlevServingCell > Sprioritysearch1
and SqualServingCell > Sprioritysearch2) or (All Layers is indicated in
CELL_FACH Absolute Priority Measurement Indicator [4]) then the measurement
rules below apply, otherwise the measurement rules in 5.2.6.1.1 and 5.2.6.1.2
apply.
The UE is required to perform measurements of inter-frequency and inter-RAT
cells listed in system information according to Measurement requirements are
specified in [10]. UE specific priorities are not applied in camped on any
cell state.
If the UE has received absolute priority information for inter-frequency
layers, the UE shall follow these rules:
\- The UE shall perform measurements of inter-frequency layers with a priority
higher than the priority of the current serving layer.
NOTE: The rate of these measurements may vary depending on whether Srxlev and
Squal of the serving cell are above or below S~prioritysearch1~ and
S~prioritysearch2~. This is specified in [10].
\- When the UE in _camped normally_ state, has only dedicated priorities other
than for the current frequency, the UE shall consider the current frequency to
be the lowest priority frequency (i.e. lower than the eight network configured
values).
\- For inter-frequency layers with a priority equal or lower than the priority
of the current serving layer:
\- If Srxlev**~ServingCell~** > S~prioritysearch1~ and Squal**~ServingCell~**
> S~prioritysearch2~ the UE may choose not to perform measurements of inter-
frequency layers of equal or lower priority.
\- If Srxlev**~ServingCell~** \ S~prioritysearch1~ and Squal**~ServingCell~**
> S~prioritysearch2~ the UE may choose not to perform measurements of inter-
RAT layers of lower priority.
\- If Srxlev**~ServingCell~** \ \- If absolute priority information is provided for any inter-RAT layers in
> a RAT, the UE may choose not to perform measurements on layers in that RAT
> for which the UE has no absolute priority.
\- The UE shall perform measurements according to subclause 5.2.6.1.1 for
inter-RAT layers for which the UE has no absolute priority. For all inter-RAT
layers belonging to one RAT, either the rules above or the rules in subclause
5.2.6.1.1 or 5.2.6.1.2 shall apply.
\- In CELL_FACH state: If there are UTRAN inter-frequency, GERAN and E-UTRAN
neighbours configured and required to be measured according to the measurement
rules above, then the UE shall perform measurements on UTRAN inter-frequency
and E-UTRAN layers (i.e. the UE is not required to measure GERAN, regardless
of whether GERAN has absolute priorities assigned).
##### 5.2.6.1.3 Highest ranked cells with cell reservations, access
restrictions or unsuitable for normal camping
For the highest ranked cell (including serving cell) according to cell
reselection criteria specified in subclause 5.2.6.1.4, or for the best cell
according to absolute priority reselection criteria specified in subclause
5.2.6.1.4a, the UE shall check if the access is restricted according to the
rules in subclause 5.3.1.1.
If that cell and other cells have to be excluded from the candidate list, as
stated in subclause 5.3.1.1, the UE shall not consider these as candidates for
cell reselection. This limitation is removed when the highest ranked cell
changes.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an intra-frequency or inter-frequency cell which is not
suitable due to being part of the \"list of forbidden LAs for roaming\" or
belonging to a PLMN which is not indicated as being equivalent to the
registered PLMN, the UE shall not consider this cell and other cells on the
same frequency, as candidates for reselection for a maximum of 300s. If the UE
has to perform an _any cell selection_ procedure any limitation shall be
removed. If the UE is redirected under UTRAN control to a frequency for which
the timer is running, any limitation on that frequency shall be removed.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an inter-RAT cell which is not suitable due to being part
of the \"list of forbidden LAs for roaming\" or belonging to a PLMN which is
not indicated as being equivalent to the registered PLMN, the UE shall not
consider this cell and other cells on the same frequency as candidates for
reselection for a maximum of 300s. If the UE has to perform an _any cell
selection_ procedure any limitation shall be removed. If the UE is redirected
under UTRAN control to a frequency for which the timer is running, any
limitation on that frequency shall be removed.
##### 5.2.6.1.4 Cell Reselection Criteria
The following cell re-selection criteria are used for intra-frequency cells,
inter-frequency cells if no absolute priority information for any inter-
frequency layer is available to the UE, and inter-RAT cells if no absolute
priority information for any inter-RAT layer is available to the UE for that
RAT. For inter-frequency and inter-RAT layers in a RAT for which absolute
priorities are defined, then the cell reselection criteria in subclause
5.2.6.1.4a shall apply.
The quality level threshold criterion H for hierarchical cell structures is
used to determine whether prioritised ranking according to hierarchical cell
re-selection rules shall apply, and is defined by:
If it is indicated in system information that HCS is not used, the quality
level threshold criterion H is not applied.
The cell-ranking criterion R is defined by:
where:
\- the signalled value Qoffmbms is only applied to those cells (serving or
neighbouring) belonging to the MBMS PL
\- for a CSG cell not included in the neighbour cell list, then Qoffsets,n and
Qoffmbms have the value 0.
where:
TEMP_OFFSET~n~ applies an offset to the H and R criteria for the duration of
PENALTY_TIME~n~ after a timer T~n~ has started for that neighbouring cell.
TEMP_OFFSET~n~ and PENALTY_TIME~n~ are only applicable if the usage of HCS is
indicated in system information.
For a CSG cell not included in the neighbour cell list, then TEMP_OFFSET~n~
has the value of 0.
The timer T~n~ is implemented for each neighbouring cell. T~n~ shall be
started from zero when one of the following conditions becomes true:
\- if HCS_PRIO~n~ \<> HCS_PRIO~s~ and
Q~meas~,~n~ >= Qhcs~n~
Or
\- if HCS_PRIO~n~ = HCS_PRIO~s~ and
\- for serving FDD and neighbour FDD cells if the quality measure for cell
selection and reselection is set to CPICH RSCP in the serving cell, and:
Q~meas,n~ > Q~meas~,~s~ + Qoffset1~s,n~
\- for serving FDD and neighbour FDD cells if the quality measure for cell
selection and reselection is set to CPICH Ec/No in the serving cell, and:
Q~meas,n~ > Q~meas~,~s~ + Qoffset2~s,n~
\- for all other serving and neighbour cells:
Q~meas,n~ > Q~meas~,~s~ + Qoffset1~s,n~
T~n~ for the associated neighbour cell shall be stopped as soon as any of the
above conditions are no longer fulfilled. Any value calculated for TO~n~ is
valid only if the associated timer T~n~ is still running else TO~n~ shall be
set to zero.
At cell-reselection, a timer T~n~ is stopped only if the corresponding cell is
not a neighbour cell of the new serving cell, or if the criteria given above
for starting timer T~n~ for the corresponding cell is no longer fulfilled with
the parameters of the new serving cell. On cell re-selection, timer T~n~ shall
be continued to be run for the corresponding cells but the criteria given
above shall be evaluated with parameters broadcast in the new serving cell if
the corresponding cells are neighbours of the new serving cell.
* * *
S~n~ Cell Selection value of the neighbouring cell, (dB) Q~meas~ Quality
value. The quality value of the received signal derived from the averaged
CPICH Ec/No or CPICH RSCP for FDD cells, from the averaged P-CCPCH RSCP for
TDD cells and from the averaged received signal level for GSM cells. The
averaging of these measurement quantities are performed as specified in [10]
and [11]. For FDD cells, the measurement that is used to derive the quality
value is set by the Cell_selection_and_reselection_quality_measure information
element.
* * *
Cell reselection parameters broadcast in system information are listed in
subclause 5.2.6.1.5.
The cell selection criterion S used for cell reselection is fulfilled when:
Where :
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Squal | Cell Selection quality value (dB) | | | | | | Applicable only for FDD cells and E-UTRA | | | cells. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Srxlev | Cell Selection RX level value (dB) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | **Qoffset~temp~** | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as | | | specified in [4] (dB) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualmeas~ | Measured cell quality value. The quality of | | | the received signal expressed in CPICH Ec/N0 | | | (dB) for FDD cells, and RSRQ for E-UTRA | | | cells. CPICH Ec/N0 and RSRQ shall be | | | averaged as specified in [10]. | | | | | | Applicable only for FDD cells and E-UTRA | | | cells. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevmeas~ | Measured cell RX level value. This is | | | received signal, CPICH RSCP for FDD cells | | | (dBm), P-CCPCH RSCP for TDD cells (dBm), the | | | averaged received signal level as specified | | | in [10] for GSM cells (dBm) and the | | | averaged RSRP as specified in [10] for | | | E-UTRA cells (dBm). CPICH RSCP, P-CCPCH | | | RSCP, the received signal level for GSM | | | cells and the RSRP for E-UTRA cells shall be | | | averaged as specified in [10] and [11]. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Qqualmin | Minimum required quality level in the cell | | | (dB). Applicable only for FDD cells and | | | E-UTRA cells. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Qrxlevmin | Minimum required RX level in the cell (dBm) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Pcompensation | max(UE_TXPWR_MAX_RACH -- P_MAX, 0) (dB) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | UE_TXPWR_MAX_RACH | Maximum TX power level an UE may use when | | | accessing the cell on RACH (read in system | | | information) (dBm) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | P_MAX | Maximum RF output power of the UE (dBm) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
For a CSG cell not included in the neighbour cell list, the cell specific
parameter values to be used shall be the same as the serving cell.
If HCS is not used in the serving cell the UE shall perform ranking of all
cells that fulfil the criterion S, among:
\- all measured cells (see subclause 5.2.6.1.1).
If HCS is used in the serving cell, then from the cells that fulfil the
criterion S, the UE shall perform ranking of all cells among
1\. when not in high-mobility state (see subclause 5.2.6.1.2),
> \- all measured cells, that have the highest HCS_PRIO among those cells that
> fulfil the criterion H >= 0.
>
> \- all measured cells, not considering HCS priority levels, if no cell
> fulfil the criterion H >= 0.
2 when in high-mobility state (see subclause 5.2.6.1.2),
\- all measured cells, and among these cells:
\- if there are cells with a lower HCS priority than the serving cell that
fulfil the criterion H >= 0:
\- from the cells that have a lower HCS priority than the serving cell, all
cells that have the highest HCS_PRIO among those cells that fulfil the
criterion H >=0;
\- else:
\- if there are cells that fulfil the criterion H >= 0 with an HCS priority
higher or equal to the HCS priority of the serving cell:
\- from the cells that have an HCS priority higher or equal to the HCS
priority of the serving cell, all cells that have the lowest HCS_PRIO among
those cells that fulfil the criterion H >=0;
\- else
\- all cells not considering HCS priority levels.
The cells shall be ranked according to the R criteria specified above,
deriving Q~meas,n~ and Q~meas,s~ and calculating the R values using CPICH
RSCP, P-CCPCH RSCP and the averaged received signal level as specified in [10]
and [11] for FDD, TDD and GSM cells, respectively.
The offset Qoffset1~s,n~ is used for Qoffset~s,n~ to calculate R~n~, the
hysteresis Qhyst1~s~ is used for Qhyst~s~ to calculate R~s~. For UE in RRC
connected mode states CELL_PCH or URA_PCH the hysteresis Qhyst~s~ takes the
value Qhyst1~s,PCH~ to calculate R~s~, if provided in SIB4 [see 4]. For UE in
RRC connected mode state CELL_FACH the hysteresis Qhyst~s~ takes the value
Qhyst1~s,FACH~ to calculate R~s~, if provided in SIB4 [see 4].
If the usage of HCS is indicated in system information, TEMP_OFFSET1~n~ is
used for TEMP_OFFSET~n~ to calculate TO~n~. If it is indicated in system
information that HCS is not used, TEMP_OFFSET~n~ is not applied when
calculating R~n~. The best ranked cell is the cell with the highest R value.
If a TDD or GSM cell is ranked as the best cell, then the UE shall perform
cell re-selection to that TDD or GSM cell.
If an FDD cell is ranked as the best cell and the quality measure for cell
selection and re-selection is set to CPICH RSCP, the UE shall perform cell re-
selection to that FDD cell. If this cell is found to be not suitable, the UE
shall behave according to subclause 5.2.6.1.3.
If an FDD cell is ranked as the best cell and the quality measure for cell
selection and re-selection is set to CPICH Ec/No, the UE shall perform a
second ranking of the FDD cells according to the R criteria specified above,
but using the measurement quantity CPICH Ec/No for deriving the Q~meas,n~ and
Q~meas,s~ and calculating the R values of the FDD cells. The offset
Qoffset2~s,n~ is used for Qoffset~s,n~ to calculate R~n~, the hysteresis
Qhyst2~s~ is used for Qhyst~s~ to calculate R~s~. For UE in RRC connected mode
states CELL_PCH or URA_PCH the hysteresis Qhyst~s~ takes the value
Qhyst2~s,PCH~ to calculate R~s~, if provided in SIB4 [see 4]. For UE in RRC
connected mode state CELL_FACH the hysteresis Qhyst~s~ takes the value
Qhyst2~s,FACH~ to calculate R~s~, if provided in SIB4 [see 4]. If the usage of
HCS is indicated in system information, TEMP_OFFSET2~n~ is used to calculate
TO~n~. If it is indicated in system information that HCS is not used,
TEMP_OFFSET~n~ is not applied when calculating R~n~. Following this second
ranking, the UE shall perform cell re-selection to the best ranked FDD cell.
If this cell is found to be not suitable, the UE shall behave according to
subclause 5.2.6.1.3.
In all cases, the UE shall reselect the new cell, only if the following
conditions are met:
\- the new cell is better ranked than the serving cell during the preceding
time interval Treselection. For UE in RRC connected mode states CELL_PCH or
URA_PCH the interval Treselection~s,PCH~ applies, if provided in SIB4 [see 4],
while for UE in RRC connected mode state CELL_FACH the interval
Treselection~s,FACH~ applies, if provided in SIB4 [see 4]. For hierarchical
cell structures when high-mobility state has not been detected, if according
to the HCS rules the serving cell is not ranked then all the ranked cells are
considered to be better ranked than the serving cell. In case the UE reselects
to a cell on an MBMS preferred frequency to receive an MBMS service not
available on the current frequency the UE may reduce interval Treselection~S~,
Treselection~S,\ PCH~ and Treselection~S,\ FACH~.
Additionally the UE shall apply the following scaling rules to Treselection~s~
or Treselection~s,PCH~ or Treselection~s,FACH~:
\- For intra-frequency cells and high-mobility state not detected:
\- no scaling applied.
\- For intra-frequency cells and high-mobility state is detected:
\- multiply Treselection~s~ or Treselection~s,PCH~ or Treselection~s,FACH~ by
the IE \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection\" if sent on system
information.
\- For inter-frequency cells and high-mobility state not detected:
\- multiply Treselection~s~ or Treselection~s,PCH~ or Treselection~s,FACH~ by
the IE \"Inter-frequency ScalingFactor for Treselection\" if sent on system
information.
\- For inter-frequency cells and high-mobility state is detected:
\- multiply Treselection~s~ or Treselection~s,PCH~ or Treselection~s,FACH~ by
both the IEs \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection\" if sent on
system information and \"Inter-frequency ScalingFactor for Treselection\" if
sent on system information.
\- For inter-RAT cells and high-mobility state not detected:
\- multiply Treselection~s~ or Treselection~s,PCH~ or Treselection~s,FACH~ by
the IE \"Inter-RAT ScalingFactor for Treselection\" if sent on system
information.
\- For inter-RAT cells and high-mobility state is detected:
\- multiply Treselection~s~ or Treselection~s,PCH~ or Treselection~s,FACH~ by
both the IEs \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection\" if sent on
system information and \"Inter-RAT ScalingFactor for Treselection\" if sent on
system information.
In case scaling is applied to Treselection~s~ or Treselection~s,PCH~, the UE
shall round up the result after all scalings to the nearest second. In case
scaling is applied to Treselection~s,FACH~, the UE shall round up the result
after all scalings to the nearest 0.2 seconds.
\- more than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell.
\- For FDD the UE does not have an allocated common E-DCH resource.
\- For 1.28 Mcps TDD, the UE does not have CELL Reselection Indication
procedure ongoing.
For FDD the UE continues taking intra-frequency measurements and ranking cells
while it has an allocated common E-DCH resource. If supported by the UE and
configured to perform Cell Reselection Indication Reporting, the UE shall
inform the MAC layer that the cell reselection criteria are met.
For 1.28 Mcps TDD, the UE continues taking measurements and ranking cells
while it has the CELL Reselection Indication procedure ongoing as in [19].
##### 5.2.6.1.4a Absolute priority based criteria for inter-frequency and
inter-RAT cell reselection
Absolute priorities of different absolute priority layers may be provided to
the UE. The following cell reselection criteria are used for inter-frequency
cells if absolute priority information for inter-frequency is available to the
UE, and inter-RAT cells if absolute priority information for inter-RAT is
available to the UE.
If System Information Block 18 with UTRAN information is provided then the UE
shall apply the inter-frequency priority rules below only to UTRAN cells of
the selected PLMN or equivalent PLMNs. If System Information Block 18 is not
provided, or is provided but contains no information for UTRAN, then the rules
below apply for the entire UTRAN RAT.
If System Information Block 18 with GERAN information is provided then the UE
shall apply the GERAN RAT priority rules below only to GERAN cells of the
selected PLMN or equivalent PLMNs. If System Information Block 18 is not
provided, or is provided but contains no information for GERAN, then the rules
below apply for the entire GERAN RAT.
If priority information is provided for any inter-frequency layers, cells
belonging to inter-frequency layers for which no priority or no threshold is
assigned shall not be considered for reselection.
If priority information is provided for any inter-RAT layers in a RAT, cells
belonging to layers in that RAT for which no priority or no threshold is
assigned shall not be considered for reselection.
If none of the inter-frequency layers in UTRAN are provided with both priority
and threshold parameters, the cell reselection criteria in subclause 5.2.6.1.4
shall apply for inter-frequency layers in UTRAN.
If none of the inter-RAT layers in a RAT are provided with both priority and
threshold parameters, the cell reselection criteria in subclause 5.2.6.1.4
shall apply for that RAT.
If both criteria in subclause 5.2.6.1.4 and criteria in subclause 5.2.6.1.4a
are simultaneously fullfilled, the order in which the reselection criteria are
evaluated is left to UE implementation.
NOTE: In order not to apply absolute priority but the cell reselection
criteria in subclause 5.2.6.1.4 for inter-frequencies cell reselection in
UTRAN or for inter-RAT cell reselection, the network may choose to configure
no inter-frequency layers in UTRAN or no inter-RAT layers in a RAT in SIB19
even though dedicated priorities are provided.
For all inter-frequency layers or all inter-RAT layers belonging to one RAT,
either the criteria below or the criteria in subclause 5.2.6.1.4 shall apply.
The UE may apply either priorities broadcast in system information or
priorities received through dedicated signalling. The rules regarding which
set of priorities shall apply are defined in [4]. UE specific priorities shall
be cleared when the validity time of the UE specific priorities expires, or
when a PLMN selection is performed on request by NAS. UE specific priorities
are not applied in camped on any cell state.
When the UE in _camped normally_ state, has only dedicated priorities other
than for the current frequency, the UE shall consider the current frequency to
be the lowest priority frequency (i.e. lower than the eight network configured
values).
The UE shall inherit the priorities provided by dedicated signalling and the
remaining validity time (i.e., T320 in E-UTRA, T322 in UTRA and T3230 in
GERAN), if configured, at inter-RAT cell (re)selection.
The following definitions apply for the layers for which Thresh~x,high2~ or
Thresh~x,low2~ are not provided:
\- Criterion 1: the Srxlev~nonServingCell,x~ of a cell on an evaluated higher
absolute priority layer is greater than Thresh~x,high~ during a time interval
Treselection;
\- Criterion 2: (Srxlev~ServingCell~ \ Qrxlevmeas \
> Qqualmeas \ ChannelUtilizationWLAN \
> BackhaulRateDlWLAN > Thresh~BackhRateDLWLAN,\ High~; and
>
> BackhaulRateUlWLAN > Thresh~BackhRateULWLAN,\ High~; and
>
> BeaconRSSI > Thresh~BeaconRSSIWLAN,\ High~.
The UE shall not consider the metrics for which a threshold has not been
provided. The UE shall evaluate the UTRAN conditions on the serving cell in
Idle mode, URA_PCH, CELL_PCH, CELL_FACH and CELL_DCH. If not all metrics
related to the provided thresholds can be acquired for a WLAN BSS, the UE
shall exclude that WLAN BSS from the evaluation of the above rule.
The upper layers in the UE shall be notified _(see TS 24.302 [28])_ when the
following conditions 3 or 4 for steering traffic from WLAN to UTRAN are
satisfied for a time interval Tsteering~WLAN~:
  1. In the source WLAN:
> ChannelUtilizationWLAN > Thresh~ChUtilWLAN,\ High~; or
>
> BackhaulRateDlWLAN \
> BackhaulRateUlWLAN \
> BeaconRSSI \ Qrxlevmeas > Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ High~; and
>
> Qqualmeas > Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ High2~.
The UE shall not consider the metrics for which a threshold has not been
provided. The UE shall evaluate the UTRAN conditions on the serving cell in
Idle mode, URA_PCH, CELL_PCH, CELL_FACH and CELL_DCH.
If the FDD UE is configured with DCH only, the reference cell to use, for the
rules defined in this sub-clause, is the best cell in active set.
### 5.10.3 RAN assistance parameters definition
The following RAN assistance parameters for RAN-assisted WLAN interworking may
be provided:
**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ Low~**
This specifies the CPICH RSCP for FDD cells (dBm) and P-CCPCH RSCP for TDD
cells (dBm) used by the UE for traffic steering from UTRAN to WLAN.
**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ High~**
This specifies the CPICH RSCP for FDD cells (dBm) and P-CCPCH RSCP for TDD
cells (dBm) used by the UE for traffic steering from WLAN to UTRAN.
**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ Low2~**
This specifies the CPICH Ec/N0 (dB) for FDD cells used by the UE for traffic
steering from UTRAN to WLAN.
**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ High2~**
This specifies the CPICH Ec/N0 (dB) for FDD cells used by the UE for traffic
steering from WLAN to UTRAN.
**Thresh~ChUtilWLAN,\ Low~**
This specifies the WLAN channel utilization (BSS load) threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from UTRAN to WLAN.
**Thresh~ChUtilWLAN,\ High~**
This specifies the WLAN channel utilization (BSS load) threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from WLAN to UTRAN.
**Thresh~BackhRateDLWLAN,\ Low~**
This specifies the backhaul available downlink bandwidth threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from WLAN to UTRAN.
**Thresh~BackhRateDLWLAN,\ High~**
This specifies the backhaul available downlink bandwidth threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from UTRAN to WLAN.
**Thresh~BackhRateULWLAN,\ Low~**
This specifies the backhaul available uplink bandwidth threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from WLAN to UTRAN.
**Thresh~BackhRateULWLAN,\ High~**
This specifies the backhaul available uplink bandwidth threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from UTRAN to WLAN.
**Thresh~BeaconRSSIWLAN,\ Low~**
This specifies the Beacon RSSI threshold used by the UE for traffic steering
from WLAN to UTRAN.
**Thresh~BeaconRSSIWLAN,\ High~**
This specifies the Beacon RSSI threshold used by the UE for traffic steering
from UTRAN to WLAN.
**Tsteering~WLAN~**
This specifies the timer value during which the rules should be fulfilled
before starting traffic steering between UTRAN and WLAN.
**WLAN identifiers**
Only the SSIDs, BSSIDs and HESSIDs which are provided in this parameter shall
be considered for traffic steering between UTRAN and WLAN based on the rules
in this chapter.
# 6 Broadcast information receiving
## 6.1 Reception of System Information
Requirements are specified in [4].
## 6.2 Cell Broadcast in Idle Mode, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH
A UE supporting Cell Broadcast Service (CBS) shall be capable to receive BMC
messages in the Idle mode, in URA_PCH and CELL_PCH. When several PCHs exist in
the cell, the FACH which carries the CTCH may be mapped to a different SCCPCH
than the PCH selected by the UE for paging in Idle mode (as specified in Sec.
8.1). In this case, UEs with basic service capabilities shall be capable to
change from the SCCPCH that carries the PCH selected for paging to another
SCCPCH which carries Cell Broadcast messages (i.e. the CTCH mapped to an FACH)
and receive BMC messages during time intervals which do not conflict with the
UE specific paging occasions.
The second system information broadcast channel (BCH on SCCPCH) is mapped on a
separate SCCPCH, i.e. different from the SCCPCH which carriers the FACH with
CTCH. In case CTCH occasions collide with transmissions of the second system
information broadcast channel, the UE supporting second system information
broadcast channel may decide not to receive the second broadcast channel.
NOTE: In case certain BMC messages conflict with the UE specific paging
occasions the reception of CBS cannot be guaranteed and depends on UE
capabilities.
## 6.3 MBMS Services
If the UE has activated MBMS services and MBMS is available in the cell (i.e.,
the MCCH information is provided on the BCCH) and the UE is permitted to
receive MBMS in the cell, the UE shall:
\- receive the MCCH as specified in clause 8.4 and in [4];
\- participate in MBMS counting as specified in [4];
\- receive each FACH on which the MTCH carrying an MBMS activated service that
does not require the establishment of an RRC connection is mapped.
> The UE may:
>
> \- monitor the MICH as specified in clause 8a and in [4];
\- receive the MSCH.
### 6.3.1 MBSFN cluster selection and reselection
#### 6.3.1.1 MBSFN cluster selection
MBSFN cluster selection/reselection process for MBSFN clusters operating on
the same frequency may be based on reception quality of the CPICH for FDD and
3.84 Mcps TDD IMB or P-CCPCH for TDD. Details of the process are not
specified.
The UE shall search for MBSFN clusters if the frequencies on which MBSFN
clusters are available are not indicated in the cell that the UE is camping on
for normal service if the mobile is configured to receive services via MBSFN
mode. Details of the process are not specified.
For 1.28 Mcps TDD, the UE that needs receive MBMS services delivered in an
MBSFN cluster may at the first step select a non MBSFN cell (i.e. a unicast
cell), that the MBSFN cluster is associated with. The UE can get synchronized
to the MBSFN cluster with the help of the information indicated in system
information broadcast by the associated unicast cell,and receive the system
information and MCCH messages in the MBSFN Special Timeslot. The details of
the association between MBSFN clusters and non MBSFN cells operating in a
unicast carrier are not specified. In case there are more than one MBSFN
clusters indicated in system information broadcast by a unicast cell, the
process of which MBSFN cluster should be selected for searching is not
specified.
#### 6.3.1.2 Camped on MBSFN cluster
When camped on a MBSFN cluster, the UE shall perform the following tasks:
\- receive the MCCH as specified in clause 8.4 and in [4];
\- monitor the available MBMS services on the MBSFN cluster that the UE is
camping on
The UE may:
> \- monitor the MICH as specified in clause 8a and in [4];
\- receive the MSCH.
#### 6.3.1.3 MBSFN inter frequency neighbour information
Upon detection of one MBSFN cluster all other frequencies on which MBMS
service is provided in MBSFN mode for one of the PLMN assigned to the MBSFN
cluster are indicate as specified in [4].
The UE chooses the frequency for the MBSFN cluster to be received based on the
information on the services that are provided on the MBSFN clusters of those
frequencies.
In the case that the UE does not receive a service from the current MBSFN
cluster and the UE is configured to receive an MBMS service in MBSFN mode it
should attempt to receive information on ongoing services as specified in [4].
# 7 Void
# 8 Paging and SCCPCH selection and in FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD the H-RNTI
selection
## 8.1 Paging Channel selection
System information block type 5 (SIB 5) and System information block type 5bis
(SIB 5bis)define common channels to be employed in Idle mode [4]. In a cell, a
single or several PCHs may be established. Each Secondary Common Control
Physical Channel (SCCPCH) indicated to the UE in system information may carry
up to one PCH. Thus, for each defined PCH there is one uniquely associated
PICH also indicated.
In case that more than a single PCH and associated PICH are defined in SIB 5
or SIB 5bis, the UE shall perform a selection according to the following rule:
\- The UE shall select a SCCPCH from the ones listed in SIB 5 or SIB 5bis
based on IMSI as follows:
\"Index of selected SCCPCH\" = IMSI mod K,
where K is equal to the number of listed SCCPCHs which carry a PCH (i.e.
SCCPCHs carrying FACH only shall not be counted). These SCCPCHs shall be
indexed in the order of their occurrence in SIB 5 or SIB 5bis from 0 to K-1.\
For GSM-MAP, i.e. \"IMSI (GSM-MAP)\" is given as sequence of digits of type
Integer(0..9), IMSI shall in the formula above be interpreted as a decimal
integer number, where the first digit given in the sequence represents the
highest order digit.\ For DS-41, i.e. \"IMSI (DS-41)\" is given as octet
string, IMSI shall in the formulae above correspond to the decoded decimal
representation of the IMSI-S part included in the octet string (see
TIA/EIA/IS-2000-5).
> For example:
IMSI (GSM-MAP) = 12 (digit1=1, digit2=2)
In the calculations, this shall be interpreted as the decimal integer \"12\",
not \"1x16+2 = 18\".
\"Index of selected SCCPCH\" identifies the selected SCCPCH with the PCH and
the uniquely associated PICH to be used by the UE.
If the UE has no IMSI, for instance when making an emergency call without
USIM, the UE shall use as default number IMSI = 0.
## 8.2 SCCPCH selection when entering Connected mode
If HS-DSCH operation in CELL_FACH state (FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD) is not
configured to the cell, when entering Connected mode from Idle mode by sending
an RRC CONNECTION REQUEST message, the UE shall select the S-CCPCH which
carries an FACH to be used for reception of the RRC CONNECTION SETUP message
according to the following rule:
\- the UE shall select an SCCPCH from the SCCPCHs listed in System Information
Block type 5 (SIB 5) or System Information Block type 5bis (SIB 5bis) based on
\"Initial UE Identity\" as follows:
\"Index of selected SCCPCH\" = \"Initial UE Identity\" mod K,
where K is equal to the number of listed SCCPCHs which carry a FACH (i.e.
SCCPCHs carrying PCH only shall not be counted). These SCCPCHs shall be
indexed from 0 to K-1 in the order of their occurrence in SIB 5 or SIB 5bis,
and \"Index of selected SCCPCH\" identifies the selected SCCPCH. \"Initial UE
Identity\" refers to the Information Element included by the UE into the RRC
CONNECTION REQUEST message. In the above formula, the parameter \"Initial UE
Identity\" shall be interpreted as follows, depending on the choice of UE-Id
type of the respective IE:
For UE-Id type \"IMSI (GSM-MAP)\", i.e. the IE is given as sequence of digits
of type Integer(0..9), \"Initial UE Identity\" shall be interpreted as an
integer number, where the first digit given in the sequence represents the
highest order digit.
For UE-Id types \"TMSI and LAI (GSM-MAP)\" or \"P-TMSI and RAI (GSM-MAP)\",
only the TMSI or P-TMSI parts given as Bitstring(32) shall be used, and
\"Initial UE Identity\" shall be interpreted as a binary representation of an
integer number, where the first bit in the Bitstring represents the highest
order bit.
> For UE-Id type \"IMEI\", i.e. the IE is given as sequence of hexadecimal
> digits of type Integer(0..15), \"Initial UE Identity\" shall be interpreted
> as a hexadecimal representation of an integer number, where the first digit
> given in the sequence represents the highest order digit.
For UE-Id type \"IMSI (DS-41)\", i.e. the IE is given as octet string,
\"Initial UE Identity\" shall correspond to the decoded decimal representation
of the IMSI-S part included in the octet string (see TIA/EIA/IS-2000-5).
For UE-Id types \"ESN (DS-41)\" or \"TMSI (DS-41)\", i.e. the IE is given as
Bitstring(32), \"Initial UE Identity\" shall be interpreted as a binary
representation of an integer number, where the first bit in the Bitstring
represents the highest order bit.
> For UE-Id type \"IMSI and ESN (DS-41)\" only the ESN part shall be used as
> \"Initial UE Identity\", as defined above.
## 8.2b H-RNTI selection when entering Connected mode (FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD)
If HS-DSCH operation in CELL_FACH state is configured to the cell in System
Information Block type 5 (SIB 5) or System Information Block type 5bis, when
entering Connected mode from Idle mode by sending an RRC CONNECTION REQUEST
message, the UE shall start listening to the HS-SCCH indicated in System
Information Block type 5 (SIB 5) or in System Information Block type 5bis (SIB
5bis).
The detection of HS-SCCH is based on Common H-RNTI listed in System
Information Block type 5 (SIB 5) or System Information Block type 5bis (SIB
5bis). The UE shall select the Common H-RNTI to be used for reception of the
RRC CONNECTION SETUP message according to the following rule:
\- the UE shall select a Common H-RNTI from the Common H-RNTIs listed in
System Information Block type 5 (SIB 5) or System Information Block type 5bis
(SIB 5bis) based on \"Initial UE Identity\" as follows:
\"Index of selected Common H-RNTI\" = \"Initial UE Identity\" mod K,
\- where K is equal to the number of listed Common H-RNTI. These Common
H-RNTIs shall be indexed from 0 to K-1 in the order of their occurrence in SIB
5 or SIB 5bis, and \"Index of selected Common H-RNTI\" identifies the selected
Common H-RNTI. \"Initial UE Identity\" refers to the Information Element
included by the UE into the RRC CONNECTION REQUEST message. In the above
formula, the parameter \"Initial UE Identity\" shall be interpreted as
follows, depending on the choice of UE-Id type of the respective IE:
For UE-Id type \"IMSI (GSM-MAP)\", i.e. the IE is given as sequence of digits
of type Integer(0..9), \"Initial UE Identity\" shall be interpreted as an
integer number, where the first digit given in the sequence represents the
highest order digit.
For UE-Id types \"TMSI and LAI (GSM-MAP)\" or \"P-TMSI and RAI (GSM-MAP)\",
only the TMSI or P-TMSI parts given as Bitstring(32) shall be used, and
\"Initial UE Identity\" shall be interpreted as a binary representation of an
integer number, where the first bit in the Bitstring represents the highest
order bit.
> For UE-Id type \"IMEI\", i.e. the IE is given as sequence of hexadecimal
> digits of type Integer(0..15), \"Initial UE Identity\" shall be interpreted
> as a hexadecimal representation of an integer number, where the first digit
> given in the sequence represents the highest order digit.
For UE-Id type \"IMSI (DS-41)\", i.e. the IE is given as octet string,
\"Initial UE Identity\" shall correspond to the decoded decimal representation
of the IMSI-S part included in the octet string (see TIA/EIA/IS-2000-5).
For UE-Id types \"ESN (DS-41)\" or \"TMSI (DS-41)\", i.e. the IE is given as
Bitstring(32), \"Initial UE Identity\" shall be interpreted as a binary
representation of an integer number, where the first bit in the Bitstring
represents the highest order bit.
> For UE-Id type \"IMSI and ESN (DS-41)\" only the ESN part shall be used as
> \"Initial UE Identity\", as defined above.
After detecting the HS-SCCH with Common H-RNTI, the UE start reception of the
corresponding HS-PDSCH(s) TTI.
## 8.3 Discontinuous Reception for Paging
The UE may use Discontinuous Reception (DRX) in idle mode in order to reduce
power consumption. When DRX is used the UE needs only to monitor one Page
Indicator, PI, (see definition in [7] and [8]) in one Paging Occasion per DRX
cycle.
The DRX cycle length shall be MAX(2^k^, PBP) frames, where k is an integer and
PBP is the Paging Block Periodicity. PBP is only applicable for TDD and is
equal to the PICH repetition period that is broadcast in system information.
For FDD, PBP=1.
The UE may be attached to different CN domains with different CN domain
specific DRX cycle lengths. The UE shall store each CN domain specific DRX
cycle length for each CN domain the UE is attached to and use the shortest of
those DRX cycle lengths. The CS CN specific DRX cycle length coefficient shall
be updated locally in the UE using information given in system information. On
the other hand, the PS CN specific DRX cycle length coefficient shall be
updated after the negotiation between the UE and PS CN by NAS procedure. If no
specific value \"k\" is negotiated in NAS procedure, the UE and PS CN shall
use the DRX cycle length given for PS CN domain in system information.
The DRX cycle lengths to use for UTRAN connected mode is the shortest of the
following:
\- UTRAN DRX cycle length;
\- any of the stored CN domain specific DRX cycle length for the CN domains
the UE is only attached to with no signalling connection established.
For TDD, and for FDD in IDLE mode as well as in RRC Connected mode, if HS-DSCH
operation in CELL_PCH and URA_PCH state is not configured to the cell, or for
1.28 Mcps TDD if both HS-DSCH operation in CELL_PCH and URA_PCH state and
legacy PCH are configured to the cell but no dedicated H-RNTI is allocated to
the UE, the UE shall use the IMSI, the number of available SCCPCH which carry
a PCH (K) as derived according to subclause 8.1,the Cell System Frame Number
(SFN), Np (for FDD, Np is the number of page indicators within a frame; for
TDD, Np is the number of page indicators within a paging block), Frame offset
(For FDD, Frame offset = 0; for TDD, PICH frame offset values are given in
system information), PBP and the DRX cycle length to determine the Paging
Occasions.
For FDD, if HS-DSCH operation in CELL_PCH and URA_PCH state is configured to
the cell, the UE in RRC Conneced mode shall use the IMSI, the number of
indexed PICH for HSDPA supported paging (K) as derived from System Information
Block Type 5 or System Information Block Type 5bis, the Cell System Frame
Number (SFN), Np (Np is the number of page indicators within a frame), Frame
offset (Frame offset = 0), PBP and the DRX cycle length to determine the
Paging Occasions.
For 1.28 Mcps TDD, if HS-DSCH operation in CELL_PCH and URA_PCH state is
configured to the cell and no legacy PCH is configured in the cell, or if both
HS-DSCH operation in CELL_PCH and URA_PCH state and legacy PCH are configured
to the cell and the dedicated H-RNTI is allocated to the UE, the UE in RRC
Conneced mode shall use the IMSI, the number of indexed PICH for HSDPA
supported paging (K) as derived from System Information Block Type 5 or System
Information Block Type 5bis, the Cell System Frame Number (SFN), Np (Np is the
number of page indicators within a frame), Frame offset, PBP and the DRX cycle
length to determine the Paging Occasions.
In FDD the UE shall monitor its paging indicator in the PICH frame with SFN
given by the Paging Occasion
In TDD the UE shall monitor its paging indicator in the paging block given by
the Paging Occasion. The Paging Occasion gives the SFN of the first frame of
the paging block.
The value of the Paging Occasion is determined as follows:
Paging Occasion= {(IMSI div K) mod (DRX cycle length div PBP)} * PBP + n * DRX
cycle length + Frame Offset
Where n = 0,1,2... as long as SFN is below its maximum value.
The actual Page Indicator within a Paging Occasion that the UE shall read is
similarly determined based on IMSI.
The Page Indicator to use is calculated by using the following formula:
PI = DRX Index mod Np
where DRX Index = IMSI div 8192
In FDD mode, Np = (18,36,72,144) is the number of Page Indicators per frame,
and is given in IE \"Number of PI per frame\", part of system information in
FDD mode. In TDD mode, Np is the number of Page Indicators per paging block
and is calculated by the Paging Indicator Length L~PI,~ the Burst Type (long
or short midamble for 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD) and the PICH repetition length,
which are given in system information.
If the UE has no IMSI, for instance when making an emergency call without
USIM, the UE shall use as default numbers, IMSI = 0 and DRX cycle length = 256
(2.56 s), in the formulas above.
For FDD, see [7] for details about the timing between a PICH frame and when
the paging message is transmitted on the PCH in the associated S-CCPCH frame.
In TDD mode, in case of PCCH mapping on PCH, the Paging Message Receiving
Occasion is calculated using the following formula:
Paging Message Receiving Occasion = Paging Occasion + N~PICH~ + N~GAP~ + {(DRX
Index mod Np) mod N~PCH~ } *2
For 1.28 Mcps TDD, in case of PCCH on HS-DSCH, the Paging Message Receiving
Occasion is calculated using the following formula:
Paging Message Receiving Occasion = Paging Occasion + N~PICH~ + N~GAP~ + {(DRX
Index mod Np) mod N~HS-PCH~ } *m
Where N~HS-PCH~ is the number of Paging sub-channels for PCCH on HS-DSCH and m
is the length of each sub-channel in Radio Frame. The timing of PICH and
Paging Message on HS-DSCH as well as the transmission pattern of PCCH on HS-
DSCH is defined in [8].
The value N~PICH~ is the number of frames for PICH transmission and is equal
to the PICH repetition length given in system information. The value N~GAP~ is
the number of frames between the last frame carrying PICH for this Paging
Occasion and the first frame carrying paging messages for this Paging
Occasion. The value N~PCH~ is the number of Paging Groups. N~PCH~ and N~GAP~
are given in system information.
For GSM-MAP, i.e. \"IMSI (GSM-MAP)\" is given as sequence of digits of type
Integer(0..9), IMSI shall in the formulae above be interpreted as a decimal
integer number, where the first digit given in the sequence represents the
highest order digit.
For DS-41, i.e. \"IMSI (DS-41)\" is given as octet string, IMSI shall in the
formulae above correspond to the decoded decimal representation of the IMSI-S
part included in the octet string (see TIA/EIA/IS-2000-5).
For example:
IMSI (GSM-MAP) = 12 (digit1=1, digit2=2)
In the calculations, this shall be interpreted as the decimal integer \"12\",
not \"1x16+2 = 18\".
## 8.4 Discontinuous Reception for MBMS
The UE may use discontinuous reception (DRX) on MBMS channels (MCCH, MSCH,
MTCH) to reduce power consumption while subscribed to MBMS services.
### 8.4.1 Discontinuous Reception for MCCH
The UE may operate DRX on the MCCH either by monitoring the MICH to determine
when it needs to receive the MCCH or by using the MODIFIED SERVICES
INFORMATION message on the MCCH to determine that it does not need to acquire
the remainder of the MCCH information.
The timing of the MCCH information transmission and the need to receive the
MCCH are described in detail in [4].
#### 8.4.1.1 Discontinuous Reception via MICH
When the UE operates DRX on the MCCH through monitoring the MICH, the UE needs
to monitor one Notification Indicator (NI), as defined in [7], [8], for each
MBMS service it is subscribed to. For each service, a corresponding NI will be
set continuously through the entire length of the modification period
preceding a change in the associated MCCH information. The modification period
should be long enough that a UE that only receives the MICH during its paging
occasions can still reliably detect a notification.
For each service, the 16 bit Notification Indicator to use is calculated as a
function of the TMGI:
> $\text{NI} = \left( \text{TMGI} + \left\lfloor \frac{\text{TMGI}}{G}
> \right\rfloor \right)\text{mod}G$, where _G_ = 2^16^.
A UE with one or more activated MBMS services may monitor the MICH. The exact
timing with which the UE reads the MICH within a given modification period is
left to the UE implementation, with the proviso that the UE needs to be able
to detect notifications reliably for its activated MBMS service(s).
The TMGI is structured as follows [16]:
+---------------+-------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | +---------------+-------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Temporary | Octet 1 | | | | | | | | | Mobile Group | | | | | | | | | | Identity IEI | | | | | | | | | +---------------+-------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Length of | Octet 2 | | | | | | | | | Temporary | | | | | | | | | | Mobile Group | | | | | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | | | | | contents | | | | | | | | | +---------------+-------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | MBMS Service | Octet 3 | | | | | | | | | ID | | | | | | | | | | | Octet 4 | | | | | | | | +---------------+-------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | Octet 5 | | | | | | | | +---------------+-------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | MCC digit 2 | MCC digit 1 | Octet 6 | | | | | | | +---------------+-------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | MNC digit 3 | MCC digit 3 | Octet 7 | | | | | | | +---------------+-------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | MNC digit 2 | MNC digit 1 | Octet 8 | | | | | | | +---------------+-------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+
NOTE: The MBMS Service identity, which is signalled in [4] (see subclause
10.3.9a.8), concerns a signalling optimisation of the TMGI.
For the calculation of the NI, the TMGI shall be interpreted as a binary
representation of an integer number, represented by the bitstring formed by
the exclusive OR operation of the MBMS Service ID (octets 3 to 5 of the TMGI)
and the PLMN identity (octets 6 to 8 of the TMGI) with the first/ leftmost/
most significant bit corresponding with b8 of the first octet.
#### 8.4.1.2 Discontinuous Reception via MODIFIED SERVICES INFORMATION
If the UE receives the MODIFIED SERVICES INFORMATION message on the MCCH and
determines from its contents that no service whose information the UE needs to
acquire has been modified, the UE may refrain from receiving the MCCH for the
remainder of the modification period.
### 8.4.2 Discontinuous Reception for MTCH {#discontinuous-reception-for-mtch
.list-paragraph}
If the UE operates DRX on the MTCH, the UE shall receive the MSCH as described
in [4] to obtain scheduling information for the MTCH.
The reception intervals for MBMS services are given by the IE "Service
transmissions list" in the MBMS SCHEDULING INFORMATION message on the MSCH.
# 8a MBMS Notification
The structure of the MICH is described in [7] and [14].
The RRC-layer behaviour of a UE receiving an MBMS notification indicator is
specified in [4].
# 9 Void
# 10 Void
#