# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides an overview and overall description of the UTRA
radio interface functionalities from Release 12 onwards which are not covered
by the Technical Specifications TS 25.308 [2] or TS 25.319 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.308: \"UTRA HSDPA: UTRAN Overall Description (Stage 2) \".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.319: \"Enhanced Uplink: Overall description (Stage 2) \".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification, Core
Network Protocols - Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[7] 3GPP TR 25.704: \"Study on enhanced broadcast of system information\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.312: \"Access Network Discovery and Selection Function (ANDSF)
Management Object (MO)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and
procedures for cell reselection in connected mode\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.133: \"Requirements for support of radio resource management
(FDD)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC)".
[13] 3GPP TR 25.993: \"Typical examples of Radio Access Bearers (RABs) and
Radio Bearers (RBs) supported by Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Power saving mode:** Mode configured and controlled by NAS that allows the
UE to reduce its power consumption, as defined in TS 24.008 [4], TS 23.060
[5], TS 23.682 [6].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ANDSF Access Network Discovery and Selection Function
DPCCH2 Dedicated Physical Control Channel 2
NCL Neighbour Cell List
OPI Offload Preference Indicator
PSM Power Saving Mode
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
# 4 Heterogeneous Networks Mobility Enhancements
Neighbour Cell List (NCL) extension
\- The size of the inter-frequency neighbour cell list is extended for
CELL_DCH, CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH, URA_PCH states and Idle mode, so that network
could configure more inter-frequency neighbour cells than 32 for UE to monitor
and detect under massive small cell deployment scenario.
Change of best cell on a configured secondary downlink frequency (event 2g)
\- Event 2g is an inter-frequency measurement event. It is applicable only to
the secondary downlink frequency with configured HS-DSCH operation, and it can
be configured on more than one secondary downlink frequency.
Enhanced Serving Cell Change for Event 1C
\- The enhanced Serving Cell Change procedure could also be applied to Event
1C, which is defined in TS 25.308 [2].
# 5 Heterogeneous Networks Enhancements
Serving E-DCH cell decoupling
\- Serving E-DCH cell decoupling is introduced in order to improve the quality
of reception of the uplink E-DCH control channels and the E-DCH SI in the
presence of strong uplink/downlink imbalance. The UE is configured with
different serving HS-DSCH cell and serving E-DCH cell.
Radio Links without DPCH/F-DPCH
  * The UE is configured with a subset of non-serving E-DCH radio links in the UE's E-DCH active set to operate in the absence of DPCH/F-DPCH. However, a UE is allowed to only receive either E-HICH or both E-HICH and E-RGCH from these non-serving E-DCH cells to mitigate uplink interference to a cell that is unable to power control a UE in the presence of strong uplink/downlink imbalance.
DPCCH2 transmission
\- In order to improve the quality of reception of the HS-DPCCH in the
presence of strong uplink/imbalance, a new secondary uplink pilot channel
(DPCCH2) is introduced in the serving HS-DSCH cell as the reference for the
HS-DPCCH channel power.
# 6 DCH Enhancements (FDD only)
DCH enhancements aims at improving the link efficiency and UE battery
performance for voice calls compared to R99 DCH. DCH enhancements constitutes
of the following sub-features:
  * DL overhead optimization
  * Enhanced rate matching and transport channel multiplexing
  * DL Frame Early Termination (DL FET)
  * Uplink DPCCH with DL FET ACK
  * Uplink DPDCH dynamic 10ms transmission
DCH enhancements supports two modes (Basic and Full). The mode choice controls
how the DL Frame Early Termination sub-feature operates, as described in 6.3.
All other sub-features are active in both modes.
DCH enhancements is only applicable if the TTI of all DCH transport channels
on both downlink and uplink is at least 20 ms.
If a UE is configured with both CS and PS mapped to the DCH transport channel
(in uplink or downlink or both), then DCH enhancements may be configured only
when PS has UL:0 and DL:0kbps RAB configuration (3GPP TR 25.993 [13]).
## 6.1 DL overhead optimization
This sub-feature introduces new DL DPCH slot format by removing the dedicated
pilot bits from DL DPCCH and reusing them for DL DPDCH instead.
The R99 downlink physical channel (DPCH) consists of 0.66ms slots that contain
2 groups of data (DPDCH) symbols and 3 groups of control (DPCCH) symbols. The
size of the groups is determined by the slot format. The control symbol groups
are TPC - controlling uplink transmit power, TFCI \- specifying the downlink
packet type, and dedicated pilot - supporting channel estimation for DL power
control and closed-loop transmit diversity. While the TFCI group may be empty
in certain slot formats, the pilot and TPC are currently always non-empty. The
dedicated pilot bits are used for estimation of DL SIR. With this sub-feature,
new DL DPCH slot formats are introduced by removing the dedicated pilot bits
and reusing the TPC bits instead for estimating the DL SIR. Correspondingly,
the number of data symbols in a slot is increased leading to less control
channel overhead on the downlink.
DL closed-loop transmit diversity is not supported when this sub-feature is
configured.
## 6.2 Enhanced rate matching and transport channel multiplexing
The physical layer in R99 is designed to carry potentially a large variety of
transport blocks with different sizes. The drawback for this design is the
rate matching may not be efficient when some transport format combinations are
not frequently used. For example, DCCH channel carries non-zero transport
blocks not as often as voice DTCH channel. The enhanced rate matching and
transport channel multiplexing sub-feature sets a zero rate matching attribute
for DCCH, whenever DCCH channel does not carry a transport block together with
DTCH channel. The DCCH bit fields are used to transmit DTCH transport channels
instead. This potentially improves link efficiency due to less puncturing and
better rate matching of the transport block with the available physical
channel resources.
## 6.3 DL **frame early termination (DL FET) and** UL DPCCH with DL FET ACK
In a power-controlled system such as R99 DCH, inefficiencies in the power-
control loop, such as limited granularity, delays and errors in the feedback,
result in the presence of excess SINR at the receiver. This means that packets
such as the voice packets which have a long (20ms) transmission time interval
(TTI) can often be early-decoded, i.e, decoded prior to reception of all the
data symbols in a TTI by running the channel decoder at multiple time instants
during the TTI instead of only once at the end of the TTI. This is referred to
as Frame Early Termination (FET). As described below, DCH enhancements
introduces new mechanisms to R99 DCH in order to support DL FET.
A new design of UL DPCCH is introduced to support DL FET. With the new design,
TFCI information is carried in the first 10 slots of each 20ms TTI for the
uplink. Sending the TFCI information early in each 20ms TTI allows sending of
DL FET ACK or NACK information using the TFCI bits in remaining UL DPCCH slots
that do not carry TFCI.
Furthermore, there are two modes of operation introduced with support for DL
FET in DCH enhancements as described below.
### 6.3.1 DL FET Full mode (Mode 1)
In the Full mode of operation:
\- The UE acknowledges successful early decoding of a DL packet via a DL FET
ACK on the newly designed UL DPCCH channel, which then allows the NodeB to
stop transmission of the packet.
\- AMR Class A, B, C transport channels are concatenated on the DL which
further helps in early decoding of DL DPDCH.
### 6.3.2 DL **FET Basic mode (Mode 0)**
In the Basic mode of operation:
\- DL FET is achieved by applying the DL BLER target at slot 14 (10ms) in each
20ms TTI duration. The NodeB may decide to stop transmission of the DL voice
packet at slot 14 provided that the Uplink is in 10ms transmission mode (see
sub-clause 6.4). The UE does not indicate successful decoding of the DL packet
via the DL FET ACK or NACK field in UL DPCCH.
\- AMR Class A, B, C transport channels are not concatenated on the downlink.
## 6.4 Uplink DPDCH dynamic 10ms transmission
The R99 DCH transport channels for a voice call are typically configured with
20ms TTI. However, the transport block sizes for a voice call could
potentially be transmitted over a shorter duration. The sub-feature of uplink
DPDCH dynamic 10ms transmission allows for dynamically selecting a shorter
transmission time, i.e. 10ms, at the physical layer to transmit a voice packet
on the uplink. The UE selects on whether to use a 10ms or 20ms transmission
duration based on considerations such as the power headroom at the UE. The UE
also discontinues the transmission of UL DPCCH for the remaining duration of
the TTI when both UL transport block has been completed transmitted and DL has
been successfully decoded early.
With 20ms TTI transmission at the physical layer, the pilot channel (UL DPCCH)
is sent for the entire 20ms duration. This sub-feature potentially improves
link efficiency due to reduction in UL DPCCH overhead as well as improves UE
battery performance by allowing the UE to turn off its transceiver once the
reception and transmission has been completed before the end of a 20ms TTI.
# 7 Access Control in Connected Mode (CELL_FACH,CELL_PCH and URA_PCH)
For FDD, certain categories of UEs may be configured for Access Control in
connected mode. This feature allows for a network to differentiate and control
accesses of UE for DTCH transmission in CELL_FACH state and for DCCH/CCCH due
to uplink DTCH transmission in CELL_PCH state or URA_PCH state, when uplink
congestion is being experienced.
The network may differentiate among the UE population by assigning UEs to one
of 16 defined Access Groups. The network can indicate the identity of the
access group to which the UE is assigned via RRC dedicated signalling.
For each network assigned Access Group, the network can indicate in System
Information whether the UEs in CELL_FACH state, CELL_PCH state or URA_PCH
state in that group are Blocked or Unblocked for DTCH data transmission and
DCCH/CCCH due to uplink DTCH transmission. The System Information Block
containing the Access Group information is scheduled by the network only
during periods of uplink congestion. A UE in CELL_FACH state, CELL_PCH state
or URA_PCH state which has data to transmit and has an access group identity
will reacquire the System Information Block containing the Access Group
information based on the expiration of a timer.
UEs in CELL_PCH (without seamless transition to CELL_FACH state) or URA_PCH
are not allowed to initiate Cell Update procedure triggered due to uplink DTCH
transmission with cause \"uplink data transmission\" when the Access Group of
the UE is Blocked.
UEs in CELL_PCH (with seamless transition to CELL_FACH state) are not allowed
to initiate Measurement Report procedure triggered due to uplink DTCH
transmission when the Access Group of the UE is Blocked.
A UE in CELL_FACH state, CELL_PCH state or URA_PCH state which is blocked for
DTCH transmission and DCCH/CCCH due to DTCH transmission in the uplink is
permitted to transmit uplink RLC Control PDUs.
# 8 Access control enhancements
# 8.1 DSAC and PPAC update for the UE in CELL_DCH state
In CELL_DCH state, it allows the network to indicate to the UE about the DSAC
and PPAC parameters through dedicated signalling so that the UE can obtain the
updated DSAC and PPAC information.
# 9 Enhanced Broadcast of System Information
## 9.1 Second system information broadcast channel
In order to increase system information capacity (see TR 25.704 [7]) a second
system information broadcast channel on SCCPCH can be configured, in addition
to the system information broadcast channel on PCCPCH.
The second system information broadcast channel is mapped to a separate
SCCPCH, which is different from the SCCPCH used for paging and FACH/CTCH, as
depicted in Figure 9.1-1.
{width="4.6375in" height="2.8875in"}
Figure 9.1-1: Channel mapping of system information broadcast channel and
second system information broadcast channel.
The UE should be able to monitor at least two SCCPCHs simultaneously, but the
UE may skip reading the second system information broadcast channel during
CTCH occasions in Idle mode and CELL_PCH/URA_PCH state. When HS-DSCH in
CELL_FACH is used, a UE supporting second system information broadcast channel
monitors the corresponding SCCPCH while listening to HS-DSCH.
REL-12 and later SIBs are introduced on both the system information broadcast
channel as well as the second system information broadcast channel. Pre-REL-12
SIBs may be broadcasted on the second system information broadcast channel in
addition to the system information broadcast channel. Any SIB type may be
scheduled simultaneously on system information broadcast channel and second
system information broadcast channel provided that the content is the same.
Most of the existing principles and procedures for system information reading
are retained for the second system information broadcast channel. To reduce
the latency to acquire the system information on both system information
broadcast channel and second system information broadcast channel, the UE
acquires the system information on both channels simultaneously. The
simultaneous acquisition of system information on both system information
broadcast channel and second system information broadcast channel is depicted
in Figure 9.1-2.
{width="5.8in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 9.1-2: System information acquisition on system information broadcast
channel and second system information broadcast channel.
When the SB3 value tag in PAGING TYPE 1 or SYSTEM INFORMATION CHANGE
INDICATION (SICI) message is updated the UE supporting second system
information broadcast channel is required to re-acquire the system information
on the second system information broadcast channel. When the SB3 value tag is
updated, but the MIB value tag is not, the UE supporting second system
information broadcast channel is only required to re-acquire the system
information on the second system information broadcast channel.
The scheduling block 3 (SB3) contains the scheduling information for the
system information on the second system information broadcast channel. This
scheduling information uses the SFN of the PCCPCH.
The SB3 is broadcasted with a pre-defined offset (40 ms) from the start of the
frame containing the MIB, as depicted in the Figure 9.1-3. The MIB on BCH
mapped on PCCPCH contains the channelization code of the second system
information broadcast channel, the repetition interval of SB3 and the number
of segments of SB3. The remaining configuration parameters of the second
system information broadcast channel are pre-defined.
{width="4.066666666666666in" height="1.8465277777777778in"}
Figure 9.1-3: SB3 pre-defined offset from the start of the frame containing
the MIB.
## 9.2 Scheduling information overhead reduction
To reduce the overhead of SIB scheduling information, included in MIB and
Scheduling Blocks, the network may use mandatory default values for SIB_OFF
and SEG_COUNT (when SIB_POS offset info is included) for SIBs of REL-12 or
later.
## 9.3 MIB and Cell Value Tag range extension
To reduce the risk of Cell Value Tag wrap around, the network may broadcast a
range extension (1..16) of the Cell Value Tag for SIB3, SIB5, SIB5bis, SIB21
and SIB22. The network may also extend the MIB value tag range (1..16). For
UEs supporting these extensions the SIBs and MIB wrap around at 16, while for
UEs not supporting this feature the SIBs wraps around at 4 (and MIB at 8).
SIBs of REL-12 or later use the extended Cell Value Tag range (1..16).
# 10 RAN assisted WLAN interworking
This clause describes the mechanisms to support traffic steering between UTRAN
and WLAN.
## 10.1 General principles
This version of the specification supports UTRAN assisted UE based bi-
directional traffic steering between UTRAN and WLAN for UEs in Idle mode and
CELL_DCH, CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH states.
UTRAN provides assistance parameters via broadcast and dedicated RRC
signalling to the UE. The RAN assistance parameters may include UTRAN signal
strength thresholds, WLAN channel utilization thresholds, WLAN backhaul data
rate thresholds, WLAN signal strength thresholds and Offload Preference
Indicator (OPI). UTRAN can also provide a list of WLAN identifiers to the UE
via broadcast and dedicated signalling.
The UE uses the RAN assistance parameters in the evaluation of:
\- access network selection and traffic steering rules defined in TS 25.304
[9]; or
> \- ANDSF policies defined in TS 24.312 [8]
for traffic steering decisions between UTRAN and WLAN as specified in TS
23.402 [10].
The OPI is only used in ANDSF policies as specified in TS 24.312 [8].
WLAN identifiers are only used in access network selection and traffic
steering rules defined in TS 25.304 [9].
If the UE is provisioned with ANDSF policies it shall forward the received RAN
assistance parameters to upper layers, otherwise it shall use them in the
access network selection and traffic steering rules defined in subclause 10.2
and TS 25.304 [9]. The access network selection and traffic steering rules
defined in subclause 10.2 and TS 25.304 [9] are applied only to the WLANs of
which identifiers are provided by the UTRAN.
The UE in CELL_DCH state shall apply the parameters obtained via dedicated
signalling, and shall keep those parameters during handover if they are not
reconfigured or deleted; the UE shall discard the parameters obtained via
dedicated signalling at SRNS relocation.
The UE in CELL_FACH state shall apply the parameters obtained via dedicated
signalling if such have been received from the serving cell; otherwise the UE
shall apply the parameters obtained via broadcast signalling. Upon cell
selection/reselection the UE shall discard the dedicated parameters.
The UE in Idle mode, CELL_PCH or URA_PCH state shall keep and apply the
parameters obtained via dedicated signalling until selection/reselection of
another cell than the one where these parameters were received or a timer has
expired since the UE moved from CELL_DCH or CELL_FACH to Idle mode, CELL_PCH
or URA_PCH state, upon which the UE shall discard the dedicated parameters and
apply the parameters obtained via broadcast signalling.
In the case of RAN sharing, each PLMN sharing the RAN can broadcast
independent sets of RAN assistance parameters.
## 10.2 Access network selection and traffic steering rules
The UE indicates to upper layers when (and for which WLAN identifiers) access
network selection and traffic steering rules defined in TS 25.304 [9] are
fulfilled. The selection among WLANs that fulfil the access network selection
and traffic steering rules is up to UE implementation.
When the UE applies the access network selection and traffic steering rules
defined in TS 25.304 [9], it performs traffic steering between UTRAN and WLAN
with APN granularity.
# 11 Increased minimum number of carriers to monitor
The increased number of carrier monitoring feature allows a UE to monitor more
UMTS and LTE frequencies in all RRC states.
When increased carrier monitoring is used, the network signals whether a
carrier should be measured with \"reduced measurement performance\" together
with a scaling factor applicable for CELL_DCH and CELL_FACH states. In Idle
mode, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH states a fixed scaling factor is used. When a
carrier does not belong to the \"reduced measurement performance\" group, it
belongs to the "normal measurement performance" group.
The value and the use of scaling factor are specified in [11].
#