# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the description of the Broadcast/Multicast
Control Protocol (BMC). This protocol adapts broadcast and multicast services
on the radio interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.322: \"RLC Protocol Specification\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio Interface Protocol Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.038: \"Alphabets and Language\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.419: \"UTRAN Iu interface: Service Area Broadcast Protocol
SABP\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.925: \"Radio Interface for Broadcast/Multicast Services\".
[7] TIA/EIA-41-D: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[8] TIA/EIA-637-A: \"TR45 -- Short Message Service for Spread Spectrum
Systems\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**CB message** : user data as transmitted from Cell Broadcast Centre to UE
(BMC SDU)
**CB repetition period** : period after which a CB message should be broadcast
again if more than one repetition are requested
**Number of Broadcast Requested** : number of broadcasts requested for a CB
message. This number is infinite or finite
**DRX Schedule Period** : schedule period as optionally requested by the CBC
(unit: seconds)
**Reserved CB Capacity** : percentage of the capacity reserved for CB messages
with category HIGH on the allocated radio resources CTCH, FACH and S-CCPCH.
This parameter can be set optionally by the CBC.
**CTCH Block Set** : subset of the transport block set of FACH on which the
CTCH used for CBS is mapped uniquely
**CBS schedule period** : finite sequence of CTCH Block Sets of variable
length in which scheduled CB messages are broadcast
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AS Access Stratum
BMC Broadcast/Multicast Control
C-SAP Control Service Access Point
CBC Cell Broadcast Centre
CBS Cell Broadcast Service
CTCH Common Traffic Channel
CTCH-BS CTCH Block Set
FACH Forward Access Channel
IE Information Element
kbps kilo-bits per second
L1 Layer 1 (physical layer)
L2 Layer 2 (data link layer)
L3 Layer 3 (network layer)
MAC Medium Access Control
NAS Non Access Stratum
NSAPI Network layer Service Access Point
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
RLC Radio Link Control
RRC Radio Resource Control
UE User Equipment
# 4 General
## 4.1 Model of BMC
Broadcast/Multicast Control (BMC) is a sublayer of L2 that exists in the User-
Plane only. It is located above RLC. The L2/BMC sublayer is assumed as
transparent for all services except broadcast/multicast.
Figure 4.1-1 shows the model of the L2/BMC sublayer within the UTRAN radio
interface protocol architecture.
At the UTRAN side, the BMC sublayer shall consist of one BMC protocol entity
per cell. Each BMC entity requires a single CTCH, which is provided by the MAC
sublayer, through the RLC sublayer. The BMC requests the Unacknowledged Mode
service of the RLC.
It is assumed that there is a function in the RNC above BMC that resolves the
geographical area information of the CB message (or, if applicable, performs
evaluation of a cell list) received from the Cell Broadcast Centre (CBC). A
BMC protocol entity serves only those messages at BMC-SAP that are to be
broadcast into a specified cell.
Figure 4.1-1: BMC protocol model
# 5 Functions
The functions are specified in [2]. They are:
\- Storage of Cell Broadcast Messages.
\- Traffic volume monitoring and radio resource request for CBS.
\- Scheduling of BMC messages.
\- Transmission of BMC messages to UE.
\- Delivery of Cell Broadcast messages to upper layer (NAS).
# 6 Services provided to Upper Layers
The BM-SAP provides a broadcast/multicast transmission service in the user
plane on the radio interface for common user data in unacknowledged mode.
The BMC sublayer interacts with other entities as illustrated in figure 1 of
chapter 4. The interactions with the upper layer/U-plane and the RRC layer are
specified in terms of primitives where the primitives represent the logical
exchange of information and control between the BMC sublayer and higher
layers. They do not specify or constrain implementations. The (adjacent)
layers connect to each other through Service Access Points (SAPs).
Three types of primitives are used for this document, as follows:
**\- REQUEST:\** This type is used when a higher layer is requesting a service
from a lower layer.
**\- INDICATION:\** This type is used by a lower layer providing a service to
notify its higher layer of activities concerning that higher layer.
**\- CONFIRM:\** This type is used by a lower layer providing the requested
service to confirm to the higher layer that the activity has been completed.
The primitives defined below are for communications between upper layer and
BMC, as well as RRC and BMC in the same protocol stack.
For the BMC sublayer two sets of primitives are defined.
**\- Primitives between BMC and upper layer (U-plane):**
BMC ‑ Generic name ‑ Type: Parameters.
**\- Primitives between BMC and the RRC entity:**
CBMC ‑ Generic name ‑ Type: Parameters.
# 7 Services expected from RLC
The BMC uses the unacknowledged mode service of the RLC sublayer.
See [1] for details.
# 8 Elements for layer-to-layer communication
## 8.1 Service Primitives between RRC and BMC
### 8.1.1 Primitives
The primitives supported at CBMC-SAP between RRC and BMC are shown in Table
8.1.1-1.
Table 8.1.1-1: Primitives between BMC and RRC
* * *
Generic Name Parameters CBMC-Measurement-IND CB-Traffic-Volume CBMC-Rx-IND
Action, DRX selection CBMC-Config-REQ CTCH configuration
* * *
#### 8.1.1.1 CBMC-Measurement-IND
The CBMC-Measurement-IND primitive is used by BMC to indicate the CB traffic
volume.
**Primitive Type** : indication.
**Parameters:**
CB-Traffic-Volume.
#### 8.1.1.2 CBMC-Rx-IND
The CBMC-Rx-IND primitive is used by BMC to indicate to RRC whether CB message
reception shall start or stop and indicate when CB messages of interest are
arriving in the next CBS schedule period.
**Primitive Type** : indication.
**Parameters:**
Action.
DRX selection.
#### 8.1.1.3 CBMC-Config-REQ
The CBMC-Config-REQ primitive is used by RRC to inform the BMC about the
setting of the CTCH configuration.
**Primitive Type** : indication.
**Parameters:**
CTCH configuration.
### 8.1.2 Parameters
#### 8.1.2.1 CB-Traffic-Volume
Expected CTCH transmission rate [kbps].
Value set: 0,1,..,32.
#### 8.1.2.2 Action
Start CBS reception.
Stop CBS reception.
#### 8.1.2.3 DRX selection
List of absolute CTCH BS indices which are of interest and which should be
received by Layer 1.
#### 8.1.2.4 CTCH configuration
Current CTCH-BS index, 1 ≤ i ≤ 256.
FACH identification.
Transport Format Set of the allocated FACH (TB size, TBS size, TTI).
Reserved CTCH transmission rate [kbps]: 0,1,..,32.
## 8.2 Service Primitives between upper layer (U-plane) and BMC
### 8.2.1 Primitives
The primitives supported at BMC-SAP between BMC and upper layer (U-plane) are
shown in Table 8.2.1-1.
Table 8.2.1-1: Primitives between BMC and upper layer
Legend: [ ] optional parameters
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Generic Name | Parameters | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Data-REQ | Message-ID,\ | | | [, Old-Serial-Number],\ | | | New-Serial-Number,\ | | | Data-Coding-Scheme,\ | | | CB-Data ,\ | | | [Category],\ | | | Repetition-Period,\ | | | Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Data-IND | Message-ID,\ | | | Serial-Number,\ | | | Data-Coding-Scheme,\ | | | CB-Data | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Data-CNF | Message-ID,\ | | | Serial-Number | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Congestion-IND | | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Normal-IND | | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Activation-REQ | Message-ID (n times) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Deactivation-REQ | Message-ID (n times) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-DRX-REQ | CB-DRX-Schedule-Period, Reserved-CB-Capacity | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Error-IND | Cause | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Data41-REQ | Transport Layer Message, | | | | | | Broadcast Address | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Data41-IND | Transport Layer Message, | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | BMC-Error41-IND | Error Type | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
#### 8.2.1.1 Primitives used in relation to UMTS Core Network
##### 8.2.1.1.1 BMC-Data-REQ
The BMC-Data-REQ primitive is used by upper layer to request repeated
transmission of CB messages.
**Primitive Type** : request.
**Parameters:**
Message-ID;
[Old-Serial-Number];
New-Serial-Number;
Data-Coding-Scheme;
CB-Data;
[Category];
Repetition-Period;
Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested.
##### 8.2.1.1.2 BMC-Data-IND
The BMC-Data-IND primitive is used to indicate received CB messages (i.e. CB
Data) to upper layer.
**Primitive Type** : indication.
**Parameters:**
Message-ID;
Serial-Number;
Data-Coding-Scheme;
CB-Data.
##### 8.2.1.1.3 BMC-Data-CNF
The BMC-Data-CNF primitive is used to indicate the complete broadcast of CB
messages.
**Primitive Type** : confirmation.
**Parameters:**
Message-ID.
Serial-Number.
##### 8.2.1.1.4 BMC-Congestion-IND
The BMC-Congestion-IND primitive is used to indicate to upper layer (BM-IWF)
that the BMC entity is congested.
**Primitive Type** : indication.
**Parameters:** None.
##### 8.2.1.1.5 BMC-Normal-IND
The BMC-Normal-IND primitive is used to indicate to upper layer (BM-IWF) that
the BMC has recovered from a congestion situation and is operating normal.
**Primitive Type** : indication.
**Parameters:** None.
##### 8.2.1.1.6 BMC-Activation-REQ
The BMC-Activation-REQ primitive is used to request CB message reception and
to notify which CB messages are of interest and shall be delivered to the
upper layer.
**Primitive Type** : request.
**Parameters:**
Message-ID (n times).
##### 8.2.1.1.7 BMC-Deactivation-REQ
The BMC-Deactivation-REQ primitive is used to request stop of reception of
listed CB messages. If no more CB messages are to be received, CB message
reception shall stop.
**Primitive Type** : request.
**Parameters:**
Message-ID (n times).
##### 8.2.1.1.8 BMC-DRX-REQ
The BMC-DRX-REQ primitive is used to command CBS discontinuous reception (CB
DRX).
NOTE: In UMTS, a Set DRX procedure is not requested for the CBC in TS 23.041.
It is left to an O&M system to provide such a function or not.
**Primitive Type** : request.
**Parameters:**
CB-DRX-Schedule-Period.
Reserved-CB-Capacity.
##### 8.2.1.1.9 BMC-Error-IND
The BMC-Error-IND primitive is used to indicate unsuccessful operations of the
BMC entity requested.
**Primitive Type** : indication.
**Parameters:**
Cause.
#### 8.2.1.2 Primitives used for ANSI-41 Core Network
##### 8.2.1.2.1 BMC-Data41-REQ
The BMC-Data41-REQ primitive is used by upper layer (Transport Layer) to
request repeated transmission of CBS messages if the source is ANSI-41 core
network.
**Primitive Type** : request.
**Parameters:**
Transport Layer Message.
Broadcast Address.
##### 8.2.1.2.2 BMC-Data41-IND
The BMC-Data-IND primitive is used to indicate received CB messages to upper
layer (Transport Layer) if the source is ANSI-41 core network.
**Primitive Type** : indication.
**Parameters:**
Transport Layer Message.
Broadcast Address.
##### 8.2.1.2.3 BMC-Error41-IND
The BMC-Error-IND primitive is used to report BMC Layer Error to the upper
layer (Transport Layer) if the source is ANSI-41 core network.
**Primitive Type** : indication.
**Parameters:**
Error Type.
### 8.2.2 Parameters
#### 8.2.2.1 Message-ID
Part of the CB message identification describing the source and type of a CB
message.\ This parameter is described in [3].
#### 8.2.2.2 Serial Number
Part of the CB message identification describing variants of a CB message.\
This parameter is described in [3].
#### 8.2.2.3 Data-Coding-Scheme
Data coding scheme applied to the CB information.\ This parameter is described
in [4] and [3].
#### 8.2.2.4 CB-Data
CB information to be broadcast.
NOTE: The relation to GSM CBS pages can be found in [6] or [3].
#### 8.2.2.5 Category
Indicates the category (priority) of the CB message.\ Values:\ HIGH (CB
message is to be broadcast at the earliest opportunity in the reserved CB
capacity of the current CB DRX schedule period).\ NORMAL (default, CB messages
to be broadcast according to the associated repetition period).\ BACKGROUND
(CB message to be broadcast in the CB capacity not occupied by HIGH or NORMAL
CB messages within a CB DRX schedule period).
This parameter is described in [3].
#### 8.2.2.6 Repetition-Period
Indicates the period of time after which broadcast of the CB message should be
repeated.\ This parameter is described in [3].
NOTE: For GSM, the repetition period is a multiple of 1.883 seconds (cf. [3]).
#### 8.2.2.7 Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested
Number of times a CB message is to be broadcast.\ Values:\ 0 indefinitely.\ n,
1 ≤ n ≤ 65535 finite number of times to be broadcast.\ \ This parameter is
described in [3].
#### 8.2.2.8 CB-DRX-Schedule-Period
Indication of the CB DRX schedule period length.
#### 8.2.2.9 Reserved-CB-Capacity
Indicates the capacity reserved for CB messages with Category = HIGH or new CB
messages.
#### 8.2.2.10 Cause
CB message already stored.
Old CB message not stored.
#### 8.2.2.11 Transport Layer Message
This parameter is described in [8].
#### 8.2.2.12 Broadcast Address
This parameter is described in [8].
#### 8.2.2.13 Error Type
The error codes shall be SMS_CauseCode values as defined in the SMS_CauseCode
Table in [7].
# 9 Procedures
## 9.1 BMC Message Broadcast
Figure 9.1-1: Procedure for broadcast of BMC messages
This procedure is used for broadcasting BMC messages from the network to UEs
in a cell. A UE supporting Cell Broadcast Service (CBS) shall be capable to
receive BMC messages in the Idle mode and in CELL_PCH and URA_PCH RRC-states
of Connected mode.
Three types of BMC messages are identified: CBS Message, CBS41 Message and
Schedule Message.
## 9.2 Generation of Schedule message
NOTE: Principles and examples are described in [6].
This procedure calculates the CBS schedule periods and assigns BMC messages
(i.e. CBS Messages, CBS41 Messages and Schedule Messages) to the CBS schedule
periods and gives an indication which of the CTCH Block Sets containing a part
of or a complete BMC messages has the status \"new\".
NOTE: The concatenation function of RLC shall not be applied. RLC Length
Indicators shall not be concatenated with RLC SDUs they do not refer to.
Algorithms used for scheduling are implementation dependent and thus do not
need to be specified. Some parameters may be set by CBC or O&M system.
CTCH Block Sets are indicated in a New Message Bitmap IE of BMC Schedule
Message as new (bit position of a CTCH Block Set is set to value \"1\") when
one of the following conditions is met:
The CTCH Block Set contains part of or a complete BMC message which\ was
either not sent during the previous CBS schedule period,\ or sent unscheduled
during the preceding CBS schedule period;\ or, the CTCH Block Set is indicated
as of free usage, reading advised,\ or it contains the Schedule Message partly
or complete of the following CBS schedule period,\ or it contains a CBS41
Message partly or complete.
Other BMC messages sent in the same CBS schedule messages are indicated as
\"old\" (bit position of CTCH Block Set containing this message partly or
complete is set to value 0).
The indication \"new\" is set both for the first transmission of a BMC message
in the CBS schedule period or a repetition of it within the CBS schedule
period. For CBS41 Messages, repetition is not specified.
The input parameters of the scheduling procedure are set by CBC or RRC or by
the O&M system for the BMC.
The CBC input parameters are:
CB messages (i.e. BMC SDUs),\ Message Identifier per CB message,\ Serial
Number per CB message,\ CB repetition period per CB message,\ Number of
Broadcast Requested per CB message.
The RRC input parameters are:
Sizes of CTCH Block Sets,\ Timing of CTCH Block Set sequence.
The O&M (BMC) input parameters are:
DRX Schedule Period (cell related parameter) requested optionally,\ Reserved
CB Capacity (cell related parameter) requested optionally.
## 9.3 Traffic volume measurement
The BMC entity on the network side predicts periodically the expected amount
of CBS traffic volume (unit: kbps) that is needed for transmission of CB
messages currently and indicates this to RRC.
The algorithms used for traffic volume prediction are implementation dependent
and thus do not need to be specified. Some parameters may be set by O&M
system. The algorithms depend on the chosen algorithms for CB message
scheduling (cf. subclause 9.2).
## 9.4 BMC message reception
The BMC entity on the UE side evaluates received BMC Schedule Messages and
takes decisions which BMC messages should be received. The reception of a BMC
message is indicated to RRC if the CTCH Block Sets carrying this BMC message
are indicated as new. If the upper layer has requested reception of individual
CB messages when in status \"old\", the reception of these BMC messages are
also indicated to RRC.
If not otherwise requested by upper layers, only those CB messages received in
BMC CBS Messages should be delivered to upper layers for which the Serial
Number associated with the CB message has changed. This implies that the BMC
has to store the last received Serial Number of each CB message activated by
upper layers.
Every CBS41 Message received by BMC shall be delivered to upper layer.
# 10 BMC Messages
## 10.1 General
A BMC message is equivalent with a BMC PDU. There are three types of BMC
messages defined, CBS messages and CBS41 messages, which carry cell broadcast
data from higher layer, and _Schedule messages_ , which provide information
for support of Discontinuous Reception (DRX) of cell broadcast data at the UE.
BMC messages and information elements are specified using the tabular format
methodology as specified in TR 25.921, and additional text is describing the
encoding.
NOTE: Only IEs marked as MP or CV in the \"Need\" column exist, with the
exception of the IE \"BMC Schedule Message Extension\" of the BMC Schedule
Message (see subclause 10.3).
BMC messages (i.e. BMC PDUs) specified by tabular format consist of an ordered
sequence IE1,..,IEn of information element fields.
The octet string of a BMC message is defined as the concatenation of the
octets of the IEs maintaining the sequence order. The bits within an octet are
numbered 0 to 7; bit 0 is the least significant bit and is transmitted first.
The octets are transmitted in order of increasing octet number, i.e. starting
with octet 1. This means that bit 0 of octet 1 is transmitted as the first
(leftmost) bit in the Data field of the UMD PDU [1].
The UE shall ignore any unrecognised bits at the end of a BMC message.
NOTE: Although not explicitly stated as a requirement in release \'99, 4 and 5
specifications it is assumed that release \'99, 4, 5 UEs will also ignore any
unrecognised bits at the end of a BMC message.
## 10.2 BMC CBS Message
The CBS Message carries the cell broadcast data and the address information if
the address information is based on GSM CBS.
RLC-SAP: UM;
Logical channel: CTCH;
Direction: UTRAN → UE.
Table 10.2-1: CBS Message
* * *
Information Element Need Multi Type and reference Semantics description
Message Type MP Sec. 11.1  
Message ID MP Sec. 11.2  
Serial Number MP Sec. 11.3  
Data Coding Scheme MP Sec. 11.4  
CB Data MP Sec. 11.5
* * *
## 10.3 BMC Schedule Message
The BMC Schedule Message describes for the succeeding CBS schedule period the
time locations for each CBS Message and the location of the Schedule Message
of the following CBS schedule period. The UE is not required to start
receiving a CBS Schedule Period earlier than 100ms after UE has received the
complete BMC Schedule message.
RLC-SAP: UM.
Logical channel: CTCH.
Direction: UTRAN → UE.
Table 10. 3-1: Schedule Message
+-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | In | Need | Multi | Type and | Semantics | Version | | formation | | | reference | de | | | Element | | | | scription | | +-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Message | MP | | Sec. 11.1 | | | | Type | | | | | | +-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Offset to | MP | | Sec. 11.6 | | | | Begin | | | | | | | CTCH BS | | | | | | | index | | | | | | +-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Length of | MP | | Sec. 11.7 | | | | CBS | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | cheduling | | | | | | | Period | | | | | | +-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | New | MP | | Sec. 11.8 | | | | Message | | | | | | | Bitmap | | | | | | +-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Message | MP | 1 to | Sec. 11.9 | Message | | | De | | \ | | for each | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | (1 in the | | | | | | | New | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | bitmap) | | | | | | | as well | | | | | | | as for | | | | | | | each old | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | (0 in the | | | | | | | New | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | bitmap). | | | | | | | The i-th | | | | | | | Message | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | IE refers | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | i-th bit | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | New | | | | | | | Message | | | | | | | Bitmap | | | | | | | IE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | tiplicity | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | \"Message | | | | | | | Desc | | | | | | | ription\" | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | require | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | dditional | | | | | | | length | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndication | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | encoded | | | | | | | message. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | tiplicity | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | derived | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | \"Length | | | | | | | of CBS | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | cheduling | | | | | | | Period\". | | +-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | BMC | OP | | Sec 11.12 | | REL-6 | | Schedule | | | | | | | Message | | | | | | | Extension | | | | | | +-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+
The IE \"BMC Schedule Message Extension\" is optional. There is no explicit
mechanism to indicate the presence of this IE in the BMC Schedule Message.
## 10.4 BMC CBS41 Message
The CBS41 Message carries the cell broadcast data and the address information
if the address information is based on ANSI-41 CBS.
RLC-SAP: UM.
Logical channel: CTCH.
Direction: UTRAN → UE.
Table 10.4-1: CBS41 Message
* * *
Information Element Need Multi Type and reference Semantics description
Message Type MP Sec. 11.1  
Broadcast Address MP Sec. 11.10  
CB Data41 MP Sec. 11.11
* * *
# 11 Information Elements
## 11.1 Message Type
Table 11.1-1: Message Type IE
+---------------+------+-------+-----------------+-----------------+ | IE/Group name | Need | Multi | Type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +---------------+------+-------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Message Type | MP | | Enumerated (0 | This IE is | | | | | .. 255) | coded as the | | | | | | binary | | | | | Table 11.1-2 | representation | | | | | | of the Message | | | | | | Type. This IE | | | | | | is mapped onto | | | | | | a single octet. | +---------------+------+-------+-----------------+-----------------+
Coding of Message Type
Table 11.1-2: Coding of Message Type IE
* * *
1 CBS Message 2 Schedule Message 3 CBS41 Message 0, 4.. 255 Reserved for
future use (PDUs with this coding will be discarded by this version of the
protocol)
* * *
## 11.2 Message ID
Table 11.2-1: Message ID IE
* * *
IE/Group name Need Multi Type and reference Semantics description
Message ID MP Octet string (2) Identification of source and type of CBS
message.\ The first octet contains octet 1 of the equivalent IE defined in and
encoded according to [3] and so on.
* * *
## 11.3 Serial Number
Table 11.3-1: Serial Number IE
* * *
IE/Group Name Need Multi Type and reference Semantics description
Serial Number MP Octet string (2) Identification of variations of a CBS
message (part of the overall CBS message identification).\ The first octet
contains octet 1 of the equivalent IE defined in and encoded according to [3]
and so on.
* * *
## 11.4 Data Coding Scheme
Table 11.4-1: Data Coding Scheme IE
* * *
IE/Group name Need Multi Type and reference Semantics description
Data Coding Scheme MP Bitstring(8) Identification of the alphabet/coding and
the language applied.\ This IE is encoded according to [4].
* * *
## 11.5 CB Data
Table 11.5-1: CB Data IE
+---------------+------+-------+-----------------+-----------------+ | IE/Group name | Need | Multi | Type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +---------------+------+-------+-----------------+-----------------+ | CB Data | MP | | Octet string | Content of CBS | | | | | (N)\ | message. The | | | | | N ≥ 1 | first octet | | | | | | contains octet | | | | | | 1 of the | | | | | | equivalent IE | | | | | | defined in and | | | | | | encoded | | | | | | according to | | | | | | [4] and so | | | | | | on. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: This IE | | | | | | contains the CB | | | | | | Data as | | | | | | received in the | | | | | | SABP with the | | | | | | length | | | | | | indicator of | | | | | | the PER aligned | | | | | | bit string as | | | | | | received on | | | | | | SABP being | | | | | | removed. | +---------------+------+-------+-----------------+-----------------+
NOTE: The number N is less than or equal to 1246 octets if a GSM CBS message
is broadcast.
## 11.6 Offset to Begin CTCH Block Set Index
Table 11.6-1: Offset to Begin CTCH Block Set Index IE
* * *
IE/Group name Need Multi Type and reference Semantics description
Offset to Begin CTCH BS Index MP Integer\ Pointer to the first CTCH BS of the
next CBS Schedule Period relative to the CTCH BS index of the first part of
the current BMC Schedule Message.\ (1..255) This IE is coded as the binary
representation of the Offset to Begin CTCH BS Index. This IE is mapped onto a
single octet.\ The value 0 is reserved.
* * *
## 11.7 Length of CBS Schedule Period
Table 11.7-1: Length of CBS Schedule Period IE
* * *
Information Element/Group name Need Multi Type and reference Semantics
description
Length of CBS Schedule Period MP Integer\ Number of consecutive CTCH BS of the
next CBS Schedule Period. Together with Offset to Begin CTCH BS Index it
points to the end of the CBS schedule period.\ (1..255) This IE is coded as
the binary representation of the Lengh of CBS Schedule Period. This IE is
mapped onto a single octet.\ The Value 0 is reserved.
* * *
## 11.8 New Message Bitmap
Table 11.8-1: New Message Bitmap IE
+-----------------+------+-------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Information | Need | Multi | Type and | Semantics | | Element/Group | | | reference | description | | name | | | | | +-----------------+------+-------+-----------------+-----------------+ | New Message | MP | | Octet string | Bitmap | | Bitmap | | | (N) | indicating CTCH | | | | | | BS which | | | | | if \"Length of | contains new | | | | | CBS Schedule | CBS Messages | | | | | Period\" mod 8 | completely or | | | | | = 0 then | partly | | | | | | | | | | | N = \"Length of | | | | | | CBS Schedule | | | | | | Period\" div 8, | | | | | | | | | | | | else | | | | | | | | | | | | N = \"Length of | | | | | | CBS Schedule | | | | | | Period\" div 8 | | | | | | + 1. | | | | | | | | | | | | Table 11.8-2 | | +-----------------+------+-------+-----------------+-----------------+
Coding of New Message Bitmap.
Table 11.8-2: Coding of New Message Bitmap IE
* * *
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Bit
CTCH BS index B CTCH BS index B+1 CTCH BS index B+2 ... Octet 1
                                                                                                                                                     Octet 2
                                                                                                                                                     \...
                                                                           \...                CTCH BS index E-1   CTCH BS index E   0   0   0   0   Octet n
Legend: B First CTCH BS index of the CBS schedule period, 1 ≤ B ≤ 256\  
E Last CTCH BS index of the CBS schedule period,\  
E = B + Length of CBS Schedule Period -- 1
* * *
CTCH BS Index i:\ Each bit of the New CBS Message Bitmap refers to the content
of CTCH BS index i, i=B,...,E. Its meaning is as follows:
1 The CTCH BS index i contains a BMC Message partly or completely which\ was
either not sent during the previous schedule period,\ or sent unscheduled
during the preceding schedule period;\ or, the CTCH BS is indicated as of free
usage, reading advised;\ or it contains the Schedule Message partly or
complete of the following CBS schedule period,\ or it contains a CBS41 Message
partly or complete.\ The value is 1 both for the first transmission of a given
BMC message in the CBS schedule period or a repetition of it within the CBS
schedule period.
0 The CTCH BS is such that value 1 is not suitable.
The length of the New Message Bitmap is given by the IE Length of CBS Schedule
Period. If it is not a multiple of 8 the remaining bit positions are padded
with \"0\".
## 11.9 Message Description
Table 11.9-1: Message Description IE
+----------------+---------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Need | Multi | Type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+---------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Message | MP | | Enum | This IE is | | Description | | | erated(0..255) | coded as the | | Type | | | | binary | | | | | Table 11.9-3 | representation | | | | | | of the Message | | | | | | Description | | | | | | Type. This IE | | | | | | is mapped onto | | | | | | a single | | | | | | octet. | +----------------+---------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Message ID | CV MDT1 | | Octet string | This IE is | | | | | (2) | coded as the | | | | | | binary | | | | | | representation | | | | | | of the Message | | | | | | ID. The first | | | | | | octet contains | | | | | | octet 1 of the | | | | | | equivalent IE | | | | | | defined in and | | | | | | encoded | | | | | | according to | | | | | | [3] and so | | | | | | on. | +----------------+---------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Offset to CTCH | CV MDT2 | | Integer | This IE is | | BS index of | | | (0..255) | coded as the | | first | | | | binary | | transmission | | | | representation | | | | | | of the Offset | | | | | | to CTCH BS | | | | | | index of first | | | | | | transmission | | | | | | relative to | | | | | | the start of | | | | | | the BMC | | | | | | schedule | | | | | | period. This | | | | | | IE is mapped | | | | | | onto a single | | | | | | octet. | +----------------+---------+-------+----------------+----------------+
Table 11.9-2: Conditions
* * *
Condition Explanation
MDT1 If Message Description Type = 1 or 5 then:\ the CB-Message-Id IE is
included
MDT2 If Message Description Type = 0 or 4 then:\ the Offset to CTCH BS index
of first transmission IE is included pointing to the CTCH BS index where the
BMC message is transmitted the first time within the schedule period.
* * *
Table 11.9-3: Encoding of Message Description Type
* * *
Value Explanation
0 Repetition of new BMC CBS message within schedule period
1 New BMC CBS message (a BMC CBS message never previously sent)
2 Reading advised
3 Reading optional
4 Repetition of old BMC CBS message within schedule period
5 Old BMC CBS message (repetition of a BMC CBS message sent in a previous
schedule period)
6 Schedule message
7 CBS41 message
8 no message
9.. 255 Reserved for future use\ (IEs received with this value will be
replaced by value 3)
* * *
NOTE: Message Description Type values 0, 1, 4, 5 and 6 indicate transmission
of a BMC message partly or completely.
## 11.10 Broadcast Address
Table 11.10-1: Data Coding Scheme IE
* * *
IE/Group name Need Multi Type and reference Semantics description
Broadcast Address MP Octet string (5) Address information for higher layer.\
The first octet contains octet 1 of the equivalent IE defined in and encoded
according to [8] and so on.
* * *
## 11.11 CB Data41
Table 11.11-1: CB Data IE
* * *
IE/Group name Need Multi Type and reference Semantics description
CB Data41 MP Octet string (N)\ Content of CBS message (ANSI-41). The first
octet contains octet 1 of the equivalent IE defined in and encoded according
to [8] and so on. N ≥ 1
* * *
## 11.12 CBS Schedule Message Extension
Table 11.12-1: CBS Schedule Message Extension IE
+-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | In | Need | Multi | Type and | Semantics | Version | | formation | | | reference | de | | | Element | | | | scription | | +-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Future | MP | | Octet | | REL-6 | | extension | | | string(1) | | | | bitmap | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Extension | CV ext0 | | CBS | | REL-6 | | 0 | | | Message | | | | | | | Serial | | | | | | | Numbers | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Sec 11.13 | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Extension | CV ext1 | | Null | | REL-6 | | 1 | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Extension | CV ext2 | | Null | | REL-6 | | 2 | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Extension | CV ext3 | | Null | | REL-6 | | 3 | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Extension | CV ext4 | | Null | | REL-6 | | 4 | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Extension | CV ext5 | | Null | | REL-6 | | 5 | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Extension | CV ext6 | | Null | | REL-6 | | 6 | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Extension | CV ext7 | | Null | | REL-6 | | 7 | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-----------+-----------+---------+
Table 11.12-2: Conditions
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | Condition | Explanation | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | ext _n_ | If bit _n_ of the Future extension bitmap is set to 1 | | | then Extension _n_ is present. | | | | | | If bit _n_ of the Future extension bitmap is set to 0 | | | then Extension _n_ is not present. | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
## 11.13 CBS Message Serial Numbers
Table 11.13: CBS Message Serial Numbers IE
* * *
Information Element Need Multi Type and reference Semantics description
Version Length of Serial Number List MP Integer (0..255) REL-6 Serial Number
List Entry MP 0 to \<Length of Serial Number List Sec. 11.14 REL-6
* * *
## 11.14 Serial Number List Entry
Table 11.14: Serial Number List Entry IE
+------------+------+-------+------------+------------+---------+ | I | Need | Multi | Type and | Semantics | Version | | nformation | | | reference | d | | | Element | | | | escription | | +------------+------+-------+------------+------------+---------+ | Serial | MP | | Sec. 11.3 | The CBS | REL-6 | | Number | | | | Message | | | | | | | Serial | | | | | | | Number of | | | | | | | the BMC | | | | | | | CBS | | | | | | | Message | | | | | | | referred | | | | | | | to by the | | | | | | | CTCH BS | | | | | | | Index. | | +------------+------+-------+------------+------------+---------+ | CTCH BS | MP | | Integer | The CTCH | REL-6 | | Index | | | (0..255) | BS Index | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the index | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | CTCH BS | | | | | | | within the | | | | | | | BMC | | | | | | | Schedule | | | | | | | Period | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | the start | | | | | | | of the BMC | | | | | | | CBS | | | | | | | Message. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE is | | | | | | | coded as | | | | | | | the binary | | | | | | | repr | | | | | | | esentation | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | CTCH BS | | | | | | | Index. | | | | | | | This IE is | | | | | | | mapped | | | | | | | onto a | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | octet. | | +------------+------+-------+------------+------------+---------+
#