# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the studies for [2] about the need to introduce
mechanisms in UMTS to provide additional broadcast capacity, considering:
\- the currently existing deployments and their future evolutions,
\- the broadcast load expected from different releases, including Rel-11 and
estimate for Rel-12,
\- the impact on system performance and end-user experience in case of
increased system information scheduling latency.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-131386, SI description for \"Study on Enhanced Broadcast of System
Information\", RAN #61, Porto, Portugal, Sep. 2013.
[3] R4-136915, Way forward on the minimum number of carriers a UE should be
able to monitor for UTRA and for E-UTRA, TeliaSonera, SoftBank Mobile, KT
Corp, NTT DOCOMO, Deutsche Telekom, Qualcomm, RAN4#69.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
\: \.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACB Access Class Barring
BCH Broadcast CHannel
DSAC Domain Specific Access Control
EAB Extended Access Barring
GANSS Galileo and Additional Navigation Satellite Systems
MOCN Multi-Operator Core Network
PPAC Paging Permission with Access Control
RLF Radio Link Failure
# 4 Introduction
The BCH channel has a fixed/constant throughput (12.3 kbps), i.e. broadcasts a
246 bits BCH transport block every 20 ms TTI. The BCH transport block carries
a SYSTEM INFORMATION message which includes the SFN (11 bits). A SYSTEM
INFORMATION message may include one or more segments. The maximum size of a
segment depends on the segment type, but is in the order of 28 octets.
There are different factors determining the BCH load, but the main factors are
the SIB configuration of the SIBs (e.g. repetition period, scheduling,
segmentation and concatenation), the number of supported features (e.g. common
E-DCH) and the amount of information broadcasted (e.g. number of neighbors
relations, use of explicit configuration instead of mandatory defaults).
The aim of the study item is to investigate the need for additional BCH
capacity, i.e. evaluate the scenarios where the BCH capacity limit is reached.
# 5 Mechanisms to handle System Information capacity
## 5.1 Longer SIB repetition period
When the SIB repetition period is increased more SIBs can be broadcasted. But
increasing the SIB repetition period goes at the expense of a longer System
Information (SI) acquisition latency which could have a negative impact on
some use cases, as explained in chapter 6.
The MIB is broadcast with a fixed interval of 80 ms, i.e. every 4 BCH
transport blocks. SIB7, which contains information that needs to be updated
frequently (UL interference), is typically scheduled quite often (e.g. 80 -
160 ms). Scheduling block 1 and/or 2 could be also broadcast with a high
frequency to decrease SI acquisition latency. MIB, scheduling blocks, and
SIB7, which need to be send with a high frequency, require a comparatively
high share of the BCH capacity. Thus the BCH capacity gain does not scale
linearly with the repetition period of a single SIB.
## 5.2 Segmentation and concatenation
If the System Information Block (SIB) size is too large, i.e., greater than
226 bits, it needs to be segmented into several SYSTEM INFORMATION messages. A
SIB can be segmented up to maximum 16 segments (4-bit SEG_COUNT). The position
of subsequent segments of a SIB is indicated by an offset SIB_OFF. The
position of the first segment of a SIB is indicated by an offset SIB_POS. The
counters and offsets associated with segmentation take some of the BCH
capacity.
Furthermore concatenation can be used to transmit two or more (smaller) SIBs
in a single SYSTEM INFORMATION message to optimally use the available BCH
capacity. Concatenation thus enables more efficient use of the available BCH
capacity. However given the sizes of the SIBs to be broadcasted, and the
possible concatenation and scheduling options, a small percentage of the BCH
may remain un-used.
# 6 Impact of BCH load on use cases
In this chapter the impact of longer SIB repetition periods is described. It
is noted that the introduction of additional BCH capacity does not remove the
impact of longer repetition periods, but may reduce the impact.
## 6.1 The impact of longer repetition periods on use cases
A longer SIB repetition period increases the SI acquisition latency. A longer
SI acquisition latency has a negative effect on use cases where if the UE
needs to acquire the complete system information again, e.g. CS Fallback, cell
re-selection, RRC state change, cell update in case of RLC unrecoverable error
or RLF, and redirection. These use cases are explained in more detail in the
following paragraphs.
Reception failure of a single segment of a large SIB, broadcasted with a long
repetition period (e.g. neighbor cell information), further delays the SI
acquisition latency.
It is up to UE implementation to store the system information of one or more
cells for later usage. In case the UE has stored system information for a cell
(based on Cell Identity), the SI acquisition latency would be largely reduced,
but the UE needs to read the MIB to check if any of the stored SIBs has
changed. Furthermore it may need to check SIB3 for the Cell Identity of the
cell. In case one or more SIBs have changed, the UE needs to re-acquire those.
The UE may also have to re-acquire a timer based SIB, which timer has expired,
or SIBs that were added. The UE shall delete any stored system information
after 6 hours. The SI acquisition latency is impacted in the following use
cases when the UE (re-)selects a cell for which it does not have up to date
system information stored (i.e. expired or changed).
[Impact on legacy UE]{.underline}
When the SIB repetition period is increased due to the introduction of a new
feature, then legacy UEs are also affected, when the repetition period of a
\"legacy\" SIB is increased. Typically a SIB type supports more than one
feature.
[CS fallback from LTE]{.underline}
When the UE is re-directed to UTRA due to CS fallback, UE needs to acquire the
system information of the selected cell which would impact the CS fallback
performance because of system information acquisition latency. Deferred
Measurement Control Reading (DMCR) can be used to avoid the acquisition
latency of SIBs that are under DMCR control. Furthermore the network may
signal UTRAN system information in advance in a system information container
in the connection release in LTE. Thus these two enhancements speed up CS
fallback from LTE by avoiding SI acquisition. However the UE needs to acquire
the SIBs that are not under deferred measurement control.
[Cell Reselection]{.underline}
In case the UE does not have stored system information of the target cell, or
the system information has expired or changed, the UE has to re-acquire the
system information after cell re-selection. During SI acquisition for inter-
frequency and iRAT cells, the UE cannot be reached, i.e. no DL data or paging
can be conveyed to the UE. Furthermore UL access is delayed until the system
information has been acquired and uplink access is configured. However, DMCR
feature can be used to alleviate the access delay in RRC connection request
and cell update case via allowing UE perform random access before acquiring
complete SIBs.
[RRC state switch from CELL_DCH to CELL_FACH or CELL_PCH/URA_PCH]{.underline}
This case is similar to cell re-selection, i.e. when the UE is reconfigured
from CELL_DCH to CELL_FACH or CELL_PCH/URA_PCH, the UE needs to re-acquire SI
as part of the reconfiguration from CELL_DCH. This delays the reconfiguration
procedure. However, when a UE transits from CELL_DCH to
CELL_FCH/CELL_PCH/URA_PCH with no user plane data to transmit or receive, then
no noticeable user plan impact is foreseen.
[Call re-establishment]{.underline}
In case of RLF or RLC unrecoverable error in CELL_DCH state, the UE performs
CELL UPDATE procedure to recover. In such case if UE has no stored SIB
information, the UE needs to re-acquire system information of the new cell
leading to longer voice and/or data interruption.
[RRC Connection Reject/Release with redirection]{.underline}
In case of RRC Connection Reject/Release with re-direction, the UE may need to
read the system information of the new target cell before the call can be
established. This leads to longer call setup time.
# 7 Expected BCH load
## 7.1 BCH load in current networks {#bch-load-in-current-networks .list-
paragraph}
Networks that are currently deployed, with some features up to and including
Release 8, typically do not experience BCH load issues.
In the current deployments, it is observed that a large contributor to the
current load is due to the SIB11 and SIB11bis. The load in SIB11 is varying
due to the amount of neighbour cell information broadcasted. In some networks
SIB11bis is deployed to offload SIB11. In some networks HCS configuration is
used, which may impact the BCH load.
## 7.2 BCH load in the different releases {#bch-load-in-the-different-releases
.list-paragraph}
In each release new features are added and the amount of system information is
increased. The additional system information for each new feature is different
and can vary considerably, with some features having no impact on system
information. The table below gives a relative comparison of the expected BCH
impact in the different releases. The features that have a relatively high
impact are marked with **:
Table 7.2-1: BCH load in the different releases
+-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Release | Features with BCH | Relative BCH load | | | impact | impact | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | **R99 - REL-6** | Neighbor relations | High | | | (SIB11, 11bis) ** | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | **Rel-7** | HSDPA in CELL_FACH | Low | | | | | | | Deferred measurement | | | | reading | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | **Rel-8** | Enhanced uplink in | Medium/High | | | CELL_FACH ** | | | | | | | | Absolute priority | | | | based cell | | | | re-selection PPAC | | | | | | | | Enhanced UE DRX | | | | | | | | Support of UTRA HNB | | | | (CSG) | | | | | | | | ETWS | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | **Rel-9** | H(e)NB enhancements | Low | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | **Rel-10** | CN overload protection | Low | | | MTC | | | | | | | | Multiple Frequency | | | | Band Indicator | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | **Rel-11** | Further enhancements | Low/Medium | | | to CELL_FACH ** | | | | | | | | RAN overload control | | | | for MTC | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+
Additionally there are several features with a small impact on the BCH load.
Examples of such features are DSAC (REL-6), PPAC (REL-8), EAB (REL-11), per
PLMN access restrictions PPAC/DSAC, positioning information for
GPS/OTDOA/GANSS, new frequency bands, shared networks (MOCN), and Multiple
Frequency Band Indicators (MFBI). Some of these features would not be expected
to be broadcasted all the time (e.g. PPAC/DSAC, EAB, and ACB).While
individually these features have a small impact on the BCH load, the
accumulated impact of those features could be significant if all of them are
supported and deployed by the network concurrently.
## 7.3 Expected BCH load in REL-11 {#expected-bch-load-in-rel-11 .list-
paragraph}
The BCH load depends on different factors, such as SIB configuration, the
number of supported features, and the amount of information broadcasted. The
deployment of current networks differs, and it can be expected that future
network deployments will continue to differ. Therefore the expected BCH load
in REL-11 for different reference scenarios is provided:
[Reference scenario A]{.underline}
The expected BCH load for this reference scenario including the following
features is listed in the table below (configuration details can be found in
Annex A):
\- HSDPA in CELL_FACH (REL-7)
\- Enhanced uplink in CELL_FACH (REL-8)
\- Absolute priority based cell re-selection (REL-8)
\- Further enhancements to CELL_FACH (REL-11):
\- Concurrent 2ms and 10ms TTI
\- Fallback to R99 PRACH
\- Stand-alone HS-DPCCH
\- Per-HARQ-process grants for 2ms TTI
\- TTI alignment between CELL_FACH and CELL_DCH UEs
\- HS-DSCH DRX in CELL_FACH with second DRX cycle
\- Extended Access Barring (EAB) (REL-11)
Table 7.3-1: Expected BCH load in REL-11 for reference scenario A
* * *
IE(s) Rep- Period Octets Segments #Seg/ 1.28 sec Percentage MIB + SIB7 80 ms
20.5 + 2.5 1 16 24% SB1 320 ms 54 2 8 12% SIB1 + SIB2 640 ms 16.5 + 8.5 1 2 3%
SIB3 + SIB21 640 ms 23 + 3 1 2 3% SIB5 + SIB18 640 ms 124 + 14 5 10 15% SIB11
1280 ms 386 14 14 21% SIB11bis + SIB12 1280 ms 208 + 12 8 8 12% SIB19 640 ms
43 2 4 6% SIB22 + SIB4 640 ms 36 2 4 6% Total 68
* * *
[]{.underline}
In the table above the number of octets for each SIB type is listed. Some of
the SIB types are concatenated to make more efficient use of the available BCH
capacity. The repetition period for the different SIB types differs, and the
number of segments per 1.28 seconds is listed separately. During a 1.28 second
period 64 segments can be broadcasted, and in this reference scenario the
capacity of 64 segments is exceed, i.e. a total of 68 segments (106% load).
The relative percentage of segments that each SIB type or SIB concatenation
option generates in the BCH load is listed in the last column. From these
figures it can be seen that SIB11/SIB11bis (including neighbour relations
info) and SIB5 (including uplink resource info) take a relatively large part
of the BCH load.
[Reference scenario B]{.underline}
The expected BCH load for this reference scenario including the following
features is listed in the table below (configuration details can be found in
Annex A):
\- HSDPA in CELL_FACH (REL-7)
\- Enhanced uplink in CELL_FACH (REL-8)
\- Absolute priority based cell re-selection (REL-8)
\- Further enhancements to CELL_FACH (REL-11):
\- Concurrent 2ms and 10ms TTI
\- Fallback to R99 PRACH
\- Stand-alone HS-DPCCH
\- HS-DSCH DRX in CELL_FACH with second DRX cycle
\- Extended Access Barring (EAB) (REL-11)
Table 7.3-2: Expected BCH load in REL-11 for reference scenario B
* * *
IE(s) Rep- Period Octets Segments #Seg/ 1.28 sec Percentage MIB + SIB7 80 ms
21 + 3 1 16 27.6% SB1 320 ms 49 2 8 13.8% SIB1 + SIB2 640 ms 18 + 3 1 2 3.4%
SIB3 + SIBx 640 ms 18 + 8 1 2 3.4% SIB5 640 ms 135 5 10 17.2% SIB11 1280 ms
436 16 16 27.6% SIB4 + SIB19 640 ms 12 + 14 1 2 3.4% SIB22+SIB21 640 ms 16 + 3
1 2 3.4% SIBx = SIB12 1280ms 8 0 0 0% SIBx = SIB18 1280ms 8 0 0 0% Total 58
* * *
As could be seen from above that, reference scenario B is similar as A in many
aspects, but differ among others, in the total number of segments broadcasted
per 1.28 second period: 58 segments (90% load). Differences can be observed in
terms of configuration details (see Annex A) and scheduling (concatenation and
repetition periods).
## 7.4 Expected BCH load in REL-12 {#expected-bch-load-in-rel-12 .list-
paragraph}
At the time of writing the REL-12 features are still being discussed, and in
most cases stage 3 details have not been agreed yet. Furthermore some of the
REL-12 features are still in the Study Item phase. Therefore no calculation of
the REL-12 BCH load based on stage 3 details can be provided at this point in
time.
The study items \"3GPP-WiFi integration\" and \"Further EUL Enhancements\",
based on the RAN2 discussions, may have a low impact on the BCH load.
The work items \"Beidou Navigation Satellite System\" and \"Mobility for UMTS
Heterogeneous networks\", based on RAN2 discussions and proposals, may also
have a low impact on the BCH load. Except in case the number of inter-
frequency and/or intra-frequency neighbour cells in Idle mode is increased, as
discussed in the context of \"Mobility for UMTS Heterogeneous networks\" and
the proposed RAN4 work item \"Increasing the minimum number of carriers for UE
monitoring in UTRA and E-UTRA\" [3], a high impact on the BCH load might be
expected, depending on the number of neighbour cells or carriers to be
increased. The additional information is assumed to scale with the number of
additional neighbour relations.
# 8 Conclusions
The broadcast channel has a fixed/constant throughput. In every release, new
information is added to the system information, however this information
cannot be added indefinitely without having a negative impact on the system
information acquisition latency. The deployment of current networks differs,
and it can be expected that future network deployments will continue to
differ. Therefore BCH load in different release and the expected BCH load for
a couple of reference scenarios have been analysed:
\- The BCH load depends on different factors, such as SIB configuration, the
number of supported features, and the amount of information broadcasted.
Analysis shows that proper way of concatenation and segmentation could also
improve usage of the available BCH capacity significantly.
\- Typically, current networks with some features up to and including Release
8 do not experience BCH load issues.
\- Some analysis shows that the BCH capacity can already be exceeded in REL-11
(106%), where other analysis estimates a 90% load for REL-11.
\- At this point in time REL-12 features are still being discussed, and stage
3 details have not been agreed. In case the neighbor cell information is
increased then this may have a potentially high impact on the BCH load.
###### ### Annex A: BCH reference scenario configuration details
## A.1 Reference scenario A
Only OP/MD values are described, i.e. MP values are present.
### A.1.1 MIB
\- General:
\- Multiple PLMN support for shared network (\'Multi Operator Core Network\'
(MOCN), 3 PLMNs)
\- Scheduling information, i.e. references to SB1, SIB3, SIB4, SIB7
\- 2 segments for SIB3 (1 SIB_OFF)
\- 10.2.48.8.1 Master Information Block:
\- Multiple PLMN List (3):
\- Same MCC as master (i.e. no explicit MCC)
\- References to other system information blocks and scheduling blocks (SB1,
SIB3, SIB4, SIB7)
\- 4 references
\- 1 SEG COUNT, 1 SIB_OFF
ASN.1:
\- 80 00 20 00 30 00 60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 48 00 00 00 0
\- 20.5 octets (1 segment)
### A.1.2 SB1
\- General:
\- Scheduling information
\- Segmentation (SEG_COUNT) needed for:
\- SIB5 (5 segments, 4 SIB_OFF)
\- SIB11 (14 segments, 13 SIB_OFF)
\- SIB11bis (8 segments, 7 SIB_OFF)
\- SIB19 (2 segments, 1 SIB_OFF)
\- Total SIB references 9: SIB2, SIB5, SIB11, SIB11bis, SIB12, SIB18, SIB19,
SIB21, SIB22
\- 10.2.48.8.2 Scheduling Block 1:
\- 10.3.8.13 References to other system information blocks:
\- SIB-ReferenceList:
\- Total 9 references (4 SEG COUNT, 25 SIB_POS)
ASN.1:
\- 40 00 30 02 00 00 00 00 30 06 80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 03 00 38 00 00 00 00
00 30 00 80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
\- 42.5 octets (2 segments)
### A.1.3 SIB1
\- General:
\- Domain info
\- Timers and constants
\- 10.2.48.8.4 System Information Block type 1:
\- PS + CS domain
\- Timers and constants:
\- 14 timers/constants in Connected (T302, N302, T305, T307, T308, T309, T313,
N313, T314, T315, N315, T316, T317, T319)
\- 4 timers/constants in Idle (MP)
\- Including T323
ASN.1:
\- e0 01 00 01 00 00 cf 07 f0 00 00 00 00 00 00 21 0
\- 16.5 octets
### A.1.4 SIB2
\- General:
\- URA identities
\- 10.2.48.8.5 System Information Block type 2:
\- URA identity list (4)
ASN.1:
\- 30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 0
\- 8.5 octets
### A.1.5 SIB3
\- General:
\- Cell re-selection and access class barring info
\- 10.2.48.8.6 System Information Block type 3:
\- Cell selection and re-selection info:
\- A-HYST-2S, s-Intrasearch, s-Intersearch, s-SearchHCS, rat-List(1), hcs-
PRIO, q-HCS
\- Deferred measurement control reading support
\- CSG PSC Split Information
\- IMS Emergency Support Indicator
ANS.1:
\- C0 00 00 01 00 00 00 0E 00 00 00 17 87 E0 00 26 24 E0 00 00 00 00 74
\- 23 octets
### A.1.6 SIB4
\- General:
\- Cell re-selection in connected mode
\- No access class barring info included
\- 10.2.48.8.7 System Information Block type 4:
\- Similar re-selection parameters as SIB3
ANS.1:
\- 00 00 00 02 3e 10 6a 04 21 80 00 0e 00 06 40 0
\- 15.5 octets
### A.1.7 SIB5
\- General:
\- Common physical channel configuration
\- 10.2.48.8.8 System Information Block type 5 and 5bis:
\- sCCPCH-SystemInformationList(2):
\- secondaryCCPCH-Info
\- timingOffset
\- tfcs
\- fach-PCH-InformationList
\- pich-Info
\- secondaryCCPCH-Info
\- tfcs
\- fach-PCH-InformationList
\- cbs-DRX-Level1Information
\- frequencyBandIndicator
\- hsdpa-CellIndicator
\- edch-CellIndicator
\- hs-dsch-CommonSystemInformation
\- hs-scch-SystemInfo (3 codes)
\- hs-dsch-DrxCellfach-info
\- hs-dsch-DrxCellfachInfo
ASN.1:
\- 6a 58 7a 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 00 00 00 02 40 02 80 00 00 0f 94 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 1c 40 00 00 00 30 00 20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 18
86 00 00 00 00 00 00 06 1a bf 18 00 00 00 80 00 01 40 00 00 00 04 80 0
\- 74.5 octets (3 segments) (HS in CELL_FACH only)
\- 10.2.48.8.8 System Information Block type 5 and 5bis:
\- commonEDCHSystemInfo (1 flow)
\- CommonEDCHSystemInfo:
\- Common-E-DCH-ResourceInfoList (32):
\- No explicit offsets, codes, resources, signatures added per element,
except:
\- F-DPCH Code number -- this item is mandatory for the first resource and for
every other 10^th^ resource (resource 1, resource 11, resource 21, and
resource 31)
\- Channelisation Code (e-hich-Info) -- the first resource should be
explicitly signaled.
ASN.1:
\- 6a 58 7a 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 00 00 00 02 40 02 80 00 00 0f 94 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 1c 40 00 00 00 30 00 20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 18
86 00 00 00 00 00 00 06 1a bf 18 00 00 00 80 00 01 40 00 00 00 04 80 48 80 00
00 01 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 07 d0 06 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 02 00
00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 08 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 00 00
\- 124 octets (5 segments) (HS in CELL_FACH + common E-DCH)
### A.1.8 SIB7
\- General:
\- Fast changing parameters UL interference
\- 10.2.48.8.10 System Information Block type 7
\- >FDD
\- >>UL interference
ASN.1:
\- 00 00 0
\- 2.5 octets
### A.1.9 SIB11
\- General:
\- Intra-frequency (20), inter-frequency cells (20) and GSM (20)
\- cpich-EcN0
\- Intra-frequency neighbors:
\- cellIndividualOffset
\- primaryScramblingCode
\- HCS parameters including penaltyTime
\- Inter-frequency neighbors:
\- primaryScramblingCode
\- q-Offset2S-N
\- HCS parameters including penaltyTime
\- q-RxLevMin
\- 2 UARFCNs
\- GSM neighbors:
\- Q-Offset1S-N
\- Q-RxlevMin
\- IntraFreqMeasQuantity
\- IntraFreqReportingQuantityForFACH
\- MaxReportedCellsOnRACH
\- ReportingInfoForCellDCH
ASN.1:
Intra
\- 05 9f 4d 54 40 00 42 00 2a 88 00 08 40 05 51 00 01 08 00 aa 20 00 21 00 15
44 00 04 20 02 a8 80 00 84 00 55 10 00 10 80 0a a2 00 02 10 01 54 40 00 42 00
2a 88 00 08 40 05 51 00 01 08 00 aa 20 00 21 00 15 44 00 04 20 02 a8 80 00 84
00 55 10 00 10 80 0a a2 00 02 10 01 54 40 00 42 00 2a 84 a0 42 00 2a 88 00 08
40 05 51 00 01 08 00 00 00 00 00
\- 114 octets (5.7 octets / neighbor)
Intra+Inter
\- 05 df 4d 54 40 00 42 00 2a 88 00 08 40 05 51 00 01 08 00 aa 20 00 21 00 15
44 00 04 20 02 a8 80 00 84 00 55 10 00 10 80 0a a2 00 02 10 01 54 40 00 42 00
2a 88 00 08 40 05 51 00 01 08 00 aa 20 00 21 00 15 44 00 04 20 02 a8 80 00 84
00 55 10 00 10 80 0a a2 00 02 10 01 54 40 00 42 00 2a 84 a0 42 00 2a 88 00 08
40 05 51 00 01 08 00 00 00 00 00 b3 40 00 0a 00 0a c8 20 08 08 00 01 40 01 59
04 01 00 28 00 2b 20 80 20 05 00 05 64 10 04 00 a0 00 ac 82 00 80 14 00 15 90
40 10 02 80 02 b2 08 02 00 50 00 56 42 00 02 80 02 b2 08 02 00 50 00 56 41 00
40 0a 00 0a c8 20 08 01 40 01 59 04 01 00 28 00 2b 20 80 20 05 00 05 64 10 04
00 a0 00 ac 82 00 80 14 00 15 90 40 10 02 80 02 b2 08 02 00 50 00 56 41 00 40
0a 00 0a c8 20 08 01 40 01 59 04 01 00
\- 246 octets (6.15 octets / neighbor)
Intra+Inter+GSM
\- 07 df 4d 54 40 00 42 00 2a 88 00 08 40 05 51 00 01 08 00 aa 20 00 21 00 15
44 00 04 20 02 a8 80 00 84 00 55 10 00 10 80 0a a2 00 02 10 01 54 40 00 42 00
2a 88 00 08 40 05 51 00 01 08 00 aa 20 00 21 00 15 44 00 04 20 02 a8 80 00 84
00 55 10 00 10 80 0a a2 00 02 10 01 54 40 00 42 00 2a 84 a0 42 00 2a 88 00 08
40 05 51 00 01 08 00 00 00 00 00 b3 40 00 0a 00 0a c8 20 08 08 00 01 40 01 59
04 01 00 28 00 2b 20 80 20 05 00 05 64 10 04 00 a0 00 ac 82 00 80 14 00 15 90
40 10 02 80 02 b2 08 02 00 50 00 56 42 00 02 80 02 b2 08 02 00 50 00 56 41 00
40 0a 00 0a c8 20 08 01 40 01 59 04 01 00 28 00 2b 20 80 20 05 00 05 64 10 04
00 a0 00 ac 82 00 80 14 00 15 90 40 10 02 80 02 b2 08 02 00 50 00 56 41 00 40
0a 00 0a c8 20 08 01 40 01 59 04 01 02 26 28 64 20 32 00 00 0a 19 08 0c 80 00
02 86 42 03 20 00 00 a1 90 80 c8 00 00 28 64 20 32 00 00 0a 19 08 0c 80 00 02
86 42 03 20 00 00 a1 90 80 c8 00 00 28 64 20 32 00 00 0a 19 08 0c 80 00 02 86
42 03 20 00 00 a1 90 80 c8 00 00 28 64 20 32 00 00 0a 19 08 0c 80 00 02 86 42
03 20 00 00 a1 90 80 c8 00 00 28 64 20 32 00 00 0a 19 08 0c 80 00 02 86 42 03
20 00 00 a1 90 80 c8 00 00
\- 372 octets = 14 segments (6.2 octets / neighbor)
### A.1.10 SIB11bis
\- General:
\- GSM neighbor relations
\- 10.2.48.8.14a System Information Block type 11bis:
\- Intra-frequency (12), inter-frequency cells (12) and GSM (12)
\- cpich-EcN0
\- Intra-frequency neighbors:
\- cellIndividualOffset
\- primaryScramblingCode
\- HCS parameters including penaltyTime
\- Inter-frequency neighbors:
\- primaryScramblingCode
\- q-Offset2S-N
\- HCS parameters including penaltyTime
\- q-RxLevMin
\- 2 UARFCNs
\- GSM neighbors:
\- Q-Offset1S-N
\- Q-RxlevMin
ANS.1:
\- 8f ad 54 40 00 42 00 2a 88 00 08 40 05 51 00 01 08 00 aa 20 00 21 00 15 44
00 04 20 02 a8 80 00 84 00 55 10 00 10 80 0a a2 00 02 10 01 54 40 00 42 00 2a
88 00 08 40 05 51 00 01 08 00 aa 20 00 20 05 85 00 05 64 10 04 00 a0 00 ac 82
00 80 14 00 15 90 40 10 02 80 02 b2 08 02 00 50 00 56 41 00 40 0a 00 0a c8 20
08 01 40 01 59 04 01 00 28 00 2b 20 80 20 05 00 05 64 10 04 00 a0 00 ac 82 00
80 14 00 15 90 40 10 02 80 02 b2 08 02 02 c5 0c 84 06 40 00 01 43 21 01 90 00
00 50 c8 40 64 00 00 14 32 10 19 00 00 05 0c 84 06 40 00 01 43 21 01 90 00 00
50 c8 40 64 00 00 14 32 10 19 00 00 05 0c 84 06 40 00 01 43 21 01 90 00 00 50
c8 40 64 00 00 14 32 10 19 00 00 0
\- 218 octets = 8 segments
### A.1.11 SIB12
\- General:
\- Measurement control information in connected mode
\- 10.2.48.8.15 System Information Block type 12:
\- FACH measurement occasion info:
\- Inter-RAT measurement indicators
\- Traffic volume measurement system information
\- Measurement control system information
\- Traffic volume measurement objects (2)
\- Traffic volume measurement quantity
\- Traffic volume reporting quantity
\- Measurement validity
\- Parameters sent for each transport channel (2):
\- Uplink transport channel type
\- Parameters required for each Event:
\- Pending time after trigger
ASN.1:
\- b0 01 01 d0 80 00 00 42 90 01 20 00
\- 12 octets
### A.1.12 SIB18
\- General:
\- 2 PLMN id, only IRAT idle mode, size: 12 octets
\- 10.2.48.8.21 System Information Block type 18:
\- Idle mode PLMN identities
\- (Connected mode PLMN identities)
\- Idle mode PLMN identities for SIB 11bis
\- (Connected mode PLMN identities for SIB 11bis)
ASN.1:
\- a4 30 00 00 40 00 00 88 60 00 00 80 00 00
\- 14 octets
### A.1.13 SIB19
\- General:
\- Inter-RAT and priority information for measurements
\- 10.2.48.8.22 System Information Block type 19:
\- UTRA priority info list (2)
\- E-UTRA frequency and priority info list (2)
ANS.1:
\- 50 00 18 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 20 00 02 80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
\- 43 octets (2 segments)
### A.1.14 SIB21
\- General:
\- EAB same for all PLMN in MIB, size = 2 octets
\- 10.2.48.8.24 System Information Block type 21
\- EAB Parameters
\- >CHOICE barring representation
\- >>EAB Parameters Per PLMN List
\- >>>Domain Specific EAB Parameters
**- >>EAB Parameters For All**
ASN.1:
\- 82 40 00
\- 3 octets
### A.1.15 SIB22
\- General:
\- FE-FACH features
\- 10.2.48.8.25 System Information Block type 22:
\- PRACH preamble control parameters extension list Type 1 (incl weight)
\- PRACH preamble control parameters extension list Type 3
\- Concurrent Deployment of 2ms and 10ms TTI:
\- TTI selection (Threshold based)
\- commonEDCHSystemInfoParamConcurrentTTI:
\- E-AGCH Info
\- E-DCH minimum set E-TFCI
\- Node B triggered HS-DPCCH Transmission:
\- HS-DPCCH transmission continuation back off
\- Fallback R99 PRACH info
\- Common E-DCH Resource Configuration Information List Extension:
\- Scheduled Transmission configuration
\- Coffset
\- HS-DSCH DRX in CELL_FACH with second DRX cycle Information:
\- 2-level DRX (incl T328, HS-DSCH first Rx burstFACH, HS-DSCH first DRX
cycleFACH, HS-DSCH second Rx burstFACH, T329)
ASN.1:
\- bf 00 00 00 00 00 00 60 02 00 02 00 00 00 00 02 0c 00 0f c0 0
\- 20.5 octets
## B.1 Reference scenario B
### B.1.1 MIB: 21bytes
\- General:
\- Multiple PLMN support for shared network
\- Scheduling information
\- 10.2.48.8.1 Master Information Block:
\- Multiple PLMN List (4):
\- References to other system information blocks and scheduling blocks (SB1,
SIB7)
\- 2 references
### B.1.2 SB1: 49bytes
\- General:
\- Scheduling information
\- Segmentation (SEG_COUNT) needed for:
\- SIB5 (5 segments, 4 SIB_OFF)
\- SIB11 (16 segments, 15 SIB_OFF)
\- SIB19 (2 segments, 1 SIB_OFF)
\- Total SIB references 9: SIB1, SIB2, SIB3, SIB4, SIB5, SIB11, SIB12, SIB18,
SIB19, SIB22
### B.1.3 SIB1: 18bytes
\- General:
\- Domain info
\- Timers and constants
\- 10.2.48.8.4 System Information Block type 1:
\- PS + CS domain
\- Timers and constants:
\- 12 timers/constants in Connected (T302, N304, T308, T310, N310, T311, T312,
T313, N313, T314, T315, T317)
\- 4 timers/constants in Idle (MP)
### B.1.4 SIB2: 3bytes
\- General:
\- URA identities
\- 10.2.48.8.5 System Information Block type 2:
\- URA identity list (1)
### B.1.5 SIB3: 18bytes
\- General:
\- Cell re-selection and access class barring info
\- 10.2.48.8.6 System Information Block type 3:
\- Cell selection and re-selection info:
\- s-Intrasearch, s-Intersearch, s-SearchHCS, rat-List(1), hcs-PRIO, q-HCS,
t-CR, n-CR
### B.1.6 SIB4: 12bytes
\- General:
\- Cell re-selection in connected mode
\- 10.2.48.8.7 System Information Block type 4:
\- Cell re-selection parameters
### B.1.7 SIB5: 135bytes
\- General:
\- Common physical channel configuration
\- 10.2.48.8.8 System Information Block type 5 and 5bis:
\- sCCPCH-SystemInformationList(1):
\- secondaryCCPCH-Info
\- timingOffset
\- tfcs
\- fach-PCH-InformationList
\- pich-Info
\- frequencyBandIndicator
\- hsdpa-CellIndicator
\- edch-CellIndicator
\- hs-dsch-CommonSystemInformation
\- hs-scch-SystemInfo (4 codes)
\- hs-dsch-DrxCellfachInfo
\- 10.2.48.8.8 System Information Block type 5 and 5bis:
\- commonEDCHSystemInfo (7 flow)
\- CommonEDCHSystemInfo:
\- Common-E-DCH-ResourceInfoList (8):
\- No explicit offsets per element
\- e-RGCH info, e-HICH info, ul-DPCH info
\- e-HICH code only for the first resource
\- F-DPCH code number for the 1, 11,21,31 resource
### B.1.8 SIB7: 3 octets
\- General:
\- Fast changing parameters UL interference
\- 10.2.48.8.10 System Information Block type 7
\- >FDD
\- >>UL interference
\- >>Dynamic persistence level
### B.1.9 SIB11: 436bytes
\- General:
\- Neighbor cell info
\- 10.2.48.8.14 System Information Block type 11:
\- Intra-frequency neighbors(32):
\- Inter-frequency neighbors(20):
\- Inter-RAT neighbors(32)
### B.1.10 SIB12: 8bytes
\- General:
\- Measurement control information in connected mode
\- 10.2.48.8.15 System Information Block type 12:
\- FACH measurement occasion info:
\- Inter-RAT measurement indicators
\- Measurement control system information
\- Intra-frequency measurement sys info
### B.1.11 SIB18: 8bytes
\- General:
\- 2 PLMN id
\- 10.2.48.8.21 System Information Block type 18:
\- Idle mode PLMN identities
\- Connected mode PLMN identities
### B.1.12 SIB19: 14bytes
\- General:
\- Inter-RAT and priority information for measurements
\- 10.2.48.8.22 System Information Block type 19:
\- UTRA priority info list (1)
\- E-UTRA frequency and priority info list (2)
### B.1.13 SIB21: 3bytes
\- General:
\- EAB
\- 10.2.48.8.24 System Information Block type 21
\- EAB Parameters
### B.1.14 SIB22: 16bytes
\- General:
\- FE-FACH features
\- 10.2.48.8.25 System Information Block type 22:
\- PRACH preamble control parameters extension list Type 1
\- PRACH preamble control parameters extension list Type 2
\- Concurrent Deployment of 2ms and 10ms TTI:
\- TTI selection (Threshold based)
\- commonEDCHSystemInfoParamConcurrentTTI:
\- E-AGCH Info
\- E-DCH minimum set E-TFCI
\- Node B triggered HS-DPCCH Transmission:
\- HS-DPCCH transmission continuation back off
\- Fallback R99 PRACH info
\- HS-DSCH DRX in CELL_FACH with second DRX cycle Information:
\- 2-level DRX (T328, HS-DSCH first Rx burstFACH, HS-DSCH first DRX cycleFACH,
HS-DSCH second Rx burstFACH, T329)
#