# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes channel models to be used for deployment
evaluation.
# References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] L.M. Correia, ed., Wireless flexible personalized communications \-- COST
259: European co-operation in mobile radio research, John Wiley & Sons 2001.
[2] GSM 05.05, "Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Radio
transmission and reception"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
void
## Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
_στ_ R.M.S. delay spread.
Fd Maximum Doppler shift
fs Doppler frequency of the direct path, given by its direction relative to
the mobile direction of movement
## Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
COST European Co-operation in the field of Scientific and Technical research
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
HT Hilly Terrain
RA Rural Area
TU Typical Urban
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 General
The channel models have been chosen as simplifications, or typical
realisations of the COST 259 model [1] that is described in more detail in
Annex A.
A large number of paths (20) in each model ensure that the correlation
properties in the frequency domain are realistic. Path powers follow the
exponential channel shapes in the COST 259 model. The delay spreads for each
model are close to expected medians when applying the COST 259 model in
reasonably sized macrocells. In the rural model a direct path is present,
resulting in Rice-type fading when filtered to wideband channels. The hilly
terrain model consists of two clusters, a typical situation in these
environments.
With the chosen parameters the models will be quite similar to the GSM channel
models [2], after filtering to the GSM bandwidth.
In Section 5, the channel models are specified explicitly. The tap delays have
been determined by generating 20 independent identically distributed values
from a uniform distribution in the interval , where _στ_ is the rms delay
spread. For the Hilly Terrain channel 10 paths have been generated for each
cluster and for the Rural Area model there is a total of 10 taps. Relative
powers have then been calculated using the channel shapes in Annex A, Table
A.3. The channels have been normalised so that the total power in each channel
is equal to one.
# Channel model descriptions
Radio wave propagation in the mobile environment can be described by multiple
paths which arise due to reflection and scattering in the mobile environment.
Approximating these paths as a finite number of N distinct paths, the impulse
response for the radio channel may be written as:
{width="1.19375in" height="0.4722222222222222in"}
which is the well known tapped-delay line model. Due to scattering of each
wave in the vicinity of a moving mobile, each path
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.25in"} will be the superposition of a
large number of scattered waves with approximately the same delay. This
superposition gives rise to time-varying fading of the path amplitudes
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.25in"}, a fading which is well
described by Rayleigh distributed amplitudes varying according to a classical
Doppler spectrum:
{width="1.7777777777777777in" height="0.25in"}
where {width="0.69375in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} is the maximum Doppler
shift, a function of the mobile speed {width="0.125in"
height="0.1527777777777778in"} and the wavelength{width="0.1527777777777778in"
height="0.19375in"}. In some cases a strong direct wave or specular reflection
exists which gives rise to a non-fading path, then the Doppler spectrum is:
{width="0.94375in" height="0.25in"}
where {width="0.19375in" height="0.25in"} is the Doppler frequency of the
direct path, given by its direction relative to the mobile direction of
movement.
The channel models presented here will be described by a number of paths,
having average powers {width="0.3055555555555556in"
height="0.3055555555555556in"} and relative delays
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.25in"}, along with their Doppler
spectrum which is either classical or a direct path. The models are named Tux,
Rax and HTx, where x is the mobile speed in km/h. Default mobile speeds for
the models are according to Table 5.1. The relative position of the taps is
for each model listed with a 0.001 μs resolution.
Table 5.1: Default mobile speeds for the channel models.
* * *
Channel model Mobile speed Tux 3 km/h 50 km/h 120 km/h Rax 120 km/h 250 km/h
HTx 120 km/h
* * *
The models may in certain cases be simplified to a specific application to
allow for less complex simulations and testing. The simplification should be
done with a specific time resolution ∆T, which should be stated to avoid
confusion: e.g. Rax(∆T=0.1μs). An example of such a simplified model is shown
in Annex B.
## Typical Urban channel model (Tux)
Table 5.2: Channel for urban area
* * *
Tap number Relative time (μs) average relative power (dB) 7oppler spectrum 1 0
-5.7 Class 2 0.217 -7.6 Class 3 0.512 -10.1 Class 4 0.514 -10.2 Class 5 0.517
-10.2 Class 6 0.674 -11.5 Class 7 0.882 -13.4 Class 8 1.230 -16.3 Class 9
1.287 -16.9 Class 10 1.311 -17.1 Class 11 1.349 -17.4 Class 12 1.533 -19.0
Class 13 1.535 -19.0 Class 14 1.622 -19.8 Class 15 1.818 -21.5 Class 16 1.836
-21.6 Class 17 1.884 -22.1 Class 18 1.943 -22.6 Class 19 2.048 -23.5 Class 20
2.140 -24.3 Class
* * *
## Rural Area channel model (Rax)
Table 5.3: Channel for rural area
* * *
Tap number Relative time (μs) average relative power (dB) 7oppler spectrum 1 0
-5.2 Direct path, {width="0.8611111111111112in" height="0.25in"} 2 0.042 -6.4
Class 3 0.101 -8.4 Class 4 0.129 -9.3 Class 5 0.149 -10.0 Class 6 0.245 -13.1
Class 7 0.312 -15.3 Class 8 0.410 -18.5 Class 9 0.469 -20.4 Class 10 0.528
-22.4 Class
* * *
## Hilly Terrain channel model (HTx)
Table 5.4: Channel for hilly terrain area
* * *
Tap number Relative time (μs) average relative power (dB) 8oppler spectrum 1 0
-3.6 Class 2 0.356 -8.9 Class 3 0.441 -10.2 Class 4 0.528 -11.5 Class 5 0.546
-11.8 Class 6 0.609 -12.7 Class 7 0.625 -13.0 Class 8 0.842 -16.2 Class 9
0.916 -17.3 Class 10 0.941 -17.7 Class 11 15.000 -17.6 Class 12 16.172 -22.7
Class 13 16.492 -24.1 Class 14 16.876 -25.8 Class 15 16.882 -25.8 Class 16
16.978 -26.2 Class 17 17.615 -29.0 Class 18 17.827 -29.9 Class 19 17.849 -30.0
Class 20 18.016 -30.7 Class
* * *
###### ### Annex A: The COST 259 Channel Model
## A.1 Background
COST 259 [1] is a research forum funded by the EU, in which there are
participants from manufacturers, operators and universities. This forum is the
second successor of COST 207, who did the work on which the channel models
used in GSM standardization were based. One of the work items identified in
COST 259 is to propose a new set of channel models which overcome the
limitations in the GSM channel models, while aiming at the same general
acceptance. The models are aimed at UMTS and HIPERLAN, with particular
emphasis on adaptive antennas and directional channels.
## A.2 Model descriptions
The main difference between the COST 259 model and previous models is that it
tries to describe the complex range of conditions found in the real world by
distributions of channels rather than a few "typical" cases. The probability
densities for the occurrence of different channels are functions of mainly two
parameters:
1) Environment
2) Distance
Given a certain environment (e.g. Urban Macrocell) and a certain distance (or
distance range/cell radius), the parameters describing the distribution
functions for this particular case can be extracted. Performing a sufficient
number of channel realizations will give a distribution of channels which give
a much better representation of reality than what would be possible using only
one channel.
The environments identified so far in COST 259 are given in Table A.1,
although these are by no means written in stone. The macrocellular
environments have the same names as the GSM models. (It is being discussed if
there should be a distinction between indoor and outdoor mobiles for the
macrocellular environments.)
Table A.1: Preliminary environments identified by COST 259.
* * *
Macrocell Microcell Picocell Typical Urban (Street Canyons) (Tunnel/Corridor)
Bad Urban (Open Places) (Factory) Rural Area (Tunnels) (Office/Residential
Home) Hilly Terrain (Street Crossings) (Open Lounge)
* * *
In COST 259, a number of properties of the propagation channel has been
considered in the model work. The full proposal will include all of these
properties, but it is quite simple and straightforward to implement the model
in a modular structure, so that each of the properties (listed in Table A.2)
can be switched on or off individually depending on the application. Inherent
in the model is also correlations between the properties, e.g. time dispersion
and shadow fading are modelled as being partially correlated.
Table A.2: Propagation properties considered in the COST 259 model
* * *
1 Path Loss 2 Shadow Fading 3 Fast Fading 4 Time Dispersion 5 Angular
dispersion (azimuth and/or elevation at BS) 6 Polarization 7 Multiple Clusters
8 Dynamic channel variations (variations in 1-7)
* * *
The shape of the channel is given by one or several clusters, where each
cluster is exponentially decreasing in delay and Laplacian (double-sided
exponential) in azimuth. Each cluster consists of a number of Rayleigh-fading
paths, plus a possible non-fading path to get Rice fading.
Of interest here are mainly the properties 4 and 7 in Table A.2. For this
case, a full description of the channel is given by specifying the parameter
set (Figure A.1):
{width="1.1388888888888888in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
The i:th cluster is described by its total power Pi, the delay of the first
path τI and the cluster delay spread στ,i. The last parameter describes the
slope of the exponentially decaying power in the cluster. The number of
clusters present is given by NC,.
{width="3.75in" height="2.09375in"}
Figure A.1: Channel shape (power delay profile) with multiple clusters.
## A.3 Reduced complexity models
It is possible to reduce the complexity of the COST 259 model by approximating
the continuous distributions with a small number of cases, selected to be
typical representations of the channel in common environments. We propose a
set of models with fixed parameters as shown in Table A.3. The selected
parameters correspond to the COST 207/GSM models with one important difference
namely the delay spread value for the Typical Urban channel. This has been
reduced to better correspond to typical measurement results.
A cluster in the models outlined here is represented by a number NP
independent Rayleigh-fading paths with Classical Doppler spectrum, randomly
distributed in the interval [τI , τI + k ⋅στ,i]. Preliminary assignments are
NP = 20 and k = 4.
The fast fading (property 3 in Table A.2) should be included in the model as a
Doppler frequency
Table A.3: Reduced complexity channel model parameters
+---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Environment | Channel shape | Channel | | | | | parameters | | +---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Typical Urban | One | NC = 1 | { | | | cluster | P1 = 1 | width="1.71944 | | | consisting of | | 44444444446in" | | | NP | τ1 = 0 μs | hei | | | R | | ght="0.925in"} | | | ayleigh-fading | στ,1 = 0.5 μs | | | | paths | | | +---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Rural Area | One | NC = 1 | { | | | cluster | P1 = 1 | width="1.71805 | | | consisting of | | 55555555554in" | | | NP-1R | τ1 = 0 μs | he | | | ayleigh-fading | | ight="0.984722 | | | paths and 1 | στ,1 = 0.14 μs | 2222222223in"} | | | non-fading | | | | | path. | Add one | | | | | deterministic | | | | | (non-fading) | | | | | path with: | | | | | | | | | | fD = 0.7⋅ fMax | | | | | | | | | | P2 = 0.43 | | | | | | | | | | τ2 = 0 | | | | | | | | | | in order to | | | | | get Ricean | | | | | fading | | +---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Hilly Terrain | Two | NC = 2 | { | | | clusters each | P1 = 1 | width="1.71944 | | | consisting of | | 44444444446in" | | | NP/2 | τ1 = 0 μs | he | | | R | | ight="1.124305 | | | ayleigh-fading | στ,1 = 0.29 μs | 5555555554in"} | | | paths each | | | | | | P2 = 0.04 | | | | | | | | | | τ2 = 15 μs | | | | | | | | | | στ,2 = 1 μs | | +---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
###### ### Annex B: Example of simplified model using other time resolution
The models can be simplified to a specific application to allow for more
efficient and less complex simulations and testing. The simplification should
be done with a specific time resolution ∆T, which should be stated to avoid
confusion: e.g. Rax(∆T=0.1μs). The simplified application specific model is
obtained by sampling the channel profiles in Tables 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 at delays
{0, ∆T , 2∆T , 3∆T, ... } as described in the example below. Only taps where
the power is within 25 dB of the strongest tap need to be retained. Tap powers
should be normalized so that the sum of all tap powers is equal to 1. All taps
should have a classical Doppler spectrum, with the exception of the first tap
in the simplified Rax channel which will be a superposition of a classical and
a direct path Doppler spectrum (resulting in Ricean fading).
For a CDMA type system like UTRA, a typical ∆T used in simulations considered
here may be ¼, ½ or 1 chip time.
For a Frequency Hopping or multicarrier system the ∆T should be set to
consider the total system bandwidth to take the frequency correlation of the
channel model into account.
An example of a simplified model is shown in Table B.1 for UTRA FDD. In the
example, ∆T is ½ of the chip time of UTRA FDD.
Table B.1: Example of a UTRA FDD channel model for rural area, Rax(∆T=130.2
ns)
+------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Tap number | Relative time | Average | Doppler | | | (ns) | relative power | spectrum | | | | (dB) | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 1 | 0 | -2.748 composed | Class | | | | of: | | | | | | + | | | | -6.4 (Class) | | | | | | Direct path, | | | | -5.2 (Direct | | dia/image13.wmf | | | | | ){width="0.8611 | | | | | 111111111112in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.25in"} | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 2 | 130.2 | -4.413 | Class | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 3 | 260.4 | -11.052 | Class | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 4 | 390.6 | -18.500 | Class | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 5 | 520.8 | -18.276 | Class | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
The simplified channel model is sampled from the channel models listed in
tables 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4. This sampling is accomplished by rounding the taps
into the sample bins based on the value of ∆T. All taps from (i-1/2)∆T to and
including (i+1/2)∆T would be sampled into the tap positioned at delay i∆T for
all non-negative integers i.
For additional clarification, the computation of Table B.1 is demonstrated in
the worksheet in Table B.2.
Table B.2: Detailed worksheet to compute the simplified channel model in Table
B.1
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Tap |** Tap | ** | **Tap |** Tap | **Total | | number | Relative | Relative | numbers | powers | average | | (from | time | time | from | from | relative | | Table | (from | sampling | Table | Table | power | | B.1)** | Table | range | 5.3 | 5.3 | sampled | | | B.1 in | (from | sampled | sampled | into | | | ns)**| above | into | into | this | | | | sampling | this | this | delay | | | | formula | delay | delay | bin | | | | in ns)** | bin**| bin | (dB)** | | | | | | (dB)** | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | 0.0 | 0.0 to | 1, 2 | -5.2 | -2.748 | | | | 65.1 | | (direct | | | | | | | path), | (-5.2 | | | | | | -6.4 | Direct | | | | | | (Class) | path, | | | | | | | -6.4 | | | | | | | Class) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | 130.2 | 65.1 to | 3, 4, 5 | -8.4, | -4.413 | | | | 195.3 | | -9.3, | | | | | | | -10.0 | | | | | | | (all | | | | | | | Class) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | 260.4 | 195.3 to | 6, 7 | -13.1, | -11.052 | | | | 325.5 | | -15.3 | | | | | | | (all | | | | | | | Class) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4 | 390.6 | 325.5 to | 8 | -18.5 | -18.500 | | | | 455.7 | | (Class) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | 520.8 | 455.7 to | 9, 10 | -20.4, | -18.276 | | | | 585.9 | | -22.4 | | | | | | | (all | | | | | | | Class) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#