# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification specifies the stage 1 description of the Fraud
Information Gathering System (FIGS) feature which provides the means for the
HPLMN to monitor the activities of its subscribers in a VPLMN.
The purpose of this network feature is to enable the HPLMN to monitor the
activities of its subscribers while they are roaming. The VPLMN collects
information about a defined set of activities on monitored subscribers and
sends this information back to the HPLMN. This enables the HPLMN to clear
certain types of calls and so stop fraudulent use of the GSM system.
This specification enables service providers/ network operators to use FIGS,
and service limitation controls such as Operator Determined Barring (ODB) and
Immediate Service Termination (IST), to limit their financial exposure to
subscribers producing large unpaid bills.
HPLMNs may also choose to monitor the activities of its subscribers within the
HPLMN.
# 2 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] 3GPP TS 42.033: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Lawful Interception - stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this specification the following definitions apply:
**A subscriber:** The calling mobile subscriber.
**B subscriber:** The mobile subscriber originally called by the A subscriber.
**C subscriber:** The subscriber to whom the B subscriber has requested that
calls be forwarded. The C subscriber may be fixed or mobile.
**call** : both connection-oriented and connectionless services/events.
**call information** : information about a call.
**call reference** : a reference number for a call that shall remain constant
throughout the duration of that call and that shall be unique to that call and
the switch on which the call was made for a period of at least one week.
**home network:** The home PLMN including non-GSM elements such as the Fraud
Detection System (FDS), customer service systems and billing.
**monitored activities** : subscriber activities that shall be reported to the
HPLMN. These can be call related events (e.g. call-set-up, call termination)
or the invocation of call related and call independent supplementary services
(e.g. Call Hold, Call Waiting, Call Transfer, Call Forwarding, Unstructured
Supplementary Service Data).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this specification are also listed in GSM 01.04.
For the purposes of this specification the following abbreviations apply:
FIGS Fraud Information Gathering System
FDS Fraud Detection System
IST Immediate Service Termination
MO Mobile Originated
MT Mobile Terminated
CGI Cell Global Identifier
# 4 Fraud Information Gathering System high level requirements
## 4.1 Description
It shall be possible for the HPLMN to request the VPLMN to supply certain
information about a subscriber from the time the subscriber registers in that
VPLMN to the time the last of the monitored activities is finished in that
VPLMN, which can be after the subscriber's de-registration from the VPLMN. The
information received by the HPLMN shall be passed to the relevant network or
service providers and used to instruct the VPLMN to act in an appropriate way.
Fraud information gathering is controlled by the HPLMN and can be activated
and deactivated by the HPLMN only.
The information is received in the HPLMN and is forwarded to fraud detection
and control systems. Such systems are out of the scope of this standard.
The subscriber is specified by the IMSI or MSISDN.
## 4.2 Applicability
This network feature applies to all subscribed Bearer Services and
Teleservices and supplementary services of the subscriber. It is not possible
to apply FIGS independently to individual Services.
The HPLMN shall be able to specify whether it would like call information on
MO calls, MT calls, or both.
## 4.3 Normal Procedure
The HPLMN shall be able to request a VPLMN to monitor a subscriber.
See Annex A for the definition of the information to be sent for each call
event.
If the VPLMN cannot monitor the subscriber, it shall indicate this as a
response to the FIGS request.
The FDS will process this information and may then limit the activities of the
subscriber using ODB or terminate the subscriber activities using IST, or may
allow the subscriber to proceed.
When the home network no longer wishes the subscriber to be monitored by the
VPLMN it requests the VPLMN to stop monitoring the activities of the
subscriber.
Figure B.1 shows the sequence of FIGS messages passed during a normal case.
# 5 Service conditions
## 5.1 Control of monitoring of subscriber activities
The HPLMN can request a VPLMN to begin monitoring the activities of a
subscriber when the subscriber has registers on that VPLMN or at any time
after registration. If the VPLMN is able to monitor a subscriber as requested
it shall send a confirmation of monitoring message to the HPLMN.
The HPLMN does not need to know the status of the target subscriber before
initiation or subsequent termination of fraud information gathering.
Fraud information cannot be switched on or off by the subscriber or other
(unauthorised) party.
Subscribers upon which fraud information gathering has been set shall not be
able by interrogating the network to determine that they are subject to fraud
information gathering.
Subscribers upon which fraud information gathering has been set shall not be
able, for example by significant changes to normal call set up times, speech
quality or general transmission characteristics, to determine that they are
subject to fraud information gathering.
If the VPLMN receives a request to monitor the activities of a subscriber and
an activity to be monitored is already ongoing it is not necessary for the
VPLMN to send information on this particular activity to the HPLMN.
If the VPLMN receives a request to cease monitoring the activities of a
subscriber and an activity is already ongoing and being monitored, the VPLMN
shall immediately cease sending information on this activity to the HPLMN.
## 5.2 Number of calls monitored by a VPLMN
If the VPLMN has to monitor the activities of a large number of subscribers
for FIGS this may degrade the performance of the VPLMN. Each VPLMN (in
reality, each network entity involved in FIGS monitoring) will therefore have
a maximum number of subscribers that it can monitor.
If the number of monitored subscribers has reached this upper limit the VPLMN
shall reject requests for monitoring of subscribers from HPLMNs until the
number of monitored subscribers decreases below the limit.
Each VPLMN may have a limit per HPLMN on the number of subscribers from that
HPLMN that it will monitor. When an HPLMN has requested a VPLMN to monitor a
number of subscribers equal to the limit for that HPLMN, the VPLMN can refuse
any subsequent requests for FIGS monitoring from that PLMN, until the number
of monitored subscribers drops below the limit. The principles behind the
setting of these limits are outside the scope of this specification.
In order to minimise the number of subscribers that a VPLMN has to monitor,
the HPLMN should ideally limit itself to requesting information about
subscriber\'s monitored activities in:
\- the current VPLMN;
\- the last previously served VPLMN.
## 5.3 Interworking with non-supporting networks
If the HPLMN does not receive a positive acknowledgement to the request for
FIGS monitoring sent to a VPLMN, it shall assume that the VPLMN does not
support FIGS. The HPLMN may then act as appropriate (e.g. put appropriate ODB
categories in place).
## 5.4 Information Delivery Time
The need for up to date information is a critical part of any fraud
information system. The sooner data is transferred to the HPLMN, the sooner
fraud can be stopped. Therefore the prescribed information shall be
transferred from the VPLMN network to the HPLMN within two minutes of the
occurrence of a FIGS-monitored event, if real time implementations of FIGS are
used.
The information should be transferred from the VPLMN to the HPLMN over
appropriate communication links.
# 6 Monitored activity
The authorised party can request the VPLMN to monitor both call activity and
supplementary services.
The monitoring of call activity shall take the form of transmission of call
information from the VPLMN to the HPLMN, at the start and end of all calls.
For long calls, the VPLMN shall also send partial call information a certain
time (e.g. 15 minutes) after the call has begun.
Call information shall be sent to the HPLMN by the VPLMN on the invocation of
all supplementary services, e.g.:
\- call deflection;
\- call forwarding;
\- call hold;
\- Multi Party (MPTYY);
\- Explicit Call Transfer (ECT).
The HPLMN can decide to prevent future invocation of the same or all
supplementary services using ODB. The decision mechanism is out of the scope
of this specification.
# 7 Interface between HPLMN and FDS
Information gathered by the HPLMN may be transferred to Non‑GSM systems, e.g.
an FDS. These systems will decide if the monitored activity is fraudulent and
will advise the home network to take appropriate action, e.g. send an IST
command to the VPLMN, change the subscriber's ODB categories.
The contents of call information messages to be transferred on this interface
shall be specified but not the transfer mechanism. This is in line with the
approach used for the X-interface as specified in 3GPP TS 42.033. The message
formats are defined in annex A.
The system needs the ability to handle the volume of information returned to
the home network.
# 8 Security Requirements between HPLMN and VPLMN
It is expected that there will be a need for authentication, data integrity
and confidentiality of the communication made between PLMNs.
These issues are for study under other work items within the SMG 10 work
programme.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Information transferred by the VPLMN
The reports generated by the VPLMN shall take the form of \"call information"
records for each monitored subscriber. The content of the call information
will depend on the type of event (call start, end etc.). To simplify matters,
there will be one format for both MO and MT calls with an MO/MT indicator
within the call information to distinguish between the two.
A partial call information will be sent to the HPLMN when there is an mid-call
invocation of a supplementary service and when a call in progress has exceeded
a defined duration.
Justification is given for the content of the call information message.
Table A.1: Call information content
* * *
Information Dialled digits A subscriber B subscriber C subscriber CGI IMSI
IMEI Call Start Time/Date Call Duration Call Reference MO/MT indicator Visited
MSC address Type of SS event Type of Basic Service
* * *
The **Dialled digits** are required as these are an important indicator in
deciding if a call is fraudulent or not - certain call destinations are more
likely to be called fraudulently than others.
**A subscriber** can be used to identify the subscriber
**B, C subscriber** are relevant as some call destinations are more subject to
fraud than others.
Cell Global Identifier (**CGI**) is relevant as some cells in a PLMN are more
subject to fraud than others.
The **IMSI** is used to reference the subscriber.
The **IMEI** can be used to check if a stolen handset has been used.
The **Call Start Time/Date** is required so that the call duration can be
calculated (if the call end time and not call duration is given at call
conclusion) and because the call start time can also an important indicator of
fraudulency.
The **Call Duration** gives the duration of the call at the sending of the
partial call information - call duration can be an important indicator of
fraudulency. If call end is sent instead, the duration can be calculated using
the call start and end times.
The **Call Reference** is used to reference a particular call.
The **MO/MT indicator** is required because call charging is different for MO
and MT calls.
The **Visited MSC address** gives the PLMN on which the call was made.
The **Type of SS event** record is sent if the "call" start is actually the
invocation of a supplementary service, e.g. ECT. The Type of SS event is
required as this can help to indicate if the mobile is being fraudulently used
or not.
The **Type of Basic Service** indicates whether a teleservice or bearer
service is being used and which sort of teleservice or bearer service is being
used and is sent if the event is a call and not a supplementary service. The
Type of Basic Service is required as this can help to indicate if the mobile
station is being fraudulently used or not.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Message flow in FIGS monitoring, normal
procedure
Figure B.1: Message flow in FIGS monitoring, normal procedure
#