# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the feature Network Identity and Timezone
(NITZ).
This feature provides the means for serving PLMNs to transfer current
identity, time, Daylight Saving Time and the local timezone to Mobile Stations
(MS)s, and for the MSs to store and use this information. This enhances
roaming by permitting accurate indication of PLMN identities that are either
newer than the Mobile Equipment (ME) or have changed their name since the ME
was sold. Additionally time, Daylight Saving Time and timezone information can
be utilised by MEs as desired.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols - Stage 3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.038: \"Alphabets and Languages\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
In addition to the following definitions, abbreviations used in the present
document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
NITZ The feature Network Identity and Timezone as described in the present
document.
UCS2 Universal Character Set 2
UT Universal Time
LTZ Local Time Zone, the offset from UT applying in that locality, including
any adjustments for summer time, etc.
DST Daylight Saving Time. Adjustment for summer time.
# 4 Description
The feature Network Identities and Timezone shall make it possible for a
serving PLMN to transfer its current identity, universal time, DST and LTZ to
MSs, and for the MS to store and use this information. Each one of these
elements is optional. The feature significantly enhances roaming as itenables
the accurate indication of network identities that are either newer than the
ME or have changed their name since the ME was manufactured or sold.
Additionally time and timezone information can be utilised by MEs as desired.
When using the default character set (see 3GPP TS 23.038 [3]), the serving
PLMN shall make both a \"short\" and a \"long\" name available to the MS. As
an alternative or, in addition, to the default character set, the serving PLMN
can make a name available in UCS2. The MS shall be free to choose one of these
names depending upon its own characteristics and/or limitations, such as those
of its display.
NOTE: Guidance is sought, particularly from non-European operators, as to
whether long and short name is required in UCS2 format.
The Network Operator may change the network identity at any time. However the
change of network identity need not force immediate transfer of information to
the MS.
As a network option, it shall be possible to send universal time (UT) by the
network. Time information shall include: Year, Month, Day, Hour, Minute,
Second, Timezone and DST. The expected accuracy of the time information is in
the order of minutes.
NOTE: Universal time indicates the time at which this information element (see
3GPP TS 24.008 [2]) may have been sent by the network. Thus it can be assumed
that the accuracy of the time information when it arrives at the MS is usually
within a couple minutes.
The serving PLMN shall make Local Time Zone (LTZ) available to the MS as an
offset from Universal Time in units of 15 minutes.
When the LTZ is compensated for DST (summertime), the serving PLMN shall
provide a DST parameter to indicate this. The adjustment for DST can be +1h or
+2h.
For PLMNs which cover more than one timezone, it is assumed that the Network
Operator will arrange for boundaries between subsets of the PLMN service area
to be approximately aligned with timezone boundaries. When an MS changes Local
Time Zone the PLMN is not required to immediately transfer new time zone
information. Similarly the PLMN will transfer the LTZ changes arising from
summer/winter adjustments when convenient to the network operator.
The MS will implement the new time zone information at an appropriate time
following receipt.
The information passed to MSs supporting the NITZ feature is controlled by the
serving PLMN Operator through administrative interaction. The interface
necessary to support this administrative interaction is outside the scope of
the present document.
# 5 Applicability
Network Identity and Timezone is both an optional network feature and an
optional MS feature.
The NITZ feature is not intended to replace the existing method of PLMN
Indication, nor is it intended to discharge the administration and maintenance
of the associated MoU Permanent Document, SE13.
# 6 Normal procedure
## 6.1 Transfer of NITZ information
Network name, time, DST and timezone information can be transferred from the
serving PLMN to the MS:
1) Upon registering on the network.
2) When the MS geographically relocates to a different Local Time Zone.
3) When the network changes its Local Time Zone, e.g. between summer and
winter time.
4) When the network changes its identity.
5) At any time during a signalling connection with mobile station.
Transfer of relevant information shall not unduly consume scarce network
resources.
## 6.2 Use of NITZ information
Relevant information shall be presented to the MS user at the earliest
opportunity.
It is expected that the MS will display the most up to date information
transferred to it.
Switching off the MS should not cause the updated name of the network(s) to be
deleted.
Removal of the SIM/USIM should not cause the updated name of the network(s) to
be deleted.
However, the number of different network identities retained in the ME is a
manufacturer issue.
Usage of time information in MS is a ME manufacturer issue. For example, time
information can be utilised to time stamp transactions for logging purposes.
#