# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 1 description for the Tandem Free
Operation (TFO) feature which provides the capability to avoid tandeming
speech codecs in mobile to mobile speech calls. The primary aim is to realise
improvements in speech quality. The TFO mode of operation could also be used
to reduce inter-Mobile services Switching Center (MSC) transmission bandwidth
requirements.
In analogy with ITU-T Recommendations I.130 [1], Stage 1 is an overall service
description, from the service subscriber\'s and user\'s standpoints, that
views the network as a single entity which provides services to the user.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendations I.130 (1988): \"Method for the characterization of
telecommunication services supported by an ISDN and network capabilities of an
ISDN\".
[2] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
GSM 01.04 [2] provides a list of abbreviations and acronyms used in GSM
specifications.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Tandem Free Operation (TFO):** avoidance of tandeming speech codecs in
mobile to mobile speech calls
**TFO call:** mobile to mobile call where TFO has been applied
**Normal call or operation:** call where TFO has not been applied
**Negotiation phase:** phase during which the applicability of TFO is assessed
through the exchange of information such as the capabilities of the respective
transcoders and the types of speech codecs being used
**A party:** user originating the call
**B party:** user receiving the call (unless the call is forwarded)
For simplicity the term MS is also used when UE is meant for 3G systems. The
same is valid for TRAU and TC analogously.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ASCI Avanced Speech Call Items
MSC Mobile services Switching Centre
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
# 4 Description
The TFO feature avoids the tandeming of speech codecs that occurs in mobile to
mobile speech calls.
## 4.1 Applicability of TFO to Basic Services
TFO shall be applicable to all mobile to mobile speech calls where both
parties use the same GSM speech coding standard. TFO shall be supported for
all of the GSM speech coding standards (i.e. Full Rate, Half Rate and Enhanced
Full Rate). It would also be desirable to extend the TFO approach to realise
quality enhancements when different speech codec standards are in use, e.g. by
handing over one of the links to provide common codec types and then applying
TFO.
## 4.2 Support in Mobile Stations (MS)
TFO shall not require any modifications to existing or future mobile stations.
There shall be no additional user intervention required to enable or invoke
the feature. Correspondingly, it shall not be possible for a user to disable
the feature.
## 4.3 Parameters to be indicated and negotiated
The speech codec standards used on each party shall be indicated and
negotiated, if applicable.
## 4.4 Provision of Service
### 4.4.1 Location Independence
TFO shall be capable of being applied for mobile to mobile calls regardless of
the serving networks of the A or B parties. Thus, the A and B parties may be
registered on different PLMNs or on the same network.
### 4.4.2 Provision of service within and between networks
Provision of the TFO feature shall be determined by the network operator on a
network (or sub-network) wide basis, where equipment to support the feature
has been deployed. It shall not be necessary for the service capability to be
rolled out throughout an entire network before being made operational.
TFO between networks shall be applied if appropriate between supporting (sub)
networks.
In the case where a TFO call is handed over between two parts of a network,
but the new part is not provisioned with TFO, the call shall revert to normal
operation.
In the case where a normal call is handed over between two parts of a network,
and the new part is provisioned with TFO, the call will switch to TFO if
appropriate.
NOTE: TFO operation will normally require that the coded speech is transmitted
transparently (i.e. without errors) between the relevant transcoders (e.g. by
bit-stealing).
### 4.4.3 Subscription and Billing Information
This feature shall not be provisioned on a per-subscriber basis and no record
of the application of TFO is necessary for billing purposes.
## 4.5 Quality of Service (QoS)
### 4.5.1 Impact on Speech Quality
The speech quality and timing requirements depend on the phase of the call and
are defined in table 1. In all cases the duration and degradation should be
minimised.
The timing requirements for the application and removal of TFO are derived
from the typical user\'s perception of the feature in the context of typical
call set-up times together with handover operation. There is a much stricter
requirement on the time taken to revert to normal operation than to apply TFO
because when TFO is enabled only on one side of a call, the speech will be
unintelligible. Likewise, failures in the transmission of the coded speech
without (significant) errors (e.g. due to routing via an ADPCM link) should be
detected rapidly as the speech quality may also be seriously degraded.
Table 1: TFO speech quality and timing requirements
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Call phase | Reference | Maximum | Speed of | | | condition | degradation | operation | | | | | | | | (note 1) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TFO | normal | \"no | 2 sec (note 2) | | negotiation | transcoding | perceptible | | | following call | stages | degradation\" | 7 sec (note 3) | | set-up | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TFO | normal | \"no | 7 sec\ | | negotiation | transcoding | perceptible | (notes 4 and | | following TFO | stages | degradation\" | 5) | | interruption | | | | | or handover | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | transition | normal | \"no annoying | | | from normal | transcoding | artefacts\" | | | operation to | stages | | | | TFO | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | return from | TFO | \"no annoying | 160 ms | | TFO to normal | transcoding | artefacts\" | | | operation | stages | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | continuous TFO | TFO | \"no | | | | transcoding | degradation\" | | | | stages | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | continuous | normal | \"no | | | normal | transcoding | degradation\" | | | operation | stages | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: All | | | | | reference | | | | | conditions are | | | | | defined as | | | | | error free | | | | | with no | | | | | bit-stealing | | | | | and with no | | | | | transmission | | | | | delay between | | | | | the TRAUs | | | | | \"normal | | | | | transcoding | | | | | stages\" | | | | | refers to the | | | | | speech | | | | | codec(s) | | | | | selected prior | | | | | to TFO. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Objective for | | | | | time taken to | | | | | establish TFO | | | | | after call | | | | | set-up. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Maximum time | | | | | allowed for | | | | | TFO | | | | | negotiation | | | | | after call | | | | | set-up. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | Objective for | | | | | time taken to | | | | | establish TFO | | | | | after | | | | | re | | | | | -establishment | | | | | of transparent | | | | | PCM link. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: Once | | | | | TFO has been | | | | | successfully | | | | | established | | | | | during a call, | | | | | an unlimitted | | | | | number of | | | | | negotiation | | | | | attempts may | | | | | be made after | | | | | any subsequent | | | | | interruptions | | | | | of TFO. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Note: The timing limits and the quality degradations specified in table 1 are
to some extent inter-dependent.
# 5 Interaction with supplementary services
## 5.1 General
This clause defines the interactions between supplementary services and TFO.
Neither TFO nor attempted TFO establishment shall interfere with the provision
or invocation of any supplementary services.
## 5.2 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
Following call transfer, the new call route is evaluated and TFO applied if
possible, otherwise normal operation applies.
## 5.3 Call wait/Call hold
Following the establishment of another call, the new call route shall be
evaluated and TFO applied if possible, otherwise normal operation applies.
## 5.4 Multiparty
Where more than two parties are involved in a call, TFO may not be applicable.
As a result, when a two-party TFO call is extended to multi-party, all the
links shall revert to normal operation.
## 5.5 Service Announcements
TFO shall not disrupt the provision of call progress or similar speech
announcements to the user which originate in any of the networks routing a
call.
# 6 Interaction with Alternate and Followed by services
There shall be no impact on data transmission due to TFO or attempted TFO
establishment.
# 7 Interaction with other speech services
There is no requirement for TFO in ASCI services.
# 8 Interaction with DTMF
DTMF transmission performance during TFO shall be no worse than during normal
operation.
# 9 Interaction with Lawful Intercept
In the case where lawful intercept is required in a TFO call, the intercept
shall not cause any degradation in the speech quality received by the A and B
parties.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Limitations of initial in-band TFO
implementations
This annex highlights the limitations of the applicability of the in-band TFO
solutions, some of these limitations could be overcome, however they imply
modifications of equipments that are not in the scope of the specifications.
When analogue lines are used TFO either in-band or out-if-band can not apply.
The main limitation of TFO in-band is the digital transparency of the PCM
lonks behind the MSCs that cannot be guaranteed in all the configurations of
Mobile-to-Mobile calls.
When digital lines are used the non-transparency is mainly due to the use of
In Path Equipments (IPE). These IPEs consist mainly in Echo Cancellers and
DCMEs.
The Network Echo Cancellers intend to remove the echo due to the unbalanced
hybrids present in the PSTN when going from four wires to two wires in the
subscriber local loops. These IPEs are useful in the mobile-to-PSTN calls.
These Echo Cancellers should not be used in mobile-to-mobile calls since both
terminals are digital. The enabling and disabling of these equipments are
properly managed in some countries and not in other countries. Therefore TFO
can apply to inter-PLMN calls in the countries where the network echo
cancellers are properly configured. The main issue is that there\'s no easy
internationally recognised way to identify mobile-to-mobile calls. They are
usually correctly configured for Mobile-to-Mobile calls within a PLMN.
Another limitation that should apply to a very small number of mobile-
to_mobile calls is the use of A/µ Laws converters in some international calls.
In some networks Acoustical Echo Cancellers are used. It would be preferable
to keep them enabled in Tandem Free calls. This implies that this be taken
into account by the Acoustical Echo Cancellers.
The DCMEs they are mainly used in the long distance calls although some
operators use them in their PLMN. The only known way to disable the DCMEs is
to ask for a transparent 64 kbit/s UDI connection. This option is not
reasonable since such connections are more expensive than the speech calls and
would imply modifications in the MSCs. Therefore when a DCME is used in-band
TFO cannot be established.
In order to get TFO working for the vast majority of the Mobile-to-Mobile
calls it is desirable that the IPEs be modified in order to allow the in-band
TFO cross them without modification.
TFO implies that compatible speech codec configurations are being used in both
MSs. In-band TFO can be established only after the call set-up has been made
and thus there can be different speech codecs used in the MSs. The TFO
standard shall include ways to solving the codec mismatch otherwise in-band
TFO won\'t apply to these Mobile-to-Mobile calls.
#