# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This TS defines the stage one description of the Support of Mobile Number
Portability between networks in the same country as well as North America
cross-sector portability (i.e.,. number portability between fixed and 3GPP
system). Stage one is an overall service description, primarily from the
service subscriber\'s and user\'s points of view, but does not deal with the
details of the human interface itself.
Mobile Number Portability (MNP) is applicable only to those telecommunication
services identified by an MSISDN.
This specification includes information applicable to network operators,
service providers and terminal, switch and database manufacturers.
This specification contains the core requirements for the Support of Mobile
Number Portability between network operators in the same country as well as
North America cross-sector portability which are sufficient to provide a
complete service.
Other cross-sector portability options (e.g. number portability between fixed
and mobile networks outside the North American Region) are outside the scope
of this technical specification. It is highly desirable however, that
technical solutions for MNP should be sufficiently flexible to allow for
possible enhancements, e.g. cross-sector number portability, and MNP between
analogue and digital mobile networks. Additional functionalities not
documented in this specification may implement requirements which are
considered outside the scope of this specification. This additional
functionality may be on a network-wide basis, nation-wide basis or particular
to a group of users. Such additional functionality shall not compromise
conformance to the core requirements of the service.
Porting between Service Providers (i.e. service provider portability) which
does not involve a change of Network Operator is outside the scope of this
specification.
The relationship between Service Providers and Network Operators is outside
the scope of this specification.
The relationship between a Service Provider and subscriber is outside the
scope of this specification. The interface between the User Equipment (UE) and
any external applications are outside the scope of this specification.
Charging principles are outside the scope of this specification except where
explicitly stated in the text.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this specification the following definitions apply:
**number range owner network** : The network to which the number range
containing the ported number has been allocated.
**directory number:** any E.164 dialable number assigned to a wireline or a
wireless subscriber. A DN can be a 10-digit number in the context of the North
American Numbering Plan (without a country code) or up to 15 digits for an
international number(country code included).
**donor network** : The subscription network from which a number is ported in
the porting process. This may or may not be the number range owner network.
**mobile number portability** : The ability for a mobile subscriber to change
digital mobile subscription network within the same country retaining their
original DN(s). Additional regulatory constraints apply in North America.
**network operator** : A PLMN operator.
**North American GSM number portability** : the ability for a subscriber to
change subscription between North American GSM networks and other subscription
networks within an FCC regulated geographical area within North America
**originating network** : the network where the calling party is located.
**ported number** : Is a MSISDN that has undergone the porting process.
**ported subscriber** : The subscriber of a ported number.
**porting process** : A description of the transfer of a number between
network operators.
**recipient network** : The network which receives the number in the porting
process. This network becomes the subscription network when the porting
process is complete.
**service provider** : An entity which offers service subscriptions to
individual subscribers and contracts with a network operator to implement
services for a specific DN. A service provider may contract with more than one
network operator.
**service provider portability** : The transfer of numbers between two unique
Service Providers.
**subscription network** : The network with which the customer's Service
Provider has a contract to implement the customer's services for a specific
DN.
NOTE: The term \"recipient network\" is used during the porting process. The
recipient network becomes the \"subscription network\" after the completion of
the porting process.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this specification the following abbreviations apply:
DN Directory Number
IMPI IP multimedia CN subsystem Private Identity
MMI Man Machine Interface
MNP Mobile Number Portability
MSISDN Mobile Station ISDN number
NAGNP North American GSM Number Portability
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
SIM Subscriber Identity Module
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
Further related abbreviations are given in TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Applicability
Mobile Number Portability cannot be offered to a subscriber as a stand alone
service. Mobile Number Portability is applicable to all teleservices (e.g.
SMS, voice, fax), IP Multimedia services and bearer services (e.g. data),
except for TS12 (emergency call).
The implementation of MNP shall be flexible enough to apply to each DN of a
subscriber separately. Where the DNs used in the donor network are ported to
different recipient mobile networks then a new IMSI/IMPI (and SIM/USIM/ ISIM)
will be required for each recipient network. The basic and supplementary
services provisioned in the recipient network shall not be dependent on those
that were provisioned in the donor network.
# 5 Description
Mobile Number Portability (MNP) is the ability for a mobile subscriber to
change digital mobile subscription networks within the same country whilst
retaining her original DN or DNs. Additional regulatory constraints apply in
North America.
North American GSM Number Portability (NAGNP) is the ability for a subscriber
to change subscription between North American GSM networks and other
subscription networks within an FCC regulated geographical area within North-
America.
The IMSI/IMPI shall not be ported, hence the recipient mobile network of the
porting process will issue a new IMSI/IMPI for the ported subscription. The
porting process may, but need not, include a change in service provider.
The ported subscriber can use exactly the same services as non-ported
customers in the same subscription network. That is: whether the DN of a
subscriber belongs to a subscription network or is ported to the subscription
network shall have no influence on the services offered to the customer by
that subscription network.
The services offered by the number range owner network and/or the donor
network have no influence on the services offered by the subscription network.
When a subscriber ports a DN to a new network then the donor network no longer
provides support for the services of the ported number (this includes
supplementary and value added services).
NOTE: This also implies that if a service supported in the donor network is
not available on the recipient network then number portability mechanisms need
not provide that service for the ported subscriber.
A network can be a donor of numbers and a recipient of numbers. A DN can be
ported more than once; a ported number can be ported back to its number range
owner network. Even after multiple portings, the technical solution shall
involve only the number range owner network and recipient network.
The solution for MNP/NAGNP shall have a minimal adverse effect upon the
quality of service offered to ported and non-ported subscribers. It may be the
case that the quality of service for ported and non-ported subscribers differs
slightly (e.g. due to additional call set-up delay).
Any additional delay in call set-up to ported numbers shall be minimised.
The process of porting a number may involve a disruption in service to the
customer. The time that no service is available shall be minimised.
The technical implementation of the support of MNP/NAGNPin a network should
not impede number availability and efficient use of numbers.
The technical implementation for the support of MNP/NAGNPshall not involve
loss of functionality in the number range owner, donor or subscription
network.
The technical implementation of MNP/NAGNPshall support optimisation of the use
of network and inter-network resources so as to minimise costs associated with
transport of traffic and/or appropriate signalling and/or processing
activities (e.g. optimal routing).
In addition, for the porting process an efficient and effective way is needed
to exchange porting information between all types of network operators.
# 6 Normal procedures with successful outcome
Mobile Number Portability is offered to all subscribers of telephone services
subject to regulatory requirements.
A porting process is initiated at a subscriber's request on their selected
DN(s) with the relevant networks. Initiation of the porting process is an off-
line administrative process and cannot be invoked via a specific MMI on the
hand-set.
After successful porting the subscriber, is able to use the provisioned
telephone services and network specific services of the subscription network
as offered to non-ported subscribers on that network. Porting will effectively
initiate a new subscription
As part of the porting process, the donor, number range owner and recipient
networks shall update their relevant network elements in order to perform the
porting. After the porting process is complete, the subscription details
related to the ported DN on the donor network shall not be required and can be
deleted. Therefore, only the number range owner network and the recipient
network are involved in the MNP/NAGNPsolution for support of service to the
ported subscriber.
The originating network may not be aware of the ported nature of the number;
therefore the technical solution shall work even if networks other than the
number range owner and recipient have no knowledge of the ported nature of the
number.
NOTE: Other networks may be involved to increase the efficiency of call-set-up
to ported numbers.
When a ported subscriber takes an additional DN at her subscription network
that additional DN should not have to come from the number range owner
network(s) of the subscriber's ported numbers.
Where number ranges are assigned to network operators, the number range owner
network shall receive the ported number back from the recipient network when
the subscriber relinquishes the ported number, i.e. when the ported number
ceases to be an active service number.
# 7 Exceptional procedures
Service related data (e.g. numbers used in the call-forwarding service, etc.)
may not be transferred to the recipient network during the porting process.
# 8 Addressing
As a consequence of MNP, the DN of a subscriber may no longer explicitly
identify the subscription network of that subscriber.
# 9 Supplementary Services and Service Interworking
The support of mobile Number Portability in a network shall not affect the
handling of supplementary service for the subscribers, i.e. there shall be no
difference in the handling of the supplementary services between ported in and
normal subscribers of the same network.
## 9.1 Calling line identification presentation (CLIP)
No impact.
## 9.2 Calling line identification restriction (CLIR)
No impact.
## 9.3 Connected line identification presentation COLP)
No impact.
## 9.4 Connected line identification restriction (COLR)
No impact.
## 9.5 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
No impact.
## 9.6 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
No impact.
## 9.7 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
No impact.
## 9.8 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
No impact.
## 9.9 Call Waiting (CW)
No impact.
## 9.10 Call hold (HOLD)
No impact.
## 9.11 Multiparty services (MPTY)
No impact.
## 9.12 Closed User Group
No impact.
What happens if the subscription of CUG changes between the original call and
the CCBS call?, Where is the information stored?
## 9.13 Advice of Charge services
No impact.
## 9.14 Barring of All Outgoing Calls (BAOC)
No impact.
## 9.15 Barring of Outgoing International Calls (BOIC)
No impact.
## 9.16 Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those directed to the
Home PLMN Country (BOIC-exHC)
No impact.
## 9.17 Barring of All Incoming Calls (BAIC)
No impact.
## 9.18 Barring of Incoming Calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country
(BIC-Roam)
No impact.
## 9.19 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
No impact.
## 9.20 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
No impact.
## 9.21 Support of Private Numbering Plan (SPNP)
No impact.
## 9.22 Multiple Subscriber Profile (MSP)
The porting process may apply on a per profile basis.
## 9.23 enhanced Multi-Level Priority and Pre-emption (eMLPP)
No impact.
# 10 Interworking with other network features
## 10.1 Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL)
No impact.
## 10.2 Support of Optimal Routing (SOR)
No impact.
NOTE: This is a service requirement. However, it may be difficult to find an
MNP solution with no impact on Optimal Routing.
# 11 Networking interworking
All services offered in co-operation with other types of networks shall still
be offered in combination with MNP. This includes the basic services, all
supplementary services and all network features.
# 12 Charging aspects
Enough information shall be collected to allow different tariffs to be applied
to calls and short messages in the following case:
• The calling subscriber is roaming in her home PLMN
and
• The called subscriber is a subscriber of any of the PLMNs in the country of
the calling subscriber\'s home PLMN
In this case the collected information shall allow to distinguish between
• Calls and short messages directed to a called subscriber who subscribes to
the calling subscriber's home PLMN
• Calls and short messages directed to a called subscriber who does not
subscribe to the calling subscriber's home PLMN.
Enough information should be collected to allow the involved networks to
workout inter-network charging.
# 13 Lawful Interception Issues
Lawful interception shall be possible on a ported MSISDN.
(Ed's Note: This section is temporarily in this document and once approved it
will be moved to GSM 02.33).
(Ed's Note: This section is temporarily in this document and once approved it
will be moved to GSM 02.33).
#