# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the requirements and technical considerations
for Customized Alerting Tone (CAT) service in both CS and PS domains,
especially additional features for roaming and interoperability support.
This document considers voice and multi-media CAT, so the CAT user may
experience favourable songs, multi-media clips or other customized alerting
tones.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.240: \"Service requirements for 3GPP Generic User Profile
(GUP); Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Alerting Tone:** An indication that is played to the calling party during
establishment of a call or during an established call session indicating one
of the following:
\- that the called subscriber is being alerted.
**\- the progress of communication request (Call Forward, Call Wait etc.)**
**\- any alerting event during a call session**
**Customized Alerting Tone:** An Alerting Tone that is customized by the
called subscriber or the calling subscriber.\ A Customized Alerting Tone (CAT)
may e.g. be a piece of recorded or composed music, greeting words , voice,
advertisement or video.
**Customized Alerting Tone Service:** A Customized Alerting Tone Service (CAT
service) is an operator specific service by which an operator enables the
subscriber to customize his alerting tone.
**CAT Inter-action** : is the interaction of the CAT service with other
services, e.g. CAT Inter-action with Call Forwarding.
**CAT Inter-working** : Multiple Domains Inter-working is the interworking of
a CAT service over different domains or subsystems (CS or IMS) as well as
between PLMNs.
**CAT content provider:** A service provider that provides a set of Alerting
Tones for use as CAT for subscribers of the CAT service. A 3GPP operator may
be a CAT content provider.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CAT Customized Alerting Tone
# 4 CAT Service Requirements
## 4.1 Basic functionality of the CAT service
The Customized Alerting Tone Service (CAT service) is an operator specific
service by which an operator enables the subscriber to customize the alerting
tone which is played to the calling party. CAT service should not negatively
affect the conversation between calling and called parties, e.g. no
voice/video clipping, no longer communication setup time.
\- The service user shall be able to subscribe the CAT service, activate the
CAT service, update the settings, e.g. to change his active CAT.
\- The calling party shall be able to experience the CAT set by the called CAT
service subscriber.
\- The CAT shall override the default alerting tone towards the calling party.
\- The operator should have the capability to store multiple CATs per CAT
service subscriber.
\- The CAT subscriber should be able to configure the CAT service. The CAT
service should be able to select the appropriate CAT according to the rules.
The CAT subscriber profile is based on the following parameters:
1\. CAT content descriptor - Pointing to the right content or combination of
contents (e.g. personal prompt plus chosen music track).
2\. CAT timing descriptor - Time of day, day of week, specific date and
intervals based on each of those parameters.
3\. User (called/calling party) descriptor - user ID (or group ID of users),
user presence, user location, CAT user charging mode
Note 1: As location information may be restricted in some instances, the
default user location may be a generic \"unknown\".
Note 2: Presence information for a CS user is limited to attached or detached
\- The CAT service shall be able to select the appropriate CAT according to
the CAT user profile.
\- It should be possible to inform the user about status and changes in his
CAT service, e.g. close expiry date for the CAT service or a particular CAT
content.
Note: In the CS domain, this information may be provided by existing means
such as SMS and web access.
\- The operator shall be able to charge for the CAT service.
\- The called party shall be able to pre-configure the CAT service. The
preconfigured service is played upon receipt of an incoming communication
notification. This may be based upon the calling party identity.
\- The calling party should be able to reject the CAT service based on rules
e.g. time, the identity of the called party.
\- It shall be possible for a CAT subscriber to subscribe to a CAT that is
provided by a third party content provider.
### 4.1.1 CAT functionality in IMS domain
The functions identified here are specific to communications made between
users within the IMS.
\- The calling party shall be able to experience the CAT set by the calling
CAT service subscriber, both when the calling party is within HPLMN and when
roaming.
\- The calling party's operator shall be able to configure which CAT should
have priority, the one set by the called or calling CAT service subscriber.
The calling party's operator shall be able to take into account the calling
CAT service subscriber's preferences. By default, if no preference is set, the
CAT set by the calling party has priority.
\- When the called party answers the communication the CAT shall stop or
continue to play during the conversation, depending on operator or user
preferences.
\- When the called party is notified about an incoming communication, the
called party shall be able to send an indication to the CAT service which CAT
to play to the calling party. This CAT-B indication shall have priority over a
pre-configured CAT-B.
\- When the CAT is playing, the calling party shall be able to stop it,
subject to service provider policy, and then he shall experience the default
alerting tone for the duration of the communication establishment.
Note 1: The default alerting tone may be a CAT selected by the operator in the
event of e.g. CAT STOP.
\- The calling user shall have the possibility to copy the CAT of the called
user as his own while the CAT is being played. The pre-requisites are that the
called user has enabled CAT sharing, if applicable, for that instance of CAT
and that both users are subscribers to the same HPLMN.
Note 2: A CAT might also be copied offline via e.g. web interface but that
functionality does not require standardisation.
Note 3: The expression \"to copy the CAT\" does not necessarily mean that the
CAT is actually copied. It may also mean that a purchase request is being sent
to the CAT service provider.
### 4.1.2 CAT functionality in the CS domain
The functions identified here are specific to communications made between
users within the CS domain.
\- The calling party shall be able to experience the CAT set by the calling
CAT service subscriber when in the HPLMN. When roaming this function may not
be available.
\- The calling party's operator shall be able to configure which CAT should
have priority, the one set by the called or calling CAT service subscriber. By
default, if no preference is set, the CAT set by the calling party has
priority.
\- When the called party answers the communication the CAT shall stop.
\- When the CAT is playing, the calling party shall be able to stop it,
subject to service provider policy, and then he shall experience the default
alerting tone for the duration of the communication establishment. The pre-
requisites are that both called and calling user are subscribers to the same
HPLMN and the calling user is within the HPLMN.
Note 1: The default alerting tone may be a CAT selected by the operator in the
event of e.g. CAT STOP.
\- The calling user shall have the possibility to copy the CAT of the called
user as his own while the CAT is being played. The pre-requisites are that the
called user has enabled CAT sharing, if applicable, for that instance of CAT
and that both users are subscribers to the same HPLMN and the calling user is
within the HPLMN.
Note 2: A CAT might also be copied offline via e.g. web interface but that
functionality does not require standardisation.
Note 3: The expression \"to copy the CAT\" does not necessarily mean that the
CAT is actually copied. It may also mean that a purchase request is being sent
to the CAT service provider.
\- The calling party UE shall be able to start automatically downloading and
streaming CAT content through PS domain during the call setup. Downloaded CAT
content shall not be used for other purposes except CAT service.
## 4.2 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 4.2.1 Provisioning and Withdrawal
The CAT Service can be provisioned and withdrawn by the operator per
subscriber. Procedures for provisioning and withdrawal are out of scope of
standardisation.
### 4.2.2 Activation and Deactivation and Update
#### 4.2.2.1 Activation
When a subscriber activates his CAT Service he shall be able to specify which
CAT a calling user should experience, or use the operator's default setting.
After a subscriber has activated his CAT Service a calling user should
experience the CAT that was chosen by the subscriber.
#### 4.2.2.2 Deactivation
After a subscriber has deactivated his CAT Service a calling user should
experience the default alerting tone.
### 4.2.3 Basic scenarios
#### 4.2.3.0 CAT to be supported in the CS domain
**_Alerting the called subscriber constitute the basic CAT service
requirements, while other CATs may be considered optional_**
**_The following table summarize these cases:_**
Table 0: Normal Operation Scenarios
* * *
Scenarios CAT Support The called subscriber is being alerted Mandatory The
progress of communication request (Call Forward, Call Wait, User busy etc.)
Mandatory Others Optional
* * *
#### 4.2.3.1 Only called party has activated the CAT service
In the following scenarios, contained in table 1, it is assumed that the
called party (B) has activated his CAT Service. Calling party (A) is calling
B. The calling party has not subscribed and/or activated the CAT service.
The Customized Alerting Tone of B is CAT-B.
Table 1: Normal Operation Scenarios
* * *
      Called party B\    Required behaviour
      (condition)
1 B, ringing A experiences CAT-B
2 B, busy A experiences busy indication.
3 B, no answer First A experiences CAT-B and then the 'no answer' indication
after B's 'no answer' timer has expired
4 B, not reachable A experiences 'not reachable' indication
* * *
#### 4.2.3.2 Only calling party has activated the CAT service
In the following scenarios, contained in table 2, it is assumed that only the
calling party (A) has activated his CAT Service. Calling party (A) is calling
B. The called party has not subscribed and/or activated the CAT service.
The Customized Alerting Tone of A is CAT-A,
Table 2: Normal Operation Scenarios
* * *
      Called party B\    Required behaviour
      (condition)
1 B, ringing Depending on A settings, subscriber A will experience either
CAT-A or the default alerting tone.
2 B, busy Depending on A settings, subscriber A will experience either CAT-A
or the default busy tone.
3 B, no answer Depending on A settings, subscriber A will experience either
CAT-A or the default alerting tone and then the 'no answer' indication after
B's 'no answer' timer has expired
4 B, not reachable A experiences 'not reachable' indication
* * *
#### 4.2.3.3 Both parties have activated the CAT service
In the following scenarios, contained in table 3, it is assumed that both the
calling party (A) and called party (B) have activated the CAT Service. Calling
party (A) is calling B.
The Customized Alerting Tone of B is CAT-B, the Customized Alerting Tone for A
is CAT-A.
Table 3: Normal Operation Scenarios
* * *
      Called party B\    Required behaviour
      (condition)
1 B, ringing Depending on A settings, A experiences CAT-A, CAT-B or the
default alerting tone.
2 B, busy Depending on A settings, subscriber A will experience either CAT-A
or the default busy tone.
3 B, no answer Depending on A settings, subscriber A will experience either
CAT-A, CAT-B or the default alerting tone and then the 'no answer' indication
after B's 'no answer' timer has expired
4 B, not reachable A experiences 'not reachable' indication
* * *
### 4.2.4 Interaction with Supplementary Services
The following section describes the interaction between CAT and the IMS
Multimedia Telephony supplementary services defined in [22.173] and the
equivalent CS supplementary services.
#### 4.2.4.1 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
The OIR service takes precedence over the CAT service subscribed by the
calling party or by the called party. If the called party has a CAT associated
to the calling party's identity, the service will not be invoked. If the
called party has a CAT not associated to the calling party's identity then the
service is invoked.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc217479181 .anchor}NOTE: OIR service itself is
independent from CAT service. The service logic providing CAT will handle the
privacy request of the originator's identity for invoking OIR service and
decide whether to invoke CAT service.
#### 4.2.4.2 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
The TIR service takes precedence over the CAT service subscribed by the
calling party or by the called party. If the calling party has a CAT
associated to the called party's identity, the service will not be invoked. If
the calling party has a CAT not associated to the calling party's identity
then the service is invoked. The CAT service can take precedence over the TIR
service when the calling party has an override category, such as the police,
for which the TIR service is not applied.
#### 4.2.4.3 Communication Diversion (CDIV)
Additionally, for call-forwarding scenarios, it is assumed that Forwarded-to-
party (C) has activated his CAT Service. The Customized Alerting Tone of C is
called CAT-C. The Customized Alerting Tone of D is called CAT-D. The calling
party has not subscribed and/or activated the CAT service. If applicable, the
CAT experienced by the calling user should be the one customized for the user
by the connected-to-party
In the following table, all the CATs that A experiences in the column
\"Required behaviour\" may be replaced by CAT-B, if the operator wants to
deploy so.
Table 4: Supplementary Service Interaction Scenarios
+---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | | Called party B\ | F | Required behaviour | | | (condition) | orwarded-to-party\ | | | | | (condition) | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | B has activated | C, ringing | A experiences | | | Call Forwarding | | CAT-C | | | Unconditional | | | | | (CFU) to C and A's | | | | | call is forwarded | | | | | to C | | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | B has activated | C, ringing | A experiences | | | Call Forwarding on | | CAT-C | | | Busy (CFB) to C, B | | | | | is busy and A's | | | | | call is forwarded | | | | | to C | | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 3 | B has activated | C, ringing | A experiences | | | Call Forwarding on | | CAT-B until B's | | | No Reply (CFNRy) | | CFNRy timer has | | | to C and A's call | | expired. Then | | | is forwarded to C | | experiences CAT-C. | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 4 | B has activated | C, ringing | A experiences | | | Call Forwarding on | | CAT-C | | | Not Reachable | | | | | (CFNRc) to C and | | | | | A's call is | | | | | forwarded to C | | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 5 | B has activated a | Tandem Forwarding: | A experiences | | | Call Forwarding to | | CAT-D | | | C and C has | C has activated a | | | | activated a Call | Call Forwarding to | | | | Forwarding to D so | D and A's call is | | | | A's call is | forwarded to D | | | | forwarded to D | | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
Table 5 describes when the calling party has subscribed and activated the CAT
service.
Table 5: Supplementary Service Interaction Scenarios
+---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | | Called party B\ | F | Required behaviour | | | (condition) | orwarded-to-party\ | | | | | (condition) | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | A has activated | C, ringing | Depending on | | | CAT-A and B has | | operator settings, | | | activated Call | | subscriber A will | | | Forwarding | | experience the CAT | | | Unconditional | | set for user B, C | | | (CFU), Call | | or the default | | | Forwarding on Busy | | ringing tone. | | | (CFB) or Call | | | | | Forwarding on Not | | | | | Reachable (CFNRc) | | | | | to C. | | | | | | | | | | A's call is | | | | | forwarded to C | | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | B has activated | C, ringing | A experiences | | | Call Forwarding on | | CAT-A for user B | | | No Reply (CFNRy) | | until B's CFNRy | | | to C and A's call | | timer has expired. | | | is forwarded to C | | Then experiences | | | | | CAT-A for user C. | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
\- It should be possible to configure the CAT service so that different CATs
are used according to user profile (e.g. Date, Time, Call status)
#### 4.2.4.4 Communication Waiting (CW)
If the called party has activated the communication waiting and he is busy,
depending on the operator's settings, the calling party will experience either
the CAT service or the default communication waiting indication.
Table 6: Supplementary Service Interaction Scenarios
* * *
      Called party B\                                                                                    Forwarded-to-party\   Required behaviour
      (condition)                                                                                        (condition)
1 A has activated CAT and B has activated call waiting. B is engaged in an
active or held call. Depending on A settings, subscriber A will experience
either CAT-A or the default call waiting tone.
2 B has activated CAT and B has activated call waiting and B is engaged in an
active or held call. Depending on A settings, subscriber A will experience
either CAT-B or the default call waiting tone.
* * *
#### 4.2.4.5 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
The called party (A) has activated the ECT service and the communication is
transferred to C. The calling party will only experience the CAT from the C in
case of blind transfer and if C has activated the CAT service. In case of
consultative transfer the calling party will not experience the CAT service.
## 4.3 CAT service configuration
\- A service subscriber, that has activated his CAT service, shall be able to
select and update his CAT settings - e.g. select a different CAT than the
current one. It should be possible to charge the subscriber for selection /
update of the CAT settings.
\- The calling user should be able to 'copy' the last CAT that was experienced
in the ongoing call, as his own CAT.
Note: Operators should be aware that copyrights may be infringed and therefore
the operator may need to take appropriate action.
## 4.4 The content of CAT
The content of CAT can be music, voice, text, or video.
In IMS the CAT may be composed of music, voice, text, video, which can be
provided by the CAT content provider, operator or by the user himself.
If the calling party is in the CS domain the CAT may be composed of music,
voice, video, which can be provided by the CAT content provider, operator or
by the user himself.
The content of the CAT service may be dynamically created, possibly taking
into account information available in the network, e.g. calling and/or called
user's location and/or presence information.
## 4.5 Inter-working CAT
### 4.5.1 CAT Interworking between different PLMNs
It is important for a good user experience that CAT works as predicted
independently if the called or the calling user is roaming. A standardized CAT
solution should therefore fulfil the following end user requirements:
\- When calling a user of another PLMN, the calling party shall be able to
experience the CAT set by the called party.
\- When calling a user of another PLMN, the calling party shall be able to
experience the CAT set by the calling party.
\- When roaming to another PLMN, the calling party shall be able to experience
the CAT set by the called party.
\- The calling party shall be able to experience the CAT set by the called
party who is roaming to another PLMN.
### 4.5.2 Interworking between CS and IMS based CAT services
The CS and IMS based CAT services should fulfil the following end user
requirements:
\- When calling a user in the other domain (CS or IMS), the calling party
shall be able to experience the CAT set by the called party.
\- When calling a user in the other domain (CS or IMS), the calling party
shall be able to experience the CAT set by the calling party.
\- When calling a CAT service subscriber of another domain (CS or IMS), the
calling party should be able to copy the CAT of the called user as his own
CAT. The pre-requisites are that the called user has enabled CAT sharing, if
applicable, for that instance of CAT and that both users are subscribers to
the same HPLMN.
\- When calling a CAT service subscriber of another domain (CS or IMS), the
calling party should be able to stop an ongoing CAT.
The scope of this interoperability may result in a limited service capability.
# 5 CAT Service Interoperability
5.1 Interaction with Charging
The operator shall be able to charge for the CAT service according to the
different charging mode (see the table below):
+-------+------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Index | Charging mode | Example | +-------+------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 1 | Service monthly fee | Fixed (for example monthly) | | | | expense for the CAT | | | | service. | +-------+------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 2 | Fee of purchasing CAT | A subscriber is charged by | | | | the system when he | | | | purchases CAT, including | | | | copying CAT. | +-------+------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 3 | Fee of configuring CAT | A subscriber may be charged | | | | by the system when he set | | | | his CAT or updates his CAT | | | | setting. | +-------+------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 4 | Fee per CAT usage | Advertising CAT. | | | | | | | | High/low quality CAT | +-------+------------------------+-----------------------------+
5.2 Interaction with User Profile
> \- It shall be possible to store a User Profile relevant to CAT.
>
> \- It shall be possible to access/manage CAT User Profile by a
> user/subscriber and/or CAT service provider.
>
> \- It shall be possible to manage access rights for
>
> \- User Profile components
>
> \- Media content
5.3 CAT Fall back
It shall be possible that if the CAT can't be played for some reason (for
example, the CAT system fails, or the CAT content expiry is up, or other
reasons), the calling party will experience the traditional prompt tone
instead of the CAT,
When the multi-media CAT fails to be played in some condition (such as the
caller roams from 3G network to 2G network), the voice CAT may be played
instead if possible.
#