# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Real time, character by character text conversation is a component that
increases usability in a conversational session.
Global Text Telephony is a feature that adds the capability to use a text
conversation component in a session. It is called Global Text or GTT here.
Interworking with corresponding features in other networks is an important
part of Global Text. Specifically, the different kinds of PSTN text telephone
systems supported by the international text telephone modem standard ITU-T
V.18 are included in the modes for interworking.
One important reason to offer the Global Text feature is to enable emergency
service access to people who are depending on a written dialogue.
A more elaborated background is found in Annex A, and requirements in Annex B.
Figure 1 gives an overview of the user environment for Global Text.
Figure 1. Global Text service environment
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification defines the stage one description of the Global
Text Telephone Feature, GTT.. Stage one is the set of requirements which shall
be supported for the provision of the real-time text conversation feature,
seen primarily from the subscriber's and service providers' points of view.
This TS includes information applicable to network operators, service
providers, terminal and network manufacturers.
This TS contains the core requirements for the Global Text Telephony feature,
which are sufficient to provide a complete feature to incorporate in
conversational services.
This TS defines the requirements for GTT to be understood as a framework to
enable real-time transmission of text, for the purpose of a text based or text
supported conversation between users. Text may be transported alone or in
combination with other media in the session, especially video and voice.
Thus the GTT enables text conversation to be included in any mobile
conversational service.
Interworking with existing text telephony in PSTN as well as emerging forms of
standardised text conversation in all networks is within the scope of this
document. Interoperation with Multimedia Messaging Services is also within
scope of this feature.
Note: The Global Text Telephony feature may be enhanced due to e.g.
operator\'s or regulator\'s requirements, however such additional
functionality shall not compromise conformance to the core requirements
documented in this TS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Principles\".
[2] ETSI ETR 333; Text Telephony; User requirements and Recommendations
[3] ITU-T H.248 Annex F Facsimile, Text conversation and call discrimination
packages (2000)
[4] ITU-T Recommendation T.140 (1998) -- Text conversation protocol for
multimedia application. With amendment 1 (2000).
[5] ITU-T Recommendation F.700 (2000) -- Framework recommendation for
audiovisual/multimedia services.
[6] ITU-T Recommendation V.18 (2000) -- Operational and interworking
requirements for DCE:s operating in the text telephone mode.
[7] 3GPP TS 22.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service; Stage 1\"
[8] 3GPP TS 23.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service; Functional description;
Stage 2\"
[9] IETF RFC 2793. (2000) RTP Payload for text conversation.
[10] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Total Conversation** : A service offering standardised simultaneous text,
video and voice conversation or a subset thereof.
**Host environment :** The session environment where the text component is
added. E.g. Circuit switched voice, IP Multimedia etc.
**Text Conversation:** A real time conversation in text with transmission
character by character as entered.
Further definitions are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [10].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this document the following abbreviations apply:
EDT European Deaf Telephone
GTT Global Text Telephony; The feature that adds real time text conversation
to any 3GPP conversational environment
GTTFE Global Text Telephony Feature Environment -- The network components and
functions forming GTT
TTY Here used as the term for the text telephone type dominating in USA.
DTMF Here used as a term for the text telephone type used in Holland, using
DTMF tones.
VCO Voice Carry Over: Alternating (or parallel) sending of Speech and
receiving Text
HCO Hear Carry Over: Alternating (or parallel) receiving Speech and
transmission of Text
FCC Federal Communications Commission (of United States of America)
PER Printable character Error Rate
MMI Man Machine Interface
SIM Subscriber Identification Module
ITU International Telecom Standardisation Union
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project
CS Circuit Switched
IP Internet Protocols
Further abbreviations are listed in TR 21.905 [10].
# 4 High level Requirements
The following list gives the high level requirements of the GTT. These are
requirements which are independent of the user's perception of the feature:-
\- Service definition
Global Text shall provide a real time conversational text feature. A general
definition is found in Recommendation ITU-T F.700[5].
\- Global Text Telephony host environments
A standardised method for Global Text Telephony shall at least be specified
for each host environment in the mobile networks that can carry voice.
\- Standards compliant and forward compatible text conversation
Global Text Telephone mechanisms shall provide the capability to support
current and evolving text telephony and text conversation features by re-using
existing standards as far as possible and proposing extensions (as necessary)
to existing standards (i.e. the global text telephony feature shall support
the evolution of Total Conversation technologies in all networks).
\- Consistent text conversation
Regardless of the selected host environment, the far end terminal, the
interworking facilities involved, GTT shall be capable of providing a
consistent way of handling the conversation.
\- Global Text Telephone access
Within the capabilities of networks and terminals, the user shall be provided
consistent access to the GTT regardless of the access point.
For example: the user shall be capable of accessing the text conversation
features through a number of different access points, including networks based
on 3GPP specifications, access through dedicated multimedia terminals, and
access through combinations of mobile phones combined with text user interface
devices.
\- Interoperability
Global Text Telephony shall support interoperability with existing and
emerging text telephone systems and text conversation features.
Global Text Telephony shall support a minimum set of environments where text
conversation is supported to ensure full interoperability between different
terminals and networks.
\- Emergency calls
The implementation of Global Text Telephony shall enable a user to make
emergency calls to, and receive calls from, an emergency call centre via a
text telephony device used in conjunction with GTT enabled user equipment.
# 5 General Requirements
Network operators have many differing requirements, and GTT shall be supported
in the network in a manner which allows network operators to consider
different configurations depending on their network and commercial
requirements. Thus, an identified set of functionalities and protocols shall
be standardised to ensure interoperability across networks and terminals to
support GTT.
The following general requirements shall be supported.
## 5.1 Text conversation host environments
The protocol environments for text conversation shall be the same as the ones
used for other multimedia conversation calls and voice calls. The selected
environment for a session is called the host environment.
Supported host environments are:
\- Packet switched multimedia
\- Circuit switched multimedia.
\- The text conversation carried by an data transmission procedure, possible
to combine with a voice session.
\- Circuit switched voice telephony, with the text conversation carried in-
band in the voice channel.
## 5.2 Text conversation management
It shall be possible to allow GTT use without GTT specific subscription.
Note: There is no requirement for GTT feature specific subscription, but for
\"normal GTT calls\" a subscription for telephony is required. For \"emergency
GTT call\" no subscription of any kind is required.
Session start up delay and loss of initial characters should be minimised as
far as practicably possible.
The text transport method should remain transparent to the network, unless
specific functionality is required to provide a satisfactory quality of
service.
## 5.3 Registration of text conversation capabilities
The availability of text conversation capabilities in the user terminal may
need to be communicated to the network at call establishment in order to
access the GTT service. However, a user is expected to be able to access the
GTT service without explicit GTT registration with the operator.
## 5.4 Session control
The session control (call control ) functions shall use the same procedures as
the selected host environment.
Additional operations needed to invoke the text component may be automated by
the text conversation user interface.
It shall be possible to establish text-only calls as well as calls with other
media components.
## 5.5 Invoking text conversation
Calls with terminals where text conversation is used shall bemonitored for
requests to start the text feature.
When either party in a call begins usage of the text feature, an effort shall
be made to establish text conversation. It shall be possible to start text
conversation during a call already established in voice or video mode by
adding the text component.
The mode selected for text conversation ( IP Multimedia, CS Multimedia, Voice
path etc. ) shall be determined according to a prioritised procedure.
Modes allowing simultaneous voice and text shall by default have higher
priority, while the user shall be given opportunities to prioritise text-only
modes. The default order shall be: IP Multimedia, CS Multimedia, data path
text plus voice, voice path text.
The user shall be given call progress information and text invocation progress
information in text or other non-audible media.
## 5.6 Text conversation handling during calls
Text transmission shall be done character by character as entered, or in small
groups transmitted so, that no character is delayed before transmission more
than 0.5 seconds. (as stated in ITU-T T.140 [4])
The text transmission shall allow a rate of at least 10 characters per second
so that human typing speed as well as speech to text methods of generating
conversation text can be supported.
The end-to-end delay of characters shall be less than two seconds, measured
between two mobile users, or between one mobile user and any interworking
fixed network user, assuming that the fixed network does not contribute with
more than one second to this figure.
The character corruption rate should be less than 1% in conditions where users
experience the voice transmission quality to be low but useful.
The transmission of the text conversation shall be made according to the
character set and operations defined in ITU-T T.140. [4]. This requirement
enables smooth interworking with minimal loss of functionality between
different text conversation environments. The allowed limitations in character
set support specified in ITU-T T.140 shall be obeyed, so that two terminals
always have a minimum common character set available for conversation.
Figure 2 gives an example of a possible layout of a real time text
conversation according to ITU-T T.140.
* * *
ANNE EVE
Hi, this is Anne.\ Oh, hello Anne, I am glad you are calling!\ \ It was long
since we met!\ Yes, have you heard that I will come to Paris in November? \
No, that was new to me. What brings you here?
* * *
Figure 2: A possible way to display a conversation with one window each
Display of the conversation shall be done according to the principles
specified in T.140, unless the display is provided through interworking with a
legacy mode text telephone, when the limitations of that device may govern.
NOTE: It shall be noted that support for any written language is possible with
T.140, and that many languages require other writing directions than left-to-
right.
## 5.7 Alerting
Since many GTT users are deaf or hard-of-hearing, the terminals used for GTT
shall provide an interface that can be used to activate alternative alerting
modes e.g. flash or vibration.
## 5.8 Addressing
GTT shall support the addressing formats of the host environments. to identify
the different kinds of endpoints of the call used in the different host
environments (see section 9, interworking.)
## 5.9 Roaming
Access to the GTT service while roaming is desirable.
Note: Operators may consider using a Virtual Home Environment toolkit to
provide GTT services to roaming subscribers. It can be expected that the
subscriber will need to specifically subscribe to this service and no access
to the GTT service will be possible if the visited network does not support
the appropriate VHE toolkit. It should also be noted that emergency calls
bypass most VHE toolkits, therefore emergency calls will require GTT support
in the local network.
# 6 Security and reliability
> The user shall be able to use and access GTT in a secure manner. Within the
> limitations enforced by the host environments, the following apply.
\- It shall be possible for the contents of GTT sessions to be read only by
the intended recipient(s).
\- The "Security Threats and Requirements" specified in 22.133 [3] shall not
be compromised.
# 7 Charging
It is foreseen that users will not be expected to pay a premium for access to
the GTT service. Hence the requirement to capture detailed information
relating to the use of GTT is seen as optional.
Various charging mechanisms may be supported in addition to what is defined
for the host environment, the following charging characteristics may be
considered:-- Text was used in the call.- The duration for which text was used
in a call.
# 8 External Interfaces
## 8.1 External interfaces in the terminal
It shall be possible to control and operate GTT from external digital devices,
e.g, portable computers. For this purpose interfaces shall be standardised
between the terminal and such external digital devices.
It shall be possible to control and operate GTT from external analogue text
telephones. For this purpose, interfaces shall be standardised between the
mobile terminal and such external analogue text telephones.
External interfaces specified for controlling and operating GTT between the
terminal and an external device should make it possible to use the external
device for both Multimedia Messaging and GTT.
## 8.2 External interfaces to other networks
No new network interfaces shall be specified for GTT, only the necessary
elements to accomplish text interworking. These are specified in ITU-T H.248
Annex F, in the Text Conversation and Text Telephone packages [3].
The networks for specified interworking include:
\- PSTN for interworking with PSTN text telephones.
\- IP networks for interworking with IP conversational multimedia terminals
and IP text telephones.
\- CS networks for interworking with CS Multimedia terminals.
\- Mobile networks out of scope of the GTT specifications interface through
common interworking facilities.
# 9 Interworking
It shall be possible to use GTT to communicate with similar features in other
networks as specified in ITU-T H.248 Annex F, in the Text Conversation and
Text Telephone packages [3].
This includes:
\- PSTN text telephones, using voice telephony as a carrier according ITU-T
V.18 [6].
\- IP text telephones, using IP multimedia protocols and text according to
ITU-T T.140 [4].
\- IP conversational multimedia terminals using IP multimedia protocols with
text according to ITU-T T.140 [4].
\- CS multimedia with text according to ITU-T T.140 [4].
There is no requirement that the host environment combinations for
interworking shall be extended for GTT support beyond the host environment
interworking established for other media.
For interworking with text conversation in mobile networks outside the scope
of the GTT specifications, interworking shall be specified as for other
external networks.
For mobile services within scope of the GTT specification, interworking shall
be possible between different forms of GTT, within the limits of interworking
between the different host environments.
GTT shall permit use of the supplementary services defined for the host
environment.
Users of both GTT and Multimedia Messaging [7],[8], should be provided the
following interoperation opportunities:
\- If a call with a text component fails, it should be possible to offer the
user to send a message to a MultiMedia Messaging facility such that the
message may later be delivered in non-real time to the destination.
\- External User Equipment interface specifications should enable both GTT and
MMS text handling functions to be placed in the same device.
Note: In order to fulfil the requirement to give a consistent view of the
feature from different access points, it may be of interest to give fixed
network text telephone users possibilities to send and receive MMS text
messages. This is however outside the scope of this specification.
# 10 Additional services
## 10.1 Emergency services
It shall be possible to support emergency service calls with text and voice.
If an emergency service centre supports call back to the calling user, then
the call-back function shall be available for GTT text calls without
modification to the existing emergency service centre text telephony
equipment.
GTT emergency calls shall be possible without the SIM/USIM module in the same
host environments as such calls are enabled for voice.
All information that follows a voice call to the emergency centre, shall also
be provided to the centre if GTT text is used in the call.
The emergency service requirements shall be possible to fulfil for emergency
service centres equipped with PSTN text telephones, operated through a relay
operator service or an interworking functions.
Support of GTT service for emergency calls shall not jeopardise normal
emergency calls.
## 10.2 Relay services
Relay services offer translation between text and voice. It is most commonly
implemented as manned services.
Access to relay services shall be possible for GTT users. Establishment of the
relay service itself is outside the scope of GTT.
GTT shall enable addition of a relay service to the call. The relay service
terminates the text path, and translates between text and voice.
Addressing the destination and requesting support from the relay service
should be possible to do in one operation from the GTT user.
Other aspects of implementing relay services are outside the scope of this
specification.
# 11 Network implementation considerations
The GTT feature may be implemented in a number of ways. The GTT specifications
shall allow cost effective implementations both for networks with a small part
of the subscribers using GTT as well as networks with relatively many
subscribers using GTT.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Background
Text telephone systems were implemented mainly for distant conversation with
deaf, hard-of-hearing, speech-impaired and deaf-blind users. The text
telephone systems offer a real time, character by character, conversation in
text, optionally combinable with voice. With proper implementation in mobile
systems, the feature is expected to be of interest for any user.
The general user needs are described in ETSI ETR 333 Human Factors, Text
Telephony; User requirements and Recommendations [2].
In PSTN, seven different, openly specified systems for text telephony exist,
and are used in different regions. Some proprietary modes are also used.
The open specifications are called Baudot, DTMF, EDT, V.21, Bell103, Minitel
and V.18. They all use different modem technologies and character coding for
the transmission of text. They are briefly described in the annexes of ITU-T
V.18 [6].
ITU-T V.18 [6] is an automoding mechanism that enables communication with all
the legacy modes on the modem level. It also detects when both parties have
V.18, and invokes an internationally useful character set, defined in ITU-T
T.140, and optionally transmission of text and voice simultaneously. Native
modulation for V.18 is V.21, while V.61 is used when simultaneous voice and
text is wanted. Other modulations can be negotiated.
V.18 and T.140 are intended for use in new PSTN text telephones. They are also
intended for use in gateways, bridging from the fragmented situation in the
PSTN, into new services, designed according to the Total Conversation concept.
## A.1 Total Conversation
Total Conversation adds text conversation to multimedia protocols in a
standardised way, so that simultaneous communication in video, text and voice
is accomplished. For the text part, the Unicode based text presentation
protocol ITU-T T.140 is used. It is transmitted with a specific standardised
transport channel for each environment. Subsets can be used for example for
text telephony enabled in the multimedia architectures.
Total Conversation is currently defined in the following environments:
1\. Packet networks, where the procedures described in ITU-T H.323 Annex G can
be used for text conversation sessions, using TCP or RTP/T140 for the
transport of T.140. A simple packet text telephone is defined, called Text
SET.
2\. Packet networks, where the IETF Session Initiation Protocol SIP can be
used for setting up and conducting text conversation sessions using RTP/T140
for the transport of T.140 text media. RTP/T140 is MIME registered and
specified in IETF RFC 2793 [9].
3\. The H.324 multimedia environment in PSTN, ISDN and Mobile networks, where
an AL1 channel connected by H.245 procedures is used for T.140.
4\. The H.320 multimedia environment, where a H.224 channel with client ID=2
is specified for transport of T.140.
5\. The T.120 data conferencing environment, that can be used alone or in
conjunction with any of the environments above, where T.134 specifies the
application entity and T.125 the data channel for T.140.
6\. Text Telephony in the PSTN using the ITU-T V.18 modem and T.140 for the
presentation without any further transport protocol.
## A.2 Interworking
Interworking between these forms of Text Conversation can be achieved through
the use of gateways or interworking functions. One gateway mechanism _(in the
process of standardisation)_ is ITU-T H.248, where Annex F, Facsimile, Text
conversation and call discrimination packages [3] describes additions for
handling text telephony and text conversation.
## A.3 Additional services
Apart from the basic user -- to -- user conversation, the following are
examples of important additional services that can be offered text telephone
users and Total Conversation users.
Emergency services
The ability to call to emergency services, announce an emergency situation and
discuss the actions can be offered text telephone users and Total Conversation
users. Calls from the emergency service with support for text conversation is
also needed.
Relay services
In order to have conversations with users of plain voice telephones, text
relay services are established. Currently, manned relay services dominate,
offering real time translation between written and spoken language. Automatic
and semi-automatic versions are emerging. A through connection of the voice
channel is usually offered as an option to satisfy users who can benefit from
multiple modes.
With Total Conversation services, both traditional text relay services and
other relay services are established. Examples are sign language relay
services with text support during service establishment and speech-support
relay services with visual enhancement.;
###### ## Annex B (informative): Initial requirements
This section is informative and specifies the initial requirements that formed
the base of definition of GTT. The 3GPP GTT specifications together define
what requirements will be met.
Most requirements in this chapter are derived from the requirements expressed
to be urgent by the FCC and the CTIA TTY forum in USA. The relation with these
requirements are documented for each requirement.
Many of these requirements are written with the view that a PSTN text
telephone is attached to the mobile station for implementation of the basic
GTT functionality.
## B.1 Transmission Performance
**A1:** The printable character error rate (PER) shall be less than 1% for
stationary calls under nominal radio conditions, i.e. where also speech calls
show an acceptable quality (TTY/FCC 1).
**A2:** The printable character error rate (PER) shall be less than 1% for
calls with pedestrian speed or typical vehicle speed under nominal radio
conditions (TTY/FCC 13, TTY Forum, extended).
**A3:** An output volume control should be provided in order to allow
adaptation to existing Text Telephone equipment for optimal receiving quality
(TTY/FCC 4).\ \ **A4:** The input range shall be automatically adapted to the
proper receiving level (new).
**A5:** The Text Telephone shall allow to transmit Speech and Text (VCO/HCO)
in an automated way, without user interaction, either by alternating between
speech and text mode or by transmitting speech and text in parallel
(objective) (TTY/FCC 9, extended).
**A6:** The delay of the speech path shall not exceed that of a normal speech
call in that situation by more than 40ms in one way, if the text telephone
functionality is activated. Otherwise no additional delay shall occur to the
speech signal. The delay of the speech path should not vary during a speech
phrase.
**A7:** The delay of the text path shall not exceed that of the speech path by
more than 1000 ms (one way) at typing speed of 7 characters per second. The
delay of the text path may be variable.
**A8:** The time of switching between Text and Speech mode shall not exceed
1000 ms at normal typing speed.
**A9** : The printable character throughput shall not be smaller than 10
characters per second under nominal radio operating conditions (TTY/FCC 10,
extended).
**A10:** Under impaired radio conditions the character throughput may be
reduced in order to achieve the desired printable character error rate
(TTY/FCC 10, modified).
**A11:** The signals used for transmission should pass existing fixed and
wireless "analogue" speech channels with a printable character error rate
below 1% under nominal radio conditions, if two devices are connected "back to
back".
**A12:** The data transmission bit rate should be as high as possible under
the given radio conditions with the objective of 300 Bit/s with a bit error
rate below 10\^-3 and a residual bit error rate below\ 10\^-5 (after removing
detected bit errors).
**A13:** It shall be possible to transmit both, single characters, as well as
long text or data strings (from file) efficiently.
**A14:** The transmission mechanism should provide data flow control to adapt
the source data rate (when in file transfer mode) to the varying radio
transmission conditions, in order not to loose data on the path.
**A15:** The character coding shall allow transmission of characters from any
language in a consistent way.
## B.2 Man Machine Interface (MMI)
These Requirements and Objectives are to some extent depending on
implementation and [not]{.underline} on the transmission
[standard]{.underline}. This list shall by no means restrict the innovation
capabilities of vendors, but give guidelines and define a minimum set, against
which the transmission standard needs to be checked.
**B1:** The Text Telephone user must be able to monitor all aspects of call
progress (same or more information as provided to voice users) by tones and
visualisation (TTY/FCC 2). The transmission standard shall provide the
necessary monitor information to the MMI.
**B2:** There must be an indication, by tones and visualisation, when the call
is connected or disconnected (TTY/FCC 3).
**B3** : Call information such as caller identification, where provided in
mobile voice services, should also be provided for Text Telephony calls
(TTY/FCC 11 adapted).
**B4:** The Text Telephone system must be able to send "Text Tones" to a
normal telephone user, to indicate that he is using a text telephone, even if
the other user has only a normal phone (TTY/FCC 6 adjusted).
**B5:** The Text Telephone user must have a means of tactile (vibrating) ring
signal indication. (TTY/FCC 5), besides an acoustical and optical ring signal
indication (new).
**B6:** Emergency calls (e.g. to 112 or 911 numbers) shall not require any
further user interaction than for any normal voice call. (except to connect
the possible additional equipment) (new).
**B7:** Call back from Emergency Call Centres should not require any further
user interaction than for any normal voice call (except to connect the
possible additional equipment) (new.
**B8** : Call setup to and from other Text Telephone users of the same type
according to the new standard should not require any further user interaction
than for any normal voice call (new).
**B9:** Call setup to and from other Text Telephone users of an other kind (
e.g. those defined in ITU V.18) [may]{.underline} require some user activity,
like
  * sending a short additional precode (e.g. 2..3 digits) or
  * typing a short digit sequence to invoke the service (e.g. like #55*) or
  * (on user´s preference) the permanent subscription to such a service
  * a capability signalling by the mobile
  * activating a text telephone application
  * others
**B10:** The new standard should allow the usage of ordinary unmodified mobile
phones as already available to the user or on the mass market, in order to get
the advantage of high volumes price level.
**B10:** The new standard shall allow to hide the intermediate (with existing
phones) necessary user interaction, as described in the items before, in
modern equipment (automatic service).
**B11:** The use of the Text Telephone for emergency calls with unregistered
phones or without SIM/USIM shall be possible as for normal voice calls.
**B12:** The interface to the possible adapters shall be exactly specified
with
  * mandatory interfaces (as to allow interaction to existing Text Telephones and the basic access to the mobile phone) and
  * optional interfaces (as to connect microphone and loudspeaker, the control port of the mobile phones, ...)
## B.3 Compatibility
**C1:** The standard shall be compatible to equipment on the landline side as
specified in ITU recommendation V.18 (TTY/FCC 12, extended), including all
annexes of V.18 and V.18 with V.61 for voice and text simultaneously
**C2:** The landline party's Text Telephone equipment shall not need
modifications or additions in order to be compatible and to achieve the
desired error rate (TTY/FCC 7).
**C3:** It shall be possible to deploy the Text Telephone standard world wide
in all systems based on 3GPP specifications (new).
**C4:** The wireless Text Telephone (i.e. on the Mobile user side) may require
modifications or additions or the development of new equipment (TTY/FCC 8).
The smaller the modifications or additions the better.
**C5:** Roaming between networks of different operators of the same kind of
wireless technology shall be possible, provided the operators has installed
the service.
**C6:** Is should be possible to connect equipment implementing the standard
to any existing mobile phone of any existing wireless standard.
**C7:** Communication between Text Telephones in different kinds of wireless
technologies shall be possible.
**C8:** Communication with text between mobile text telephones and multimedia
devices with text shall be possible.
## B.4 Complexity of Implementation and Roll Out
**D1:** The standard shall allow a fast first step implementation and roll out
**D2** : The standard shall allow integration into the mobile phone or the
Text Telephone terminal or integration of everything together into a single
device.
## B.5 Referenced consumer requirements
**In the previous sections of this annex, the "TTY /FCC" requirements refer to
the points below. They are formulated in November 1999 as the consumer
requirements by the TTY Forum administered by CTIA in USA. The comments are
inserted here for clarification.**
1\. The character error rate should approximate that of AMPS, which has been
demonstrated at \ V. 0.0.1 | > April 2000 | > First Draft (Presented | | | | > at TSG-S1 10^th^ -- | | | | > 15^th^ April 00) | +----------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | > V.0.3.0 | > July 2000 | > Includes changes | | | | > required by S1#9. | +----------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | > V.0.3.1 | > Aug. 2000 | > Align with 3GPP doc | | | | > structure | +----------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | > V.0.3.2 | > Aug. 2000 | > Comments from Ericsson | | | | > and Siemens accepted | +----------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | > V.1.0.0 | > Sept. 2000 | > Updated to version | | | | > 1.0.0 for presentation | | | | > to SA #9 | +----------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | > V.1.1.0 | > May 2001 | > Updated with output of | | | | > GTT ad-hoc. To be sent | | | | > for approval at SA#12 | +----------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | > V.2.0.0 | > May 2001 | > Raised to version | | | | > 2.0.0 for approval at | | | | > SA #12 | +----------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | > V5.0.0 | > June 2001 | > Approved at SA #12 | +----------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | > V5.1.0 | > Oct. 2001 | > Creation of 5.1.0 by | | | | > inclusion of CRs at SA | | | | > #13 | +----------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
* * *