# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To position LTE as technology for critical communications such as public
safety, Group Communication is needed.
Group Communication function complements its sibling communication feature of
proximity-based services (ProSe).
# 1 Scope
The present document collects the requirements as relevant to improve the EPC
and E-UTRAN for system enablers to the 3GPP system to support Group
Communication over LTE for Public Safety and Critical Communication.
The US requirements as specified in NPSTC (Mission Critical Voice
Requirements) [2], [3], [4], the TETRA + Critical Communications Association
(TCCA) [8] and ITU [6], [7] inputs are taken as starting point.
Other regional requirements may also be reflected in the work. The
requirements are worded in a way to easily accommodate future requirements
from other regions or stakeholders.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Recommended Minimum Technical Requirements to Ensure Nationwide
Interoperability for the Nationwide Public Safety Broadband Network, Final
Report, NPSTC BBWG, May 22, 2012.
[3] Mission Critical Voice Communications Requirements for Public Safety,
NPSTC BBWG, August 30, 2011.
[4] Public Safety Broadband High-Level Statement of Requirements for FirstNet
Consideration, NPSTC Report Rev B, June 13, 2012.
[5] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation G.114 One-Way Transmission Time, May 2003.
[7] ITU-T Recommendation Y.1541 Network Performance Objectives for IP-Based
Services, December 2011
[8] ETSI ETR 086: \"Trans European Trunked Radio (TETRA) System; Technical
Requirements Specification Part 1: Voice plus Data (V+D) systems\", January
1994.
[9] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Group Member:** A user assigned to a GCSE Group.
**GCSE Group:** A set of Group Members.
**Receiver Group Member:** A Group Member of a GCSE Group that has interest
expressed in receiving ongoing or future Group Communications of that GCSE
Group.
**Transmitter Group Member:** A Group Member of a GCSE Group that is
authorized to transmit an ongoing or future Group Communications for that GCSE
Group.
**Group Communication:** Communication from Transmitter Group Members to
Receiver Group Members.
**Group Communication System Enabler (GCSE):** A 3GPP feature enabling an
application layer functionality to provide Group Communication over E-UTRAN.
**Multipoint Service** : A service used to distribute the same content to many
UEs in a resource efficient way.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CN Core Network
GCSE Group Communication System Enabler
GCSE_LTE Group Communication System Enabler over Long Term Evolution
LMR Land Mobile Radio
ProSe Proximity Services
PTT Push to Talk
RAN Radio Access Network
TETRA TErrestrial Trunked Radio
TCCA TETRA + Critical Communications Association
# 4 Overview (informative)
## 4.1 Service description of a Group Communication service
A Group Communication Service is intended to provide a fast and efficient
mechanism to distribute the same content to multiple users in a controlled
manner. As an example, the concept of group communications is used extensively
in the operation of classical Land Mobile Radio (LMR) systems used for, but
not limited to, Public Safety organizations. At the moment, the primary use of
a Group Communication Service in LMR is to provide \"Push to Talk\" (PTT)
functionality, so a Group Communication Service based on 3GPP architecture,
using LTE radio technology, should enable PTT voice communications with
comparable performance.
The service should allow flexible modes of operation as the users and the
environment they are operating in evolves. For example, the capabilities of
LTE allow for broadband communication, so Group Communication Service is
expected to support, voice, video or, more general, data communication. Also
LTE can allow users to communicate to several groups at the same time in
parallel e.g. voice to one group, different streams of video or data to
several other groups.
The users of Group Communication Service are organised into groups; a user can
be member of more than one group.
## 4.2 Relation to Group Communication System Enablers
The requirements listed in the present document shall serve as requirements to
develop enablers; i.e. modular functions and open interfaces (e.g. a resource
efficient distribution mechanism) that can be used to design Group
Communication Services. This is to flexibly accommodate the different
operational requirements on Group Communication Services that are expected to
be different for various types of user groups (e.g. police or fire brigade),
or from country to country.
# 5 Functional requirements
## 5.1 Overall requirements
### 5.1.1 High level requirements
The system shall provide a mechanism to indicate network support of Group
Communication System Enabler to the UE.
The UE shall have the ability to indicate the network support of Group
Communication System Enabler to the user.
Group Communication System Enabler shall support various media such as
conversational type communication (e.g. voice, video) or streaming (e.g.
video) or data (e.g. messaging) or a combination of them.
### 5.1.2 Performance
The system shall be optimized to minimize the time intervals related to the
use of Group Communication.
The recommended time intervals specified below are for consideration in the
development of detailed RAN/CN requirements, and the evaluation of
architecture solutions.
The system should provide a mechanism to support a Group Communication end-to-
end setup time less than or equal to 300ms. It is assumed that this value is
for an uncontended network, where there is no presence checking and no
acknowledgements requested from Receiver Group Member(s). The end-to-end setup
time is defined as the time between when a Group Member initiates a Group
Communication request on a UE and the point when this Group Member can start
sending start sending a voice or data communication.
The time from when a UE requests to join an ongoing Group Communication to the
time that it receives the Group Communication should be less than or equal to
300ms.
  1. Note: The 300 ms indicated in the preceding requirements is based on > requirements from ETSI ETR 086 [8] for legacy TETRA mission > critical voice systems. It is understood that these requirements > are particularly important for half duplex voice communication and > other data that is delay sensitive. These requirements may not be > met in some cases where the data is delay insensitive e.g., a > large document and/or where the type of Group Communication > requires acknowledgement(s) from Receiver Group Members before it > is allowed to proceed.
```{=html}
``` 1\. The end to end delay for media transport for Group Communications
should be less than or equal to 150 ms [6, 7].
### 5.1.3 Service continuity
When UEs are moving among cells during Group Communication, service continuity
shall be supported.
### 5.1.4 Resource efficiency
The system shall provide a mechanism to efficiently distribute data for Group
Communication.
### 5.1.5 Scalability
The number of Receiver Group Members in any area may be unlimited
The system shall support multiple distinct Group Communications in parallel to
any one UE that is capable of supporting that number of distinct Group
Communications in parallel. The mechanisms defined shall allow future
extension of the number of distinct Group Communications supported in
parallel.
Note: This includes both multiple Group Communications within the same GCSE
Group, and multiple Group Communications associated with multiple GCSE Groups.
The actual number of such Group Communications achievable and desirable will
depend on the type of media.
### 5.1.6 Security requirements for Group Communication
The system shall support at least the same security level for Group
Communication (e.g. for Authentication, Integrity, Confidentiality and
Privacy) as a 3GPP LTE packet data bearer.
5.1.7 Charging requirements for Group Communication
The system shall support the collection of resource and service usage
information for Group Communication.
5.1.8 Roaming and network interworking requirements
The system shall support the transmitting and/or receiving of Group
Communication by Group Members that are roaming.
Subject to operator agreement, the system shall be able to support Group
Communications where Group Members are attached to different PLMNs.
An interface shall be provided to enable Group Communication interworking
between a network offering GCSE-based Group Communication Services with either
or both of:
\- another 3GPP network offering GCSE-based Group Communication Services,
\- a non-3GPP network offering group communication services.
5.1.9 High availability of Group Communication
The system shall be capable of achieving high levels of availability for Group
Communications utilising GCSE_LTE, e.g. by seeking to avoid single points of
failure in the GCSE_LTE architecture and/or by including recovery procedures
from network failures.
## 5.2 Group handling
### 5.2.1 Void
### 5.2.2 Void
## 5.3 Group Communication
### 5.3.1 Group Communication setup requirements
The system shall provide a mechanism to setup, release, and modify a
multipoint service with applicable parameters e.g. QoS, priority.
The system shall validate the parameters received in the request to setup or
modify a Group Communication based on the policy specified by the group's
subscription information, e.g. checks for QoS, priority.
The system shall provide the means to notify the requesting entity of any
updates in the status of an on-going Group Communication.
The system shall provide notification to the requesting entity of the outcome
of a request to setup, release, or modify a multipoint service.
### 5.3.2 Void
### 5.3.3 Void
### 5.3.4 Priority and pre-emption of GCSE communication
The following requirements apply to the allocation and retention of system
resources:
The system shall provide a mechanism to support at least n priority levels for
Group Communication.
The system shall provide a mechanism to support reassignment of Group
Communication priority level.
The network operator shall be able to configure each Group Communication
priority level with the ability to pre-empt lower priority Group
Communications and non-Group Communications traffic.
The system shall provide a mechanism to allow pre-emption of lower priority
for Group Communications and non-Group Communications traffic.
Group Members within a GCSE Group shall be able to have different priorities
from each other.
### 5.3.5 Void
### 5.3.6 User perception of Group Communication
All Receiver Group Members in a given area shall receive the Group
Communication at the same time according to user perception.
# 6 Interaction with other services and functions
## 6.1 Emergency calling
The ability for a UE to make an emergency call (3GPP TS 22.101 [5]) shall be
unaffected by being in a Group Communication.
## 6.2 Interaction with ProSe
The system shall support groups whose membership shall be the same
irrespective of whether a Group Communication is made using ProSe Group
Communication or GCSE Group Communication.
GCSE Group Members shall be able to access Group Communication services using
ProSe Communication paths [9] and/or by EPC Path (3GPP TS 22.278 [9]).
###### ## Annex A (informative): Use cases
# A.1 Speech Group Call use case
## A.1.1 Description
This use case describes communications in a speech group call.
## A.1.2 Pre-conditions
A \"traffic\" group is enabled on the system, where \"system\" refers to the
combination of group call application and underlying 3GPP network.
The list of UEs permitted to join the group is defined on the system.
The operating area of the group is defined on the system (e.g. by lists of
eNodeBs which are allowed to support the group).
UEs are configured with lists of groups that they may join.
Mick is a dispatcher in control of \"traffic\" group.
Traffic group officers are members of \"traffic\" group and include Ned,
Oscar, Peter and Roger.
Simon is another officer who is not authorised to use \"traffic\" group.
## A.1.3 Service flows
### A.1.3.1 Service Flow 1 -- Joining a group
Traffic group officers including Ned, Roger and Peter (but not Oscar), who are
within the defined operating area of the traffic group, select the group on
their UE devices in order to join the group and communicate in the group. The
group is also selected on Mick's dispatcher terminal.
The UE indicates to the user if joining the group was successful.
Oscar is located outside the defined area of the traffic group. His UE
indicates that he is out of area for this group.
Simon is within the defined area of the \"traffic\" group, but he is not
authorised to use the group.
### A.1.3.2 Service Flow 2 -- Joining and leaving a group based on group
operating area
Oscar has not changed the group setting on his UE. He moves into the group\'s
operating area. His UE automatically joins the group, and he receives an
indication on the UE that he is now within the operating area of the group.
Ned moves to an area outside the operating area of the group. The system
automatically removes his UE from the group. The UE indicates to Ned that he
is now outside the operating area of the group.
### A.1.3.3 Service Flow 3 -- Call start
Ned moves back to an area within the defined operating area of the group. His
UE automatically joins the group, and he receives an indication that he is now
within the operating area of the group.
The group is not carrying traffic.
Oscar initiates a call to the group on his UE. The system sets the call up.
Oscar receives an indication that the call is set up, and he may talk, within
300 ms of initiating the call setup. Other group members, irrespective of
their location relative to Oscar and irrespective of the number of users who
have joined the group, receive an indication that a call is starting within
300 ms of Oscar initiating the call setup.
The system efficiently allocates resources on all cells, and cells that
provide service to many group members use the same resources for all members
to receive the call.
Oscar speaks, and all group members including the dispatcher Mick hear the
audio that he has spoken within minimal delay (within a few hundred
milliseconds). The audio is a one way transmission, i.e. receiving parties
hear Oscar's spoken audio, but no-one hears audio from any of the receiving
parties.
All receiving parties including the dispatcher, Mick, can see Oscar's identity
as the talking party on their UEs up to the time Oscar disconnects his call to
the group.
Differences in audio delay are not noticeable to officers standing near each
other who are receiving service from the same cell as each other; i.e. they do
not hear an \"echo\" effect from different UEs.
Any UEs which are permitted to be members of the group, but which have not
joined the group do not take part in the call.
### A.1.3.4 Service Flow 4 -- Call interruption
While Oscar is still speaking, Ned attempts to speak (i.e. he makes a PTT
request).
\- If the system is configured such that the transmitting party cannot be
interrupted, then Ned's PTT request is rejected. He receives an indication on
his UE of the rejection. Oscar continues to speak and to be heard by all
receiving parties in the group.
\- If the system is configured (such that interruption is possible, or is
possible based on relative priorities of Oscar and Ned, and Ned has a higher
priority rating), then the system sends a message to Oscar's UE withdrawing
transmit permission. The UE indicates this to Oscar, and Oscar\'s UE no longer
transmits. The system grants transmit permission to Ned's UE, which indicates
that his request is successful. Ned now speaks, and his speech is heard by the
group from this point onwards. All receiving parties now see Ned's identity as
the talking party on their UEs.
If priorities are used, at least four priorities are needed for normal user,
supervisory user, dispatcher and supervisory dispatcher.
### A.1.3.5 Service Flow 5 -- Talking party changeover
When the current talking party (Oscar in 4.1, Ned in 4.2) has finished
speaking, an indication is sent to the UEs of all group members.
Peter then initiates speech transmission to the group. The group call goes on
with Peter as the talking party.
### A.1.3.6 Service Flow 6 -- Late Entry and mobility
Roger has not previously selected the \"traffic\" group, and therefore has not
been listening to audio. Whilst Peter is transmitting, Roger selects the
\"traffic\" group on his UE. The UE signals to the system that it wants to
join the group, and system grants the request. The UE joins the call, and
Roger hears the audio being spoken by Peter, and Roger's UE displays Peter's
identity as the talking party.
The system allocates resources efficiently to include Roger. If Roger is
receiving service from an eNodeB which is also serving several other users,
Roger's UE uses the same resources that are being used for the other users.
Ned is receiving the call on one cell, but moves to another cell whilst Peter
is transmitting. The system hands over Ned\'s call to the new cell. If the new
cell is serving several other users, Ned's UE uses the same resources that are
being used for the other users. Ned experiences minimal interruption to his
received audio due to the cell change.
Whilst transmitting, Peter moves to another cell. The system hands over
Peter\'s call to the new cell and allows him to continue transmission with
minimal interruption.
### A.1.3.7 Service Flow 7 -- Call release
Peter finishes transmitting and ends the call on his UE. The UE signals to the
system that the transmission is ceased, and the system in turn signals this to
all receiving parties in the call. Peter's audio is no longer heard, and his
identity is no longer displayed as the talking party.
After a short period of time, the system releases resources which had been
assigned to the call.
The Group Call is cleared by the system after a short time after the last
speaker and no one has spoken in the meantime (and the system may be
configured with a timer to determine this time).
### A.1.3.8 Service Flow 8 -- Blocking of resources
Oscar initiates a new call. Traffic group members are spread across several
cells.
Calling Party cell busy:
\- Oscar's cell does not have enough resources to support the new call.
\- Oscar receives an indication that the call cannot be established, and will
be queued.
\- The system places the call in a queue until enough resources are available
at least on Oscar's cell.
\- Once enough resources are available, the call is started, and Oscar
receives an indication that he can start to transmit.
Receiving Party cell busy:
  * Oscar's cell has enough resources to support the call, but on one or more cells where group members are receiving service, the system does not have enough resources to support the new call. Two alternatives may follow:
\-- Queued configuration: If the system is configured to queue calls, the call
is queued until the system has enough resources to support all the users of
the group. Oscar receives an indication that the call has been queued. Once
enough resources become available, Oscar receives an indication that he can
start to transmit.
\-- Immediate call start configuration: If the system is configured to start
providing that the talking party's cell has sufficient resources, the call
will be started and audio received by receiving parties in the call on cells
where the system has enough resources to receive the call. If cells that did
not have enough resources at the start of the call subsequently have the
enough resources available e.g. due to a reduction in load, users on those
cells are connected into the call as soon as is possible.
## A.1.4 Post-conditions
Whilst idle, the group is not consuming system resources.
# A.2 \"See what I see\" use case
## A.2.1 Description
This use case illustrates a situation where a policeman shares multimedia
content (video and/or picture) with all the members of a pre-defined group
(including the dispatcher and group members in the field). According to the
operational rules of the users, the sharing of multimedia content within a
group might be authorized by a dispatcher or not. This use case describes the
case where the sharing is authorized by the dispatcher.
## A.2.2 Actors
A group of police officers is affected to a mission of protecting a touristic
and shopping area from pickpockets and delinquency acts.
Officer Graham is the dispatcher in the control room.
Officer Smith and Johnson are two members of the team on the field.
Officer Smith is assigned to the surveillance of the main square of the
touristic and shopping area. Officer Johnson is another member of the group
assigned to the surveillance of a set of streets adjacent to the main square
of the area.
## A.2.3 Pre-conditions
A group \"Area Protection Team\" is created to provide multimedia
communications between the officers in the field and the incident management
officer in the control room.
All officers (including Officers Graham, Smith and Johnson) have their
equipment configured to the \"Area Protection Team\" group.
Officer Smith is equipped with a wearable camera connected to his UE. Officer
Smith's terminal is also capable of multimedia communications (video, voice
group calls, text and data). All members of the group in the field have the
same equipment set-up.
Default communication mode is Push to Talk (PTT) voice [refer to A.1 \"Speech
Group Call Use Case and requirement proposal\"].
## A.2.4 Service flows
1- Officer Smith is supervising the main square of the touristic and shopping
area. He is in voice group call communications with all members of the team on
the \"Area Protection Team\" group.
2- Suddenly, a pick-pocket steals a camera from a tourist in the vicinity of
the Officer Smith. Officer Smith informs the team (including the dispatcher)
using PTT voice communication that an incident is occurring in the main
square.
3- Officer Smith identifies the suspect in the crowd. He activates the
transmission of his wearable live video camera. A live video communication is
created between Officer Smith's UE and the control room. Officer Graham can
also see the suspect on the live video. Optionally, Officer Smith receives an
indication that Officer Graham is actually receiving the live video flow.
3bis- Optionally, Officer Graham remotely triggers a modification of the
quality of the live video to a higher quality.
4 -- Officer Graham dispatches the video to the other members of the team so
that all of them can identify how the suspect looks like (note, suspect
identification can be augmented by means of voice description using the PTT
communications on the \"Area Protection Team\" and/or by highlighting and
tracking the image of the suspect on the live video). A video group
communication is then created from the network to all team members. All team
members can now see what Officer Smith is seeing and can also identify the
suspect in the crowd.
5 -- From the live video that Officer Johnson receives on his terminals, he
realises that the suspect is running into his direction. He gets ready to
arrest the suspect.
6 -- Officer Johnson arrests the suspect.
## A.2.5 Post-condition
After the suspect has been arrested, Officer Graham suspends the sharing of
the video with all group members.
Officer Smith stops transmitting live video images.
Communications between all members of the team reverts to nominal PTT voice
communication.
# A.3 Harmonized multi-agency use case
## A.3.1 Description
This use case illustrates a situation where a GCSE_LTE group of personnel from
one local agency (e.g. fire fighters) will need to be joined with other
GCSE_LTE groups of personnel from other agencies representing the same
locality (e.g. police, ambulance), or with other GCSE_LTE groups from
national, international or adjacent localities (e.g. police from an adjacent
force, national authorities, or authorities from an adjacent country). In all
cases the various groups which form the composite group must be able to
join/leave the composite group and be identified as members of it. The
individual personnel must also be able to fully participate in multimedia
sessions within the composite group (i.e. take the floor, receive broadcast
communications, etc.).
## A.3.2 Actors
A group of local fire fighters, called to an explosion and gas leak from a
chemical facility close to a national border.
The local fire service dispatcher.
A group of local ambulance personnel, called to attend to casualties at the
site.
A group of local police officers, called to evacuate residents downwind of the
leak in the same country.
A group of police officers in the adjacent country, called to prepare for
possible evacuation of residents downwind of the leak in their territory.
## A.3.3 Pre-conditions
The local fire fighters are members of GCSE_LTE Group A.
The local ambulance personnel are members of GCSE_LTE Group B.
The local police officers are members of GCSE_LTE Group C.
The group of police officers in the adjacent country are members of GCSE_LTE
Group Z.
The GCSE_LTE applications on the UEs in all four groups are compatible, and
are able to interwork with one another and with any of the four individual
GCSE_LTE servers which may eventually control them.
## A.3.4 Service flows
1- The local fire fighters are called to the scene and use GCSE_LTE Group A.
They notice casualties. The local ambulance personnel attend to the casualties
and use GCSE_LTE Group B.
2- A second chemical storage tank is seen to be in imminent danger of rupture
so the Fire Service Dispatcher adds GCSE_LTE Group B to Group A to form a
composite group, in order to keep Ambulance personnel appraised of the
situation. Members of both groups are able to use the composite group to
communicate amongst each other using all the common capabilities of the
GCSE_LTE clients resident on their UEs.
3- The local police officers are called to the surrounding area in order to
evacuate nearby residents and prevent others from entering. They use GCSE_LTE
Group C. The Fire Service Dispatcher adds GCSE_LTE Group C to the composite
group in order to keep them appraised. Members of all three groups are able to
use the composite group to communicate amongst each other using all the common
capabilities of the GCSE_LTE clients resident on their UEs.
4- The prevailing wind carries the gas cloud from the initial leak towards the
national border so the Police Authority in the adjacent country mobilises
their local force to prepare residents for evacuation. They use GCSE_LTE Group
Z.
5- The Fire Service Dispatcher adds GCSE_LTE Group Z to the composite group to
keep the police force in the adjacent country appraised. Members of all four
groups are able to use the composite group to communicate amongst each other
using all the common capabilities of the GCSE_LTE clients resident on their
UEs.
6- The second chemical storage tank is successfully damped down by the local
fire service, made safe, and further danger is averted. The initial gas cloud
dissipates to a safe level.
7- The local fire fighters inform the Fire Service Dispatcher that all is
safe. The Fire Service Dispatcher is able to inform all members of the
composite group that the incident is over.
## A.3.5 Post-condition
Having informed the composite group members that all is safe the Fire Service
Dispatcher dissolves the composite group.
Communications between members of the four individual GCSE_LTE groups continue
within the separate groups A, B, C, and Z.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Group communication concept(s)
From the 3GPP network perspective the concept of a group communication appears
to be a foreign concept. The concept of group communication has been the
underpinnings of public safety communications currently and in the past, not
point to point communications. A group communication is the ability for a set
of devices to be considered as a whole. In these public safety systems the
method for identifying a group communication has evolved from a particular
radio frequency to an abstraction (i.e., a logical group identifier). The
logical Venn diagram shown in figure 1 shows the concept of a group
communication considering three characteristics: a member of a group (A), the
device is reachable (R), and the device wants to participate (P).
{width="4.740277777777778in" height="4.388888888888889in"}
Figure B.1: Group characteristics
The truth table shown in Table B.1 provides the expected actions that the 3GPP
network must provide to the device based on these three characteristics.
Table B.1: Expected actions
* * *
representative device member of group reachable wants to participate actions
x8 T T T receives notice, receives call, participates in communication x7 T T
F receives notice, receives call, does not participate x6 T F T does not
receive notice, does not receive call, does not participate x5 T F F does not
receive notice, does not receive call, does not participate x4 F T T does not
receive notice, does not receive call, does not participate x3 F T F does not
receive notice, does not receive call, does not participate x2 F F T does not
receive notice, does not receive call, does not participate x1 F F F does not
receive notice, does not receive call, does not participate
* * *
Using these characteristics the 3GPP network needs to know the devices that
make up the group communication so that it can make the appropriate inquiries
and make the correct decisions to determine reachability, membership, and
participation. The condition (or indication) to participate may be at the
device level or may be a decision made by the user of the device. The 3GPP
network is the only entity that knows whether a device is reachable. The
application layer can indirectly obtain the reachability information from the
3GPP network (e.g., be using it to deliver an application \"ping\" message).
As one can see from Table 1 the actual devices that will compose the group
communication may not be all of the devices that are listed as members of a
group.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Description of usage of GCSE_LTE for public
safety
Based on real life scenarios, at least 36 simultaneous voice group
communications involving a total of at least 2000 participating users in an
area , with up to 500 users being able to participate in the same group could
be expected.
#