# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Mobile operators are seeing significant increases in user data traffic. For
some operators, user data traffic has more than doubled annually for several
years. Although the data capacity of networks has increased significantly, the
observed increase in user traffic continues to outpace the growth in capacity.
This is resulting in increased network congestion and in degraded user service
experience. Reasons for this growth in traffic include the rapidly increasing
use of \"smart phones\" and the proliferation of data applications that they
support, and the use of USB modem dongles for laptops to provide mobile or
nomadic Internet access using 3GPP networks. As the penetration of these
terminals increases worldwide, this trend of rapidly increasing data traffic
is expected to continue and possibly accelerate.
Network operators continue to invest in additional network capacity (network
entities and connectivity resources) attempting to cope with user data traffic
increases that cause user plane congestion. This additional investment is
becoming increasingly costly due to the rapid and continuing increases in user
data traffic. From a CAPEX or OPEX perspective, this approach is not
sufficient. In addition, existing QoS and PCC mechanisms are being deployed
but the full effect is still to be seen. It is therefore necessary to study
approaches and mechanisms to manage user plane congestion.
# 1 Scope
This TR considers scenarios and use cases where high usage levels lead to user
plane traffic congestion in the RAN, and proposes requirements for handling
user plane traffic when RAN congestion occurs. The aim is to make efficient
use of available resources to increase the potential number of active users
while maintaining the user experience.
Scenarios that will be considered include handling of user plane traffic when
RAN congestion occurs based on:
  * the subscription of the user;
  * the type of application;
  * the type of content.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.860: \"Enabling coder selection and rate adaptation for UTRAN
and E-UTRAN for load adaptive applications; Stage 2\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Network** : remaining part of the \"3GPP system\" after excluding the UE.
**RAN user plane congestion:** the situation where the demand for RAN
resources to transfer user data exceeds their capacity to deliver the user
data with the expected QoS.
**System** : \"3GPP system\" is defined in TR 21.905 [1].
**User plane traffic** : user data to be transferred between entities
connected to the 3GPP network but not used by the 3GPP network for purposes
such as set-up and release of data sessions.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
DMB Disaster Message Board
MOCN Multi-Operator Core Network
OTT Over-the-Top
# 4 Scenarios and use cases
## 4.1 Congestion scenarios
### 4.1.1 General
What is \"user plane\" traffic and what is \"control plane\" traffic?
Examples of \"user plane\" traffic are keep-alive messages for smart phone
applications, TCP synchronization messages, streaming data and HTTP data.
\"Control plane\" traffic includes LTE/EPC-related signalling such as RRC, NAS
messages for set-up and release of data sessions, etc.
There is not a 1:1 relationship between the amount of control information and
the amount of user data transferred. What is envisaged is that the volume of
user plane data may exceed the capacity of the radio technology to transfer
user data while the relevant control channels remain uncongested. It is also
possible that the volume of control information may exceed the capacity of the
control channels while the volume of user data is less than the capacity of
the user data channels, e.g., smart phone application keep-alive functions
which do frequent set-up and release of data sessions.
In this TR, the focus is on user plane congestion. It is presumed that the
control plane is not in congestion. This means that there is available control
plane capacity to allow action to be taken to manage user plane congestion.
### 4.1.2 Identifying user plane traffic using its attributes
This section considers a number of general aspects to provide context for the
use cases in subsequent sections.
The aim is to manage user plane traffic when RAN congestion occurs. Therefore,
the problem is to select the appropriate user plane traffic flows to be
subjected to congestion management. This selection process needs to be based
on attributes of the traffic flows.
Approaches to selecting user plane traffic flows to be subjected to congestion
management may affect one or more subscribers, one or more applications, or
one or more types of traffic.
One approach to managing user plane congestion is to control all the traffic
for a given subscriber without further considering the nature of that
subscriber\'s traffic flows. Operators may choose to offer subscriptions with
various levels or tiers of service with differing performance levels when
congestion occurs, and use the subscription level to manage user plane
congestion by giving higher precedence to users with a higher subscription
level.
Therefore, a candidate attribute in identifying the traffic to be managed is
the identity of the subscriber sending or receiving it.
Another approach to managing user plane congestion is to control the volume of
traffic to and from web sites supporting certain types of applications. Some
applications may involve much more data transfer than others. Some
applications may have unique traffic profiles peculiar to their functions. For
example, social networking web sites may have traffic profiles with higher and
lower traffic levels at times of the day different from those for business
email or web browsing. Throttling different applications when user plane
congestion occurs may be an effective approach for mitigating user plane
congestion. Some types of application require near real time handling of
traffic (e.g., point of sale terminals) while others may be relatively less
time sensitive (e.g., calendar and contact list updates, vending machine
reports, email push, etc.) Under user plane congestion conditions, the less
time sensitive application traffic should be controlled before the more time
sensitive.
Therefore, a second candidate attribute in identifying the traffic to be
managed is the type of application.
Another approach to managing congestion is to control certain types of
traffic. Some types of traffic inherently demand more network resources and
therefore are more impacting on user plane congestion. Web browsing and email
may entail short periods of heavy demand but are then likely to be followed by
relatively long periods of low or no activity from a user plane traffic point
of view. Streaming applications (audio, video, multimedia) are likely to place
high demands on the user plane and for longer durations than other types of
traffic. An application may involve multiple types of traffic (e.g. a social
networking application may involve user browsing among friends\' postings,
then streaming a video posted by a friend.) Hence this approach may affect
some types of traffic for a given application but not others. It may therefore
be seen as finer-grained than user plane traffic management controls on an
application basis. Controlling this type of traffic, especially when multiple
subscribers using this type of user plane traffic are in close proximity to
each other, may be an effective approach.
Therefore, a third key candidate attribute in identifying the traffic to be
managed is its type.
Each of the three categories of approaches identified, can be applied
individually, or combined with one another in a given traffic congestion
management situation. For example, a high tier user may be running an
application of lesser time sensitivity.
### 4.1.3 User plane congestion due to full use of cell capacity
When a number of UEs have user plane traffic totalling the cell capacity, and
then an additional UE attempts to generate user plane traffic, congestion
occurs. This is because the traffic volume exceeds the capacity of the cell.
This is illustrated in Figure 1 for UE 3, using example capacities.
Figure 1 - User plane congestion due to full use of cell capacity (example
capacities)
### 4.1.4 User plane congestion due to 3GPP RAN to EPC interface capacity
limitation
When the user plane data volume of all the UEs being served by Cells A, B and
C totals more than the actual capacity of the 3GPP RAN to EPC interface, there
will be a potential impact on all the UEs involved. This may lead to excessive
data rate reduction or service denial. Even though each cell may have the
necessary capacity to support the UEs it is serving, the capacity of the 3GPP
RAN to EPC interface has an impact on each UE and may in the worst case
actually prevent UEs from being offered any capacity at all. This is
illustrated in Figure 2.
Figure 2 - User plane congestion due to 3GPP RAN\ to EPC interface capacity
limitation (example capacities)
## 4.2 Use case 1 - Managing congested RAN traffic using differentiated
service subscription QoS attributes
### 4.2.1 Description
RAN design is resource constrained due to available radio spectrum
limitations. This can lead to congestion in crowded cells, e.g. peak hour at
train stations, peak business hours in business areas. There is a category of
subscribers (e.g. business users) who would be willing to pay extra for a
service plan that provides prioritized (higher QoS / MBR) access than other
subscribers during congestion.
NOTE: This is very similar to \"priority boarding queue\" feature provided by
airlines to their loyal / higher class of service travellers (first / business
class) to avoid waiting and congestion at the boarding gate.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
Alice and Bob have different subscription service profiles to address
congestion situations.
Alice has an expensive platinum subscription plan that allows her \"priority\"
access for mobile broadband Internet access.
Bob has a cheaper subscription plan that allows him \"best effort\" mobile
broadband access.
### 4.2.3 Service flows
Both Alice and Bob are at the airport lounge waiting to board their flights to
the SA1 meeting.
Due to peak time, the (E) UTRAN cell serving the airport / gate is over
subscribed and congested.
Both Alice and Bob choose to download the SA1 contributions from ftp.3gpp.org.
Since Alice has a platinum priority service subscription, she gets prioritized
treatment over Bob who has a \"best effort\" subscription.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
Alice downloads 60 MB worth of SA1 documents successfully in 8 minutes, boards
her flight, during which she will be able to review the contributions. She is
happy that she subscribed for premium service that gives her priority access
in congested cells.
Bob is only able to download 5 MB worth of SA1 documents i.e. only 1/8^th^ of
the contributions. He is not happy and decides to upgrade his service plan to
\"platinum\" after he comes back from the meeting.
### 4.2.5 Potential requirements
The network shall be able to detect user plane congestion.
When making QoS policy decisions, the network shall be able to take into
consideration the RAN congestion level and the subscriber\'s profile when
coping with traffic congestion.
The network shall be able to configure such RAN congestion-based policy rules.
## 4.3 Use case 2 - User level traffic control
### 4.3.1 Description
Operators may provide some flat rate data plans to attract more users or
encourage the users to use more network services, especially at the early
phase of a new network. Normally these flat rate plans are well-designed to
ensure both users\' acceptance and operators\' revenue. However, there are
always a few heavy users as determined by operator policy, e.g. over a billing
cycle or based on usage measurements, who consume much more network resources
than the others. One method to control this is setting a volume threshold and
reducing the data rate if the amount of data exceeds the threshold. However,
this will unavoidably reduce these users\' experience even though there are
plentiful network resources. A compromise to improve the above situation is to
reduce the data rate of heavy users only when RAN user plane congestion
occurs.
Operators may also apply user level traffic control to roaming users according
to roaming agreement or to guarantee local users\' experience. In this case,
to optimize the roaming users\' experience, this user level traffic control,
e.g. bandwidth control, is only applied when the roaming users are in
congested cells.
### 4.3.2 Pre-conditions
Alice is a subscriber of operator A. Alice is a heavy user whose total used
volume of this month has exceeded, e.g. 2GB. Alice\'s contract with operator A
allows operator A to reduce Alice\'s maximum data rate to, e.g. 512 kbps
(applicable to both uplink and downlink) when the RAN is congested.
Operator A and operator B have signed a roaming agreement. According to the
roaming agreement, operator A is allowed to downgrade the maximum data rate
for a UE roaming into its network to, e.g. 512 kbps, when the RAN is
congested.
Bob is a subscriber of operator B. Bob is now roaming to operator A\'s
network.
### 4.3.3 Service flows
Cell X of operator A\'s network is lightly loaded at 8 AM. The current data
rate for each user ranges from, e.g. 1 Mbps to 10 Mbps. All the users enjoy
good user experience at this time.
At 9 AM, cell X becomes user plane congested as there are more active users
and some of the users are using downloading services. Now there are some local
users, including Tom and John, whose data rate is lower than, e.g. 128kbps.
The user experience under cell X now becomes poor.
The network detects this user plane congestion of cell X and that there are,
e.g. 5 heavy users and 10 roaming users, among all active users under cell X.
The network downgrades each heavy user\'s data rate to 512kbps. The network
also downgrades each roaming user\'s maximum data rate to 512 kbps. As a
result, the data rate of other local users, including Tom and John, improves
to a certain degree, e.g. to more than 512 kbps.
Alice is one of the 5 heavy users in cell X. Bob is one of the roaming users
in cell X. When Alice and Bob move to cell Y which is not user plane
congested, the network detects this and deactivates their data rate
limitation. Alice\'s data rate goes up to, e.g. 5 Mbps, and Bob\'s data rate
goes up to, e.g. 10 Mbps.
At 11 AM, the network detects that cell X becomes lightly loaded. The network
deactivates the data rate limitation of all the heavy users and the roaming
users in cell X. The data rate of the heavy users and roaming users under cell
X goes up to normal state.
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
The efficiency of cell X is improved in the period between 9 AM and 11 AM. The
overall user experience in cell X during this period is also improved.
### 4.3.5 Potential requirements
The network shall be able to detect user plane congested cells.
The network shall be able to identify active UEs accessing the network via the
congested RAN.
According to the operator\'s policies, the network shall be able to select
specific users (e.g. heavy users, roaming users, etc.) and adjust the QoS of
existing connections or the application of relevant policies for new
connections depending on the RAN load status.
## 4.4 Use case 3 - Application data rate control
### 4.4.1 Description
The resources required to provide good user experience vary from application
to application. For example, IM applications usually require frequent
signalling but little user plane traffic, while P2P applications are extremely
aggressive in user plane bandwidth occupation and may largely downgrade the
user experience of other applications.
When the RAN is congested due to user plane traffic, operators may want to
limit the data rate of some applications such as P2P applications and thereby
release some resources for other applications or for more users. In this case,
application level traffic control is needed.
In addition, user related information and content type may also need to be
considered during above flow. It is possible for the operator to allocate
higher data rate of the same applications for the \"platinum\" user than for
the user with cheap tariff plan, or to allocate different data rates of the
same applications with different content type, e.g. allocate higher date rates
on image transfer during instant messaging and lower date rates for text
transfer.
### 4.4.2 Pre-conditions
P2P downloading applications and streaming applications are defined by the
operator as aggressive bandwidth consuming applications and, e.g. 300kbps, is
the minimum data rate to guarantee the user experience of streaming
applications.
### 4.4.3 Service Flows
When cell X is congested due to user plane traffic at, e.g. in the period
21:00 to 23:00, the user experience in cell X is poor. The network detects
cell X\'s user plane congestion and enforces the following application level
traffic control to optimize the RAN user plane resource usage in cell X:
\- the data rate of the identified P2P downloading applications is limited to,
e.g. 128kbps for a UE of a user with a low cost tariff plan, and 512kbps for a
UE of a user with a \"platinum\" tariff plan;
\- the data rate of each identified streaming application is limited to, e.g.
300kbps for the UE of a user with a low cost tariff plan, and no downgrade for
a UE of a user with a \"platinum\" tariff plan;
\- the radio resource allocated of each identified IM application is limited
to, e.g. 64kbps for a UE with when using text transfer and 128kbps for a UE
when using image transfer.
After an hour, the network detects that cell X becomes lightly loaded again at
23:00. The above application level control is deactivated for cell X. As a
result, the P2P applications and the steaming applications\' maximum data rate
goes up to the users\' subscribed maximum data rate.
### 4.4.4 Post-conditions
The efficiency of cell X is improved during the period 21:00 and 23:00. The
overall user experience in cell X during this period is also improved.
### 4.4.5 Potential requirements
According to the operator\'s policies, the network shall be able to select
specific applications and control the data rate of the identified applications
based on RAN load status, at the same time taking into consideration the user
related information (e.g. a \"platinum\" subscription user should have good
experience even in case of congestion) and content type (e.g., text vs.
image.)
## 4.5 Use case 4 - Disaster service priority
### 4.5.1 Description
In this use case, a specific communication service is allocated resources
preferentially while a cell is congested due to high data traffic volume
during a disaster situation.
### 4.5.2 Pre-conditions
When disaster occurs, operator activates "disaster message board" (DMB)
service. Operator may announce activation of such service, e.g. via disaster
alerts broadcast via SMS in the affected area, or by other means. As one
example of DMB (other ways are plausible), this service is structured to
provide priority to any wireless traffic to and from a specific web site,
which routes messages to and from the disaster area. To prevent abuse,
messages may be limited to text or certain payload size. It should be noted
that DMB is not a priority service such as eMPS, which requires subscription.
In contrast to eMPS, DMB service applies to all UEs.
Bob and Alice are Nancy\'s parents. Their mobile addresses are known to each
other (e.g. telephone number, mail address, etc.)
Nancy lives away from her parents while attending university.
A disaster occurs around the area where Nancy lives.
People who are living in the disaster area try to inform their relatives about
their safety. There are also some people in the disaster area who are able to
take videos of the disaster situation and are uploading these videos on their
blogs. However, due to these actions, there is a considerable increase in data
traffic causing the network to become severely congested, which prevents Nancy
and many other people in the disaster area from contacting their relatives to
inform them about their safety.
### 4.5.3 Service flows
When the network becomes congested, activation of DMB effectively reduces the
bandwidth available to users uploading video files to their blogs since some
network resources in the affected area are used for prioritized disaster
message board messaging, allowing users to reach their relatives without
difficulty.
Therefore, when Nancy tries to inform her parents about her safety via the
disaster message board service, she can be guaranteed sufficient resources to
send the message.
### 4.5.4 Post-conditions
Bob and Alice can confirm Nancy\'s safety via the disaster message board.
### 4.5.5 Potential requirements
The following requirements are identified for this use case:
\- The network shall be able to identify specific high priority communications
(e.g. related to a disaster message board service.)
\- If the RAN is congested, the network shall be able to (re-)allocate
resources to such communications.
\- During RAN congestion, the operator shall be able to select the
communications which require preferential treatment and allocate sufficient
resources for such communications in order to provide these services with
appropriate service quality.
\- During RAN congestion, the system may allow continuation of non high
priority communications with possibly reduced resources.
## 4.6 Use case 5 - Managing congested traffic by using appropriate
application attributes
### 4.6.1 Description
The RAN is resource constrained due to available radio spectrum limitations.
This leads to frequent congestion in crowded cells, e.g. at peak hours at
train stations, at peak business hours in business areas. The majority of
mobile broadband traffic utilizes either a primary PDP context (for GPRS) or a
default bearer (for EPC) using a background service class . Subscribers use
applications such as social networking, Over-the-Top (OTT) audio/video,
blogging, internet games, FTP, software patches and updates, etc.
When the RAN is congested due to user plane traffic, operators may want to
limit the data rate of some applications such as software patches and updates,
with the consideration of user level or content type, as specified in section
4.4, use case 3 Application data rate control.
### 4.6.2 Pre-conditions
Alice, Bob and Cindy are in the same congested cell/sector.
Alice is using her smart phone to check her social networking application
status, browse friends\' photos and to subsequently perform a social network
application check-in at the local coffee shop.
Bob is using a mobile broadband USB stick with his laptop. His laptop starts
an automatic download of a new version of a large software application or an
upgrade patch, e.g. of 120 MB.
Cindy is using her smart phone to her social networking application to browse
friend text blog.
### 4.6.3 Service flows
Alice and Bob are accessing mobile broadband communications using different
applications. Alice is using her smart phone to access a social networking
application while Bob\'s laptop is automatically downloading a large software
update.
During traffic peak time the (E)UTRAN cell serving their location is
congested.
Since Alice is using an interactive social networking application her data
packets are prioritized over Bob\'s large software application patch.
User level and content type may also need to be considered in the above case.
If Bob is subscribed as the \"platinum\" user while Alice is subscribed with
cheap plan, it is possible that Bob\'s large software application patch update
is prioritized over Alice\'s social network application. In addition, although
Cindy and Alice perform the same application, Cindy\'s service content
requires less resource and therefore Alice\'s data packets are transmitted at
higher overall data rate than Cindy\'s data packets.
### 4.6.4 Post-conditions
Alice, Bob and Cindy are all fully satisfied with their mobile broadband
service. Although Bob\'s software update download is slower than it would have
been absent congestion, since it\'s a background non-interactive application,
Bob is not perceptibly impacted.
### 4.6.5 Potential requirements
The network shall be able to detect user plane congested cells.
The network shall be able to identify, differentiate and prioritize different
applications\' traffic such as social networking, OTT audio/video, blogging,
internet games, FTP, software patches and software downloads, etc., based on
the QoS attributes of the communications of these applications. User related
information and content type also need to be considered together in such
prioritization.
## 4.7 Use case 6 - Content delivery based on RAN congestion status
### 4.7.1 Description
Certain mobile content delivery based (also known as "Push") services are not
time sensitive. Such a service may occur at a designated time or periodically.
It is possible that localized congestion exists in the part of the RAN in
which a UE is residing at the time when a service for its subscriber is
planned to take place. The network would want to control when and when not to
activate such services to the UE in order to avoid further congestion. When
localized congestion in the RAN due to user plane traffic occurs, the operator
may want to delay the service for those users in the congested area until such
users move to an uncongested part of the RAN or the affected part of the RAN
becomes uncongested. Moreover, data to be delivered by a service may have a
period of validity. For example, a coupon delivered by a Push service is only
valid during a designated period.
A third party application provider offering Push services is expected to
include with the data to be pushed a validity period/\"best before time\"
(i.e. a point in time after which delivery should no longer be attempted and
the user plane Push content is discarded.) Variations may include no expiry
time (information is valid even if there is a long delay in delivery.) In
return, the operator may provide information to the third party service
provider on when the Push data is delivered or if delivery fails. These
variations may be considered \"added value\" and hence provide opportunity for
network operators to gain a revenue stream in addition to the basic Push
service.
### 4.7.2 Pre-conditions
Mike is subscribed to a third party Push advertisement service from a
restaurant that provides coupons to him in the format of an image or video
clip each day and these coupons are valid during the period from 18:00 to
20:00 the same day.
Alice and Bob are subscribed to operator X\'s Push service which pushes the
top 5 popular video clips to them every day.
Cindy has subscribed to a Push newspaper service. This service provides the
subscriber with the latest news by MMS twice each day. In order to enable
subscribers to get the latest news, the network sends the newspaper to
subscribers during a pre-specified time period. For example, the morning
newspaper is usually sent between 07:00 and 09:00. The night newspaper is sent
between 18:00 and 20:00.
### 4.7.3 Service flows
Mike\'s subscribed Push service usually pushes his coupons to him between
11:00 and 12:00. However, during this period, the part of the RAN where
Mike\'s UE resides is congested, therefore the network instructs the third
party Push service to pause Mike\'s service.
When the congestion abates, the network instructs the third party Push service
to resume Mike\'s service. If the period of validity of the coupons has not
expired, the Push service will deliver the coupons to Mike\'s UE. If the
period of validity expired by the time the congestion abates, the push service
may be cancelled rather than delivering the out-of-date coupons. In this case,
it should be noted that the cancellation only happens this day. In this
service, some measures can be taken to efficiently manage the delivery of
delay tolerant services that have a period of validity when the part of the
RAN where Mike\'s UE resides is congested.
Alice powers on her UE in the morning in her apartment. The network detects
that Alice\'s UE is in an uncongested part of the RAN. The Push server pushes
today\'s popular video clips to Alice\'s UE.
Bob powers on his UE in the morning when he arrives at a subway station. The
network detects that Bob\'s UE is in a congested part of the RAN, and pauses
Bob\'s Push service. After Bob arrives at his office, the network detects that
Bob\'s UE is in an uncongested part of the RAN and resumes Bob\'s Push service
which delivers today\'s popular video clips to Bob\'s UE unless the service\'s
expiry time has been reached.
During the pre-specified time period of sending the morning newspaper, the
part of the RAN in which Cindy\'s UE resides is congested in the user plane.
The network cancels delivering the morning newspaper to Cindy\'s UE.
### 4.7.4 Post-conditions
Mike receives his daily coupons via the push service before the period of
validity expires even if congestion occurs but only if the congestion abates
before the coupons expire. Alternatively, if the congestion does not abate
before the coupons expire the push service to Mike\'s UE is cancelled to avoid
unnecessary traffic in the RAN. Mike does not receive expired coupons.
The video clips are pushed to Alice and Bob\'s UEs when they are in
uncongested cells unless the service\'s expiry time has been reached.
When the RAN congestion abates, if the time is still between 07:00 and 09:00,
the network will allow Push of the morning newspaper to Cindy\'s UE. If the
time is past 09:00, the network cancels the Push of the morning newspaper to
Cindy\'s UE for today as the service\'s expiry time has been reached.
As traffic is more favourably distributed, or content is not delivered in some
cases, congestion is eased to a certain degree.
### 4.7.5 Potential requirements
The network shall be able to detect cell congestion onset and abatement.
The network shall be able to identify whether the Push service target UE is in
a user plane congested cell or not.
The network shall be able to provide a mechanism to defer its own Push
services based on the cell congestion status and the operator\'s policy (e.g.
the pre-specified time period of pushing.)
The network shall be able to inform third party provided Push services to
defer until advised otherwise Push services based on the cell congestion
status of the target UE\'s location and the operator\'s policy (e.g. the pre-
specified time period of pushing).
## 4.8 Use case 7 - Traffic compression and transcoding
### 4.8.1 Description
With the rapid growth in the number of smart phones, the data traffic
generated by users accessing the Internet to support the applications on their
UEs (e.g. smart phones) is increasing dramatically. Operators are facing major
challenges in maintaining their networks\' performance. In addition, overload
from data services traffic creates risks to the ability of operators to
maintain voice service quality. Therefore, in order to reduce the pressure on
networks and relieve the problems of traffic congestion, operators may expect
their networks to provide the capability to reduce load over the RAN, for
example by compressing or transcoding traffic into a format that requires less
bandwidth before sending it to UEs.
Web pages may consist of multiple types of content such as text, images, audio
and video. Data traffic compression means content compression, such as text
compression, image transcoding, etc.
Operators may expect the network to provide traffic compression using common
compression/ transcoding mechanisms. Operators may also expect the network to
configure flexible traffic compression based on the following attributes:
\- User (category such as gold, silver, bronze; identifier)
\- Application
\- UE parameters (e.g. screen resolution)
\- Time (e.g. time of day)
\- Date (e.g. New Year\'s Eve)
\- Location (e.g. stadium, shopping centre, etc.)
\- Access network type
### 4.8.2 Pre-conditions
The RAN user plane is not congested. Pre-conditions for Alice are:
\- Alice is a gold subscriber;
\- Alice\'s UE has a high resolution screen;
\- Alice\'s UE has an active data session with the mobile network; and
\- Alice\'s UE receives content without any network treatment, e.g. network
compression or adaptation.
Pre-conditions for Bob are:
\- Bob is a silver subscriber;
\- Bob\'s UE has a high resolution screen;
\- Bob\'s UE has an active data session with the mobile network; and
\- Bob\'s UE receives content without any network treatment, e.g. network
compression or adaptation.
Pre-conditions for Cindy are:
\- Cindy is a silver subscriber;
\- Cindy\'s UE has a low resolution screen;
\- Cindy\'s UE has an active data session with the mobile network; and
\- Cindy\'s UE receives content without any network treatment, e.g. network
compression or adaptation.
### 4.8.3 Service clows
The RAN becomes congested in the user plane.
The network identifies data traffic and enables the traffic load reduction
capability, e.g. compression or adaptation to a codec/format with lower date
rate to alleviate the congestion.
Alice\'s UE starts to access an image/video stream from a social networking
website. Her UE receives the original high-quality image/video stream from the
network.
Bob\'s UE accesses the same image/video stream. Based on Bob\'s silver
subscription the network transcodes the image into a medium quality image e.g.
lower colour depth but retaining the same resolution, same colour depth but
lower resolution, or adapts the streaming codec to a lower data rate. His UE
receives the transcoded medium-quality image/video stream.
Cindy\'s UE accesses the same image. As Cindy also has a silver subscription
and additionally a low resolution screen UE, the network transcodes the image
for her into a low quality image e.g. to a resolution appropriate for the
screen of her UE, or adapts the steaming codec to a lower date rate. Her UE
receives the transcoded low-quality image/video stream.
### 4.8.4 Post-conditions
The RAN user plane congestion abates. Traffic compression is discontinued.
Alice, Bob and Cindy receive uncompressed data.
### 4.8.5 Other service flows
#### 4.8.5.1 Time-based compression
At 1400, the network enables traffic compression capability automatically.
Alice accesses an image on a social networking website using her UE. The
network sends her UE a high-quality compressed image.
#### 4.8.5.2 Location-based compression
At 18:00, Bob goes to the Olympic stadium to watch a football game. Traffic
compression is enabled by default in the stadium area.
Bob accesses an image from a social networking website using his UE. The
network sends his UE a medium-quality compressed image.
#### 4.8.5.3 Application-based compression
Cindy stays at home to watch an on-line movie on a \"TOP 20\" web site. When
Cindy\'s UE accesses the video, the network sends her UE a medium-quality
compressed video.
### 4.8.6 Potential Requirements
The requirements derived from this use case are:
\- The network shall be made aware of the RAN user plane congestion state;
\- Based on RAN load status, per operator policies the network shall be able
to reduce the traffic load (e.g. by compressing (like HTTP 1.1 web content
into gzip format, transcoding a 16 bit TIFF image into an 8 bit TIFF image,
etc., or, adapting the codec for video streaming (which may be lossy or
lossless)), taking into account the UE related information (e.g. UE
capabilities, subscription) to relieve RAN user plane congestion.
## 4.9 Use case 8 - Servicing data connection requests/reactivations
### 4.9.1 Description
With the current situation where users are able to download and install
multiple \"data hungry\" mobile applications (\"apps\") onto their UEs, and
with the creators of such apps either prioritising their service/solution over
the integrity of the mobile network or just generally being unaware of the
perils of frequently transferring data, regardless of how small it is, mobile
operator networks are facing an increasing data load and the corresponding
challenges in meeting demand.
In order to reduce the pressure on networks and relieve the problem of traffic
congestion in this scenario, it is proposed that the UE informs the network
why a data connection is being requested (either a new connection or an
existing one moving from idle to active) based on whether or not the user
himself/herself actually initiated the request. With this information, the
operator can then treat the data connection activation request differently
e.g. deny the connection request indefinitely, deny the connection request
temporarily, accept the connection request anyway, etc. This creates the
possibility to increase the likelihood of connections for data traffic of
which the user is aware as he/she initiated it (known hereafter as Attended
Data Traffic) being successfully established and having good through-put. This
in turn has the benefit of increasing the user\'s perception of the state of
the network, since the user is more likely to notice Attended Data Traffic not
flowing than Unattended Data Traffic (i.e. data traffic that the user did not
directly initiate) not flowing.
NOTE: An app knows when a request for data is user initiated or when the
request is not intended for immediate rendering (on the screen), thus it could
provide an indication when it requests data from the network. Additionally or
alternatively, the UE could categorize connection requests into Attended or
Unattended based on one or more of the following criteria:
  * whether the screen/keyboard lock is activated
  * how long since the user last pressed a key or touched the touch > screen
  * the app informing the lower layers of the UE (e.g. as part of the > UE\'s API)
  * known type of the app (for instance, an app monitoring a user\'s > health - \"mHealth\" app - may need its data always treated as > Attended Data Traffic)
  * etc.
Operators may expect the network to differentiate data connection activations
for Unattended Data Traffic and Attended Data Traffic for all users or a
subset thereof based on the onset of congestion in the RAN and possibly one or
a combination of the following criteria:
\- User subscription (e.g. gold, silver, bronze)
\- Time (e.g. time of day)
\- Date (e.g. New Year\'s Eve)
\- Location (e.g. stadium, shopping centre, etc.)
\- RAT type
### 4.9.2 Pre-conditions
The RAN is not congested.
Pre-conditions for Alice are:
\- Alice is a gold subscriber;
\- Alice\'s UE has a social networking app installed that is set to check for
friends\' status updates every 10 minutes;
\- Alice\'s UE is able to inform the network when a data connection is needed
specifically due to an app\'s automatic update; and
\- Alice\'s UE has the screen/keyboard lock on and is in her handbag.
Pre-conditions for Bob are:
\- Bob is a silver subscriber;
\- Bob\'s UE has a social networking app installed that is set to check for
friends\' status updates every 10 minutes;
\- Bob\'s UE is able to inform the network when a data connection is needed
specifically due to an app\'s automatic update; and
\- Bob\'s UE has the screen/keyboard lock on and is in his pocket
Pre-conditions for Cindy are:
\- Cindy is a silver subscriber;
\- Cindy\'s UE has a social networking app installed that is set to check for
friends\' status updates every 10 minutes;
\- Cindy\'s UE is able to inform the network when a data connection is needed
specifically due to an app\'s automatic update; and
\- Cindy is using her UE to browse the web
### 4.9.3 Service flows
The RAN becomes congested.
Based on Alice\'s gold subscription, Alice\'s UE continues being able to
establish a new data connection (or reactivate an idle data connection) to
enable the social networking app to fetch friends\' status updates every 10
minutes i.e. her service remains unaffected.
Based on Bob\'s silver subscription, Bob\'s UE discontinues being able to
establish a new data connection (or reactivate an idle data connection) to
enable the social networking app to fetch friends\' status updates. If an
active data connection exists already, then the social networking app should
be able to fetch friends\' status updates until such time as it is torn down
or goes into idle.
Cindy continues to be able to browse the web and the social networking app on
Cindy\'s UE continues being able to fetch friends\' status updates every 10
minutes, until such time as she finishes her web browsing session (e.g. closes
the browser app) and the data connection is torn down or goes into idle.
### 4.9.4 Post-conditions
The RAN congestion abates.
Alice, Bob and Cindy\'s status updates were perceptible to them did not suffer
noticeably.
The volume of status update messages was lower than it would have been had the
updates been conducted without regard to the attendance status of these users.
Thus, the impact on network load is lessened.
### 4.9.5 Other service flows
#### 4.9.5.1 Time- and date-based trigger
At 23:30 on 31^st^ December 2012, the network stops serving requests for data
connection establishments/reactivations for Unattended Data Traffic based on
user category.
Alice\'s, Bob\'s and Cindy\'s UEs are subject to the same handling as in
4.9.3.
#### 4.9.5.2 Location-based trigger
Bob goes to the Olympic stadium to watch the women\'s shot-put finals.
Requests for data connection establishments/reactivations for Unattended Data
Traffic are not serviced by default in the stadium area, based on user
category.
Alice\'s, Bob\'s and Cindy\'s UEs are subject to the same handling as in
4.9.3.
#### 4.9.5.3 Delay rather than prohibit data connection requests for
Unattended Data Traffic
Alice\'s and Cindy\'s UEs are subject to the same handling as in 4.9.3.
Based on Bob\'s silver subscription, Bob\'s UE discontinues being able to
establish a new data connection (or reactivate an idle data connection) every
10 minutes but is allowed every 20 minutes, thus enabling the social
networking app to fetch friends\' status updates less frequently. If an active
data connection exists already, then the social networking app is able to
fetch friends\' status updates at the frequency desired i.e. every 10 minutes,
until such time as it is torn down or goes into idle.
### 4.9.6 Potential Requirements
The network shall be able to provide mechanisms to detect RAN congestion onset
and abatement.
The UE shall be able to inform the network whether a request for a data
connection establishment/reactivation is for Unattended Data Traffic or
Attended Data Traffic.
The network shall be able to identify whether a UE is in a congested cell and
if so, based on operator policy (which may include subscriber consent), the
system shall be able to prohibit or delay all or a particular selection of
requests for data connection establishments/reactivations for Unattended Data
Traffic from that UE.
According to the operator\'s policies, the system shall be able to identify
specific applications requesting certain types of network resources (e.g.,
P2P, streaming data) and use their status to make decisions on controlling the
data rate of the identified applications depending on RAN congestion status.
## 4.10 Use case 9 - Voice and video media quality modification
### 4.10.1 Description
With the current operator push for increased bit rates to provide the likes of
wideband voice (sometimes marketed as \"HD Voice\") and high definition (HD)
video, the data traffic generated by such media is likely to increase as more
and more UEs and operator networks become available to support it. As stated
in clause 4.8.1, operators are facing major challenges in maintaining their
networks\' performance, therefore maintaining the ability to provide end user
acceptable voice and video service quality is paramount. In order to reduce
the pressure on networks and relieve the problem of traffic congestion,
operators may expect their networks to provide the capability to renegotiate
voice and video media into a format of a lower quality that requires less
overhead e.g. lower bit rate. Such renegotiation can result in the existing
codec continuing to be used (but at a lower bit rate) or a new one be used. In
addition, the network should also include the flexibility to differentiate and
independently reduce the bit-rate between the voice and video media in order
to preserve the audio quality or connections for certain class of service
plans, e.g. non-GBR.
Operators may expect such media quality renegotiation capability is not only
used for voice /video call service, but also for packet-switched streaming
service (PSS), e.g. video-on-demand (VOD.)
Operators may expect the network to renegotiate voice and video media based on
one or more of the following attributes:
\- User (category such as gold, silver, bronze)
\- UE parameters (e.g. codecs supported)
\- Time (e.g. time of day)
\- Date (e.g. New Year\'s Eve)
\- Location (e.g. stadium, shopping centre, etc.)
\- RAT type
### 4.10.2 Pre-conditions
The RAN is not congested.
Pre-conditions for Alice are:
\- Alice is a gold subscriber;
\- Alice\'s UE supports one or more wideband voice/video codecs in addition to
one or more SD voice/video codecs; and
\- Alice\'s UE has an active wideband voice or HD video call with her friend
Cooper.
Pre-conditions for Bob are:
\- Bob is a silver subscriber;
\- Bob\'s UE supports one or more wideband voice/video codecs in addition to
one or more SD voice/video codecs; and
\- Bob\'s UE has an active wideband voice or HD video call with his friend
Dylan.
Pre-conditions for Cindi are:
\- Cindi is a silver subscriber;
\- Cindi\'s UE supports one or more SD voice/video codecs but no wideband/HD
codecs; and;
\- Cindi\'s UE has an active SD voice or SD video call with her friend Lauper.
Pre-conditions for Dave are:
  * Dave is a bronze subscriber;
  * Dave\'s UE supports one or more SD voice/video codecs but no wideband/HD codecs; and
  * Dave\'s UE has an active SD or SD video call with his friend Brubeck.
Pre-conditions for Tom are:
\- Tom has subscribed a VOD service;
\- Tom\'s UE supports one or more wideband voice/video codecs in addition to
one or more SD voice/video codecs; and
\- Tom\'s UE is accessing a HD video of VOD service.
NOTE 1: It is not important in the above as to which party initiated the call,
nor is it important as to whether or not Cooper, Dylan, Lauper and Dave are in
the same cell as Alice, Bob, Cindi and Brubeck, respectively.
NOTE 2: It is accepted that the same codec may support both SD and wideband
media flows.
### 4.10.3 Service flows
The RAN becomes congested.
The network identifies the wideband voice/video call media and enables codec
renegotiation for these calls [2].
Based on Alice\'s gold subscription, Alice is allowed to continue her call
with Cooper using the originally negotiated wideband codec/media.
Based on Bob\'s silver subscription, Bob\'s call with Dylan is renegotiated to
use an SD codec/media but his call still remains active.
Cindi also has a silver subscription but since her call is already using an SD
codec/media, her call with Lauper continues as is i.e. using the originally
negotiated SD codec/media.
Based on Dave\'s bronze subscription, Dave\'s call with Chris is
(re-)negotiated so that the video service bit rate is reduced to zero but his
voice call still remains active.
Tom\'s UE is allowed to continue accessing the VOD service but using an SD
codec/media.
NOTE: Operators can apply policy to originating calls, terminating calls, or
both. In the case of applying to both, the most oppressive policy will apply.
### 4.10.4 Post-conditions
The RAN congestion abates.
Alice, Bob and Cindi continue their respective calls.
Dave\'s video service bit rate is reduced so that he can continue his voice
call with Brubeck.
Tom\'s UE is allowed to continue accessing the VOD service using an HD
codec/media.
Due to the lower data rate for an SD codec compared to an HD codec, Bob\'s
call with Dylan and other similar calls are renegotiated to the SD rate help
reduce RAN congestion.
Silver subscribers such as Bob and Dylan perceive lower voice quality on the
SD call compared to an HD call. On the other hand, gold subscribers such as
Alice continue to enjoy HD call quality.
### 4.10.5 Other service flows
#### 4.10.5.1 Time- and date-based renegotiation of codec/media
At 23:30 on 31^st^ December 2012, the network enables renegotiation of
codec/media capability automatically.
Alice\'s, Bob\'s and Cindi\'s calls to Cooper, Dylan and Lauper are subject to
the same handling as in 4.10.3.
#### 4.10.5.2 Location-based renegotiation of codec/media
Bob goes to the Olympic stadium to watch the women\'s shot-put finals.
Renegotiation of codec/media is enabled by default in the stadium area.
Bob\'s call to Dylan is subject to the same handling as in 4.10.3.
### 4.10.6 Potential Requirements
The network shall be able to provide mechanisms to detect the RAN congestion
onset and abatement.
The network shall be able to identify whether a UE that has an on-going real-
time communication, e.g. voice/video call, PSS, is in a congested cell and if
so, based on operator policy (which may include subscriber consent), the
network shall be able to instruct the UE to renegotiate the communication
media parameters of such real-time communications so that they consume lower
bandwidth, e.g., a lower bit rate or a different codec type. The system shall
also be able to distinguish between the voice and video portion of the call;
(re-)negotiate either one separately to a lower bit rate. The network shall
allow the UEs to restore the original media parameter set, e.g. higher bit
rate, if RAN congestion has abated.
The network shall be able to notify the PSS Server of the changed media codec.
## 4.11 Use case 10 - Charging policy based on RAN congestion status
### 4.11.1 Description
Charging policy based on RAN congestion status refers to ability to monitor
user plane traffic across all cells in the network, and when a cell is
congested, the network can accordingly raise the service rate in congested
cell. If a particular cell has spare capacity then a lower service rate is
offered in that cell.
Charging policy based on RAN congestion status is a capacity of operators to
manage the traffic in the network. To some extent, it can balance the traffic
load between congested cells and lightly loaded cells. With rapidly changing
usage patterns and traffic patterns, adding capacity to the network to prevent
peak-usage congestion isn\'t a cost-effective. This different charging policy
influences subscriber demand and behaviour, making it possible to manage
congestion without increasing supply.
### 4.11.2 Pre-conditions
The user plane status is divided into multiple levels. (E.g. three levels:
light level, heavy level, and congested level)
The network shall be able to detect the congestion level of cells across the
network.
The network shall be able to identify active UEs accessing the system via
congested cells.
The network shall be able to identify active UEs accessing the system via
lightly loaded cells.
### 4.11.3 Service flows
Cell X is lightly loaded at 8 AM. As cell X becomes user plane congested at 10
AM, the user experience will become poor. The system informs users that data
service rate will be higher and starts charging users at the higher service
rate.
On another day at 11 AM, the system detects that cell X\'s user plane is
lightly loaded. The system informs users that there is a low service rate and
starts charging users at the lower rate.
### 4.11.4 Post-conditions
The users are charged based on RAN congestion status. Some users postpone the
download of large files in congested cells. The risk of user plane congestion
is potentially lower and average network utilization improves.
### 4.11.5 Potential requirements
The network shall be able to detect the congestion level of cells across the
network.
The network shall be able to identify active UEs accessing the system via
congested cells.
The network shall be able to identify active UEs accessing the system via
lightly loaded cells.
Based on operator strategy, the network shall be able to provide mechanism to
support different charging rates based on RAN load status.
## 4.12 Use case 11 - Multiple applications traffic control over one bearer
### 4.12.1 Description
The majority of mobile broadband traffic utilizes primary PDP context (for
GPRS) or default bearer (for EPC) for various applications data transmission,
like social networking, video, blogging, internet games, FTP, software patches
and updates, etc. All the packets flows for those applications share the same
QoS treatment for the primary PDP context or the default bearer.
### 4.12.2 Pre-conditions
Alice is using her smart phone to check her social networking application
status, browse friend photos and to subsequently perform a social network
check-in application at the local coffee shop. At the same time, her smart
phone starts an automatic download of a new version of a large software
application or an upgrade patch of, e.g. 120 MB.
Alice\'s smart phone only establishes one bearer (e.g. the primary PDP context
or the default bearer) to transmit all the packets for both social networking
application and software upgrading application.
### 4.12.3 Service flows
Due to peak time the (E)UTRAN cell serving her location is congested.
Due to congestion, the data rate on Alice\'s data sessions is reduced.
The network detects different applications are running and reduce the data
rate for downloading services but maintain the data rate of social networking
applications.
### 4.12.4 Post-conditions
Only software upgrading application is impacted due to the network congestion
control, data transfer becomes slow, unacceptable delay for social network
check-in.
Alice is happy as she can enjoy reasonable performance of her social
networking app.
### 4.12.5 Potential requirements
The network shall be able to identify, differentiate and prioritize different
applications with same QoS attributes such as social networking, video, blog,
internet games, FTP, software patches and updates, etc.
## 4.13 Use case 12 - Application Data Priority Control
### 4.13.1 Description
Operator may want to offer higher priority treatment in the network for the
applications which are owned by the operator than those owned by service
providers, even the type for the applications is the same, e.g. the IM
application belonging to the operator might have higher priority than those
belonging to the 3^rd^ party. The user experience should be enhanced for those
applications with higher priority.
### 4.13.2 Pre-conditions
Alice and Bob are at the same cell X.
Alice has installed the IM application A in her smart phone. The IM
application A is owned by the operator (either developed by the operator or
offered as a special agreement between the operator and the service provider.)
Bob has installed the IM application B in his smart phone. The IM application
B is owned by the 3^rd^ party. Normally, IM application B\'s data are
transferred in OTT style with best effort.
Alice is using IM application A to communicate with her friend, Mike.
Bob is using IM application B to communicate with his friend, Rose.
### 4.13.3 Service flows
When cell X is congested due to user plane traffic.
The network prioritises Alice\'s IM application and reduces the bandwidth for
Bob\'s application.
### 4.13.4 Post-conditions
Alice enjoys communication with Mike without any adverse impact due to cell X
congestion.
Bob has to experience message delays, and might decide to install the IM
application A instead of IM application B for better user experience.
### 4.13.5 Potential requirements
According to the operator\'s policies, the network shall be able to set
different priorities per application, e.g. on the basis of operator ownership
of the application, and shall be able to control application data traffic
according to the priority when RAN is congested.
## 4.14 Use case 13 - Protocol Optimization
### 4.14.1 Description
In order to reduce the pressure on networks and relieve the problems of
traffic congestion, the operator may, when the RAN congestion happens, provide
the capability of optimizing application protocol to reduce application data
before sending it to UEs.
The operator may enable the network to provide common protocol optimization
capabilities, e.g. HTTP Multi-Part Response, HTTP Pipelining, Robust Header
Compression (ROHC), etc.
The operators may enable the network to optimize different types of protocol,
like HTTP, RTSP/RTCP, etc.
However, it may not be beneficial to turn on such protocol optimization all
the time as there might be other trade-off considerations. For example, a
protocol optimization may cause negative effects on the UE side, such as
increased power consumption.
In order to keep the balance between UE power consumption and network load,
the operator can decide when to enable protocol optimization capability.
### 4.14.2 Pre-conditions
The RAN user plane is not congested.
Pre-conditions for Alice:
\- Alice\'s UE has an active data session with the mobile network;
\- Alice\'s UE supports common protocol optimization mechanisms, e.g., HTTP
Multi-Part Response capability, HTTP Pipelining;
\- Alice is downloading web pages to her UE without network protocol
optimization.
### 4.14.3 Service flows
The RAN becomes congested in the user plane.
If the network enables the protocol optimization capability, when Alice\'s UE
starts to access a social networking website, the application protocol is
optimized between the network and her UE, e.g., Alice\'s UE fetches the full
web page with the main text and all images within a single pipelined HTTP
connection.
If the network doesn\'t enable the protocol optimization capability, when
Alice\'s UE starts to access a social networking website, the application
protocol is not optimized between the network and her UE.
If the network doesn\'t enable the protocol optimization capability, the web
page download will result in unreduced data being transferred to the UE, hence
exacerbating RAN congestion.
### 4.14.4 Post-conditions
Having enabled protocol optimization capability, the web page download results
in less data being transmitted to the UE, thus lessening RAN congestion.
When congestion abates, protocol optimization is discontinued.
### 4.14.5 Potential requirements
The requirements derived from this use case are:
\- The network shall be made aware of the RAN user plane congestion state;
\- During RAN user plane congestion, the network shall be able to enable the
protocol optimization capability to reduce the number of interactions between
the UE and the network so as to relieve RAN user plane congestion for users.
# 5 Considerations
## 5.1 Considerations on charging
No user plane congestion management considerations have been identified that
relate to charging.
## 5.2 Considerations on security
No user plane congestion management considerations have been identified that
relate to security.
## 5.3 Considerations on addressing
No user plane congestion management considerations have been identified that
relate to addressing.
## 5.4 Considerations on aspects to avoid cell-level congestion
Annex A describes a situation in a healthy network where congestions are of
short durations which can be seen to be around 90 % of the cases. There are
also other types of situations were congestion can last for several minutes or
more which might account for around 10 % of the cases.
In Annex A it is explained that when reactive solutions are used to mitigate
congestion they may have a negative impact on system performance in case the
feedback-loop, i.e. the delay from congestion detection until a reactive
action can take effect, is too long in comparison to the load fluctuations of
the cell. In addition, frequent provisioning of congestion information from
the RAN to a higher level aggregating point may induce a significant increase
of signalling into the system. This could potentially have a negative impact
on overall system performance. Therefore suitable solutions targeting user
plane traffic congestion in the RAN needs to fulfil the following suggested
requirements:
  * The system should react in a timely manner to manage a congestion situation, i.e., that the measures taken can take effect to help resolve the congestion.
  * The signalling overhead in the system shall be minimized.
## 5.5 Considerations of MOCN networks in user plane congestion managemen t
Any use of application identification should consider the impact on Multi-
Operator Core Network (MOCN) partner(s) gaining information on the use of the
network by the other MOCN partner(s).
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 Introduction
The following requirements are consolidated from the requirements associated
with the use cases included in this TR.
RAN user plane congestion, in the context of this clause, is considered to be
congestion that affects the user plane, which may last for a few seconds, a
few minutes, or a few hours due to arrival of new active users, increase of
communication intensity of existing users, the radio environment changing, the
mobile user changing location, and other reasons. A short-duration burst of
user plane traffic should not be identified as RAN congestion.
## 6.2 Consolidated requirements
### 6.2.1 General
a) The network shall be able to detect RAN user plane congestion onset and
abatement. Mechanisms to cope with RAN user plane congestions should be
resilient to rapid changes in the level of congestion.
b) The network shall be able to identify whether or not an active UE is in a
RAN user plane congested cell.
c) The network operator shall be able to configure or provision and enforce
policy rules to best deal with RAN user plane congestion.
d) The system shall be able to support different charging policies based on
RAN congestion status.
Editor's Note: This requirement needs further study.
e) The system should react in a timely manner to manage a RAN user plane
congestion situation, i.e. that the measures taken become effective to
promptly help resolve the RAN user plane congestion.
f) The signalling overhead caused by RAN user plane congestion management
solutions in the system shall be minimized.
g) The network shall be able to take into consideration the RAN user plane
congestion status and the subscriber\'s profile when coping with traffic
congestion.
### 6.2.2 Prioritizing traffic
a) The network shall be able to identify, differentiate and prioritize traffic
from different applications in order to provide these applications with
appropriate service quality based on RAN user plane congestion status, taking
user related information and content type into account.
NOTE 1: The applications may include social networking, OTT video, blogging,
internet games, FTP, software patches and updates, non real time services,
etc.
b) According to operator policy, during RAN user plane congestion the operator
shall be able to select the communications which require preferential
treatment and allocate sufficient resources for such communications in order
to provide these services with appropriate service quality.
c) According to operator policy, the network shall be able to select specific
users (e.g. heavy users, roaming users, etc.) and adjust the QoS of existing
connections/flows and apply relevant policies to new connections/flows
depending on the RAN user plane congestion status and the subscriber\'s
profile.
NOTE 2: Preferably, connections/flows need to be adjusted such that the user
experience is not negatively affected.
### 6.2.3 Reducing traffic
a) Based on RAN congestion status and according to operator policy, the
network shall be able to reduce the user plane traffic load (e.g. by
compressing images or by adaptation for streaming applications) taking into
account UE related information (e.g. UE capabilities, subscription).
b) The system shall be able to adjust the communication media parameters of
real-time communications so that they consume less bandwidth.
c) The system shall be able to distinguish between different media involved in
the communication (e.g. media for voice and media for video portions) and in
case of RAN user plane congestion (re‑)negotiate each media separately to
consume less bandwidth.
d) According to operator policy, the network shall be able to select specific
applications and control the data rate of the identified applications based on
RAN user plane congestion status, at the same time taking into consideration
user related information (e.g. a \"platinum\" subscription user should have
good experience even if experiencing congestion) and content type (e.g., text
vs. image).
e) Any use of application identification should consider the impact on Multi-
Operator Core Network (MOCN) partner(s) gaining information on the use of the
network by the other MOCN partner(s).
### 6.2.4 Limiting traffic
a) The network shall be able to limit traffic from operator-controlled and/or
third party services based on RAN user plane congestion status for a UE, e.g.
to defer Push services based on the RAN congestion status and operator policy.
b) The system shall be able to apply different handling (e.g. be able to
prohibit or delay) all or a particular selection of IP bearer service requests
_depending on whether a service request is_ for Unattended Data Traffic or
Attended Data Traffic.
# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
The number of data intensive UEs and the applications installed on them along
with other devices that require data traffic on mobile networks continues to
grow. It is becoming more urgent that appropriate mechanisms be provided to
manage user plane traffic when RAN congestion occurs.
A number of use cases have been identified where user plane congestion occurs
and needs to be managed. The analysis has resulted in a consolidated set of
unique requirements as captured in the previous section. Mechanisms to address
these requirements need to be specified, taking into account other mechanisms
available that may address some aspects of this problem space.
It is therefore recommended that the potential requirements identified in this
TR are considered for the development of normative requirements.
###### ### Annex A: Aspects on cell-level congestion in a healthy network
# A.1 Forms of congestion
This annex describes the situation in a healthy network where congestions are
of short durations which can be seen to be around 90 % of the cases. There are
also other types of situations were congestion can last for several minutes or
more which might account for around 10 % of the cases.
For this annex we define two forms of congestion:
\- End-user congestion;\ \ From an end-user perspective, a congestion occurs
when a service is not delivered to the expectation of the user, in the
following denoted service congestion.\ \ The expectation for a service
delivery is dependent on which service that is used (requirements on
bandwidth, delay...) but differs also between subscriber groups (a premium
subscriber have higher expectations than a subscriber with the cheapest
subscription)
\- Resource congestion;\ \ Resource congestion occurs when traffic offered
cannot be carried due to resources being depleted e.g. a node receives more
packets than it can transmit or buffer. Resource congestion may cause service
congestion.
Taking preventive actions before or when resource congestion occurs could be
means to prevent end-user congestion.
# A.2 Example of cell level congestion
Cell level congestion is the form of resource congestion that in many cases
constitutes the weakest link in a 3GPP system. The graphs below illustrate the
distribution of cell level congestion durations and the distribution of the
time between congestion situations on cell level. These events were collected
from two RNCs during a 5 day measurement campaign in a typical live WCDMA
network in a major European city, providing an example on the dynamics of
resource congestion on cell level.
Figure A.1: Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF) of WCDMA cell-level
Figure A.2: Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF)\ of cell-level congestion
separations (within individual cells)
For this measurement congestion was defined as transmitted carrier power and
uplink interference exceeding its respective threshold values (for some time).
Notice that cell-congestion occurs as a result of quickly deteriorating radio
conditions when the utilization of the resources in the cell is high.
Figure A.1 indicates that [cell congestion durations are short, 90% below 1.2
seconds]{.underline}.
Figure A.2 indicates that [cell congestion separations are relatively short
for WCDMA, 90% below 780 seconds]{.underline}.
From this we can conclude that cell congestion is a relatively frequently
occurring phenomenon in a healthy network. The reason to this is of course
that operators would like to have a high utilization of the system, however
when radio conditions temporarily gets deteriorated in a cell then it may be
pushed into a state of congestion.
We can also conclude that the duration of cell-level congestion is very short.
This is natural because RAN internal mechanisms, e.g. Radio Link re-
configurations for existing RABs, admission control for new RABs etc., will
kick in immediately to alleviate the situation.
# A.3 The disadvantage with a regulating function with too slow a response
time
In order to prevent end-user congestion it is possible to either take
preventive actions before resource congestion occurs (i.e. proactive) or after
it has occurred (i.e. reactive).
Reactive actions to congestion can either be deployed directly at the entity
experiencing resource congestion or, alternatively, congestion information can
be signalled to an external entity, e.g. client/server or an intermediate
node, for further action. It is important to notice for all reactive solutions
that, just as for any control system, the relation between the expected life
time of the signalled information and the delay until a regulating action can
take takes place is critical. In case those two parameters are ill
proportioned there is a risk that the information will be stale by the time it
reaches it destination with the risk for system instability as a consequence.
Applied to solutions intended to mitigate cell-congestion this means that the
delay of any signalled congestion information must match the fluctuations of
the resources that constitutes the cell load well, otherwise the negative
impact on performance will be significant. This is visualized in the Figure
A.3.
Figure A.3: Example of system performance impact from reactive actions to
cell-congestion\ from an external entity (in this example a binary signal is
assumed for reasons of simplicity)
Note that for a reactive solution where the rate reducing algorithm suffers
from a lag (i.e. load/congestion information is signalled to an external
regulator), there is a risk that the negative impacts on system performance
resulting from the attempt to mitigate resource congestion may actually lead
to unnecessary service congestion; If rate adapting actions are too late then
end-user payload will get policed/shaped based on congestion policies although
there may in fact be sufficient resources available in the system.
The other extreme for reactive solutions is to provide sufficient information
to the entity controlling Radio Resource Management to enable that entity to
adequately handle payload traffic even in congested situations.
###### ### Annex B: Mapping between use cases and consolidated requirements
This Annex provides traceability of the requirements identified in the
individual use cases in clauses 4.2 through 4.14 to the consolidated
requirements in clause 6.
+------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | **Consolidated Requirement** | **Related Use Cases** | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | **6.2.1 General** | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | a) The network shall be able to | 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13 | | detect RAN user plane congestion | | | onset and abatement. Mechanisms to | | | cope with RAN user plane | | | congestions should be resilient to | | | rapid changes in the level of | | | congestion. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | b) The network shall be able to | 2, 6, 8, 10 | | identify whether or not an active | | | UE is in a RAN user plane | | | congested cell. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | c) The network operator shall be | 1, 2, 3, 6 | | able to configure or provision and | | | enforce policy rules to best deal | | | with RAN user plane congestion. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | d) The system shall be able to | 10 | | support different charging | | | policies based on RAN congestion | | | status. | | | | | | Editor's Note: This requirement | | | needs further study. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | e) The system should react in a | Clause 5.4 | | timely manner to manage a RAN user | | | plane congestion situation, i.e. | | | that the measures taken become | | | effective to promptly help resolve | | | the RAN user plane congestion. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | f) The signalling overhead caused | Clause 5.4 | | by RAN user plane congestion | | | management solutions in the system | | | shall be minimized. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | g) The network shall be able to | 1 | | take into consideration the RAN | | | user plane congestion status and | | | the subscriber\'s profile when | | | coping with traffic congestion. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | **6.2.2 Prioritizing traffic** | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | a) The network shall be able to | 5, 11, 12 | | identify, differentiate and | | | prioritize traffic from different | | | applications in order to provide | | | these applications with | | | appropriate service quality based | | | on RAN user plane congestion | | | status, taking user related | | | information and content type into | | | account. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | b) According to operator policy, | 4 | | during RAN user plane congestion | | | the operator shall be able to | | | select the communications which | | | require preferential treatment and | | | allocate sufficient resources for | | | such communications in order to | | | provide these services with | | | appropriate service quality. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | c) According to operator policy, | 1, 2, 3 | | the network shall be able to | | | select specific users (e.g. heavy | | | users, roaming users, etc.) and | | | adjust the QoS of existing | | | connections/flows and apply | | | relevant policies to new | | | connections/flows depending on the | | | RAN user plane congestion status | | | and the subscriber\'s profile. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | **6.2.3 Reducing traffic** | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | a) Based on RAN congestion status | 7 | | and according to operator policy, | | | the network shall be able to | | | reduce the user plane traffic load | | | (e.g. by compressing images or by | | | adaptation for streaming | | | applications) taking into account | | | UE related information (e.g. UE | | | capabilities, subscription). | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | b) The system shall be able to | 9 | | adjust the communication media | | | parameters of real-time | | | communications so that they | | | consume less bandwidth. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | c) The system shall be able to | 9 | | distinguish between different | | | media involved in the | | | communication (e.g. media for | | | voice and media for video | | | portions) and in case of RAN user | | | plane congestion (re-)negotiate | | | each media separately to consume | | | less bandwidth. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | d) According to operator policy, | 3 | | the network shall be able to | | | select specific applications and | | | control the data rate of the | | | identified applications based on | | | RAN user plane congestion status, | | | at the same time taking into | | | consideration user related | | | information (e.g. a \"platinum\" | | | subscription user should have good | | | experience even if experiencing | | | congestion) and content type (e.g. | | | text vs. image). | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | e) Any use of application | Clause 5.5 | | identification should consider the | | | impact on Multi-Operator Core | | | Network (MOCN) partner(s) gaining | | | information on the use of the | | | network by the other MOCN | | | partner(s). | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | **6.2.4 Limiting traffic** | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | a) The network shall be able to | 6 | | limit traffic from | | | operator-controlled and/or | | | third-party services based on RAN | | | user plane congestion status for a | | | UE, e.g. to defer Push services | | | based on the RAN congestion status | | | and operator policy. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | b) _The system shall be able to | 8 | | apply different handling (e.g. be | | | able to prohibit or delay)_ all or | | | a particular selection of IP | | | bearer service _requests depending | | | on whether a service request is | | | for Unattended Data Traffic or | | | Attended Data Traffic_. | | +------------------------------------+--------------------------------+
#