# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective is to study use cases and identify potential requirements for
operator network controlled discovery and communications between UEs that are
in proximity, under continuous network control, and are under 3GPP network
coverage, for:
  1. Commercial/social use
  2. Network offloading
  3. Public Safety
  4. Integration of current infrastructure services, to assure the consistency of the user experience including reachability and mobility aspects
Additionally, the study item will study use cases and identify potential
requirements for:
  1. Public Safety, in case of absence of E-UTRAN coverage (subject to regional regulation and operator policy, and limited to specific public-safety designated frequency bands and terminals)
Use cases and service requirements will be studied including network operator
control, authentication, authorization, accounting and regulatory aspects.
The study does not apply to GERAN or UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP website announcement \"FCC selects LTE for USA Public Safety\"
http://www.3gpp.org/FCC-selects-LTE-for-USA-Public
[3] 3GPP website link to FCC announcement of selection of LTE for USA public
safety \"FCC TAKES ACTION TO ADVANCE NATIONWIDE BROADBAND COMMUNICATIONS FOR
AMERICA'S FIRST RESPONDERS\" http://www.3gpp.org/IMG/pdf/psltedoc-304244a1.pdf
[4] FCC \"Third Report and Order and Fourth Further Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking\" pertaining to Docket Numbers: WT Docket No. 06-150, PS Docket No.
06-229 and WP Docket No. 07-100. The Report and Order was adopted on January
25, 2011 and released on January 26, 2011.
http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-11-6A1.pdf
[5] National Public Safety Telecommunications Council, 700 MHz Statement of
Requirements for Public Safety (SoR)
http://www.npstc.org/statementOfRequirements.jsp
[6] U. S. Department of Homeland Security Technology Solutions and Standards
Statement of Requirements
http://www.safecomprogram.gov/library/lists/library/DispForm.aspx?ID=302
[7] TETRA Release 1: Direct Mode Operation
http://www.tetramou.com/about/page/12026
[8] CEPT ECC WG FM PT 49 Radio Spectrum for Public Protection and Disaster
Relief (PPDR), Report from FM Project Team 49 (2nd and 3rd meetings)
http://www.cept.org/ecc/groups/ecc/wg-fm/fm-49
[9] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
# 3 Definitions, Symbols and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Proximity:** proximity is determined (\"a UE is in proximity of another
UE\") when given proximity criteria are fulfilled. Proximity criteria can be
different for discovery and communication.
**Range Class** : Rough indication of distance for use in ProSe Discovery, for
example, based on geographical distance, radio conditions.
**ProSe Discovery:** a process that identifies that a UE is in proximity of
another, using E-UTRA.
**ProSe Communication:** a communication between two UEs in proximity by means
of a E-UTRAN communication path established between the UEs. The communication
path could for example be established directly between the UEs or routed via
local eNB(s).
**ProSe-enabled UE:** a UE that supports ProSe Discovery and/or ProSe
Communication. Unless explicitly stated otherwise in this TR, a UE refers to a
ProSe-enabled UE.
**ProSe-enabled Network:** a network that supports ProSe Discovery and/or
ProSe Communication. Unless explicitly stated otherwise in this TR, a network
refers to a ProSe-enabled network.
**Open ProSe Discovery** : is ProSe Discovery without explicit permission from
the UE being discovered.
**Restricted ProSe Discovery** : is ProSe Discovery that only takes place with
explicit permission from the UE being discovered.
**ProSe Group Communication:** a one-to-many ProSe Communication, between two
or more UEs in proximity, by means of a common communication path established
between the UEs.
**ProSe Broadcast Communication:** a one-to-all ProSe Communication, between
all authorized UEs in proximity, by means of a common communication path
established between the UEs.
**ProSe UE-to-UE Relay** : is a form of relay in which a ProSe-enabled Public
Safety UE acts as a ProSe Communication relay between two other ProSe-enabled
Public Safety UEs.
**ProSe UE-to-Network Relay** : is a form of relay in which a ProSe-enabled
Public Safety UE acts as a communication relay between a ProSe-enabled Public
Safety UE and the network using E-UTRA.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
None
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CPR Consolidated Potential Requirement
GW Gateway
GWCN Gateway Core Network
HD High Definition
MNO Mobile Network Operator
MOCN Multi-Operator Core Network
PR Potential Requirement
ProSe Proximity Services
PS Public Safety
RCS Rich Communication Services
SGW/PGW Serving Gateway / Packet data network Gateway
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Data paths for ProSe Communications
### 4.1.1 Default data path scenario
As currently specified, when two UEs in close proximity communicate with each
other, their data path (user plane) goes via the operator network. The typical
data path for this type of communication is shown in Figure 1, where eNB(s)
and/or GW(s) are involved.
Figure 1: Default data path scenario in the EPS for communication between two
UEs.
### 4.1.2 ProSe Communication scenario
If UEs are in proximity to each other, they may be able to use a \"direct
mode\" or \"locally-routed\" path.
For example, in 3GPP LTE spectrum, the operator can move the data path (user
plane) off the access and core networks onto direct links between the UEs.
This direct data path is shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2: The \"direct mode\" data path in the EPS for communication between
two UEs.
Note: Two eNBs are shown here for illustration.
Another example is when the data path is locally-routed via the eNB(s). This
locally-routed data path is shown in Figure 3:
Figure 3: A \"locally-routed\" data path in the EPS for communication between
two UEs when UEs are served by the same eNBs.
## 4.2 Control paths for ProSe Communication
For the ProSe Communication scenarios depicted in Figure 2 and Figure 3 in
clause 4.1, several control path scenarios may apply. The following text and
figures provide examples of potential control paths for different situations,
understanding that other 3GPP Working Groups are responsible for defining the
specific control paths associated with ProSe.
When the UEs involved in the ProSe Communication are served by the same eNB
and network coverage is available, the system can decide to perform ProSe
Communication using control information exchanged between the UE, eNB and the
EPC (e.g., session management, authorization, security) as shown by the solid
arrows in Figure 4. For charging, signalling modifications should be minimized
with respect to the existing architecture. The UEs can in addition exchange
control signalling via the ProSe Communication path as shown by the dashed
arrow in Figure 4.
Figure 4: Example control path for network-supported ProSe communication for
UEs served by the same eNB.
When the UEs involved in the ProSe Communication are served by different eNBs
and network coverage is available, the system can decide to perform ProSe
Communication using control information exchanged between the UE, eNB and the
EPC (e.g., session management, authorization, security) as shown by the solid
arrows in Figure 5. In this configuration, the eNBs may coordinate with each
other through the EPC or communicate directly for radio resource management as
shown by the dashed arrow between the eNBs in Figure 5. For charging,
signalling modifications should be minimized with respect to the existing
architecture. The UEs can in addition exchange control signalling via the
ProSe Communication path as shown by the dashed arrow between UE1 and UE2 in
Figure 5.
Figure 5: Example control path for network-supported ProSe Communication for
UEs served by different eNBs.
If network coverage is available to a subset of the UEs, one or more Public
Safety UEs may relay the radio resource management control information for
other UEs that do not have network coverage.
If network coverage is not available, the control path can exist directly
between Public Safety UEs, as shown with the solid arrow in Figure 6. In this
configuration, the Public Safety UEs can rely on pre-configured radio
resources to establish and maintain the ProSe Communication. Alternatively, a
Public Safety **_Radio Resource Management Function, which can reside in a
Public Safety UE,_** can manage the allocation of radio resources for Public
Safety ProSe Communication as shown with the dashed arrows in Figure 6.
Figure 6: Example control path for Public Safety ProSe Communication for UEs
without network support.
## 4.3 Public Safety use of ProSe
In the United States, LTE has been selected by the FCC as the technology
[2][3][4] for the Public Safety Network. In Europe, there is an ongoing
discussion on spectrum to be chosen for broadband Public Safety held by CEPT
ECC WG FM PT 49 [8]. Additionally, a variety of Public Safety over ProSe
requirements have been defined [5][6][7]. The requirements raise the following
points for consideration in developing the ProSe requirements for Public
Safety use.
A Public Safety UE can operate in Public Safety spectrum for Public Safety
service and in MNO commercial spectrum, for general service (e.g. voice call),
however, only Public Safety spectrum is used for Public Safety ProSe.
Public Safety UEs using ProSe communicate with each other even though they
belong to different HPLMNs.
A Public Safety UE can automatically use ProSe when E-UTRAN coverage is not
available, or the user can manually set the UE to use direct discovery and
communication even when E-UTRAN coverage is available.
In addition, the following assumptions are made for Public Safety ProSe:
  * All Public Safety users utilize ProSe-enabled UEs
  * ProSe supports both UE discovery and UE Communication
If and when other regional and/or regulatory requirements are raised, they
will be taken into account.
# 5 Use Cases and Scenarios
## 5.1 General Use Cases
### 5.1.1 Restricted ProSe Discovery Use Case
#### 5.1.1.1 Description
This use case describes a basic scenario for ProSe Discovery that can be used
for any application. A social networking application is used as an example to
illustrate this use case.
#### 5.1.1.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service which makes use of the ProSe feature, in which:
\- A ProSe-enabled UE of a given user is able to discover and be discoverable
by the ProSe-enabled UEs of his/her friends;
\- A social networking application is enabled to use this ProSe feature.
Mary, Peter and John use a given social networking application. In the context
of this application, the following relationships are established:
\- Mary and John are friends;
\- John and Peter are friends;
\- Mary and Peter are _not_ friends;
\- There might be hundreds of other ProSe-enabled UEs in the vicinity of Mary
using the same or other applications.
In addition, the following assumptions are made:
\- Mary, Peter and John use ProSe-enabled UEs;
\- Mary, Peter and John are subscribed to the same cellular operator;
\- Mary, Peter and John are currently residing on their HPLMN;
\- Mary, Peter and John are subscribed to an operator service that allows them
to use ProSe;
\- Mary has given permission to John to discover her and vice versa;
\- John has given permission to Peter to discover him and vice versa.
The social networking application used by Mary, Peter and John is enabled by
the operator to benefit from ProSe.
#### 5.1.1.3 Service Flows
Mary decides to look for a friend via her application, and so do John and
Peter. Thus (e.g. following interaction with her application), as Mary's UE
comes into proximity of John's and Peter's UEs, the user experience is such
that, without any further user interaction with the device:
\- Mary's UE detects (for example using direct radio signals or via the
operator's network) that John's UE is in its proximity;
\- John's UE detects that Mary's UE is in its proximity;
\- Mary's social networking application learns that John is in or out of her
proximity;
\- John's social networking application learns that Mary and Peter are in or
out of his proximity;
\- Mary's UE does not detect that Peter's UE is in its proximity;
\- Peter's UE does not detect that Mary's UE is in its proximity;
\- Mary's social networking application does not detect that Peter is in or
out of her proximity;
\- Peter's social networking application does not detect that Mary is in or
out of his proximity.
As the social network application of Mary detects that John is in her
proximity, Mary may decide to transfer data to John via the social networking
application.
ProSe Discovery is achievable without any location information.
#### 5.1.1.4 Post-Conditions
None
#### 5.1.1.5 Potential Requirements
**General**
[PR.1] Based on operator policy and user choice, the proximity of two ProSe-
enabled UEs shall be determinable; for example, using direct radio signals or
via the operator network.
[PR.98] The operator shall be able to dynamically control the proximity
criteria for ProSe discovery. Examples of the criteria include radio range and
geographic range.
[PR.2] A discovering UE shall be able to determine whether or not another UE
is of interest to it. A ProSe-enabled UE is of interest to a discovering
ProSe-enabled UE if its proximity needs to be known by one or more authorized
applications on the discovering UE.
[PR.3] Operator policy and user choice can set the ProSe feature of:
\- a ProSe-enabled UE to discover other UEs in its proximity but not be
discoverable;
\- a ProSe-enabled UE to be discoverable by other UEs but not be able to
discover other UEs in its proximity;
\- a ProSe-enabled UE to discover other UEs in its proximity and be
discoverable by other UEs;
\- a ProSe-enabled UE to disable the ability to be discoverable by other UEs
and to disable the ability to discover other UEs;
\- a ProSe-enabled UE to revoke being discoverable by a ProSe-enabled UE (i.e.
be discoverable by a UE at one time, and then not discoverable by the same UE
at another time);
\- a ProSe-enabled UE to discover ProSe-enabled UEs of interest, where
interest is defined in a ProSe-enabled application per user, group of users,
or category of users;
\- a ProSe-enabled UE to restrict discoverability to ProSe-enabled UEs of
interest, where interest is defined in a ProSe-enabled application per user,
group of users, or category of users.
[PR.97] Operator policy disabling or limiting individual ProSe features shall
override any user choice.
[PR.4] ProSe Discovery shall support a minimum of three range classes \-- for
example short, medium and maximum range.
[PR.5] The operator shall be able to authorize per subscription which range
classes ProSe Discovery is allowed to use.
[PR.6] The ProSe Discovery process shall enable authorized applications to
request and to use a certain range class when discovering other UEs.
[PR.xy] The ProSe Discovery process shall enable authorized applications to
request and to use a certain range class when the UE is being discovered by
other UEs.
[PR.7] The impact of ProSe Services (Discovery and Communications) on radio
usage, network usage and battery consumption should be minimized.
[PR.8] Subject to user and operator settings, a ProSe-enabled UE shall be
discoverable only by other UEs in proximity that are explicitly permitted by
the discoverable UE.
[PR.9] ProSe shall support the simultaneous operation of a large number of
applications on a UE, ensuring that the 3GPP system provides ProSe Discovery
proximity information only to applications that were authorized by the 3GPP
system.
[PR.10] An operator shall be able to authorize the use of ProSe Discovery
information by an application.
[PR.11] A user shall be able to allow the use of ProSe Discovery information
by an application.
**ProSe Feature Authorization**
[PR.12] The operator shall be able to enable or disable the ProSe Discovery
feature in its network.
[PR.13] The operator shall be able to authorize discovery operations for each
individual UE.
[PR.14] The operator shall be able to authorize the ability of a UE to be
discoverable by other UEs.
[PR.15] The operator shall be able to authorize the ability of a UE to
discover other UEs.
**Charging**
[PR.16] Both the HPLMN and VPLMN operators shall be able to charge for ProSe
Discovery features including:
\- The ability for a UE to be discoverable, including based on the range
class;
\- The ability to discover other UEs, including based on the range class;
\- The event of discovering a UE, including based on the range class.
### 5.1.2 Open ProSe Discovery Use Case
#### 5.1.2.1 Description
This use case describes a case in which UEs discover other UEs without
permission by the discoverable UEs.
#### 5.1.2.2 Pre-Conditions
Mary uses a given application. In the context of this application, the
following assumptions are made:
\- Mary, Store A and Restaurants A, B and C use ProSe-enabled UEs;
\- Mary and the owners of the store and restaurant UEs are subscribed to an
operator service that allows them to use ProSe;
\- There might be hundreds of other stores/restaurants with ProSe-enabled UEs
in the vicinity of Mary;
\- The operator has enabled the application to access this ProSe feature.
#### 5.1.2.3 Service Flows
As Mary walks into the neighbourhood where Store A is located, Mary is
notified of the proximity of Store A.
Mary then decides to look for a restaurant, and thus (e.g., following
interaction with her application), Mary is notified of the proximity of
Restaurant A. Mary is not notified of the proximity of other establishments
which are not determined to be of interest according to the application she is
using. After she starts walking towards Restaurant B, Mary is notified of the
proximity of Restaurant B, and also of Restaurant C.
#### 5.1.2.4 Post-Conditions
Mary's application is aware of Store A, Restaurants A, B and C.
#### 5.1.2.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.17] Subject to user and operator settings, a ProSe-enabled UE shall be
discoverable by all other ProSe-enabled UEs in proximity without explicit
permission. The UEs can be
\- Served by the same PLMN, including when roaming;
\- Served by different PLMNs, including when roaming.
### 5.1.3 Discovery Use Case with Subscribers from Different PLMNs
#### 5.1.3.1 Description
This use case describes discovery between UEs camped on different PLMNs.
#### 5.1.3.2 Pre-Conditions
The same pre-conditions as in clause 5.1.1 apply except that
\- Mary is a subscriber to operator A and camps on operator A\'s network;
\- John is a subscriber to operator B and camps on operator B\'s network.
#### 5.1.3.3 Service Flows
As John moves towards Mary, the user experience is such that, without any
further user interaction with the UE:
\- Mary is notified that John is in her proximity;
\- John is notified that Mary is in his proximity.
#### 5.1.3.4 Post-Conditions
John and Mary are aware of their proximity to each other.
#### 5.1.3.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.18] Based on operator policy and user choice, the proximity of two ProSe-
enabled UEs camped on different PLMNs shall be determinable.
[PR.19] The operator shall be able to authorize the ability of a UE to
discover UEs camping on other PLMNs.
[PR.20] The operator shall be able to charge for the ability to discover UEs
camping on other PLMNs.
### 5.1.4 Discovery Use Case with Roaming Subscribers
#### 5.1.4.1 Description
This use case describes discovery between UEs in different PLMNs under roaming
conditions.
#### 5.1.4.2 Pre-Conditions
The same pre-conditions as in clause 5.1.1 apply except that
\- Mary is a subscriber to operator A and camps on operator A\'s network (i.e.
her HPLMN);
\- John is a subscriber to operator C in a different country and currently
roams in operator B\'s network, which is located in the same country as
operator A's network.
#### 5.1.4.3 Service Flows
As John moves towards Mary, the user experience is such that, without any
further user interaction with the UE:
\- Mary is notified that John is in her proximity;
\- John is notified that Mary is in his proximity.
#### 5.1.4.4 Post-Conditions
John and Mary are aware of their proximity to each other.
#### 5.1.4.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.21] All requirements for ProSe Discovery also apply when one or both of
the UEs involved in ProSe Discovery are roaming.
[PR.22] The VPLMN operator shall be able to enable or disable the ability for
all the inbound roamers from a specific PLMN to be discovered using ProSe
Discovery.
[PR.23] The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorize the ability of a UE to
discover other UEs in case of roaming in a VPLMN.
[PR.24] The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorize the ability of a UE to
be discoverable by other UEs in case of roaming in a VPLMN.
[PR.25] Both the HPLMN and VPLMN operators shall be able to charge for
discovery features including:
\- The ability to be discoverable;
\- The ability to discover;
\- The event of discovering a UE.
### 5.1.5 Network ProSe Discovery Use Case
#### 5.1.5.1 Description
**In this use case, the 3GPP network provides ProSe Discovery for ProSe-
enabled UEs.**
#### 5.1.5.2 Pre-Conditions
\- Mary and Peter use ProSe-enabled UEs, subscribe to the same MNO, and
currently reside on the HPLMN.
\- The MNO network supports ProSe Discovery and Communication.
#### 5.1.5.3 Service Flow
\- Mary uses an application on her UE to connect with Peter, causing her UE to
request ProSe Discovery from the MNO network.
\- The MNO network verifies that Mary's UE has permission to discover Peter's
UE and is in proximity of Peter's UE.
\- The network informs Mary's and Peter's UEs that they are in proximity.
#### 5.1.5.4 Post-Conditions
Mary's and Peter's UEs have discovered each other.
#### 5.1.5.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.26] An application on a ProSe-enabled UE shall be able to request the
network to determine the proximity of another ProSe-enabled UE; the network
shall be able to determine proximity of two ProSe-enabled UEs and inform them
of their proximity.
[PR.91] The operator shall be able to charge for network ProSe Discovery.
### 5.1.6 Service Continuity between Infrastructure and E-UTRA ProSe
Communication paths
#### 5.1.6.1 Description
In this use case UEs communicate initially via an infrastructure path, then
via a ProSe Communication path and finally return to an infrastructure path.
#### 5.1.6.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service which makes use of the ProSe feature, in which:
\- The operator is able to establish a new user traffic session using E-UTRA
ProSe communication;
\- The operator is able to switch user traffic from an infrastructure
communication path to an E-UTRA ProSe communication path.
In addition, the following assumptions are made:
\- Mary and Peter use ProSe-enabled UEs;
\- Mary and Peter are subscribed to the same cellular operator;
\- Mary and Peter are currently residing on their HPLMN;
\- Mary and Peter are subscribed to an operator service that allows them to
use ProSe;
\- Mary and Peter have performed ProSe discovery and initiation of ProSe
communications.
#### 5.1.6.3 Service Flows
Mary and Peter are engaged in a data session (including one or more flows)
that is being routed over the MNO's core network infrastructure.
As Peter moves within proximity of Mary, one or more flows of the data session
is switched to an E-UTRA ProSe communication path.
At some point later, the data session is switched back to the infrastructure
path.
The user experience is such that the switching of the data path is not
perceived by the users.
The user experience of the ongoing user traffic sessions is such that any un-
switched data flows are not negatively impacted by the switching of other data
flows.
#### 5.1.6.4 Post-Conditions
None
#### 5.1.6.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.99] The operator shall be able to dynamically control the proximity
criteria for ProSe communication. Examples of the criteria include: range,
channel conditions, achievable QoS.
[PR.27] Subject to operator policy and user consent, the system shall be
capable of establishing a new user traffic session with an E-UTRA ProSe
Communication path, and maintaining both of the E-UTRA ProSe Communication
path and the existing infrastructure path, when the UEs are determined to be
in range allowing ProSe Communication. The UEs can be:
\- Served by the same PLMN, including when roaming;
\- Served by different PLMNs, including when roaming.
Note: ProSe Communication between UEs served by different PLMNs can be subject
to the availability of suitable radio resources (e.g., shared RAN in a
MOCN/GWCN environment).
[PR.28] The system shall be capable of moving a user traffic session from the
infrastructure path to an E-UTRA ProSe Communication path, when the ProSe-
enabled UEs are determined to be in range allowing ProSe Communication.
[PR.29] The system shall be capable of monitoring the communication
characteristics (e.g. channel condition, QoS of the path, volume of the
traffic, etc.) on the E-UTRA ProSe communication path, regardless of whether
there is data transferred via infrastructure path.
[PR.30] The system shall be capable of moving a user traffic session from an
E-UTRA ProSe communication path to an infrastructure path. At a minimum, this
functionality shall support the case when the E-UTRA ProSe Communication path
is no longer feasible.
[PR.31] The user shall not perceive the switching of user traffic sessions
between the E-UTRA ProSe Communication and infrastructure paths when triggered
by the network.
[PR.31.1] The user shall not perceive the switching of user traffic sessions
between the E-UTRA ProSe Communication and infrastructure paths when triggered
by the UE.
[PR.32] The system shall be capable of switching each flow it is aware of
between the E-UTRA ProSe Communication and the infrastructure paths,
independently.
[PR.33] The establishment of a user traffic session on the E-UTRA ProSe
Communication path and the switching of user traffic between an E-UTRA ProSe
Communication path and an infrastructure path are under control of the
network.
[PR.92] The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorize the ability of a UE to
use ProSe Communication, separately for the HPLMN and for roaming in VPLMNs.
[PR.93] The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorize the ability of a UE to
use ProSe Communication to communicate with a ProSe-enabled UE served by a
different PLMN.
[PR.94] The VPLMN operator shall be able to turn on or off the ability for all
the inbound roamers from a specific PLMN to use ProSe Communication.
[PR.34] The Radio Access Network shall control the radio resources associated
with the E-UTRA ProSe Communication path.
[PR.35] The ProSe mechanism shall enable the operator to change the
communication path of a user traffic session without negatively affecting the
QoS of the session.
[PR.36] The ProSe mechanism shall enable the operator to change the
communication path of a user traffic session of a ProSe-enabled UE without
negatively affecting the communication paths of other ongoing user traffic
sessions of this or other ProSe-enabled UEs.
[PR.37] The ProSe mechanism shall enable the operator to change the
communication path of a user traffic session based upon the QoS requirements
of the session and the QoS requirements of other ongoing sessions of this or
other ProSe-enabled UEs.
[PR.38] The system shall be capable of selecting the most appropriate
communications path, according to operator preferences. The criteria for
evaluation may include the following, although not restricted to:
  * System-specific conditions: backhaul link, supporting links or EPC performance;
  * Cell-specific conditions: for example cell loading;
  * ProSe Communication and infrastructure path conditions: communication range, channel conditions and achievable QoS;
  * Service-type conditions: APN, service discriminator.
[PR.95] Both the HPLMN and VPLMN operators shall be able to charge for ProSe
Communication.
### 5.1.7 Operator A uses ProSe to Enhance Location and Presence Services
#### 5.1.7.1 Description
**This use case describes a situation where ProSe is used to augment user
location and presence information that is already present in 3GPP networks.**
#### 5.1.7.2 Pre-Conditions
Carmen is using a UE that enhances its location information by means of ProSe
and she is able to access all the services activated in her network profile
(Presence, RCS etc.).
Carmen enters a meeting room and so she sets her status to \"In a meeting\" in
her presence client.
#### 5.1.7.3 Service Flows
During the discussion, Carmen realizes that she needs expert support and so
she checks her presence client to see if one of her colleagues is close to the
meeting room and is currently in \"Free\" status. The location information,
integrated with information provided by ProSe about UEs in proximity, shows 10
colleagues in the area, three of them in close proximity and one of them she
knows is an expert on the subject.
She starts an RCS chat with him to ask for direct support at the meeting.
Carmen and her colleague haven't perceived anything unusual in their services
activities and the use of ProSe was transparent to the different activated
services in their user profiles. The effect of ProSe is that it integrates
user location information with location information available by other means.
#### 5.1.7.4 Post-Conditions
None
#### 5.1.7.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.39] ProSe proximity information shall be integrated with the Location and
Presence information used by the network to offer its services.
[PR.40] The location and presence services should be capable of indicating
proximity information to their service clients.
[PR.41] The proximity information should be displayed by the UE to the user
via a Location and Presence Client.
[PR.42] The availability or unavailability of ProSe proximity information
shall not disrupt the user experience while using the different location and
presence services.
### 5.1.8 ProSe for Large Numbers of UEs
#### 5.1.8.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario involving a large number of UEs, and
proposes ProSe requirements for dense environments.
#### 5.1.8.2 Pre-Conditions
\- Smart parking meters are ProSe-enabled UEs;
\- John's car has a UE which is ProSe-enabled.
#### 5.1.8.3 Service Flows
\- John is going to the football stadium to attend a game. As he drives around
the stadium parking lot, parking meters in unoccupied parking spaces broadcast
their presence.
\- John's car's UE receives these broadcasts and the car's parking application
which uses ProSe, displays the results
\- John chooses a spot, and the parking application responds by assisting him
to locate the spot, and pay for parking once he enters it. The parking
application may make use of additional info (e.g., map, payment credentials,
etc.) obtained by means other than ProSe.
\- There may be hundreds or thousands of other users with ProSe-enabled UEs
running parking applications and other applications making use of ProSe
concurrently.
#### 5.1.8.4 Post-Conditions
John and the Stadium Management experienced convenience and improved
efficiency through proximity based services in the presence of many other
ProSe enabled UEs.
#### 5.1.8.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.43] ProSe Discovery and Communication shall take into account the
potentially large numbers of concurrently participating ProSe-enabled UEs.
### 5.1.9 ProSe-assisted WLAN Direct Communications Use Case
#### 5.1.9.1 Description
This use case describes how WLAN direct communication can be used between
ProSe-enabled UEs.
#### 5.1.9.2 Pre-Conditions
\- Bob and John are subscribers to a mobile data service from an MNO;
\- Bob and John both carry UEs that have WLAN capabilities;
\- Both UEs are enabled for ProSe Discovery and Communication;
\- Bob and John use ProSe-enabled applications on their UEs;
\- The 3GPP network has the capability to provide WLAN configuration
information to ProSe-enabled UEs;
\- Bob has clicked the ProSe-enabled UE to send an HD video to John.
#### 5.1.9.3 Service Flows
\- The 3GPP EPC determines proximity of Bob's and John's UEs and provides them
with WLAN configuration information to assist with WLAN direct connection
establishment.
\- Bob's and John's UEs use the configuration information to verify
feasibility of the WLAN direct connection and establish ProSe-assisted WLAN
direct communications.
\- The ProSe-enabled application on Bob's UE streams the HD video to the
ProSe-enabled application on John's UE using the established WLAN connection.
#### 5.1.9.4 Post-Conditions
John has received Bob's HD video via the ProSe-enabled application on his UE.
#### 5.1.9.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.44] Subject to operator policy and user consent, a ProSe-enabled UE with
WLAN capability shall be able to establish ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communications with another ProSe-enabled UE when they are in WiFi Direct
communications range, based on ProSe Discovery and WLAN configuration
information from the 3GPP EPC.
[PR.45] The 3GPP EPC shall be able to provide configuration information to
ProSe-enabled UEs for the purpose of establishing ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communications.
[PR.100] The EPC shall be able to provide configuration information that
enables confidentiality and integrity on the ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communications link.
[PR.101] The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorize ProSe-assisted WLAN
direct communications for a ProSe-enabled UE, separately for use in the HPLMN
and when roaming in VPLMNs.
[PR.102] The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorize a ProSe-enabled UE to
engage in ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communications with a ProSe-enabled UE
being served by a different PLMN.
[PR.103] The VPLMN operator shall be able to turn on or off ProSe-assisted
WLAN direct communications for inbound roamers.
[PR.104] Both the HPLMN and VPLMN operators shall be able to charge for ProSe-
assisted WLAN direct communications.
### 5.1.10 Service Management and Continuity for ProSe-assisted WLAN Direct
Communications
#### 5.1.10.1 Description
This use case demonstrates service management and continuity for ProSe
Communication via WLAN.
#### 5.1.10.2 Pre-Conditions
\- Bob and John are subscribers to a mobile data service from an MNO.
\- Bob and John carry UEs that have WLAN capabilities.
\- Both UEs are enabled for ProSe Discovery and Communication.
\- The 3GPP System is capable of switching an infrastructure communication
path to a WLAN ProSe communication path and back again.
#### 5.1.10.3 Service Flows
\- Bob and John are engaged in a data session (including one or more flows)
that is being routed over the MNO's core network infrastructure.
\- When Bob and John move within WLAN communication range, the 3GPP System
switches their data session to the WLAN ProSe communication path.
\- Later, when Bob and/or John move out of WLAN communication range, the 3GPP
System switches their data session back to the MNO's infrastructure path.
#### 5.1.10.4 Post-Conditions
None.
#### 5.1.10.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.47] Subject to operator policy and user consent the EPC and a ProSe-
enabled UE shall be capable of negotiating the move of a traffic flow between
the infrastructure path and the ProSe-assisted WLAN direct path.
[PR.48] There shall be no impact upon RAN from service continuity procedures
for ProSe-enabled UE traffic sessions that are moved between the
infrastructure and WLAN direct communication paths.
[PR.105] The infrastructure network shall be able to determine whether two
ProSe-enabled UEs are within WLAN direct communications range and whether the
WLAN direct link can provide the necessary QoS to support the end user
application.
[PR.106] The infrastructure network shall ensure service continuity for ProSe-
assisted WLAN direct communications flows and be capable of considering QoS
requirements of all data flows when negotiating a communications path switch
for a given end user application.
[PR.107] The system shall be capable of establishing a new user traffic
session for a ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communications path.
### 5.1.11 Use Case for ProSe Application Provided by the Third-Party
Application Developer
#### 5.1.11.1 Description
The operator may provide ProSe capability features in a series of APIs to
third-party application developers for application development. Benefiting
from the cooperation between the operator and third-party application
developers, the user can download and use a rich variety of new ProSe
applications created by third-party application developers.
If the third-party application developer wants to use Prose capability
features to develop a new application, the third-party application developer
may need to sign a contract with the operator at first. The contract may
include a third-party application developer ID, the application ID and so on.
The operator will store the contracted information of this third-party
application developer in their network. The third-party application developer
develops new ProSe applications using the ProSe APIs.
Users receive the ProSe applications created by the third-party application
developers from various application distribution channels, e.g. an Operator
application distributor or App Store.
When the user activates the application, the application will request access
to ProSe capability features. At operator defined intervals, the operator's
network interacts with the ProSe-enabled UE to identify, authenticate,
authorize, charge and enable ProSe capability features.
In order to reduce the interaction frequency between the operator'network and
the ProSe-enabled UE, the frequency of this interaction should be considered
and may be per operator-configuration of the UE.
#### 5.1.11.2 Pre-Conditions
\- ProSe capability features are provided in a consistent series of APIs.
\- Third-party application developer B signs a contract with Operator A for
using the ProSe APIs.
\- Third-party application developer B develops a ProSe application X based on
these ProSe APIs.
\- Third-party application developer C doesn't sign a contract with Operator A
for using the ProSe APIs.
\- Third-party application developer C develops a ProSe application Y based on
these ProSe APIs.
\- Alice is a subscriber of Operator A.
\- Alice downloads and installs the ProSe application X and ProSe application
Y on her ProSe-enabled UE.
#### 5.1.11.3 Service Flows
\- Alice runs the ProSe application X on her ProSe-enabled UE.
\- ProSe application X requests the ProSe-enabled UE to use ProSe capability
features by ProSe APIs.
\- Operator A's network interacts with Alice's ProSe-enabled UE to
authenticate and authorize the ProSe application X.
\- The ProSe application X is authorized to use ProSe capability features.
\- Alice runs the ProSe application Y on her ProSe-enabled UE.
\- ProSe application Y requests the ProSe-enabled UE to use ProSe capability
features by ProSe APIs.
\- Operator A's network interacts with Alice's ProSe-enabled UE to identify,
authenticate and authorize the ProSe application Y.
\- The ProSe application Y is rejected to use ProSe capability features.
#### 5.1.11.4 Post-Conditions
\- Alice enjoys the ProSe capability feature enhancements on Application X.
\- Charging data are generated and collected for ProSe capability feature
access of application X.
\- Charging data are generated and collected for the rejected attempt to use
ProSe capability feature by application Y.
#### 5.1.11.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.49] The operator's network and the ProSe-enabled UE shall provide a
mechanism to identify, authenticate and authorize the third-party application
to use ProSe capability features.
[PR.89] The operator's network shall authorize the third-party application to
set the ability of a UE to discover.
[PR.90] The operator's network shall authorize the third-party application to
set the ability of a UE to be discovered.
[PR.50] The operator's network shall be able to store information of third-
party applications necessary for performing security and charging functions.
[PR.88] The HPLMN operator shall be able to charge for use of ProSe Discovery
and Communication by an application.
[PR.52] The ProSe capability features may include the following:
  * Announce -- a service method by which an MNO's authorized application is able to allow a UE to be discovered by other UEs interested in it This method shall be consistent with ProSe Discovery requirements, and subject to network control.
  * Monitor -- a service method that shall enable an MNO's authorised application to allow a UE to discover other UEs of interest for this application. This method shall be consistent with ProSe Discovery requirements, and subject to network control.
  * Communicate -- a service method that shall enable an application t o initiate communication with the authorised application on another UE in its proximity. The Network can then apply Prose Communication, if appropriate.
### 5.1.12 Concurrent E-UTRAN Infrastructure and WLAN Proximity Communication
#### 5.1.12.1 Description
This use case describes how E-UTRAN infrastructure communication and WLAN
ProSE communication can be concurrently used between ProSe enabled UEs.
#### 5.1.12.2 Pre-conditions
\- Mary, Bob and John are subscribers to mobile data service from an MNO.
\- Mary, Bob and John carry UEs that have WLAN capabilities.
\- Three UEs are within proximity and enabled for ProSe Discovery and
Communication. Bob and John are within the WLAN range and have entered a
preference to use WLAN ProSe communication.
#### 5.1.12.3 Service Flow
\- Mary chats with John after Mary's and John's UEs establish an E-UTRAN
infrastructure communication.
\- Bob's UE looks for John's UE, triggering Bob's UE to discover John's UE
using ProSe Discovery.
\- Bob's UE streams the HD video to John's UE after establishing WLAN ProSe
communication, while Mary continues to chat with John using their existing
E-UTRAN infrastructure communication.
#### 5.1.12.4 Post-conditions
\- Mary continues to chat with John.
\- John has received Bob's HD video.
#### 5.1.12.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.108] Subject to operator policy and user consent the EPS shall be capable
of maintaining existing E-UTRAN infrastructure communications while ProSe WLAN
communication is established by a given ProSe-enabled UE.
[PR.109] Subject to operator policy and user consent the EPS shall be capable
of establishing new E-UTRAN infrastructure communications while ProSe WLAN
communication is on-going for a given ProSe-enabled UE.
### 5.1.13 Network Offloading via WLAN ProSe Communication
#### 5.1.13.1 Description
This use case describes network data offloading via WLAN ProSe Communication.
#### 5.1.13.2 Pre-conditions
Bob and John are subscribers to a mobile data service from an MNO.
Bob and John carry UEs that have WLAN capabilities.
Both UEs are enabled for ProSe Discovery and Communication.
#### 5.1.13.3 Service Flow
Bob and John are engaged in a data session (including one or more flows) that
is being routed over the MNO's core network, which is currently congested.
Due to the congestion, the 3GPP EPC checks if any data sessions can be
offloaded and finds that Bob's and John's data session can be offloaded to a
WLAN direct connection.
The 3GPP EPC sends them a request to connect directly via WLAN.
Bob's and John's UEs determine whether they are willing to connect directly
via WLAN. After Bob's and John's UEs respond to the 3GPP EPC positively, the
3GPP EPC moves their data session from the infrastructure path to their WLAN
direct path in order to reduce the system congestion.
Later, when the MNO's network congestion subsides, the 3GPP EPC shall be able
to request to switch Bob's and John's data session back to the MNO's
infrastructure path.
#### 5.1.13.4 Post-conditions
MNO's network congestion is reduced.
#### 5.1.13.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.110] The EPC shall be able to request a UE to perform a path switch
between the infrastructure path and WLAN direct path for some or all of the
UE's traffic sessions based on the load in the 3GPP network.
## 5.2 Public Safety Use Cases
### 5.2.1 General
It is noted that the following use cases and requirements are specific needs
that are applicable for public safety in addition to those general use cases
and requirements in the preceding clause.
### 5.2.2 ProSe Discovery Within Network Coverage
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where a given UE discovers one or more
other UEs while in E-UTRAN coverage, with ProSe Discovery always enabled.
#### 5.2.2.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service which makes use of the ProSe feature.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C use ProSe-enabled public safety UEs, and
are all within E-UTRAN coverage.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C have configured ProSe Discovery on their
UE's such that they can discover other UEs and be discovered by other UEs.
Officer A is not in proximity to Officer B and Officer C, who are both within
proximity of each other.
Officer B's UE and Officer C's UE have discovered each other.
#### 5.2.2.3 Service Flows
Officer A moves into proximity of Officer B and Officer C.
Officer A's UE discovers Officer B's UE and Officer C's UE upon entering
proximity.
Officer B's UE and Officer C's UE discover Officer A's UE upon entering
proximity.
#### 5.2.2.4 Post-Conditions
None.
#### 5.2.2.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.53] A ProSe-enabled public safety UE with ProSe Discovery enabled for
discovery of other public safety UEs shall be able to discover other
discoverable public safety UEs, without network interaction if allowed by the
operator, even when under E-UTRAN coverage whether or not ProSe Communication
is used.
Note: A network operator can provide additional services for public safety UEs
that are under 3GPP network coverage, such as providing accurate location
information through GPS data.
[PR.54] A user of a ProSe-enabled public safety UE shall be able to activate
or deactivate the UE's ProSe Discovery feature while under E-UTRAN coverage,
if allowed by the operator whether or not ProSe Communication is used.
### 5.2.3 ProSe Discovery Out of Network Coverage
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where a given UE discovers one or more
other UEs while out of E-UTRAN coverage, with ProSe Discovery always enabled.
#### 5.2.3.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service, which makes use of the ProSe feature.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C use ProSe-enabled public safety UEs, and
Officer A is in E-UTRAN coverage while Officers B and C are out of E-UTRAN
coverage.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C have activated ProSe Discovery on their
UEs such that they can discover other UEs and be discovered by other UEs.
Officer A is not in proximity to Officers B and C, who are both within
proximity of each other.
Officer B's UE and Officer C's UE have discovered each other.
#### 5.2.3.3 Service Flows
Officer A moves into proximity of Officers B and C.
Officer A's UE discovers Officer B's UE and Officer C's UE upon entering
proximity.
Officer B's UE and Officer C's UE discover Officer A's UE upon entering
proximity.
#### 5.2.3.4 Post-Conditions
None.
#### 5.2.3.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.55] A ProSe-enabled public safety UE with ProSe Discovery enabled shall be
able to discover other discoverable public safety UEs when some or all of the
UEs involved in ProSe Discovery are out of E-UTRAN coverage whether or not
ProSe Communication is used.
[PR.56] A user of a ProSe-enabled public safety UE shall be able to activate
or deactivate the UE's ProSe Discovery feature when out of E-UTRAN coverage
whether or not ProSe Communication is used.
### 5.2.4 Can Discover But Not Discoverable
#### 5.2.4.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where a given UE is able to discover
other UEs, but is not discoverable by other UEs.
#### 5.2.4.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service, which makes use of the ProSe feature.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C use ProSe-enabled public safety UEs, and
some or all of them are out of E-UTRAN coverage.
Officer A and B have configured ProSe Discovery on their UEs such that they
can discover other UEs and be discovered by other UEs.
Officer C has enabled ProSe Discovery on his/her UE that is configured such
that it can discover other UEs but cannot be discovered by other UEs.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C are all within proximity of each other.
#### 5.2.4.3 Service Flows
Officer A's UE discovers Officer B's UE.
Officer B's UE discovers Officer A's UE.
Officer C's UE discovers Officer A's UE and Officer B's UE.
Officer A's UE and Officer B's UE do not discover Officer C's UE.
#### 5.2.4.4 Post-Conditions
None.
#### 5.2.4.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.57] The configuration of a ProSe-enabled public safety UE that allows the
UE to discover other discoverable public safety UEs shall be independent from
its configuration to allow or not to allow other ProSe-enabled public safety
UEs to discover it.
### 5.2.5 Void
### 5.2.5A Basic ProSe One-to-One Direct User Traffic Initiation in Public
Safety Spectrum
#### 5.2.5A.1 Description
This use case describes the case where a given public safety UE initiates one-
to-one direct user traffic session with another UE.
#### 5.2.5A.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service, which makes use of the ProSe feature.
Officer A and Officer B use ProSe-enabled public safety UEs.
Officer A and Officer B are subscribed to a Public Safety service that allows
them to use ProSe.
Officer A and Officer B may or may not be in E-UTRAN coverage.
#### 5.2.5A.3 Service Flows
The two public safety UEs discover each other via ProSe Discovery.
Officer A wants to communicate with Officer B, or vice versa. Officer A's UE
and Officer B's public safety UE are able to initiate a direct connection and
exchange user traffic over the air using the public safety spectrum.
#### 5.2.5A.4 Post-Conditions
Officer A communicates with Officer B using one-to-one direct communication.
#### 5.2.5A.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.58] Two public safety UEs whether they are in E-UTRAN coverage or not,
shall be capable of establishing a secure direct connection and exchange user
traffic on public safety spectrum, assuming they are in radio range, are
authenticated and authorized.
[PR.59] The operator shall be able to authorize public safety UEs to establish
data sessions between them using ProSe via network control when there is
E-UTRAN coverage for at least one of the two public safety UEs. An operator
shall be able to configure a Public Safety UE (e.g., in the USIM or ME) with
the permission to establish data session(s), with one or more UEs, without the
UE performing prior registration into the network.
[PR.117] The system shall enable public safety UEs to mutually authenticate
each other when not in network coverage.
### 5.2.6 Void
### 5.2.6A UE with Multiple One-to-One Direct User Traffic Sessions in Public
Safety Spectrum
#### 5.2.6A.1 Description
This use case describes the case where a given UE can concurrently maintain
one-to-one user traffic sessions with several other UEs.
#### 5.2.6A.2 Pre-Conditions
The preconditions are as in clause 5.2.5 with the additions below:
Officer C uses a ProSe-enabled public safety UE;
Officer C is subscribed to a Public Safety service that allows him/her to use
ProSe.
Officer C may or may not be in E-UTRAN coverage.
#### 5.2.6A.3 Service Flows
The three UEs discover each other via ProSe Discovery.
Officer A wants to communicate with Officer B and Officer C concurrently.
While Officer A's UE and Officer B's UE exchange user traffic via a direct
connection, Officer A's UE and Officer C's UE are able to initiate an
additional ProSe direct connection and exchange user traffic over the air
using the public safety spectrum.
#### 5.2.6A.4 Post-Conditions
Officer A communicates with Officer B and Officer C concurrently.
#### 5.2.6A.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.60] Assuming UEs are in radio range, are authenticated and are authorized,
a public safety UE in or out of E-UTRAN coverage on public safety spectrum
dedicated to ProSe services, shall be capable of establishing multiple one-to-
one ProSe direct connections, and of exchanging user traffic with each UE
concurrently across these multiple one-to-one ProSe connections.
### 5.2.7 ProSe Group
#### 5.2.7.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where a user wants to communicate the
same information concurrently to two or more other users using ProSe Group
Communications. The UEs of all users in the scenario belong to a common
communications group.
#### 5.2.7.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service, which makes use of the ProSe feature.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C use ProSe-enabled public safety UEs.
Officer A, B, and C's UEs are configured to belong to communications group X.
Officer C has disabled ProSe Discovery on his/her UE.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C are subscribed to a Public Safety service
that allows them to use ProSe.
Officer A's UE has discovered Officer B's UE via ProSe Discovery.
Officer A's UE has not discovered Officer C's UE via ProSe.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C's UEs may or may not be in E-UTRAN
coverage.
#### 5.2.7.3 Service Flows
Officer A's UE transmits data using ProSe Group Communications to Officer B
and Officer C's UEs concurrently.
#### 5.2.7.4 Post-Conditions
None.
#### 5.2.7.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.61] A Public Safety UE in or out of E-UTRAN coverage shall be capable of
transmitting data to a group of Public Safety UEs using ProSe Group
Communications with a single transmission, assuming they are within
transmission range, authenticated and authorized.
[PR.118] Authentication shall allow for security-enablement of large groups,
regardless of whether group members have discovered each other in or out of
E-UTRAN coverage.
[PR.62] A Public Safety UE in or out of E-UTRAN coverage shall be capable of
transmitting data to a group of Public Safety UEs directly using ProSe Group
Communications.
[PR.63] A Public Safety UE in or out of E-UTRAN coverage shall be capable of
receiving a ProSe Group Communications transmission, of which it is a group
member, regardless of whether or not it has been discovered by the
transmitting UE.
### 5.2.8 ProSe Broadcast
#### 5.2.8.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where a given UE initiates a ProSe
Broadcast Communication transmission to all UEs within transmission range.
#### 5.2.8.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service, which makes use of the ProSe feature.
Fire-fighters A-D, E-H and an incident commander use ProSe-enabled public
safety UEs.
Fire-fighters A-D, E-H and an incident commander are subscribed to a Public
Safety service that allows them to use ProSe.
Fire-fighters A-D's UEs are configured to belong to communications group X.
Fire-fighters E-H's UEs are also configured to belong to communications group
Y, which is separate from fire-fighters A-D.
The incident commanders UE is configured to belong to communication group X
and communication group Y.
The fire-fighters may or may not be in E-UTRAN coverage.
#### 5.2.8.3 Service flows
After arriving at the scene of a fire, fire-fighters A-D's UEs discover each
other and communicate among themselves in communications group X using ProSe
Group Communications.
Later, fire-fighters E-H also arrive on the fire scene and communicate among
themselves in communications group Y using ProSe Group Communications.
At some point, the incident commander wants to provide the same information
concurrently to all of the fire-fighters at the scene of the incident within
transmission range.
The incident commander's UE transmits a ProSe Broadcast Communications message
to all of the fire-fighters' UEs. A single transmission is received by all of
the fire-fighters' UEs rather than individual transmissions being sent to each
of the fire-fighters.
#### 5.2.8.4 Post-Conditions
None.
#### 5.2.8.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.64] An authorized public safety UE in or out of E-UTRAN coverage shall be
capable of sending a broadcast message to all authorized public safety UEs
within transmission range, regardless of group membership, using ProSe
Broadcast Communications in a single transmission.
### 5.2.9 ProSe Relay
#### 5.2.9.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where a given UE acts as a communication
relay for one or more UEs.
#### 5.2.9.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service, which makes use of the ProSe feature.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C use ProSe-enabled public safety UEs.
Officer B's UE has a relay capability allowing it to receive and re-transmit
ProSe Communications.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C are subscribed to a Public Safety service
that allows them to use ProSe.
Officer A's UE, Officer B's UE, and Officer C's UE have each been configured
to belong to communications group X.
Officer A's UE is within transmission range of Officer B's UE, and Officer B's
UE is within transmission range of Officer C's UE, but Officer C's UE is not
within transmission range of Officer A's UE.
Officers A, B and C's UEs may or may not be in E-UTRAN coverage.
#### 5.2.9.3 Service Flows
Officer A wants to communicate with Officer B and Officer C in communications
group X via ProSe Group Communications.
Officer B enables his/her UE to act as a relay for ProSe Group Communications.
Officer A's UE transmits a message to Officer B's UE using ProSe Group
Communications.
Officer B's UE relays (receives and then re-transmits) the communication from
Officer A's UE to Officer C's UE, all using ProSe Group Communications.
Officer B continues to act as a ProSe Group Communications relay until Officer
C is back within transmission range of Officer A and Officer B.
#### 5.2.9.4 Post-Conditions
None.
#### 5.2.9.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.65] An authorized public safety UE may be capable of acting as a relay in
or out of E-UTRAN coverage for other public safety UEs.
[PR.66] An authorized public safety UE shall be capable of being
enabled/disabled by a user or system in or out of E-UTRAN coverage to act as a
relay for other public safety UEs.
[PR.67] The user of a ProSe-enabled public safety UE acting as a relay should
not perceive service degradation due to its use as a relay in or out of
E-UTRAN coverage.
### 5.2.10 ProSe Hybrid and Range Extension
#### 5.2.10.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where a given UE communicates using the
network infrastructure and using ProSe Communications concurrently. This use
case also describes the scenario where a given UE acts as a communication
relay for one or more UEs so that the latter UE(s) can get communication
towards the network.
#### 5.2.10.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service, which makes use of the ProSe feature.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C use ProSe-enabled public safety UEs.
Officer A's UE has a relay capability allowing it to receive and re-transmit
UE and network-originated communications.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C are subscribed to a Public Safety service
that allows them to use ProSe.
Officer A's UE, Officer B's UE, and Officer C's UE have each been configured
to belong to communications group X.
Officer A and B are within E-UTRAN coverage and not in ProSe Group
Communications range of each other, while Officer C is out of E-UTRAN coverage
but within ProSe Group Communications transmission range of Officer A.
#### 5.2.10.3 Service Flows
Officer A communicates information to Officer B and C in communications group
X.
When Officer A transmits, Officer A's and Officer C's UEs exchange data using
ProSe Group Communications, while Officer A's and Officer B's UEs exchange
data using group communications via the network.
Officer C wants to communicate with Officer B, who can be reached via the
network, in communications group X via ProSe Group Communications.
Officer A enables his/her UE to act as a relay for ProSe Communications and
Network Communication.
Officer A's UE relays (receives and then re-transmits) the communication
between Officer B's UE and Officer C's UE.
Officer A is able to continue to act as the relay until Officer B is back
within transmission range of Officer A and Officer C.
#### 5.2.10.4 Post-Conditions
None.
#### 5.2.10.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.68] An authorized public safety UE shall be capable of concurrent
communication using the network infrastructure and off network ProSe whether
or not ProSe Discovery is used.
[PR.69] An authorized public safety UE shall be capable of being
enabled/disabled to act as a relay to/from the network for other public safety
UEs unable to access the network.
[PR.70] Based on operator policy and user choice, service continuity should be
provided so that the system shall be able to initiate or move user traffic
session of a ProSe-enabled UE that has lost connection to the network to a
communication path via a Prose-enabled UE that is in ProSe communication range
and has connectivity to the network.
[PR.119] In addition, the system shall be able to move the user traffic
session back to the infrastructure communication path when the UE moves back
into E-UTRAN coverage. The user may inhibit the switch back to the
infrastructure communication path.
[PR.71] Based on operator policy, the operator network shall be able to
control the relaying of network services between UEs communicating by means of
ProSe.
[PR.72] Based on operator policy, the operator network shall be able to
control the ProSe communication between public safety UEs out of E-UTRAN
coverage that are in ProSe communication with a public safety UE in E-UTRAN
coverage, which is acting as a relay.
### 5.2.11 ProSe Range
#### 5.2.11.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where a given UE is within a building and
uses ProSe Communications to exchange user traffic to/from UEs outside of a
building.
#### 5.2.11.2 Pre-Conditions
An operator offers a service, which makes use of the ProSe feature.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C use ProSe-enabled public safety UEs.
Officer A, Officer B, and Officer C are subscribed to a Public Safety service
that allows them to use ProSe.
Officer C has disabled ProSe Discovery on his/her UE.
Officer A is inside a building, and Officer's B and C are outside of the same
building. Officer A is not within E-UTRAN coverage; officers B and C are
within E-UTRAN coverage.
#### 5.2.11.3 Service Flows
Officer A's UE discovers Officer B's UE via ProSe Discovery.
Officer A's UE does not discover Officer C's UE via ProSe Discovery.
Officer A's UE exchanges data using ProSe Communications to/from Officer B and
Officer C's UEs.
#### 5.2.11.4 Post-Conditions
None.
#### 5.2.11.5 Potential Requirements
SA1 would encourage solutions taking into account the following expectation:
[PR.73] It is desirable that an authorized public safety UE in or out of
E-UTRAN coverage supports the capability to exchange data via ProSe from
within a building to public safety UEs outside the building using a power
class 3 E-UTRA UE [9].
### 5.2.12 Public Safety Implicit Discovery
#### 5.2.12.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario for ProSe public safety in which public
safety officials need to communicate without an explicit ProSe Discovery
event.
#### 5.2.12.2 Pre-Conditions
Public safety officials arrive at a disaster site with their ProSe-enabled
UEs. ProSe Discovery has been disabled on each UE by agreement among the
officials.
The officials\' UEs may or may not be in E-UTRAN coverage.
#### 5.2.12.3 Service Flows
The public safety officials determine the situation requires them to use ProSe
Communication. They activate ProSe Communication on their UEs and communicate
with each other as they proceed about their duties on the site. As the
officials move about the site, communications will be received when the UEs
are within communication range.
#### 5.2.12.4 Post-Conditions
As ProSe Discovery is not performed, there is no explicit prior indication
whether communication with a particular official will succeed at any given
time. For this situation, that is an acceptable level of communication.
#### 5.2.12.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.74] Authorized ProSe-enabled public safety UEs in or out of E-UTRAN
coverage shall be able to communicate with other authorized ProSe-enabled
public safety UEs whether or not ProSe discovery is used.
[PR.75] The ProSe-enabled public safety UEs shall provide the ability for the
end user to activate/deactivate ProSe Communication in or out of E-UTRAN
coverage, whether or not ProSe discovery is used.
[PR.76] A ProSe-enabled public safety UE shall support independent
activation/deactivation of ProSe Discovery and ProSe Communication in or out
of E-UTRAN coverage.
### 5.2.13 Co-existence of ProSe Communication and E-UTRAN communication
#### 5.2.13.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario in which ProSe Discovery and Communications
has been established between two UEs when no E-UTRAN coverage is available.
The two UEs, while still performing ProSe Communications, then move back into
E-UTRAN coverage with minimal impact on communication via the network.
#### 5.2.13.2 Pre-Conditions
Officer A and Officer B are at a disaster site with ProSe-enabled UEs.
Officer A and Officer B are underground where there is no E-UTRAN coverage.
Officers A's UE and Officer B's UE are within proximity of each other.
Officer C and Officer D are at a disaster site with ProSe-enabled UEs and are
within E-UTRAN coverage.
Officer C and Officer D are in communication via the E-UTRAN network.
#### 5.2.13.3 Service Flows
Officers A's UE discovers Officer B's UE using ProSe Discovery.
Officer A establishes ProSe Communication with Officer B.
Officer A and Officer B emerge from the building and are once again in E-UTRAN
coverage and are in proximity of Officers C and D.
#### 5.2.13.4 Post-Conditions
ProSe Communication continues between Officers A and B.
Communication via the E-UTRAN network continues between Officers C and D.
#### 5.2.13.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.123] ProSe-enabled public safety UEs when using ProSe Communications
should have no impact on communication between other UEs communicating via
E-UTRAN, and vice versa.
# 6 Potential Requirements
## 6.1 General
The following contains additional requirements not mentioned in clause 5.
## 6.2 Additional Operational Requirements
[PR.124] The operator network shall be able to continuously control the use of
E-UTRAN resources for ProSe Discovery and ProSe Communication between UEs, as
long as at least one of these UEs is under E-UTRAN coverage and using
operator's spectrum.
[PR.125] ProSe Communication and ProSe Discovery shall not adversely affect
other E-UTRAN services.
[PR.77] ProSe services are available to ProSe-enabled UEs that are registered
to a PLMN, and are under coverage of the E-UTRAN of said PLMN, potentially
served by different eNBs. In this case E-UTRAN resources involved in ProSe
services will be under real time 3GPP network control.
[PR.79] The network should be able to collect Discovery information regarding
which ProSe-enabled UEs are discovered to be in proximity of a given UE.
Restrictions from contracts and regulation on data collection apply.
[PR.80] ProSe services are not available to ProSe-enabled UEs out of E-UTRAN
coverage except in the following case:
ProSe-enabled public safety UEs can use ProSe services when operating on
public safety spectrum even when not under E-UTRAN coverage. In this case, at
least a one-time pre-authorization to use ProSe services is needed.
[PR.81] Re-authorization and specific configurations, including spectrum
configurations, of public safety UEs shall be subject to public safety
operator policy.
[PR.82] When operating ProSe, the EPS shall be able to support regional or
national regulatory requirements, (e.g. lawful interception, PWS).
[PR.120] The ProSe system shall:
  * Allow a UE to selectively discover other UEs of interest;
  * Ensure that 3GPP UE/subscriber identifiers are not disclosed to unauthorized parties when ProSe Discovery and Communication is used;
  * Allow both granting [and]{.underline} revocation of discovery permissions;
  * Enable applications to individually request the setting of discovery parameters, such as discovery range class.
[PR.116] Subject to operator policies MOCN networks shall support establishing
ProSe Communication between two UEs camping on the same radio access network
but served by different MOCN PLMNs.
## 6.3 Additional Charging Requirements
[PR.83] When a ProSe-enabled UE uses ProSe Communication or ProSe-assisted
WLAN direct communications, both the HPLMN and VPLMN operators shall be able
to collect accounting data for this communication including its:
\- Activation/deactivation;
\- initiation/termination;
\- duration and amount of data transferred;
\- QoS, if via E-UTRAN (e.g. levels of availability, allocated resource);
\- inter-operator communication;
\- inter-operator signalling.
## 6.4 Additional Security Requirements
[PR.111] The system shall ensure the confidentiality of user data and network
signalling over ProSe Communication path and Prose-assisted WLAN Direct
Communication to a level comparable with that provided by the existing 3GPP
system.
[PR.112] The system shall ensure the integrity of user data and network
signalling over ProSe Communication path and Prose-assisted WLAN Direct
Communication to a level comparable with that provided by the existing 3GPP
system.
[PR.96] The level of security provided by the existing EPS shall not be
adversely affected when ProSe discovery and communications are enabled.
[PR.86] The system shall ensure the authenticity of the ProSe Discovery
information used by an application that is authorized by the operator and the
user.
[PR.87] The system shall be able to restrict ProSe Discovery information to
the ProSe-enabled UEs and applications that have been authorized by the users
and network operator.
[PR.121] The permission to be discoverable is given by the user and shall be
executed by the system, subject to operator control, on a per-application
basis.
[PR.122] An operator shall be able to configure a UE with the permission to be
discoverable or not by one or more UEs, without prior registration to the
network, for example to provide the means for an enterprise or Public Safety
organization to set permissions for its users.
[PR.113] Existing 3GPP security mechanisms shall be reused whenever possible
and appropriate.
[PR.114] ProSe services shall respect local regulatory frameworks on the use
of licensed spectrum.
[PR.115] ProSe (Discovery and Communication), shall support regional or
national regulatory requirements, (e.g. lawful interception).
[PR.xx] The system shall ensure the user's identity and privacy are protected
when ProSe is used.
## 6.5 Consolidated Potential Requirements
### Requirements for Proximity Services
#### 6.5.1.1 General feature requirements
[CPR.101] [PR.1] Based on operator policy and user choice, the proximity of
two ProSe-enabled UEs shall be determinable; for example, using direct radio
signals or via the operator network.
[CPR.102] [PR.2] A discovering ProSe-enabled UE shall be able to determine
whether or not another ProSe-enabled UE is of interest to it. A ProSe-enabled
UE is of interest to a discovering ProSe-enabled UE if its proximity needs to
be known by one or more authorised applications on the discovering ProSe-
enabled UE.
[CPR.103] [PR.8] Subject to user and operator settings, a ProSe-enabled UE
shall be able to be discoverable only by other ProSe-enabled UEs in proximity
that are explicitly permitted by the discoverable ProSe-enabled UE.
Note: \'explicitly permitted\' refers to Restricted ProSe Discovery.
[CPR.104] [PR.17, PR.18] Subject to user and operator settings, a ProSe-
enabled UE shall be able to be discoverable by all other ProSe-enabled UEs in
proximity without explicit permission. The ProSe-enabled UEs can be served by
the same or different PLMN, including when roaming.
Note: \'without explicit permission\' refers to Open ProSe Discovery.
[CPR.105] [PR.21] All requirements for ProSe Discovery also apply when one or
both of the ProSe-enabled UEs involved in ProSe Discovery are roamuing in a
VPLMN.
[CPR.107] [PR.98] The operator shall be able to dynamically control the
proximity criteria for ProSe discovery. Examples of the criteria include radio
range and geographic range.
[CPR.6] [PR.4] ProSe Discovery shall support a minimum of three range classes
-- for example short, medium and maximum range.
[CPR.109] [PR.5] The operator shall be able to authorise per subscription the
maximum range class ProSe Discovery is allowed to use.
[CPR.110] [PR.6] The possibility to be informed about and request to use
certain ProSe Discovery range classes shall be provided to an application by a
ProSe capability feature.
[CPR.111] [PR.7] The impact of ProSe Discovery, ProSe Communications and
ProSe-assisted WLAN communications on E-UTRA radio usage, network usage and
battery consumption should be minimized.
[CPR.112] [PR.9] ProSe shall support the simultaneous operation of a large
number of applications on a ProSe-enabled UE, ensuring that the 3GPP system
provides ProSe Discovery proximity information only to applications that were
authorised by the 3GPP operator.
[CPR.113] [PR.26] An application on a ProSe-enabled UE shall be able to
request the EPC to determine the proximity of another ProSe-enabled UE; the
EPC shall be able to determine proximity of two ProSe-enabled UEs and inform
them of their proximity.
[CPR.12] [PR.29] The system shall be capable of monitoring communication
characteristics (e.g. channel condition, QoS of the path, volume of traffic
etc.) on the E-UTRA ProSe Communication path, regardless of whether there is
an existing data session on the infrastructure path.
[CPR.13] [PR.34] The Radio Access Network shall control the radio resources
associated with the E-UTRA ProSe Communications path.
[CPR.117] [PR.28] The 3GPP system shall be capable of moving a user traffic
session from the infrastructure path to an E-UTRA ProSe Communication path,
when the ProSe-enabled UEs are determined to be in range allowing ProSe
Communication.
[CPR.118] [PR.30] The 3GPP system shall be capable of moving a user traffic
session from an E-UTRA ProSe Communication path to an infrastructure path. At
a minimum, this functionality shall support the case when the E-UTRA ProSe
Communication path is no longer feasible.
[CPR.122] [PR.92] The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorise the ability of
a ProSe-enabled UE to use ProSe Communication, separately for the HPLMN and
for roaming in VPLMNs.
[CPR.123] [PR.93] The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorise the ability of
a ProSe-enabled UE to use ProSe Communication to communicate with a ProSe-
enabled UE served by a different PLMN.
[CPR.124] [PR.94] The VPLMN operator shall be able to turn on or off the
ability for all the inbound roamers from a specific PLMN to use ProSe
Communication.
[CPR.15] [PR.39, PR.40, PR.42] ProSe proximity information shall be suitable
for integration with the Location and Presence information used by the network
to offer its services.
[CPR.129] [PR.43] ProSe shall be able to accommodate potentially large numbers
of concurrently participating ProSe-enabled UEs.
[CPR.132] [PR.77] The ProSe system shall be available to ProSe-enabled UEs
that are registered to a PLMN and under the coverage of the E-UTRAN of said
PLMN even if potentially served by different eNBs. In this case, E-UTRAN
resources involved in ProSe services will be under real time 3GPP network
control.
[CPR.133] [PR.79] The network shall be able to collect Discovery information
from a ProSe-enabled UE regarding which ProSe-enabled UEs are discovered to be
in its proximity. Restrictions due to regulation on data collection apply.
[CPR.134] [PR.120] The ProSe system shall:
  * Allow a ProSe-enabled UE to selectively discover ProSe-enabled UEs of interest;
  * Ensure that 3GPP UE/subscriber identifiers are not disclosed to unauthorised parties when ProSe is used;
  * Allow both granting [and]{.underline} revocation of discovery permissions;
  * Enable applications to individually request the setting of discovery parameters, such as discovery range class.
[CPR.135] [PR.116] Subject to operator policies MOCN networks shall support
establishing ProSe Communication between two ProSe-enabled UEs camping on the
same radio access network but served by different MOCN PLMNs.
#### 6.5.1.2 WLAN access requirements
When a ProSe-enabled UE uses ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communications, both
the HPLMN and VPLMN shall be able to collect accounting data for ProSe-
assisted WLAN direct communications including:
\- ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication duration, amount of data
transferred, etc.
[CPR.136] [PR.44] Subject to operator policy and user consent, a ProSe-enabled
UE with WLAN capability shall be able to establish ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communications with another ProSe-enabled UE when in WiFi Direct
communications range, based on ProSe Discovery and WLAN configuration
information from the 3GPP EPC.
[CPR.137] [PR.45] The 3GPP EPC shall be able to provide configuration
information to ProSe-enabled UEs for the purpose of establishing ProSe-
assisted WLAN direct communications.
[CPR.138] [PR.100] The EPC shall be able to provide configuration information
that enables confidentiality and integrity on the ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communications link.
[CPR.139] [PR.101] The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorise ProSe-
assisted WLAN direct communications for a ProSe-enabled UE, separately for use
in the HPLMN and when roaming in VPLMNs.
[CPR.140] [PR.102] The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorise a ProSe-
enabled UE to engage in ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communications with a
ProSe-enabled UE being served by a different PLMN.
[CPR.141] [PR.103] The VPLMN operator shall be able to turn on or off ProSe-
assisted WLAN direct communications for inbound roamers.
[CPR.142] [PR.104] Both the HPLMN and VPLMN operators shall be able to charge
for ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communications.
[CPR.143] [PR.47] Subject to operator policy and user consent the EPC and a
ProSe-enabled UE shall be capable of negotiating the move of a traffic flow
between the infrastructure path and the ProSe-assisted WLAN direct path.
[CPR.145] [PR.105] The network shall be able to determine whether two ProSe-
enabled UEs are within WLAN direct communications range and whether the WLAN
direct link can provide the necessary QoS to support the end user application.
[CPR.146] [PR.106] The network shall ensure service continuity for ProSe-
assisted WLAN direct communications flows and be capable of considering QoS
requirements of all data flows when negotiating a communications path switch
for a given end user application.
[CPR.147] [PR.107] The system shall be capable of establishing a new user
traffic session for a ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communications path.
[CPR.148] [PR.108] Subject to operator policy and user consent the EPS shall
be capable of maintaining existing E-UTRAN infrastructure communications while
ProSe WLAN communication is established by a given ProSe-enabled UE.
[CPR.149] [PR.109] Subject to operator policy and user consent the EPS shall
be capable of establishing new E-UTRAN infrastructure communications while
ProSe WLAN communication is on-going for a given ProSe-enabled UE.
#### 6.5.1.3 Public Safety specific requirements
[CPR.21] [PR.55, PR.56, PR.80] ProSe services shall not be available to ProSe-
enabled UEs out of E-UTRAN coverage, except in the following cases:
  * ProSe-enabled public safety UEs can use ProSe services when operating on public safety spectrum dedicated to ProSe services even when not under E-UTRAN coverage. In this case, at least a one-time pre-authorization to use ProSe services is needed.
  * A ProSe-enabled public safety UE with ProSe Discovery enabled shall be able to discover other discoverable ProSe-enabled public safety UEs when some or all of the ProSe-enabled UEs involved in ProSe Discovery are out of E-UTRAN coverage.
[CPR.152] [PR.57] The configuration of a ProSe-enabled public safety UE that
allows the ProSe-enabled UE to discover other discoverable ProSe-enabled
public safety UEs shall be independent from its configuration to allow or not
to allow other ProSe-enabled public safety UEs to discover it.
[CPR.2aa] [PR.xxx] A ProSe-enabled public safety UE shall be capable of
determining autonomously whether a discovered ProSe-enabled UE is a public
safety UE.
[CPR.25] [PR.61] A public safety UE shall be capable of transmitting data to a
group of public safety UEs using ProSe Group Communications with a single
transmission, assuming they are within transmission range and authorized.
[CPR.26] [PR.62] A ProSe-enabled public safety UE shall be capable of
transmitting data to a group of ProSe-enabled public safety UEs directly using
ProSe Group Communications.
[CPR.27] [PR.63] A public safety UE shall be capable of receiving a ProSe
Group Communications transmission, of which it is a group member, regardless
of whether or not it has been discovered by the transmitting UE.
[CPR.28] [PR.64] An authorized public safety UE shall be capable of sending a
broadcast message to all authorized public safety UEs within transmission
range, regardless of group membership, using ProSe Broadcast Communications in
a single transmission.
[CPR.29] [PR.65] An authorized public safety UE may be capable of acting as a
relay for other public safety UEs.
[CPR.30] [PR.66] An authorized public safety UE shall be capable of being
enabled/disabled by a user or system to act as a relay for other public safety
UEs.
[CPR.31] [PR.67] The user of a ProSe-enabled public safety UE acting as a
relay should not perceive service degradation due to the relay.
CPR.2YY There shall be a maximum of one ProSe UE-to-Network Relay between a UE
and E-UTRAN.
CPR.2YY In the case where communication is relayed between an out of coverage
UE and E-UTRAN, by a ProSe UE-to-Network Relay, there shall be no ProSe UE-to-
UE Relays between the UE and E-UTRAN.
[CPR.32] [PR.68] An authorized public safety UE shall be capable of
communication using the network infrastructure and off network ProSe
concurrently.
[CPR.156] [PR.69] An authorised ProSe-enabled public safety UE shall be
capable of being enabled/disabled to act as a relay to/from the network for
other ProSe-enabled public safety UEs unable to access the network.
[CPR.34] [PR.70] Based on operator policy and user choice, the system shall be
able to initiate or move user traffic session of a ProSe-enabled public safety
UE that has lost connection to the network to a communication path via a
Prose-enabled public safety UE acting as a ProSe UE-to-network relay that is
in ProSe Communication range and has connectivity to the network. Service
continuity should be provided when the traffic is moved.
[CPR.36] [PR.72] Based on operator policy, the operator network shall be able
to control ProSe Communication between out of E-UTRAN coverage ProSe-enabled
public safety UEs that are in ProSe Communication with an in E-UTRAN coverage
ProSe-enabled public safety UE, which is acting as their ProSe UE-to-network
relay.
[CPR.38] [PR.81] Re-authorization and specific configurations, including
spectrum configurations, of ProSe-enabled public safety UEs shall be subject
to public safety operator policy.
### 6.5.2 Security, Authorization and Privacy
[CPR.40] [PR.85] The system shall ensure that ProSe Discovery respects
privacy.
[CPR.163] [PR.111, PR.112] The system shall ensure that the confidentiality
and integrity of both user data and network signalling over the direct link is
supported to a level comparable with that provided by the existing 3GPP
system.
[CPR.164] [PR.96] The level of security provided by the existing EPS shall not
be adversely affected when ProSe discovery and communications are enabled.
[CPR.165] [PR.86] The 3GPP system shall ensure the authenticity of the ProSe
Discovery information provided to the discoverer.
[CPR.42] [PR.87] The system shall be able to restrict ProSe Discovery
information to the ProSe-enabled UEs that have been authorised.
[CPR.44] [PR.82 & 115] When operating ProSe, the EPS shall be able to support
regional or national regulatory requirements, (e.g. lawful interception, PWS).
[CPR.166] [PR.121] The permission to be discoverable is given by the user and
shall be executed by the system, subject to operator control, on a per-
application basis.
[CPR.167] [PR.122] An operator shall be able to configure a ProSe-enabled UE
with the permission to be discoverable or not by one or more ProSe-enabled
UEs, without prior registration to the network, for example to provide the
means for an enterprise or Public Safety organization to set permissions for
its users.
[CPR.168] [PR.113] Existing 3GPP security mechanisms shall be reused whenever
possible and appropriate.
[CPR.45] [PR.13] The operator shall be able to authorise discovery operations
for each individual ProSe-enabled UE.
[CPR.169] [PR.114] When offering ProSe, the 3GPP system shall respect local
regulatory frameworks on the use of licensed spectrum.
[CPR.174] [PR.14] The operator shall be able to authorise the ability of a
ProSe-enabled UE to be discoverable by other ProSe-enabled UEs.
[CPR.175] [PR.15] The operator shall be able to authorise the ability of a
ProSe-enabled UE to discover other ProSe-enabled UEs.
[CPR.176] [PR.10] An operator shall be able to authorise the use of ProSe
Discovery information by an application.
[CPR.177] [PR.11] A user shall be able to allow the use of ProSe Discovery
information by an application.
[CPR.178] [PR.19] The operator shall be able to authorise the ability of a
ProSe-enabled UE to discover ProSe-enabled UEs camping on other PLMNs.
[CPR.179] [PR.22] The VPLMN operator shall be able to turn on or off the
ability for all the inbound roamers from a specific PLMN to be discovered
using ProSe Discovery.
[CPR.180] [PR.23, PR.24] When a ProSe-enabled UE is roaming in a VPLMN, its
HPLMN operator shall be able to authorise the ProSe-enabled UE to discover and
independently be discoverable by other ProSe-enabled UEs via settings which
may be different from those for the non-roaming case.
[CPR.48] [PR.49] The operator network and the ProSe-enabled UE shall provide a
mechanism to identify, authenticate and authorise a third-party application to
use ProSe capability features.
[CPR.182] [PR.89, PR.90] The network shall be able to authorise ProSe
Discovery preferences (e.g. discover and/or be discoverable) requested by
third--party applications.
### 6.5.3 Charging Aspects
[CPR.184] [PR.20] The operator shall be able to charge for the ability to
discover ProSe-enabled UEs camping on other PLMNs.
[CPR.186] [PR.88 & 95] The HPLMN operator shall be able to charge for use of
ProSe Discovery and ProSe Communication by an application.
# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
The Feasibility Study for Proximity Services (ProSe) Technical Report analyses
several use cases of ProSe for both general and public safety use. The use
cases address two key aspects of ProSe:
  * Discovery, and
  * Communication via an optimized path.
Taking into consideration the Use Cases and Scenarios defined in Clause 5, new
potential requirements related to UE operations, network operations, charging
and security for ProSe have been identified in Clause 5 with additional
potential requirements in Clauses 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, and 6.4.
It is recommended to proceed with normative work.
Some aspects in this feasibility study have led to normative specification in
TS 22.278 [10] and TS 22.115 [11]. The text of the present document will not
be updated to align with normative specifications.
###### ### Annex A: WLAN handling in ProSe
**Discovery:**
Discovery of ProSe-enabled UEs is only based on E-UTRA radio.
**Communication:**
a) UEs may use E-UTRA for communication
b) UEs may also use WLAN for communication
The WLAN communication has no impact on specifications under responsibility of
RAN WGs. The 3GPP EPC may provide configuration that includes parameters to be
used for setting up WLAN communication.
Use cases that include EPC management of the WLAN session and those that cover
use of WLAN without EPC management can be considered.
###### ### Annex B: Potential Requirement Trace
* * *
**Requirement ID** **TR Clause** **Requirement ID** **TR Clause**
**Requirement ID** **TR Clause** [PR.1] 5.1.1 [PR.51] void [PR.101] 5.1.9
[PR.2] 5.1.1 [PR.52] 5.1.11 [PR.102] 5.1.9 [PR.3] 5.1.1 [PR.53] 5.2.2 [PR.103]
5.1.9 [PR.4] 5.1.1 [PR.54] 5.2.2 [PR.104] 5.1.9 [PR.5] 5.1.1 [PR.55] 5.2.3
[PR.105] 5.1.10 [PR.6] 5.1.1 [PR.56] 5.2.3 [PR.106] 5.1.10 [PR.7] 5.1.1
[PR.57] 5.2.4 [PR.107] 5.1.10 [PR.8] 5.1.1 [PR.58] 5.2.5 [PR.108] 5.1.12
[PR.9] 5.1.1 [PR.59] 5.2.5 [PR.109] 5.1.12 [PR.10] 5.1.1 [PR.60] 5.2.6
[PR.110] 5.1.13 [PR.11] 5.1.1 [PR.61] 5.2.7 [PR.111] 6.4 [PR.12] 5.1.1 [PR.62]
5.2.7 [PR.112] 6.4 [PR.13] 5.1.1 [PR.63] 5.2.7 [PR.113] 6.4 [PR.14] 5.1.1
[PR.64] 5.2.8 [PR.114] 6.4 [PR.15] 5.1.1 [PR.65] 5.2.9 [PR.115] 6.4 [PR.16]
5.1.1 [PR.66] 5.2.9 [PR.116] 6.2 [PR.17] 5.1.2 [PR.67] 5.2.9 [PR.117] 5.2.5
[PR.18] 5.1.3 [PR.68] 5.2.10 [PR.118] 5.2.7 [PR.19] 5.1.3 [PR.69] 5.2.10
[PR.119] 5.2.10 [PR.20] 5.1.3 [PR.70] 5.2.10 [PR.120] 6.2 [PR.21] 5.1.4
[PR.71] 5.2.10 [PR.121] 6.4 [PR.22] 5.1.4 [PR.72] 5.2.10 [PR.122] 6.4 [PR.23]
5.1.4 [PR.73] 5.2.11 [PR.123] 5.2.13 [PR.24] 5.1.4 [PR.74] 5.2.12 [PR.124] 6.2
[PR.25] 5.1.4 [PR.75] 5.2.12 [PR.125] 6.2 [PR.26] 5.1.5 [PR.76] 5.2.12
[PR.126] Unassigned [PR.27] 5.1.6 [PR.77] 6.2 [PR.127] Unassigned [PR.28]
5.1.6 [PR.78] 6.2 [PR.128] Unassigned [PR.29] 5.1.6 [PR.79] 6.2 [PR.129]
Unassigned [PR.30] 5.1.6 [PR.80] 6.2 [PR.130] Unassigned [PR.31] 5.1.6 [PR.81]
6.2 [PR.131] Unassigned [PR.32] 5.1.6 [PR.82] 6.2 [PR.132] Unassigned [PR.33]
5.1.6 [PR.83] 6.3 [PR.133] Unassigned [PR.34] 5.1.6 [PR.84] void [PR.134]
Unassigned [PR.35] 5.1.6 [PR.85] 6.4 [PR.135] Unassigned [PR.36] 5.1.6 [PR.86]
6.4 [PR.136] Unassigned [PR.37] 5.1.6 [PR.87] 6.4 [PR.137] Unassigned [PR.38]
5.1.6 [PR.88] 5.1.11 [PR.138] Unassigned [PR.39] 5.1.7 [PR.89] 5.1.11 [PR.139]
Unassigned [PR.40] 5.1.7 [PR.90] 5.1.11 [PR.140] Unassigned [PR.41] 5.1.7
[PR.91] 5.1.5 [PR.141] Unassigned [PR.42] 5.1.7 [PR.92] 5.1.6 [PR.142]
Unassigned [PR.43] 5.1.8 [PR.93] 5.1.6 [PR.143] Unassigned [PR.44] 5.1.9
[PR.94] 5.1.6 [PR.144] Unassigned [PR.45] 5.1.9 [PR.95] 5.1.6 [PR.145]
Unassigned [PR.46] void [PR.96] 6.4 [PR.146] Unassigned [PR.47] 5.1.10 [PR.97]
5.1.1 [PR.147] Unassigned [PR.48] 5.1.10 [PR.98] 5.1.1 [PR.148] Unassigned
[PR.49] 5.1.11 [PR.99] 5.1.6 [PR.149] Unassigned [PR.50] 5.1.11 [PR.100] 5.1.9
[PR.150] Unassigned
* * *
#