# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Some mobile data applications might result in adverse impact to the mobile
network, e.g. due to frequent idle-active mode changing, frequent start or
stop of services, small data transmission, frequent live update, transmission
of data burst. Hence, the network (both RAN and CN) may experience a flood of
signalling and data traffic.
This study aims to investigate the service scenario/use cases of different
mobile data applications. Their impact to the current system is generalized.
Potential service and operational requirements are indentified for possible
enhancements to the system.
# 1 Scope
To make the network better suited for mobile data applications, the aim/scope
of this study is to:
  * _Capture real world data / analysis._
  * _Identify services scenarios / use cases for mobile data applications._
  * _Identify potential problems / issues caused by different mobile data applications._
  * Identify potential service and operational requirements for possible enhancements to the system.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] "Apple App Store Tops 300,000 Apps," internet source:
http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2373169,00.asp
[3] "Crossing the 100,000 Applications Mark," internet source:
http://blog.androlib.com/
[4] "Smartphones and a 3G Network," Signals Research Group.
[5] "Diversity in Smartphone Usage," H. Falaki, R. Mahajan, S. Kandula, D.
Lymberopoulos, R. Govindan, and D. Estrin, MobiSys\'10, June 2010.
[6] "A First Look at Traffic on Smartphones," H. Falaki, D. Lymberopoulos, R.
Mahajan, S. Kandula, and D. Estrin, IMC November 2010.
[7] "An Analysis of the Skype Peer-to-Peer Internet Telephony Protocol," S.
Baset and H. Schulzrinne, IEEE Infocom 2006.
[8] "Find*Me," internet source:
https://market.android.com/details?id=com.gpsshare.ads
[9] http://www.caida.org/data/passive/trace_stats/sanjose-B/2010/equinix-
sanjose.2010-0415.dirB.df.xml
[10] http://www.caida.org/data/passive/trace_stats/sanjose-A/2010/equinix-
sanjose.2010-09.dirA.df.xml
[11] http://www.caida.org/data/passive/trace_stats/sanjose-B/2010/equinix-
sanjose.2010-09.dirB.df.xml
[12] http://www.caida.org/data/passive/trace_stats/chicago-B/2009/equinix-
chicago.2009-04.dirB.df.xml
[13] C. Na, J. K. Chen, and T. S. Rappaport, "Measured Traffic Statistics and
Throughput of IEEE 802.11b Public WLAN Hotspots with Three Different
Applications," IEEE Transactions On Wireless Communications, Nov. 2006.
[14] F. Wamser, R. Pries, D. Staehle, K. Heck, and P. Tran-Gia, "Traffic
characterization of a residential wireless Internet access," Special Issue of
the Telecommunication Systems (TS) Journal, 48: 1-2, 2010.
[15] http://www.youtube.com/live
[16] http://www.tuaw.com/2011/01/05/comcast-to-offer-3-000-hours-of-live-
streaming-content-to-ipad/
[17] http://www.omaha.com/article/20101205/MONEY/712059914
[18] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".
[19] http://www.kaspersky.com/news?id=207576158
[20] http://www.appedia.com/news/2148.html
[21] http://www.androidpolice.com/2011/03/01/the-mother-of-all-android-
malware-has-arrived-stolen-apps-released-to-the-market-that-root-your-phone-
steal-your-data-and-open-backdoor
[22] X. Geng and A.B. Whinston, \"Defeating Distributed Denial of Service
Attacks,\" IEEE Journal of IT Professional, Volume 2, Issue 4, Jul. 2000.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
None
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AoS Always Online Service
Apps Applications
CN Core Network
DDoS Distributed Denial of Service
EPC Evolved Packet Core
IM Instant Messaging
MODAI Non-MTC Mobile Data Application Impacts
SNS Social Network Services
SP Service Provider
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Mobile data applications and their adverse system impacts
Today, there exist hundreds of thousands of mobile data applications for
mobile devices [2] and [3]. Many of these applications utilize the mobile
broadband connections to provide various types of communications to the users.
While some of these applications focus on more "traditional" use cases such as
web browsing or email reading, other emerging applications such as social
networking applications help the users to "stay connected" with their friends
on the go. Below is a short list of different categories of mobile data
applications:
\- Web browsing
\- Email
\- Weather/News updates
\- VoIP (Skype, etc.)
\- Social Networking (Facebook)
\- Geo services (Google places/location-targeted ads)
\- Online games
\- Messaging (SMS and instant messaging)
\- etc.
A recent study [4] noted that the way social networking applications on mobile
devices transmit and receive status update messages can cause significant
signalling congestions in 3G networks. There are other operational
characteristics of the mobile data applications, such as small data
transmission and frequent start or stop of services that can cause adverse
impacts to the mobile network.
So as more and more mobile data traffic is handled by the network, the
signalling traffic associated with various non-mtc mobile data applications
can cause high signalling burden on the network and lead to poor user
experience. Also, some of these applications have \"keep alive\" messages that
can generate large amount of signalling traffic.
As shown in Figure 1, it can be observed that, there is a many-to-many mapping
between the mobile data apps and their operational characteristics/potential
problems. Such mapping implies that:
\- One application can potentially cause multiple problems to the network.
\- Different applications can contribute to the same problem to the network,
thereby aggravating the problems observed in the EPC and RAN.
Figure 1: Many-to-many mapping between the mobile data applications\ and
potential adverse system effects
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Frequent transmission of small data packet
One characteristic of some mobile data applications is that they generate
small data packets, e.g. IM chatting, heartbeat like operation compared to
legacy CS/PS services and HTTP/WAP browsing services. Small data packets are
exchanged frequently when mobile data application runs on a UE. The time
interval between heartbeat messages is often several seconds for some
applications, IM presence status update information may change frequently
which is compounded by generating large number of small data packets as an
update message is pushed to all friends in the buddy list.
Data relating to the presence of small packets over 3GPP access.
When looking at packet traces of major internet POPs [9], [10], [11] and [12],
it is clear that roughly 40% of the packets on the Internet today are less
than 50 Bytes for IPv4 traffic. Similar observations have been seen in the
traffic analysis for wireless access technologies as well [13] and [14]. These
are rather large fraction of packets in terms of the total number of packets
that flow through the network. These packets could contain a variety of
payloads such as TCP ACKs and application related payloads such as VoIP
silence suppression and other small payloads.
When these small sized IP packets get transmitted over the 3GPP access, a
couple of things are expected to change:
1) ROHC, if enabled will further reduce the size of the packet by compressing
the IP/UDP/TCP headers in a very effective manner.
2) The 3GPP access will add PDCP, RLC and MAC related overheads which will
bump up the size of the packet.
It is however expected that the net effect of 1) and 2) above will be that the
packet size effectively could become even smaller especially in scenarios such
as VoIP where the ROHC compression can be quite efficient in bringing down the
IP/UDP/RTP headers down to a few bytes in size.
This trend of small packets is expected to be exacerbated as status messages,
location messages, instant messages, keep alives etc as generated by the
current generation of mobile data apps grow considerably over time.
Hence it is imperative that 3GPP accesses provide enough mechanisms to ensure
optimal delivery of such small data packets.
It is to be noted that with IPv6, the small data packet problem will remain
the same over 3GPP access even though the IPv6 header is much larger. This is
due to the application of ROHC over 3GPP access.
**Issues**
The frequent exchange of large amount of small data packets may reduce network
efficiency and waste network resources, e.g. some IM applications may consume
more network resources to transmit same amount of data than HTTP/WAP browsing
applications.
## 5.2 Status updates and keep-alive messages due to always on mobile data
applications
Some existing "always on" mobile data applications [5] and [6], such as IM,
Social networking apps etc are currently bringing some challenges to operator
networks. In general, these mobile data applications involve interactive
communications, through operator network, with their application servers in
the internet. The server and the application on the UE periodically exchange
"heartbeat" messages ( also Known as keep-alives) to keep the application
session alive and also to avoid the expiry of NAT mapping which causes IP
session disconnection.
In addition to periodic keep-alive messages, the applications also generate
frequent status update messages to notify the users of status updates relating
to the application. Some examples include presence information of buddies in
an IM buddy list, update of user location upon user "check in", update of
"Facebook likes" to a user's friends, etc.
  * Frequency of Keep-alive messages:
```{=html}
``` \- VoIP apps such as Skype and Fring generate keep-alive messages from
once every 30 seconds to every 8 minutes [4] and [7].
```{=html}
``` \- Frequency of Status update messages:
```{=html}
``` \- Social networking applications such as FindMe generate status update
messages upon geographic position changes. The frequency of such messages
ranges from sporadic over a day (e.g. changing from home to work to gym then
back to home) to periodic up to every 60 seconds [8].
  * Social networking servers push content and presence update messages of the subscriber's friends to the applications on the UE (e.g. Facebook posts the activities when your friend "likes" a particular article or "becomes a fan" of a particular group). The frequency of such content and presence update messages is estimated in the order of every few minutes [see Annex A].
Two more aspects that can aggravate the impacts of status update and keep-
alive messages are:
  * These messages can be mobile-originated (MO) or mobile-terminated (MT), e.g. periodic FindMe messages can come from change of location of your friends or can come from the updates of your own location.
  * It is not uncommon that a UE will install multiple applications, where each application generates these update/keep-alive messages autonomously.
**Issues**
When the transmission of keep alive or status update messages are completed,
and upon detection of user inactivity, the UE may be moved to a low power
state (e.g. from connected to idle) in order to save the UE battery power.
As a result, when the average frequency of status update and/or keep-alive
messages is greater than the inactivity timer, the UE will have to cycle among
idle, wake up, re-establish the connection, send or receive the update
message(s), go back to idle and so on.
Figure 2 further illustrates the timing when the UE experiences such frequent
idle-active mode transition problem. From the left-most of the figure, after
the phone finishes some data traffic, it stays on active mode for a while and
switches to idle state to save power. Soon after the phone enters idle,
application #1 generates an update message and the phone wakes up, transmits
some signaling messages to establish the connection. We note that, the phone
might consume more energy in sending signaling messages than it's in active
mode but sending no message. After establishing the connection, it sends the
update message and again stays in active state for a while before going to
idle state. This cycle repeats as other applications also send/receive update
messages (e.g. some MT update messages pushed by the server of app #2 and MO
update messages generated by app #3).
{width="5.995138888888889in" height="3.3472222222222223in"}
Figure 2: Timing when the UE experiences such frequent idle-active mode
changing problem
We can see that, when the UE constantly flips between active and idle state,
there are two problems observed.
  * Increased control plane signalling:
There are excessive signaling overhead (both in RAN and in CN) to just send
these occasional, very small update messages. To send just one update message,
it may take one round of idle-active transition which may incur significant
signaling overhead, including multiple RRC messages in RAN (e.g. Service
Request, Radio Bear Establishment/Release, and Paging when message is MT) and
EPC signaling messages (e.g. Service Request, Connection Setup/Release).
  * Reduced battery life of UE:
In the worst case scenario, when multiple applications generate update
messages soon after the phone enters idle state, the energy consumption of the
phone increases due to constantly flipping between active and idle state, it
may be higher than if the phone just remained in active mode.
Table 1 summarizes the problem scenarios, the sources of problems, and the
affected elements of the frequent idle-active state transition scenarios.
Table 1: Signalling inefficiency and reduced battery life caused by mobile
data application\ status updates and keep-alive messages
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Problem | Apps that | Effect to | Effect to | Effect to | | scenario | cause the | EPC | RAN | UE | | | problem | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MO status | * Social | signaling | RRC | Reduced | | update | ntwk: UE | overhead | signaling | battery | | | owner's | (set-up & | overhead | life | | | status | tear-down) | | | | | update. | | | | | | | | | | | | * Geo | | | | | | service | | | | | | app: | | | | | | geo-tags, | | | | | | geo-cast | | | | | | etc. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MO periodic | * VPN | | | | | keep-alive | | | | | | | * Skype | | | | | | when not in | | | | | | a call | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MT status | * Social | * | * RRC | Reduced | | update | ntwk: | signaling | signaling | battery | | | friends' | overhead | overhead | life | | | con | (set-up & | | | | | tent/status | tear-down) | * paging | | | | update. | | signaling | | | | | | overhead to | | | | * Geo | | tracking | | | | service | | area | | | | app: | | | | | | locati | | | | | | on-targeted | | | | | | event/ads. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MT periodic | Skype when | | | | | keep-alive | not in a | | | | | | call | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 5.3 Frequent start of service
One of the characteristics of Push-to-talk over Cellular (PoC) service is the
frequent start of service. Generally, PoC service is intended for business use
as PoC calls are mostly "one to many" calls. Each time users start up the
application, the UE goes directly from idle to active, and each user takes an
independent wireless resource simultaneously. This means that the resource
consumption will be large and will produce a large volume of signalling when
many users join the call.
**Issues**
As the capacity of network is limited, additional signalling produced by
users' frequent start of PoC application can lead to shortage of wireless
resources and network congestion. In addition, the frequent start of
application will reduce battery life of UE.
## 5.4 Overload caused by live content streaming
Internet live content streaming that offers live TV viewing experience and
real-time coverage of popular events [15], [16] has become increasingly
popular. In the case of breaking news TV coverage or popular sports events,
large numbers of interested viewers flock to the content streaming website and
are eager to view the same live program. This phenomenon creates a surge in
number of streams trying to flow through the network, consequently creating
congestion in the network, especially in the air interface as bandwidth is a
scarce resource [17].
**Issues**
Unlike on-demand based content streaming, Internet live content streaming
poses unique challenges to the network operators' bandwidth management
strategy because many live events/TV draw a huge crowd of viewers clogging
network bandwidth at the same time. It is worth noting that, even though
viewers are all interested in the same program, current Internet live content
streams are delivered to wireless subscribers in the form of multiple streams
of unicast traffic. Since many live content streaming sources come from the
Internet rather than the multicast/broadcast services hosted by the network
operator, the broadcasting infrastructure within the operators' network, e.g.
MBMS [18], can not be utilized to deal with such situations.
## 5.5 Distributed Denial of Service
With hundreds of thousands of mobile data applications developed by amateur
developers on open platforms such as Android and Apple iOS, the emergence of
intentionally or accidentally malicious mobile data applications is becoming
increasingly high [19], [20].
So far most of the intentionally malicious programs target the UE, such as
stealing users' identity, contacts, or making premium SMS/phone calls without
users' knowledge [21].
Accidentally malicious programs could be categorized as those applications
that are poorly written in turn leads to sub-optimal behaviour of UEs in the
operator's network. Instances of such applications are ever increasing due to
a huge base of amateur application developers. Furthermore, the problem could
be compounded by the presence of a large number of UEs running one or more
accidentally malicious programs.
Intentionally malicious or accidentally malicious applications could
potentially lead to intentional or accidental Distributed Denial of Service
(DDoS) as detailed in this use case.
Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks usually involve one computer
instructing multiple (infected) computers to attack multiple networks or
hosts, using the infected computers to mount a powerful, coordinated attack
[22]. The effects of DDoS attacks are usually in the form of inundating the
victim networks/hosts and blocking legitimate visitors.
**Intentional DDoS:**
In the context of Mobile Data Application based DDoS attack in wireless
broadband networks, the attackers target is to paralyze the wireless networks
and take the network and subscribers hostage. The attackers' strategy can be
described as follows. The attackers first publishes the malicious programs,
often disguised as a legitimate applications, on the open development platform
for users to download. The attackers can easily keep track of how many users
have downloaded the program, for example by using the download counter
provided on the development platforms. When there are enough users that have
downloaded and unknowingly infected their devices with the malicious program,
the attackers utilizes the back-door left at the malicious program (e.g.
Trojan horse) to coordinate simultaneous attack toward the wireless network.
**Accidental DDoS:**
Accidental DDoS occurs when a lot of UEs end up downloading one or more
accidentally malicious programs -- which are poorly written applications and
cause sub-optimal UE behaviour in the operator network. The sub-optimal
behaviour could be in the form of chatty collaboration between UEs,
establishing frequent and large number of connections from the UE etc., often
leading to excessive data and signalling usage by the UE. This effect can get
compounded with higher number of UEs downloading and executing such
accidentally malicious applications as well as with more accidentally
malicious applications running per UE.
In summary, even though the accidentally malicious application is not intended
to attack the network resources, it effectively ends up doing so.
**Issues**
1) Formats and impacts of the attacks: In one form of the attack, the
applications can coordinate the infected devices to initiate continuous and
possibly synchronized attach requests to overwhelm the network, causing
congestion in both radio links and backhaul links. On the other hand, the
infected devices can be co-ordinated to initiate useless but bandwidth-
demanding traffic, both uplink and downlink, to inundate the network. The
impact of such attack is waste of resources in the network and potentially
overage of data charges to subscribers.
In addition, both types of attacks can cause severe damage to the wireless
network by blocking legitimate users from using the network and potentially
overload and bring down the network making it temporarily out of service.
2) Scale and affected areas of the attacks: the scale and affected areas of
the attacks will depend on geographic distribution of infected devices. If
large numbers of infected devices in one cell launch attacks at the same time,
the radio links become the victim. If the infected device are distributed
across an area that is covered by a few cells, the coordinated attack will
likely congest the backhaul and elements in access network, e.g. expose
processing bottleneck in MME or S-GW, or cause congested links between eNB-
MME/S-GW.
It is worth noting that, with the increasing popularity of devices capable of
position techniques, in the event of malicious attacks, the attackers might
leverage such capability to initiate geo-targeted attacks that aim to take
down strategic areas that are of high importance of operators' deployments.
3) Challenges in attack detection and issues of false alarm: it is hard to
detect a mobile application oriented DDoS attack, as they are hard to be
distinguished from legitimate access requests/congestions from regular UEs.
## 5.6 Network congestion by push services
Certain push mobile data services do not require real time delivery, e.g.
advertisement, service notification, video clips, or some multimedia messaging
services. These services may be provided by the network operator, or from
third-party providers. Usually these services are distributed to a large
number of users in a short period, e.g. news report in rush hours of every
morning and every evening. Customers subscribing to these services hope they
could receive the content periodically or on time. However the burst of data
service will lead to network congestion and impact service experiences.
**Issues**
Dense simultaneous push services in a local area may cause the network
congestion and service break. As such push services do not have strict real-
time requirements, sending them to a large number of devices within a short
duration is wasteful and unnecessary, especially when parts of the network are
already congested. The delivery of such push services could be delayed until
there are sufficient network resources available, which not only optimally
utilize network resources, but also guarantee acceptable user experience.
In the case where the push services are provided by third-party providers, the
lack of knowledge on the current congestion situations of different parts of
the network results in the inability of third-party providers to schedule the
push services more intelligently.
In the case where the push services are provided by the operator, lack of
mechanisms and interfaces to schedule the push services (which are not located
in the EPC) based on the current network status at the core and access
networks also makes it not possible to schedule the push services efficiently.
## 5.7 Background traffic of mobile data applications
The background traffic can be large data flow, such as unexpected software
version update and large file download. It can also be periodical data
transmission, such as regular unwanted collected-data uploading and probing
data for connectivity.
**Issues**
Unlike on-demand or allowed data traffic, background traffic is usually
generated automatically and without users' consent. It causes additional
traffic which the user may complain about as they will be charged especially
in the case of international roaming.
# 6 Potential Requirements
The network shall be able to provide the capability to reduce the overheads
associated with the transport of huge volume of small data packets generated
by non-MTC mobile data applications.
The definition of a small amount of data shall be configurable according to
network operator policy.
The system shall be able to provide capabilities to minimise signalling surge
caused by mobile data application behaviours such as keep-alives, status
updates, instant messages etc.
The system should be able to provide capabilities to classify the type of the
packet generated by mobile data applications.
The system should be able to use optimized service delivery mechanisms for
different types/classes of data application packets.
The system shall be able to provide mechanisms to optimize the traffic due to
large number of live streaming sessions for the same content from a given
source outside of the 3GPP network (e.g. merger of unicast streams delivering
identical content).
Mechanisms shall be provided which allow the network and UE to detect
abnormally high data patterns and to provide countermeasures to protect the
network and subscribers from data surges that are caused, either intentionally
(e.g due to design) or accidentally (e.g. due to bad implementation), by
Mobile Data Applications.
The system shall be able to provide mechanism to efficiently manage the
delivery of simultaneous push services（e.g. by considering the network status
and timing requirements associated with each push service）.
# 7 Conclusion
This TR has discussed and highlighted that as more and more mobile data
traffic is handled by the network, the signalling traffic associated with
various non-MTC mobile data applications can cause high signalling impact on
the network and lead to poor user experience. Also, the TR has identified the
use cases, issues and potential requirements related to Small data packet,
Frequent keep-alive and Status update messages, Frequent start of service,
Overload caused by live content streaming, network congestion by push
services, and Distributed Denial of Service.
It is recommended to start the normative work in SA1.
###### ## Annex A: Example for estimating frequency of Facebook content/status
update messages
An example is provided on how to estimate average frequency of receiving
Facebook content/status update messages:
a. # of average content items generated per user
a1. 30 billion items of content generated by all users per month^§^ / 500
million Facebook users^§^ = 60 per user per month
a2. average # clicks of "like" button = 9 per user per month^¥^
a3. average # of comments written = 25 per user per month^¥^
a= a1+a2+a3 = 94 content updates per user per month
b. average # of friends per user = 130^¥^
c. average number of received facebook content/status update messages per user
per month = a*b
= 94*130 = 12220 per month => 407.3 per day => \~17 per hour (once every 3.5
minutes)
As a result, we estimate the average frequency of receiving Facebook
content/status update messages is in the order of a few minutes.
^§^ http://www.facebook.com/press/info.php?statistics
^¥^ http://www.digitalbuzzblog.com/facebook-statistics-facts-figures-for-2010/
###### ## Annex B: Example of data traffic model for a mobile IM application
The following data has been gathered from a certain data hotspot of a mobile
operator's 2G GPRS network to illustrate the impact of an IM application ( App
A) behaviour in the mobile network.
Note: In the following figures, "All" includs IM from App A, Web browsing
application, and the remaining applications, e.g. SNS applications, news
notifications. The values in the following figures are all mean values.
Activity duration is the time between the first and last packets of an closely
spaced activity of one usage of such service. Activity inter-arrival time
(Activity IAT) is the time between two consecutive activities belonging to the
same user and same traffic category. From the following figure B-1, activity
duration and activity IAT of IM from App A are shorter than other applications
(e.g. web browsing), which means that users tend to use IM application more
frequently, but the duration is shorter than other applications.
Figure B-1 Activity duration and Activity IAT
Activity Burst Size is the sum of all user plane payloads, including IP
headers within a packet burst.
From the following figure B-2, activity size of IM from App A is much smaller
than other applications, e.g. web browsing.
Figure B-2 Activity Burst Size
Activity time is total seconds of active usage of the network for a subscriber
in a busy hour. From the following figure, IM from App A has a long activity
time, which explains why it contributes to a big part of the total traffic
volume despite its low intensity.
Figure B-3 Activity Time
Some testing data has been accumulated in live cells of 2G GPRS network to
monitor signalling failures and it was found that a considerable percentage of
failures took place due to signalling channels being congested and a large
number of active IM users were frequently activating and deactivating PS
sessions.
Some data has also been gathered in live cells to monitor the utilization rate
of bearer channels (PDCH, Packet Data Channel which is used to carry
payloads). It was found that the utilization rate of PDCH deteriorated to a
considerable extent, where there were a large number of active mobile IM users
generating a huge number of small packets and reducing radio channel
utilization rate.
###### ## Annex C: Data application impact on real UMTS networks
**Impact of PS signalling on the network**
An analysis was obtained by monitoring network performance counters at urban
RNCs of two different operators across multiple days. Network resource
utilization, traffic, and signalling counters are analyzed.
**Breakdown of DL power at the base station in Release 6**
Figure C-1 is a graphic representation of downlink power utilization obtained
on an UMTS Release 6 network consisting of about 600 cells. The measurements
were conducted over a period of several weekdays (excludes weekends) during
the time segments when traffic load is high - from 8 am to 10 pm in each of
those days.
{width="5.249305555555556in" height="4.603472222222222in"}
Figure C-1. DL power utilization
The statistics shown were calculated from network counters, which compute
total energy used, yielding average power. The three categories of cells shown
are based on maximum power utilization (e.g. "Top 10% Cells" refers to the 60
of the 600 cells that were most heavily utilized in terms of downlink transmit
power). The percentages shown are relative to maximum DL power rated for the
NodeB transmitters.
Transmit power is broken down into 4 categories as shown:
"Voice & Common Ch." includes power of common/broadcast channels (CPICH, SCH,
SCCPCH (PCH, FACH), etc.), in addition to power required for carrying AMR
voice frames
"User Data" refers to power consumed by user payload carrying packets
"Data Related Signalling" refers to power for control plane signalling
associated with PS Data (non-voice) communication (call setup and in-call
signalling), i.e. signalling related to setting up connections, scheduling
user payload transmisisons, and connection state transitions direclty
relatable to transmission of user payload data
"Other Signalling" refers to power for signalling associated with other
services (Voice, SMS, Registrations, etc.)
R99 PS Data traffic is negligible in this network. Hence, power associated
with R99 PS Data is not shown in Figure C-1.
Similarly, simultaneous PS and CS sessions constitute a small part of total
traffic and they are captured under PS Data power.
Median CS call holding time is 60 -- 80 seconds.
Some key data and findings are that, for the 10% of the cells that are the
most heavily utilized,
34% of DL power is used for signalling
PS Signalling accounts for 50% signalling volume, 17% of DL power
Other signalling (registration, voice, SMS) accounts for another 17% of DL
power
In summary, Data Related Signalling accounts for a very significant part of
the signalling volume/impact. That impact is most pronounced in heavily
utilized cells, where PS control signalling energy is equal or larger than
user payload carrying energy.
**Expected performance in Release 8**
3GPP Release 8 (HSPA+) features aim to reduce PS Data related signalling .
Performance enhancing features introduced in Releases 7 and 8 define new UE
connectivity states and allow for longer UE state transition timer settings,
so that observed user activity patterns do not translate to parallel radio
access network signalling associated with state transitions. These performance
gains vary somewhat with timer settings and cell-to-cell (e.g., cell with
predominantly high speed vehicular traffic vs. cell with predominantly indoor
coverage).
**Disproportionate impact of PS data communication**
Another very relevant finding is that PS data communication activities have an
impact on the UMTS that is higher than what the penetration of UEs designed
for PS data applications in the network would suggest. In other words, as
showed for example in Figure C-2, even a modest penetration (16%) of these UEs
causes a very large presence (59%) of PS Calls. As the number of applications
for data centric devices increases, and MTC device proliferation ramps up, the
number of PS calls per UE is likely going to be increasing over time. For
reference, the data presented in the Figure C-2 were collected in the spring
of 2010.
Figure C-2 represents data collected using OSS performance monitoring tools in
urban RNCs of selected networks: Operator A network segment monitored is
comprised of 170 cells, and Operator B of 480 cells.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.332638888888889in"}
Figure C-2. Device Penetration & PS Call Count
**Field data statistics**
The following results represent statistics for all devices in the selected
RNC's collected over a 24-hour period.
**Distribution of PS Call Duration**
Figure C-3 shows statistical distribution of duration of PS calls generated by
data communication UEs. PS call is defined by signalling messages from RRC/RAB
setup and PDP activation, until RRC release.
As expected, many PS calls are "short". Additionally, sharp peak in call
duration probablity at around 8 seconds in both networks seems to suggest
battery energy saving techniques as a likely cause. Battery energy saving
technique refers to the behaviour of some pre-R8 terminals, which, upon
completion of a data exchange procedure, would autonomously go into a dormant
state, thus releasing the RRC connection. While this UE implementation-
dependent (proprietary) action of autonomously entering dormancy is
advantageous in terms of conserving UE battery power, it would tend to
increase the network impact since it may result in additional signalling due
to connection release, only to be followed up shortly thereafter by connection
re-establishment, as user activity resumes.
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="2.7083333333333335in"}
Figure C-3. Distribution of PS Call Duration
CDF: Cumulative Distribution Function
PDF: Probability Density Function
**Data Volume of PS Calls**
Figure C-4 shows distribution of data volume of PS calls. A large majority of
calls is of very small volume: for both examples, a high percentage of calls
transfer one kilobyte of data or less. This behaviour is typical of prevailing
data applications such as push e-mail, social networking and instant
messaging. Activities such as keep-alive messages, status reports, and polling
contribute to such behaviour.
{width="6.6875in" height="2.5506944444444444in"}
Figure C-4. Distribution of PS Call Volume
Note that the statistics shown are derived from several millions of PS calls
taken over the two networks (one in Europe, another in North America) over
several weekdays during March-May 2010 timeframe. Thus, the data represent a
statistically significant sample for the timeframe in question.
**Inter-arrival time of PS Calls**
Figure C-5 shows distribution of inter-arrival times of PS Calls for a UE,
compiled over many calls.
{width="6.7444444444444445in" height="2.7444444444444445in"}
Figure C-5. Distribution of Inter-Arrival Time of PS Calls
The red curve shows CDF of call inter-arrival time (secondary y axis). The
purpose of the vertical red line is to show that \~50% of calls occur within
60 seconds of the previous one. This reflects typical user behaviour of
closely spaced data communication sessions when using a data communication
device actively. The plot additionally shows how "chatty" data applications
traffic is.
#