# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To ensure competitiveness in a longer time frame an evolution of the overall
3GPP system needs to be considered.
This document investigates the functionality and requirements needed to
integrate Single Sign-On (SSO) and identity management capabilities within the
3GPP network and their corresponding offered services. The Single Sign-On
(SSO) feature enables a 3GPP operator to become an Identity Provider and
leverage existing 3GPP services and authentication mechanisms to grant access
to Affiliated Application Services located outside the operator's domain
without additional user intervention.
The Single Sign-On (SSO) framework is characterized by:
\- positioning the operator as the preferred Identity Provider;
\- executing user authentication for Affiliated Application Services using
3GPP authentication mechanisms and infrastructure;
\- providing reliable and robust secure credential handling;
\- cost-efficient deployment and operation; and
\- delivering convenience and ease of use for the consumer accessing
Application Services (on a mobile device).
# 1 Scope
The Single Sign-On (SSO) framework integration with 3GPP network resource and
services intends to execute a comprehensive set of use cases and service
requirements to serve various operator authentication configurations.
The scope of the Single Sign-On (SSO) integration study is to:
\- provide service and deployment scenarios for 3GPP operators adopting an
integrated approach to SSO, including web, person-to-person and M2M service
scenarios;
\- provide transparent identification and seamless authentication to
Application Services on behalf of the user;
\- support a comprehensive set of use cases of integration of different
Identity and SSO frameworks (e.g OpenID) for various operator authentication
configurations;
\- define use cases and provide service requirements for Operators sharing
controlled user credentials with Affiliated Application Service Providers;
\- define use cases and service requirements associated with ensuring that the
intended user is making use of the associated SSO capability (including the
case when the UE has been stolen or lost);
\- realize the Identity Provider role within the 3GPP network ecosystem and
its influence among outside internet web service providers; and
\- provide an enhanced user experience with secure, reliable access and
authentication to Affiliated Application Services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] OpenID Foundation \"OpenID Authentication 2.0\",
http://openid.net/specs/openid-authentication-2_0.html.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Affiliated Application Service Provider:** An Application Service Provider
having a trust relationship with the IdP and/or SSO Provider. The Affiliated
ASP is referred to as the Relying Party in the OpenID Specification [2].
**Application Service:** A network-based service delivered to the user through
an application that resides on the UE. The Application Service may be web-
based or non-web-based.
**Application Service Provider:** A party that offers Application Services.
**Credentials:** Evidence that proves the identity of a user and is critical
to the process of authentication.
**Identity Provider:** A party that provides the service of asserting a user's
identity to an Application Service and to an SSO Provider.
**OpenID Provider:** An OpenID Authentication server on which a Relying Party
relies for an assertion that the end user controls an Identifier (see OpenID
Specification "OpenID Authentication 2.0" [2]).
**SSO Authentication:** Authentication between a UE and SSO Provider using
Operator- or SSO Provider-controlled credentials and without requiring user
involvement.
**SSO Provider:** A party receiving identity assertions from an Identity
Provider and providing authentication of users to Application Service
Providers.
**SSO Service:** A service in which a user is authenticated once (i.e.,
"single sign-on") and provided with seamless access to multiple Application
Services.
**User Authentication:** Authentication that establishes the presence of the
rightful user by requiring an input of credentials (e.g., PIN, password,
biometric characteristic) which only the rightful user would be able to
provide.
NOTE: User authentication is not achieved if the credentials are provided
automatically (e.g., by storing them in a Web browser for automatic entry onto
an HTML form). However, such automated use of credentials may still be
regarded as a form of authentication of varying strength when presented
together with data, which may include the freshness of the authentication and
assurance level, that establishes the user was present when the authentication
was carried out and the result stored locally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AASP Affiliated Application Service Provider
ASP Application Service Provider
IdP Identity Provider
OP OpenID Provider
RP Relying Party
SSO Single Sign-On
# 4 Use cases, services and user groups
## 4.1 Introduction
This clause investigates a set of use cases for integration of different
Identity and SSO frameworks (e.g., OpenID) with the 3GPP networks set up for
various authentication configurations (e.g. with and without GAA/GBA via TR
33.924) . It also explores service requirements for operators that enable
authenticated access to Affiliated Application Service Providers.
The following common pre-conditions are assumed for all use cases:
\- The Operator provides an SSO Service.
\- The user has a service subscription with SSO support.
\- The user has at least one data service account.
\- The user agrees to the terms and condition to use SSO with the Operator.
\- The user agrees to the terms and condition to use SSO with the Affiliated
Application Service.
\- Service agreements and charging schemes are already in place between
Affiliated Application Service Providers and Operators.
\- The user is able to access the Application Service via devices registered
with the operator.
## 4.2 Use case 1: Affiliated Application Service access
### 4.2.1 Pre-conditions
A user has purchased a subscription plan that includes an operator managed SSO
Service. The user has multiple Application Service accounts and IMS-based
domain services already established. The user's device is a non-3GPP device
(e.g., fixed consumer device or a WiFi-only mobile device) and does not use a
UICC/smartcard for network access.
\- Operator acting as an SSO Provider has pre-provisioned the SSO credentials
within the network and non-3GPP device.
### 4.2.2 Service flows
A user has an established service with an operator and relies on his operator
to provide a SSO Service. The user wishes to use a 3^rd^ party movie service
such as Netflix, to access his personal account to select and view a movie of
his choice, on a consumer device. Immediately upon entering the service, the
user is seamlessly and transparently connected to his AASP account without
performing user authentication (e.g., being prompted for login and password
credentials). The user freely selects a movie and watches it using an
application on his device, without interruption.
The user is transparently authenticated by an SSO Service, which is provided
by the operator. The absence of a UICC in this scenario necessitates the use
of non-UICC based credentials for authentication. More specifically the means
of network access for this scenario could, for example, employ the use of SIP-
Digest or PKI based credentials, which may be reused for SSO authentication.
### 4.2.3 Requirements
\- The SSO Service provided by the operator shall provide secure seamless and
transparent access to Affiliated Application Services for non-3GPP devices
which do not use a UICC/smartcard for network access.
## 4.3 Use case 2: Seamless SSO access between Operator service and multiple
Affiliated Application Services
### 4.3.1 Pre-conditions
A user has purchased a subscription plan that includes the SSO Service. The
user has multiple Application Service accounts and operator services such as
IMS-based domain services or mobile data services already established.
\- Credentials required for authentication are already secured within the
network and UE.
\- Applications are installed on the UE if needed to access a service.
### 4.3.2 Service flows
A user has been authenticated for and is using an operator service such as IMS
messaging services and wishes to access an Affiliated Application Service,
such as a social website. Immediately upon accessing the Affiliated
Application Service, the user is transparently connected to his account at the
AASP without providing login and password credentials. Later, the user can get
the same seamless SSO experience when accessing the services of a different
AASP.
## 4.4 Use case 3: Seamless mobility access to an Affiliated Application
Service Provider across Operator/IdP domains
### 4.4.1 Pre-conditions
A user has purchased a subscription plan that includes the SSO Service. The
user has multiple Application Service accounts and operator services such as
IMS-based domain services or mobile data services already established.
\- Credentials required for authentication are already secured within the
network and UE.
\- Applications are installed on the UE if needed to access a service.
### 4.4.2 Service flows
A user is on a train watching an Internet TV show provided by his AASP on his
laptop using LTE. The viewing mechanism can be any application used for
accessing the AASP's internet TV service. As the user travels and moves from
the coverage area of one Operator/IdP network to the coverage area of another
Operator/IdP with whom the first Operator/IdP has a roaming agreement, the SSO
Service manages the change in IdPs seamlessly, transparently and without
noticeable delay. The user watches the TV show without any interruption caused
by the change of IdPs.
## 4.5 Use case 4: Accessing an Affiliated Application Service using OpenID
### 4.5.1 Pre-conditions
\- The user's network operator is also an _OpenID_ identity provider.
\- The _OpenID_ identifier has been established by the network operator.
\- The online photo service is an Affiliated Application Service that supports
_OpenID._
\- The online photo service trusts the user's network operator for the user
authentication.
### 4.5.2 Entities involved in the use case
The following entities are involved in the authentication procedure:
\- User with the user equipment (UE), which is capable of running a web client
or a dedicated application and communicating with the appropriate operator
credentials.
\- Application Web server --- an entity providing an online photo service. It
plays the role of a Relying Party.
\- _OpenID_ identity providing service (OP), which is controlled by the
operator.
\- Operator's HSS.
### 4.5.3 Service flows
A user, who has a subscription with a mobile network operator, accesses an
Affiliated Application Service which supports _OpenID_ , for example an online
photo service. The user's network operator is also an _OpenID_ identity
provider. Upon making a request, which contains the user's _OpenID_ identifier
to the online photo service, the user gains an authenticated access to the
photo service for viewing access-protected photographs without being involved
in the authentication procedure.
### 4.5.4 Requirements
\- The UE shall be capable of authentication with the use of Operator-
controlled credentials.
\- The application web server **(Relying Party) shall be able to support the
_OpenID_ specification [2].**
\- The OP shall be able to perform authentication based on Operator-controlled
credentials.
## 4.6 Use case 5: User authentication
### 4.6.1 Pre-conditions
The following pre-conditions apply to this use case:
\- The UE is equipped to recognize a certain pre-defined condition (e.g., an
event such as power-up of the UE, request from network) to trigger
authentication of the user.
\- The UE securely stores the user's SSO authentication credentials.
\- The UE is provisioned with an operator's or SSO Provider's policy that
governs triggering of the user authentication.
### 4.6.2 Service flows
According to Operator or SSO Provider provisioned policies, the user is
authenticated by the UE. Upon successful user authentication, the UE then
securely stores the time when the authentication was carried out. Later, the
user proceeds to access an OpenID supported Application Service. The UE
retrieves and presents the identity and evidence of local authentication
(e.g., time of successful authentication, assurance level of the
authentication) to the Application Service. Assurance level could take into
account what type of user authentication was performed (e.g., number of
authentication factors such as password, token, biometric). The Application
Service receives the evidence, and upon inspection, grants the user access to
the service transparently (i.e., without requiring the user to be further
involved in the authentication procedure).
### 4.6.3 Requirements
NOTE: These requirements may be combined with other use cases if policy
requires that user authentication must be established or checked/refreshed for
access to the AASP's service.
\- The Operator shall be able to configure policies which govern the user
authentication procedures.
\- Affiliated Application Service Providers shall be able to request a user
re-authentication.
\- The user shall be authenticated according to the service providers'
authentication assurance level and freshness of the authentication.
\- The UICC may be capable of recording, securely storing and relaying to the
network evidence of user authentication, the time at which the user
authentication was carried out and the assurance level of that authentication.
\- The UE shall be able to carry out user authentication according to Operator
provisioned policies or user preference on the UE.
## 4.7 Use case 6: Automation of authentication method
### 4.7.1 Pre-conditions
The following pre-conditions apply to this use case:
\- The UE supports more than one option of access network-based SSO
authentication method (e.g., 3GPP GBA, 3GPP AKA, 3GPP ISIM, 3GPP SIP-Digest,
EAP variants).
\- The UE supports methods which include user-entered SSO credentials (e.g.,
identity and password) for user authentication.
### 4.7.2 Service flows
A user accesses an SSO (e.g., OpenID) supported Affiliated Application Service
on a UE. The UE and IdP or SSO Provider agree on an SSO authentication method
to be used to access the service without requiring further user involvement in
the processes of agreement or the subsequent usage of the agreed method. The
user proceeds to seamlessly access the service accordingly.
### 4.7.3 Requirements
\- When a user accesses an Affiliated Application Service, the UE and SSO
Provider shall be able to agree on an authentication method to be used without
requiring user involvement in the processes of agreement or the subsequent
usage of the method.
\- A different authentication method may be selected each time the user is to
be authenticated for access to an Affiliated Application Service.
## 4.8 Use case 7: Seamless service detection, redirection and supply of
credentials by a UE
### 4.8.1 Pre-conditions
The following pre-conditions apply to this use case:
\- A user has registered his SSO identifier(s) with appropriate IdP(s).\ NOTE:
There may be multiple SSO methods and IdPs supported by the UE (e.g., OpenID,
Liberty Alliance).
\- The user has registered his SSO credentials for authentication (e.g.,
identity and password) with the IdP(s) and stored them in the UE.
\- User authentication has been established or checked/refreshed according to
Operator policy provisioned on the UE.
### 4.8.2 Service flows
Current SSO services require the user to view a screen and recognize when
credentials are being sought and supply manually the credentials upon request.
In order for the user to avoid having to recognize and enter his or her
credentials manually, possibly having to repeat this process for each and
every service, the process is automated by the UE.
### 4.8.3 Requirements
\- The UE is required to automatically detect a request for credentials from
the AASP and SSO Provider, possibly requiring this action for several such
providers, and supply the credentials automatically without user intervention.
## 4.9 Use Case 8: Seamless transition between 3GPP access and non-3GPP access
to a service via the SSO of a single IdP
### 4.9.1 Pre-conditions
\- A user has a subscription with the mobile network operator that includes
SSO Service.
\- The user's UE supports access via 3GPP and non-3GPP networks.
\- The social network is a web service of an AASP.
\- The AASP trusts the user's network operator for authentication of the user
for access to this service.
### 4.9.2 Service flows
A user has a User Equipment (UE) that is able to establish a connection to the
AASP both via 3GPP networks and via non-3GPP networks (e.g., public or private
WLAN). The user has a subscription that includes an SSO Service with a mobile
network operator/IdP and accesses an Affiliated Application Service, for
example a social network. The user gains an authenticated access to his social
network account without being involved in the authentication procedure. The
SSO Service asserts authentication to the AASP regardless of the access
technology over which the user may be connected. A subsequent transition from
or to non-3GPP access is seamless and transparent to the user.
### 4.9.3 Entities involved in the use case
The following entities are involved in the authentication procedure:
\- User with the user equipment (UE), which is capable of establishing an IP
connection via both 3GPP access and non-3GPP access.
\- AASP -- an entity providing a social network service. It plays the role of
a Relying Party.
\- SSO Service, which is controlled by the operator.
\- Operator's HSS.
### 4.9.4 Requirements
\- The SSO framework shall be able to support seamless transitions between
3GPP access and non-3GPP access technologies during the same SSO Service
session (i.e., during a session with the same IdP).
\- Transitions between 3GPP access and non-3GPP access technologies shall be
transparent to the user from an SSO service perspective.
## 4.10 Use case 9: User identity acknowledgement for SSO usage
A user submits a notification to the operator when he becomes aware that his
UE is stolen or lost. Subject to the user's request, the operator pauses SSO
support for the user. When he want to access an Affiliated Application
Service, he is requested to perform user authentication, which may involve
credentials supplied independently from those previously supplied for the SSO
Service. Additionally, if he submits evidence that he is the intended user the
SSO support can be resumed by the operator.
### 4.10.1 Requirements
When an operator receives a notification from a user that his UE is lost or
stolen, the operator shall pause the SSO support for that user until evidence
is provided by that user to resume the SSO support.
When the SSO support for a user is paused, any further attempt to access a
service shall require the user to be authenticated via credentials which may
be supplied independently from those previously supplied for use with the SSO
Service.
## 4.11 Use case 10: Using the 3GPP SSO Service by another (non-MNO or other
MNO) SSO Provider
### 4.11.1 Pre-conditions
\- A user has a subscription with the mobile network operator that includes
SSO Service.
\- The user also subscribes to an SSO Service that uses a 3^rd^ party IdP,
such as Facebook.
\- The user has a subscription with YouTube that was created using Facebook as
the IdP (subscription is identified by Facebook ID).
\- YouTube trusts Facebook for user identity and authentication.
\- Facebook and the user's network operator trust each other for the user
identity and authentication. Facebook and the network operator's SSO Provider
have created an interworking relationship between them.
\- The SSO Provider configuration has already happened between the 3GPP SSO
Service and the 3^rd^ party IdP.
### 4.11.2 Service flows
A user is registered to a web based SSO service, for example Facebook that he
uses to connect to web application servers (RPs). The user has already
established subscriptions with numerous AASPs, among them YouTube, using
Facebook's IdP as its SSO Service. The user's 3GPP network operator has
established an SSO Service based on 3GPP credentials for SSO authentication
and makes an offer to the user to join this service. The user, seeing the
value in this service, wishes to make use of this service but wants to be sure
he will be able to seamlessly access all his existing subscriptions (that were
created using his Facebook Identity) using the operator's SSO Service (without
the need to re-open and/or re-configure all his existing subscriptions in the
different web services/RPs). The operator offers the user the possibility of
using the 3GPP 3^rd^ Party SSO Service. This means that: the 3GPP SSO Service
can be utilized to seamlessly sign on to a subscription which was created
using a Facebook Identity. This requires only a simple one-time set-up session
which configures the existing interworking relationship between the Facebook
IdP and the 3GPP SSO Service for that specific user.
The user joins the 3GPP SSO Service and during the registration process
configures all his existing IdPs (such as Facebook) to be part of the
interworking services.
The user, having joined the 3GPP SSO Service, requests to access YouTube with
the subscription that was created using the Facebook SSO Service. The SSO
authentication request is identified to be part of the "SSO Service
interworking with the 3^rd^ party IdP identified as Facebook", and uses the
3GPP SSO Service to validate the user identity followed by connecting the
user, seamlessly (without any request to authenticate to Facebook), to YouTube
to watch his 13avourite clip.
### 4.11.3 Entities involved in the use case
The following entities are involved in the authentication procedure:
\- User with the user equipment (UE), which is capable of establishing an IP
connection.
\- Application Web server (e.g., an entity providing an online book store
service). It plays the role of an AASP and a Relying Party.
\- A 3^rd^ Party SSO Provider (in this case, Facebook) -- an entity which
provides SSO and Identity management service to the user and which acts as an
IdP (e.g., for YouTube).
\- 3GPP SSO Service, which is controlled by the operator and includes the
interworking with the 3^rd^ Party SSO Service functionality.
\- Operator's HSS.
### 4.11.4 Requirements
\- The SSO framework shall support an interworking relationship between the
3GPP SSO Service and SSO Service from other providers.
\- Login to a subscription created using a 3^rd^ Party SSO Service using the
3GPP SSO Service shall be transparent to the User (looks the same as login to
a subscription created using a 3GPP operator provided SSO Service).
\- The user shall be able to request that his SSO subscriptions are recognized
by both parties in the interworking relationship between the 3GPP SSO Service
and the 3^rd^ party IdP.
\- The user shall be able to maintain his or her other SSO identities
registered to the original IdPs.
## 4.12 Use case 11: SSO-provided attribute exchange and associated user
consent
### 4.12.1 Pre-conditions
A user has purchased a subscription plan that includes the SSO Service. The
user already has Application Service accounts and operator services such as
IMS-based domain services or mobile data services already established. The
user has upgraded the UE (e.g., from a small smart phone to tablet PC with
3GPP access) with additional applications.
\- Credentials required for authentication are already secured within the
network and UE.
\- User has specified attributes for attribute exchange.
\- New applications are installed on the UE if needed to access a service.
### 4.12.2 Service flows
A user is using an operator service and wishes to add a new Affiliated
Application Service, such as a business application in the cloud for the first
time. Upon accessing the new Application Service, the Application Service
requires an initial registration based on user-specified attributes. The SSO
Service supports the initial registration by exchange of user-specified
attributes and asks the user for consent of the attribute exchange to the new
Application Service.
### 4.12.3 Requirements
\- The SSO Service shall provide the exchange of user-specified attribute to
Affiliated Application Service for initial registration of the user at
Affiliated Application Service according to user-specified attributes.
\- The SSO Service shall enable the user to be notified of an attribute
exchange and to provide consent on the content of attribute exchange being
requested.
## 4.13 Use case 12: User management of the association between an Application
Service and the SSO Service
### 4.13.1 Pre-conditions
A user has purchased a subscription plan that includes the SSO Service. The
user already has Application Service accounts and operator services such as
IMS-based domain services or mobile data services already established. The
user has upgraded the UE (e.g., from a small smart phone to tablet PC with
3GPP access) with additional applications.
\- Credentials required for authentication are already secured within the
network and UE.
\- New applications are installed on the UE if needed to access a service.
### 4.13.2 Service flows
A user is using an operator service and wishes to add a new Affiliated
Application Service, such as a business application in the cloud for the first
time. Upon accessing the new Application Service, the SSO Service manages a
first-time user verification of the authentication at the new Application
Service to prevent risk of unauthorized background usage of the SSO
authentication.
### 4.13.3 Requirements
\- The SSO Service shall support the ability of the user to manage the
association between an Application Service and the SSO Service. In this case
user authentication is required.
# 5 Business Models
The mobile operator may become an SSO Provider, interworking with the user-
centric services provided outside of that operator's domain. This clause
studies the potential business models for the mobile operator and the AASPs.
The mobile operator provides the SSO functionalities for the AASP either
directly or via cooperation with an independent SSO Provider and the SSO
Provider may pay the mobile operator with a fixed rate or based on the number
of service users. The mobile operator has a business agreement with an AASP to
provide SSO services.
This model offers the following benefits:
\- The user may access the third party service via operator's network with SSO
support.
\- The mobile operator may provision more attractive services for the users.
\- Subscribers of the mobile operators and the AASPs rely on a trusted IdP and
SSO Provider.
# 6 Deployment Scenarios
All use cases described in clause 4 need to take into account that Operators
may or may not support various authentication capabilities which could
potentially be used for SSO, e.g., GBA, AKA, SIP DIGEST, username/password or
other capabilities.
# 7 Service Aspects
This clause studies Service requirements for operator-centric SSO interworking
with current state of the art identity management systems (e.g. OpenID, OAuth,
SAML).
# 8 Charging Aspects
The mobile operator may become a SSO provider. This clause studies Charging
requirements for operator-centric SSO interworking with current state of the
art identity management systems (e.g. OpenID).
# 9 Security Aspects
A mobile operator may become a SSO provider, interworking with the user-
centric Web services provided outside of that operator's domain. This clause
studies Security requirements for operator-centric SSO interworking with
current state of the art identity management systems (e.g. OpenID, OAuth,
SAML).
# 10 Privacy Aspects
This clause studies Privacy requirements for operator SSO interworking with
the Application Services provided outside of that operator's domain.
# 11 Suggested Requirements
## 11.1 Requirements for the UE
REQ_UE_001: The UE **shall support** SSO authentication without user
intervention based on operator-controlled credentials.
REQ_UE_002: The UE **shall support a request for user re-** authentication
from Affiliated Application Service Providers or the SSO Provider.
REQ_UE_003: For the UE that supports non-3GPP access, transitions between 3GPP
access and non-3GPP access technologies shall be transparent to the user from
an SSO Service perspective.
REQ_UE_004: The UE shall be able to initiate the SSO Service regardless of the
access technologies supported by the UE.
REQ_UE_005: The UICC may be capable of recording, securely storing and
relaying the evidence of user authentication, the time at which the
authentication was carried out and the assurance level of that authentication.
## 11.2 Requirements for an SSO Service
REQ_SSO_001: The SSO Service provided by the SSO Provider shall provide secure
seamless and transparent access to Affiliated Application Services to the
user.
REQ_SSO_002: The SSO Service provided by the SSO Provider shall provide secure
seamless and transparent access to Affiliated Application Services for
subscribers to the SSO Service using devices that support either 3GPP access
or non-3GPP access.
REQ_SSO_003: The SSO Service **shall be able to support the OpenID
specification [2].**
REQ_SSO_004: The SSO Service shall support authentication based on operator-
controlled credentials and policies.
REQ_SSO_005: The SSO Service may support negotiation and use of an agreed
authentication method between the Operator and the SSO Provider. The
negotiation of an authentication method may be repeated each time the user
accesses an AASP's service.
REQ_SSO_006: The SSO Service shall support seamless service continuity between
3GPP access and non-3GPP access technologies during the same Affiliated
Applications Service session.
REQ_SSO_007: Login to a subscription created through a 3^rd^ party IdP using
the 3GPP SSO Service shall be transparent to the user. The user shall be able
to configure which 3^rd^ party SSO identities are used with the 3GPP SSO
Service.
# 12 Summary and conclusions
This Technical Report analyzes use cases and provides requirements for
integrating Single Sign-On Service frameworks with 3GPP operator-controlled
resources and mechanisms.
New potential requirements for the SSO Service have been identified in clause
11 of this Technical Report. It is therefore recommended that this clause is
used as a basis for introducing new requirements into 3GPP Technical
Specifications.
This report further recommends that a set of SSO requirements limited to
operational and service aspects are captured in SA1 specifications (e.g., a
new clause in TS 22.101).
#