# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains requirements and test cases that are specific to
the NSSAAF network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of General
Security Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of the
requirements and test cases, as well as specifying requirements and test cases
unique to the NSSAAF network product class.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 NSSAAF-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
NSSAAF specific security requirements include both requirements derived from
NSSAAF security functional requirements as well as security requirements
derived from threats specific to eNB as described in TR 33.926 [4]. Generic
security requirements and test cases common to other network product classes
have been captured in TS 33.117 [3] and are not repeated in the present
document.
## 4.2 NSSAAF-specific security functional requirements and related test cases
### 4.2.1 Routes the S-NSSAI to the right place
_Requirement Name_ : Routes the S-NSSAI to the right place
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.8.1.2.3
_Requirement Description_ : If the AAA-P is present (e.g. because the AAA-S
belongs to a third party and the operator deploys a proxy towards third
parties), the NSSAAF forwards the EAP ID Response message to the AAA-P,
otherwise the NSSAAF forwards the message directly to the AAA-S. NSSAAF routes
to the AAA-S based on the S-NSSAI, as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.13.
Threat Reference: TBD
**Test Name:** TC_NSSAAF_CORRECT_ROUTING
**Purpose:**
Verify that the NSSAAF forwards the NSSAA request to the right receiving end.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with AMF, AAA-S and AAA-P, which may be simulated. The
NSAAF under test is connected with AMF, AAA-S and AAA-P.
\- A document describes the logic how the NSSAAF selects an AAA-S or AAA-P
based on S-NSSAI.
\- Preconfigure the NSSAAF under test with two routing entries, each for a
NSSAI. One of the slice is a part of MNO and the AAA-S can be directly found
by the NSSAAF, while the other slice serves 3^rd^ party and the AAA-P will be
used for NSSAA procedure.
**Execution Steps**
1\. The AMF sends Nssaaf_NSSAA_Authenticate Req to the NSSAAF including one of
the S-NSSAI.
2\. The NSSAAF sends AAA message to an AAA-P.
3\. Repeat step 1 and 2 with the other S-NSSAI, and the NSSAAF sends AAA
message to an AAA-S.
**Expected Results:**
The NSSAAF forwards the NSSAA request to the correct AAA-S or AAA-P on the
S-NSSAI.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Save the logs and the communication flow in a .pcap file.
### 4.2.2 AAA-S authorization in re-authentication and revocation scenarios
_Requirement Name_ : AAA-S authorization in re-authentication and revocation
scenarios
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 16.4
_Requirement Description_ : The NSSAAF checks whether the AAA-S is authorized
to request the re-authentication and re-authorization by checking the local
configuration of AAA-S address per S-NSSAI. If success, the NSSAAF requests
UDM for the AMF serving the UE using the Nudm_UECM_Get (GPSI, AMF
Registration) service operation. The UDM provides the NSSAAF with the AMF ID
of the AMF serving the UE as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.13.
Threat Reference: TBD
**Test Name:** TC_NSSAAF_AAAS_AUTHORIZATION_REAUTH_REVOCATION
**Purpose:**
Verify that the AAA-S is authorized to send the re-authentication or
revocation.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with AAA-S and AAA-P, which may be simulated. The NSAAF
under test is connected with AAA-S and AAA-P.
\- A document describes the mapping between S-NSSAI and AAA-S server.
**Execution Steps**
1\. The AAA-S sends Re-authentication or revocation message to the NSSAAF
including the S-NSSAI and the GPSI.
2\. The NSSAAF checks whether the AAA-S can be matched against with the
S-NSSAI based on the mapping table.
**Expected Results:**
The NSSAAF rejects the re-authentication or revocation or pass the re-
authentication or revocation.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Save the logs and the communication flow in a .pcap file.
### 4.2.3 Technical baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
##### 4.2.3.4.1 Authentication attributes
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.3.4.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.4 Operating systems
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.5 Web servers
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.6 Network devices
#### 4.2.6.1 Protection of data and information
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.6.2 Protecting availability and integrity
##### 4.2.6.2.1 Packet filtering
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.6.2.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.6.2.2 Interface robustness requirements
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.6.2.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.6.2.3 GTP-C Filtering
The requirement and testcase in clause 4.2.6.2.3 of TS 33.117 [3] is not
applicable to eNB network product.
##### 4.2.6.2.4 GTP-U Filtering
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.2.6.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
## 4.3 NSSAAF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The present clause contains eNodeB-specific adaptations of hardening
requirements and related test cases.
### 4.3.2 Technical Baseline
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.3 Operating Systems
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.4 Web Servers
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.5 Network Devices
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
## 4.4 NSSAAF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
There are no NSSAAF additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
#