# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the security features and mechanisms to support
the Service Enabler Architecture Layer (SEAL) in 5G. Specifically security
architecture, functional model(s), security aspects of SEAL reference points
(e.g. SEAL-UU, etc.), Key Management (KM) procedures, Identity Management
(IdM) procedures and SEAL access authentication and authorization for
supporting efficient use and deployment of vertical applications over the 3GPP
systems are specified.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows\".
[3] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[4] IETF RFC 6750: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token
Usage\".
[5] OpenID Connect 1.0: \"OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set
1\", http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html.
[6] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[9] IETF RFC 7521: \"Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication
and Authorization Grants\".
[10] IETF RFC 7523: \"JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client
Authentication and Authorization Grants\".
[11] IETF RFC 7797: \" **JSON Web Signature (JWS) Unencoded Payload Option**
\".
[12] IETF RFC 7515: \"JSON Web Signature (JWS)\".
[13] IETF RFC 7662: \"**OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection** \".
[14] 3GPP TS 33.210: \" 3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[15] 3GPP TS 33.222: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
network application functions using Hypertext Transfer Protocol over Transport
Layer Security (HTTPS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.122: \"T8 reference point for Northbound Application
Programming Interfaces (APIs)\".
[18] IETF RFC 7252: \"The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)\".
[19] Internet draft draft-ietf-ace-oauth-authz-45: \"Authentication and
Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE) using the OAuth 2.0 Framework
(ACE-OAuth)\".
[20] IETF RFC 8152: \"CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)\".
[21] Internet draft draft-ietf-ace-dtls-authorize-18: \"Datagram Transport
Layer Security (DTLS) Profile for Authentication and Authorization for
Constrained Environments (ACE)\".
[22] IETF RFC 9175: \"CoAP: Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing\"
[23] IETF RFC 8613: \"\"Object Security for Constrained RESTful Environments
(OSCORE\")\".
[24] Internet draft draft-ietf-ace-oscore-profile-19: \"OSCORE Profile of the
Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments Framework\".
[25] Internet draft draft-ietf-ace-extend-dtls-authorize-00: \"Extension of
the ACE CoAP-DTLS Profile to TLS\".
[26] IETF RFC 8392: \"CBOR Web Token (CWT)\".
[27] IETF RFC 8747: \"Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for CBOR Web Tokens
(CWTs) \".
[28] Internet draft draft-ietf-ace-oauth-params-16: \"Additional OAuth
Parameters for Authorization in Constrained Environments (ACE)\".
[29] 3GPP TS 33.122: \"Security aspects of Common API Framework (CAPIF) for
3GPP northbound APIs\".
[30] 3GPP TS 23.433: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals
(SEAL);Data Delivery enabler for vertical applications\".
[31] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
architecture\".
[32] 3GPP TS 33.246: \"3G Security; Security of Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service (MBMS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 23.434 [2] apply.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
SEAL Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals
SIM-C SEAL Identity Management Client
SIM-S SEAL Identity Management Server
SKM-C SEAL-Key Management Client
SKM-S SEAL Key Management Server
VAL Vertical Application Layer
# 4 SEAL security requirements
## 4.1 VAL user authentication and authorization
[SEAL-SEC-4.1-a] All users of the VAL Service shall be authenticated.
[SEAL-SEC-4.1-b] The VAL Client and the VAL Server shall mutually authenticate
each other prior to providing the VAL UE with the VAL Service User profile and
access to user-specific services.
[SEAL-SEC-4.1-c] The transmission of configuration data and user profile data
between an authorized VAL server in the network and the VAL UE shall be
confidentiality protected, integrity protected and protected from replays.
[SEAL-SEC-4.1-d] The VAL service should take measures to detect and mitigate
DoS attacks to minimize the impact on the network and on VAL users.
[SEAL-SEC-4.1-e] The VAL service shall provide a means to support
confidentiality of VAL user identities.
[SEAL-SEC-4.1-f] The VAL service shall provide a means to support
confidentiality of VAL signalling.
## 4.2 Inter-domain
[SEAL-SEC-4.2-a] VAL systems should take measures to protect themselves from
external attacks at the system border.
# 5 Procedures
## 5.0 General
The security procedures in this clause also applies to SEALDD as specified in
TS 23.433 [30]. In the SEALDD scenario, the SEAL client, SEAL server and SEAL
service are replaced by the SEALDD client, SEALDD server and SEALDD service,
respectively.
## 5.1 Security for the SEAL interfaces
### 5.1.1 Security for the application plane interfaces
#### 5.1.1.0 General
The security for the SEAL-UU, SEAL-C, SEAL-S and SEAL-E interfaces in this
clause also applies to the corresponding SEALDD interfaces (i.e. SEALDD-UU,
SEALDD-C, SEALDD-S and SEALDD-E) as specified in TS 23.433 [30].
#### 5.1.1.1 SEAL-X1
As defined in TS 23.434 [2], the SEAL-X1 reference point, exists between the
key management server and the group management server and uses HTTP-1 as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [2] for the transport and routing of security
related information to the group management server. The SEAL-X1 shall be
protected using HTTPS as defined in [3], [4] and [5]. The profile for TLS
implementation and usage shall follow the provisions given in 3GPP TS 33.310
[6], annex E.
#### 5.1.1.2 SEAL-X2
The SEAL-X2 reference point enables the group management server to interact
with the location management server as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [2]. The
SEAL-X2 shall be protected using HTTPS as defined in [3], [4] and [5] . The
profile for TLS implementation and usage shall follow the provisions given in
3GPP TS 33.310 [6], annex E.
#### 5.1.1.3 IM-UU
IM-UU reference point is used between the identity management client and the
identity management server. The security mechanism of SEAL-UU shall also be
used for IM-UU.
The security established between the identity management server and the
identity management client should be end-to-end. When this is not possible,
then all sensitive material transferred between the identity management server
and identity management client should be end-to-end protected with a mechanism
that is out of scope of this document.
#### 5.1.1.4 KM-UU and KM-S
The KM-UU reference point is used between the Key Management Client and Key
Management Server. The security mechanism of SEAL-UU shall also be used for
KM-UU.
The KM-S reference point is a direct HTTP connection used between the VAL
server and the key management server and shall be protected with the same
mechanism used for the SEAL-S reference point.
The security established between the KM Server and the KM client should be
end-to-end. When this is not possible, then all client related material
transferred between the KM server and KM client should be end-to-end protected
with a mechanism that is out of scope of the present document.
#### 5.1.1.5 SEAL-UU
A SEAL client interacts with a SEAL server over the generic SEAL-UU reference
point as defined in TS 23.434 [2].. This interface shall be protected using
HTTPS as defined in [3], [4] and [5] when using HTTP. The profile for TLS
implementation and usage shall follow the provisions given in TS 33.310 [6],
annex E.When using CoAP [18], the SEAL-UU between the SEAL client and the SEAL
server shall be protected as defined in [19] (e.g., DTLS, TLS or OSCORE) with
the additional security enhancements specified in [22]. When (D)TLS is used
with CoAP, the (D)TLS and certificate profiling shall follow TS 33.210 [14]
and TS 33.310 [6]. When OSCORE is used with CoAP, the mandatory to implement
provisions given by RFC 8613 [23] shall be followed.
#### 5.1.1.6 VAL-UU
The VAL client interacts with VAL server over VAL-UU reference point as
defined in TS 23.434 [2].
NOTE: Security mechanism for the VAL-UU reference point is out of scope of
present document.
#### 5.1.1.7 SEAL-C
The VAL client interacts with a SEAL client over the SEAL-C reference point as
defined in TS 23.434 [2]. This reference point resides fully within the UE and
therefore, security of this interface is left to the manufacturer and is out
of scope for the present document.
#### 5.1.1.8 SEAL-S
The VAL server interacts with SEAL server over SEAL-S reference point as
defined in TS 23.434 [2]. The protection of this interface shall be supported
according to NDS/IP as specified in TS 33.210 [14].
When CAPIF is not used, then TLS and OAuth 2.0 [3] shall be supported. When
TLS is used, mutual authentication based on client and server certificates
shall be performed between the SEAL server and VAL server using TLS.
Certificate based authentication shall follow the profiles given in TS 33.310
[6], clause 6.1.3a. The identities in the end entity certificates shall be
used for authentication and policy checks. The structure of the PKI used for
the certificate is out of scope of the present document. TLS shall be used to
provide integrity protection, replay protection and confidentiality protection
for the interface between the SEAL server and the VAL server. Security
profiles for TLS implementation and usage shall follow the provisions given in
clause 6.2 of TS 33.210 [14]. After the authentication, the SEAL server
determines whether the VAL server is authorized to send requests to the SEAL
server. The SEAL server shall authorize the requests from VAL server using
OAuth-based authorization mechanism, the specific authorization mechanisms
shall follow the provisions given in RFC 6749 [3].
When CAPIF is used as specified in TS 23.434 [2], the security mechanism for
CAPIF specified in TS 33.122 [29] shall be followed. CAPIF core function shall
choose the appropriate CAPIF-2e security method as defined in the clause 6.5.2
in TS 33.122 [29] for mutual authentication and protection of the SEAL server
-- VAL server interface. Before invoking the API exposed by the SEAL server,
the VAL server as API invoker shall negotiate the security method (TLS-PSK,
PKI or TLS with OAuth token) with CAPIF core function and ensure the SEAL
server has information to authenticate the VAL server.
#### 5.1.1.9 SEAL-E
A SEAL server interacts with another SEAL server over SEAL-E reference point
as defined in TS 23.434 [2]. The protection of this interface shall be
supported according to NDS/IP as specified in TS 33.210 [14].
### 5.1.2 Security for the Signalling control plane interfaces
#### 5.1.2.1 Security for HTTP interfaces
In order to authenticate the HTTP-1 reference point, authentication mechanisms
shall be performed between the HTTP client and VAL UE using either certificate
based authentication or pre-shared key based authentication. Certificate based
authentication shall follow in annex B of 3GPP TS 33.222 [15], and the
profiles given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [6]. The usage of pre-shared key based
ciphersuites is specified in the TLS profile given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [6],
annex E.
The HTTP-1 reference point exists between the VAL UE and the HTTP proxy. The
HTTP-2 exists between the HTTP proxy and HTTP server. The HTTP-3 reference
point exists between the HTTP proxies in different networks. The HTTP
interfaces shall be protected using TLS. The profile for TLS implementation
and usage shall follow the provisions given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [6], annex E.
#### 5.1.2.2 Security for LWP interfaces
Security mechanisms to be used to secure the LWP interfaces depend on the
realization of the interfaces. The Annex B in the present document defines
security mechanism for the realizations of LWP defined in Annex C of TS 23.434
[2].
### 5.1.3 Security for the network domain interfaces
A VAL UE shall perform the authentication and security mechanisms as specified
in 3GPP TS 33.501 [16] for 5G network access security.
To ensure security of the interfaces between network entities within a trusted
domain and between trusted domains, 3GPP TS 33.210 [14] shall be applied to
secure signalling messages on the reference points unless specified otherwise.
SEG as specified in 3GPP TS 33.210 [14] may be used in the trusted domain to
terminate the IPsec tunnel.
### 5.1.4 Security for the network domain interfaces in EPS
A VAL UE shall perform the authentication and security mechanisms as specified
in TS 33.401 [31] for LTE network access security.
To ensure security of the interfaces between network entities within a trusted
domain and between trusted domains, TS 33.210 [14] shall be applied to secure
signalling messages on the reference points unless specified otherwise. SEG as
specified in TS 33.210 [14] may be used in the trusted domain to terminate the
IPsec tunnel.
## 5.2 User authentication and authorization
### 5.2.1 VAL user authentication
Figure 5.2.3-1 shows the Identity Management functional model which consists
of the SEAL Identity Management Server (SIM-S) and SEAL Identity Management
Client (SIM-C) of the UE. The IM-UU reference point between the SIM-S and
SIM-C shall provide the interface for user authentication and shall support
OpenID Connect 1.0 [5] and OAuth 2.0 [9, 10] when using HTTPS to obtain an
access token for the VAL UE.
### 5.2.2 SEAL service authorization
SEAL Service Authorization procedure shall validate the VAL user to access the
SEAL services. In order to gain access to SEAL services, the SEAL client shall
present an access token to the SEAL server for each service of interest. If
the access token is valid, then the client shall be granted to use the
service.
### 5.2.3 Identity management functional model
The SEAL Identity Management Server (SIM-S) and the SEAL Identity Management
Client (SIM-C) provide the endpoints for VAL user authentication as shown in
the SEAL Identity Management functional model in figure 5.2.3-1.
The reference point IM-UU utilizes Uu reference point as described in 3GPP TS
23.401 [7] and 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]. IM-UU shall support OpenID Connect 1.0 [5]
and OAuth 2.0 [9] for VAL user authentication when using HTTPS.
{width="6.45in" height="2.45in"}
Figure 5.2.3-1: Functional model for SEAL Identity Management
In order to support VAL user authentication, the SIM-S shall be provisioned
with the VAL user ID and VAL service IDs (usage of VAL user ID and VAL service
ID is described in clause 7 of TS 23.434 [2]). A mapping between the VAL user
ID and VAL service ID(s) shall be created and maintained in the SIM-S. When a
VAL user wishes to authenticate for the VAL services, the VAL user ID and
credentials are provided via the UE Identity management client to the SIM-S as
per OpenID Connect 1.0 [5] when using HTTPS. The SIM-S receives and shall
verify the VAL user ID and credentials. If verification is successful, then
the SIM-S returns an ID token, refresh token and access token to the UE
Identity management client. The SIM-C shall learn the user\'s VAL service
ID(s) from the ID token. Table 5.2.3-1 shows the SEAL specific tokens and
their usage. These tokens are further defined in clause A.2.
Table 5.2.3-1: VAL UE authentication token
Token Type Consumer of the Token Description
* * *
ID token VAL UE client(s) Contains the VAL service ID for at least one
authorized VAL service. Access token SKM-S, SEAL service server(s) Short-lived
token (definable in the SIM-S) that conveys the UE\'s identity. This token
contains the VAL service ID for at least one authorized service. Refresh token
SIM-S (Authorization Server) Allows VAL UE to obtain a new access token
without forcing user to log in again.
To support the VAL service identity functional model, the VAL service ID(s):
\- Shall be provisioned into the SEAL Identity management database and mapped
to VAL UE IDs.
\- Shall be provisioned into the SEAL Key management server (SKM-S) and mapped
to UE specific key material.
### 5.2.4 Authentication framework
Figure 5.2.4-1 describes the VAL Authentication Framework using the OpenID
Connect protocol. when using HTTPS It describes the steps by which a VAL UE
authenticates to the SIM-S, resulting in a set of credentials delivered to the
UE uniquely identifying the VAL service ID(s). The authentication framework
supports extensible user authentication solutions based on the VAL service
provider policy (shown as step 3). User authentication methods in support of
step 3 (e.g. biometrics, secureID, etc.) are possible but not defined here.
Figure 5.2.4-1: OpenID Connect (OIDC) flow supporting VAL user authentication
Step 1: VAL UE establishes a secure tunnel with the SIM-S.
Step 2: VAL UE sends an OpenID Connect Authentication Request to the SIM-S.
The request may contain an indication of authentication methods supported by
the UE.
Step 3: User Authentication is performed between VAL UE and the SIM-S.
NOTE: The primary credentials for user authentication (e.g. biometrics,
secureID, OTP, username/password) are based on VAL service provider policy.
The method chosen by the VAL service provider for authentication and
authorization is neither defined nor limited by the present document, it
depends on the Vertical services and authentication and authorization methods
supported by it.
Step 4: SIM-S sends an OpenID Connect Authentication Response to the UE
containing an authorization code.
Step 5: UE sends an OpenID Connect Token Request to the SIM-S, passing the
authorization code.
Step 6: SIM-S sends an OpenID Connect Token Response to the UE containing an
ID token and an access token (each which uniquely identify the user of the VAL
service or key management service). The ID token is consumed by the UE to
personalize the VAL client for the VAL user, and the access token is used by
the UE to communicate and authorize the identity of the VAL user to the VAL
server(s) and the VAL services.
### 5.2.5 Authorization framework
Authorization framework when using HTTP is shown in figure 5.2.5-1. A secure
HTTP tunnel using HTTPS between VAL UE and VAL server shall be established
before VAL service authorization. Subsequent VAL service authorization
messaging make use of this tunnel. The service clients in the VAL UE present
the access tokens to the VAL server over HTTP. The VAL server authorizes the
user for the requested services only if the access token is valid. The
procedures may be repeated as necessary to obtain additional VAL user
authorizations.
{width="6.375in" height="2.0083333333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.5-1: VAL User Service Authorization
After the VAL UE establishing a secure connection with the VAL server, the VAL
UE sends an HTTP message containing the access token to the VAL server where
service authorization is requested. The VAL server receives the message and
validates the access token. If the access token is valid, The VAL server
positively acknowledges the request. The VAL server may provide service
related information to the VAL UE at this time.
### 5.2.6 VAL service authorization
The VAL service authorization procedure shall validate the VAL user authorized
to access the VAL services. In order to gain access to VAL services, the VAL
client shall present an access token to the VAL server for each VAL service of
interest (see clause 5.2.5). If the access token is valid, then the VAL client
shall be granted use of the requested VAL service.
## 5.3 SEAL key management procedure
### 5.3.1 General
To enable security for VAL services, a SEAL KM client (located in either a VAL
UE or VAL server) may request key material applicable to a particular VAL
service, VAL client or user.
Prior to making a key management request to the SEAL KMS (SKM-S), the VAL
client or VAL user shall be authenticated by the SEAL identity management
service (clause 5.2). In addition, secure connections shall be established
between the SEAL client and the SKM-S (reference point KM-UU) and the VAL
server and the SKM-S (reference point KM-S) prior to any associated key
management requests.
As a result of the SEAL identity management authentication procedure, an
access token scoped for key management services is provisioned to the SEAL UE.
This access token is provided with each and every key management request to
the SKM-S.
A VAL server is provisioned with an access token scoped for SEAL key
management services and is provided with each and every key management request
to the SKM-S. The method for provisioning this access token into the VAL
server is out of scope of the present document.
Figure 5.3.1-1 shows the SEAL key management procedure. A SKM client may send
a SEAL KM Request message to the SKM-S. The SKM-S validates and processes the
request and responds with a SEAL KM Response message. The response contains
key management material specific to the SEAL service or the VAL server
request, or alternatively, an error code if the SKM-S encounters a failure
condition.
Figure 5.3.1-1: SEAL key management procedure
The procedure in figure 5.3.1-1 is described here:
1\. The SKM-C establishes a secure connection, using the mechanism specified
in clause 5.1.1.4, to the SKM-S. Steps 2 and 3 are within this secure
connection.
2\. The SKM-C sends a SEAL KM Request message to the SKM-S. The request
contains the authorization credentials obtained during authentication and
message content specified in clause 5.3.2.
3\. The SKM-S authorizes the request and if valid, sends a SEAL KM Response
message containing the requested key material (or error code) as specified in
clause 5.3.3.
As a successful result of this procedure, the VAL UE or VAL Server has
securely obtained service specific key material for use within the VAL system.
### 5.3.2 SEAL KM Request message
A SKM-C may send a SEAL KM Request message to the SKM-S. This request shall be
protected (using the mechanism specified in clause 5.1.1.4) and shall contain
the access token acquired during the SEAL identity management authentication
procedure (clause 5.2).
The content of the SEAL KM Request is shown in table 5.3.2-1.
Table 5.3.2-1: Contents of a SEAL KM Request
Name Description
* * *
Version The version number of the SEAL key management request. SKmsUri The URI
of the SKM-S to which the request is sent. ServiceID A string representing the
VAL service/application related to the VAL client request. ClientID (Optional)
A string representing the client. (see NOTE) DeviceID (Optional) A string
representing the device. (see NOTE). UserID (Optional) A string representing
the user. (see NOTE) Date/Time The Date and Time of the request. This number
represents the number of seconds from 1970-01-01T0:0:0Z as measured in UTC.
NOTE: Only one of these fields may be present in any given SEAL KMS Request
message.
The identities listed in table 5.3.2-1 map to SEAL identities defined in 3GPP
TS 23.434 [2]. Namely, the ServiceID maps to the VAL service identity (VAL
service ID), the ClientID maps to the VAL client or client on the VAL server,
the DeviceID maps to the VAL UE identity (VAL UE ID), and the UserID maps to
the VAL user identity (VAL user ID).
The \'Version\' field identifies the version of the SEAL KM Request message.
The current version is defined as \"1.0.0\".
The \'Date/Time\' field is used primarily as an anti-replay mechanism for SEAL
key management requests and responses. If the \'Date/Time\' field is
significantly out of range (more than a few seconds), this could indicate a
replay attack.
Upon receipt of a SEAL KM Request message, the SKM-S shall verify that:
\- the access token is valid;
\- the signature is valid;
\- the SKmsUri is the SKM-S URI of the target SEAL KMS where the key
information is stored; and
\- the Date/Time is within a recent time window (e.g. 5 seconds).
If valid, the request is accepted and processed by the SKM-S. A standalone
ServiceID, or a ServiceID in combination with a ClientID, DeviceID, or UserID
may be present in the SEAL KM Request message. This combination may be used by
the KMS to identify a specific key material record. Each key management record
may be unique to a VAL application or VAL service. The format and content of a
key management record is defined and securely provisioned into the SEAL KMS by
the VAL application or VAL service owner/operator.
A SEAL KM client (SKM-C) located in the VAL server may use the SEAL key
provisioning procedure described in clause 5.8 to provision the VAL service or
VAL application key material into the KMS.
The method used to organize, manage, and maintain VAL service or VAL
application key material within the KMS is out of scope of the present
document.
### 5.3.3 SEAL KM Response message
The SEAL KM Response message is sent to the SKM-C in response to a SEAL KM
Request message.
A successful SEAL key management procedure results in a SEAL KM Response
message, which typically includes a payload containing key management
information uniquely applicable to the requested service, client or user. If
an error occurs, an error code may be returned in the SEAL KM Response
message.
The SEAL KM Response message shall be protected in transit using the mechanism
specified in clause 5.1.1.4. The Payload within a SEAL KM Response message may
be protected end-to-end between the SKM-C and SKM-S depending on the
applicability of the underlying VAL service making the request. The method for
securing a Payload end-to-end between the SKM-C and the SKM-S is outside the
scope of the present document. The key material contents provided in a Payload
are defined by the underlying VAL service and are outside the scope of the
present document.
The content of a SEAL KM Response message is shown in table 5.3.3-1.
Table 5.3.3-1: Contents of a SEAL KM Response message
Name Description
* * *
UserUri URI of the user for which the response is intended. SKmsUri The URI of
the SKM-S sending the response. ServiceID A string representing the VAL
service/application related to the VAL client request. This is the same field
as received in the SEAL KM Request message. SKmsID (Optional) The ID of the
SKM-S providing the response message. ClientID (Optional) A string
representing the client (see NOTE) DeviceID (Optional) A string representing
the device (see NOTE) UserID (Optional) A string representing the user. (see
NOTE) Date/Time The Date and Time of the response. This number represents the
number of seconds from 1970-01-01T0:0:0Z as measured in UTC. ErrorCode
(Optional) Reason code indicating the failure of the requested action. If not
present, the key management request is assumed to be successful. Payload
(Optional) Key management payload specific to the VAL user, client or
application. This field is not be present if an error occurs . NOTE: If this
field is present in the SEAL KM Request message then this field shall be
present in the SEAL KM Response message and shall be the same value.
The identities listed in table 5.3.3-1 are described in clause 5.3.2.
If the SKM-S does not encounter an error during processing of the SEAL KM
Request message, the SEAL KM Response message carries a set of security
parameters contained in the \"Payload\" field.
If the SKM-S encounters an error while processing the SEAL KM Request message,
an error value described in table 5.3.3-2 shall be returned in the
\'ErrorCode\' field of the SEAL KM Response message and the \'Payload\' field
shall not be present.
In the event of an error, the user and/or the operator of the VAL service, UE,
or client may be notified.
Table 5.3.3-2: \'ErrorCode\' values
ErrorCode Description Maps To
* * *
01 Unspecified error \"500 Internal Server Error\" as described in Table
5.2.6-1 of TS 29.122 [17] 02 Key Information not available for specified
service, client, device or user. \"404 Not Found\" as described in Table
5.2.6-1 of TS 29.122 [17] 03 Request rejected \"401 Unauthorized\" as
described in Table 5.2.6-1 of TS 29.122 [17] 04 Unable to validate request
\"400 Bad Request\" or \"403 Forbidden\" as described in Table 5.2.6-1 of TS
29.122 [17] 05-FF Reserved N/A
The selection of the key material returned in the Payload of a SEAL KM
Response message is determined by the ServiceID and (optionally) the ClientID,
DeviceID or UserID. The combination of the ServiceID with the ClientID,
DeviceID or UserID allows the VAL service to request a more specific set of
key material.
For example, if a ClientID is included in the SEAL KM Request message, the KMS
may return a Payload that contains a set of client specific key material
applicable to the ClientID within the requesting VAL service (ServiceID). If
the DeviceID is included, the KMS may return a Payload that contains device
specific key material applicable to the DeviceID within the requesting VAL
service (ServiceID). If the UserID is included, the KMS may return a Payload
that contains user specific key material applicable to that UserID within the
requesting VAL service (ServiceID).
## 5.4 Security procedures for interconnection
Interconnection between a primary VAL system and a partner VAL system is
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [2].
A VAL client shall perform user authorization only to VAL servers within their
own VAL system. When communication is required by a VAL client from another
interconnected VAL system, user authorization takes place in the serving VAL
system and follows the VAL user service authorization procedures as defined in
clause 5.2.
VAL systems should protect themselves at the system border from external
attackers.
## 5.5 Authentication and authorization of devices over LWP interfaces
Authentication and authorization mechanism for devices over LWP interfaces
depends on the application protocol. The Annex B in the present document
defines authentication and authorization procedures for the realizations of
application protocols defined in Annex C of TS 23.434 [2].
## 5.6 Security for inter-system switching between 5G and LTE
During inter-system mobility from 5G MBS session to LTE eMBMS/unicast bearer
or from LTE eMBMS to 5G MBS sessions (either broadcast or multicast), when the
target system is EPS, the security protection specified in TS 33.246 [32]
applies and when the target system is 5GS, the security protection specified
in TS 33.501 [16] applies.
## 5.7 Security for VAL services over 5GS supporting EPS interworking
The VAL server consumes the network resource management services from the NRM
server. For the VAL services over 5GS supporting EPS interworking, the
security mechanisms as specified in TS 33.501 [16] are followed.
## 5.8 SEAL key provisioning procedure
### 5.8.1 General
The SEAL key provisioning procedure may be used by a SEAL KM client (SKM-C)
located in a VAL server to provision key information applicable to a
particular VAL service, VAL client, VAL device, or VAL user.
A VAL server shall be provisioned with an access token scoped for SEAL key
provisioning services. The method for provisioning this access token into the
VAL server is out of scope of the present document. The VAL server using the
SKM-C shall provide this access token with every key provisioning request made
to the SKM-S. In addition, a secure connection shall be established between
the SKM-C and the SKM-S prior to any associated key provisioning requests.
The KMS shall authenticate and validate the presented access token (i.e.
verifying that the SKeyProv parameter defined in clause A.2.2.3 is provided
and correct), and shall validate that the requesting SKM-C has the
authorization to perform key provisioning.
Figure 5.8.1-1 shows the SEAL key provisioning procedure. A SKM-C may send a
SEAL Key Provisioning Request message to the SKM-S. The SKM-S shall validate
and process the request and respond with a SEAL KP Response message. The
request contains key information specific to a particular VAL service, VAL
client, VAL device, or VAL user. The SEAL KP Response message provides either
an acknowledgement or an error code (if the SKM-S encounters a failure
condition).
Figure 5.8.1-1: SEAL key provisioning procedure
The procedure in figure 5.8.1-1 is described here:
1\. The SKM-C establishes a secure connection to the SKM-S using the mechanism
specified in clause 5.1.1.4. Steps 2 and 3 are within this secure connection.
2\. The SKM-C sends a SEAL KP Request message to the SKM-S. The request
contains the authorization credentials (i.e. access token) and message content
specified in clause 5.8.2.
3\. The SKM-S validates the credentials and verifies that the requesting SKM-C
is an authorized key provisioning client. Upon authorization, the SKM-S
processes the request and returns a SEAL KP Response message to the SKM-C
containing an acknowledgement (or error code) as specified in clause 5.8.3.
As a successful result of this procedure, the VAL Server has securely
provisioned specific key information for use within the VAL system for a
particular VAL service, VAL device, VAL client, or VAL user.
### 5.8.2 SEAL KP Request message
An authorized SKM-C may send a SEAL KP Request message to the SKM-S. This
request shall be protected (using the mechanism specified in clause 5.1.1.4)
and shall contain the access token scoped for SEAL key provisioning (clause
A.2).
The content of the SEAL KM Request is shown in table 5.8.2-1.
Table 5.8.2-1: Contents of a SEAL KP Request
Name Description
* * *
Version The version number of the SEAL key provisioning request. SValClientUri
The URI of the SKM-C (hosted in the VAL server) making the request. SKmsUri
The URI of the SKM-S to which the request is sent. ServiceID A string
representing the VAL service/application related to the VAL client request.
ClientID (Optional) A string representing the client related to the key
material in the Payload. (see NOTE) DeviceID (Optional) A string representing
the device related to the key material in the Payload. (see NOTE) UserID
(Optional) A string representing the user related to the key material in the
Payload. (see NOTE) Date/Time The Date and Time of the request. This number
represents the number of seconds from 1970-01-01T0:0:0Z as measured in UTC. KP
PayloadID (Optional) A string identifier representing the Payload. KP Payload
Key provisioning payload specific to the identified VAL ServiceID, UserID,
ClientID, or DeviceID. NOTE: Only one of these fields may be present in any
given SEAL KP Request message.
The identities listed in table 5.8.2-1 map to SEAL identities defined in 3GPP
TS 23.434 [2], and identify the endpoints targets of the key information
(Payload). Namely, the ServiceID maps to the VAL service identity (VAL service
ID), the ClientID maps to the VAL client or client on the VAL server, the
DeviceID maps to the VAL UE identity (VAL UE ID), and the UserID maps to the
VAL user identity (VAL user ID).
The \'Version\' field identifies the version of the SEAL KP Request message.
The current version is defined as \"1.0.0\".
The \'Date/Time\' field is primarily as an anti-replay mechanism for SEAL key
provisioning requests and responses. If the \'Date/Time\' field is
significantly out of range (more than a few seconds), this could indicate a
replay attack.
Upon receipt of a SEAL KP Request message, the SKM-S shall verify that:
\- the access token is valid and contains the SKeyProv field;
\- the signature is valid;
\- the requesting SKM-C is authorized for key provisioning;
\- the SKmsUri is the SKM-S URI of the target SEAL KMS where the key
information shall be stored; and
\- the Date/Time is within a recent time window (e.g. 5 seconds).
If valid, the request is accepted and processed by the SKM-S. A standalone
ServiceID, or a ServiceID in combination with a ClientID, DeviceID, or UserID
may be present in the SEAL KP Request message. This combination may be used by
the KMS to map the key material in the Payload with a specific client, device,
or user. The format and content of a key provisioning Payload is defined by
the VAL application or VAL service owner/operator and is out of scope of this
document. For example, such content may include VAL specific keys, additional
tokens, credentials, or other important security related information.
The method used to organize, manage, and maintain VAL service or VAL
application key material within the KMS is out of scope of the present
document.
### 5.8.3 SEAL KP Response message
The SEAL KP Response message is sent by the SKM-S to the SKM-C in response to
a SEAL KP Request message.
A successful SEAL key provisioning procedure results in the KMS sending a SEAL
KP Response message containing an acknowledgement indicating the KMS
successfully received and processed the SEAL KP Request message. If the KMS is
unable to successfully process the SEAL KP Request message, the KMS may
instead return an error code in the SEAL KP Response message.
The SEAL KP Response message shall be protected in transit using the mechanism
specified in clause 5.1.1.4.
The content of a SEAL KP Response message is shown in table 5.8.3-1.
Table 5.8.3-1: Contents of a SEAL KP Response message
Name Description
* * *
SValKmcUri URI of the VAL SKM-C client for which the response is intended.
SKmsUri The URI of the SKM-S sending the response. ServiceID A string
representing the VAL service/application related to the VAL client request.
This is the same field as received in the SEAL KM Request message. SKmsID
(Optional) The ID of the SKM-S providing the response message. ClientID
(Optional) A string representing the client (see NOTE) DeviceID (Optional) A
string representing the device (see NOTE) UserID (Optional) A string
representing the user. (see NOTE) Date/Time The Date and Time of the response.
This number represents the number of seconds from 1970-01-01T0:0:0Z as
measured in UTC. KP PayloadID (Optional) A string representing the received
Payload. (see NOTE) ErrorCode (Optional) Reason code indicating the failure of
the requested action. If this field is not present, the key provisioning
request is assumed to be successful. NOTE: If this field is present in the
SEAL KP Request message then this field shall be present in the SEAL KP
Response message and shall be the same value.
The identities listed in table 5.8.3-1 are described in clause 5.8.2.
If the SKM-S encounters an error while processing the SEAL KP Request message,
an error value described in table 5.8.3-2 should be returned in the
\'ErrorCode\' field of the SEAL KP Response message.
In the event of an error, the user and/or the operator of the VAL service may
be notified.
Table 5.8.3-2: \'ErrorCode\' values
ErrorCode Description Maps To
* * *
01 Unspecified error \"500 Internal Server Error\" as described in Table
5.2.6-1 of TS 29.122 [17] 02 Referenced client, device, user, or service not
found. \"404 Not Found\" as described in Table 5.2.6-1 of TS 29.122 [17] 03
Request rejected \"401 Unauthorized\" as described in Table 5.2.6-1 of TS
29.122 [17] 04 Unable to validate request \"400 Bad Request\" or \"403
Forbidden\" as described in Table 5.2.6-1 of TS 29.122 [17] 05-FF Reserved N/A
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenID connect profile for VAL
# A.1 General
The information in this annex provides a normative description of the
Authentication and Authorization framework based on the OpenID Connect 1.0
standard. Characterization of the ID token, access token, how to obtain
tokens, how to validate tokens, and how to use the refresh token is explained.
The OpenID Connect 1.0 standard provides the source of the information
contained in this annex. This annex profiles the OpenID Connect standard and
includes the ID token and the access token, as well as the definition of VAL
specific scopes for key management, VAL services, configuration management,
and group management. This profile is compliant with OpenID Connect.
# A.2 VAL tokens
## A.2.1 ID token
### A.2.1.1 General
The ID Token shall be a JSON Web Token (JWT) and contain the following
standard and VAL token claims. Token claims provide information pertaining to
the authentication of the VAL client by the SIM-S as well as additional
claims. The following clause profiles the required standard and VAL claims for
the VAL Connect profile.
### A.2.1.2 Standard claims
These standard claims are defined by the OpenID Connect 1.0 specification and
are REQUIRED for VAL implementation. Other claims defined by OpenID Connect
are optional. The standards-based claims for a VAL Connect ID token are shown
in table A.2.1.2-1.
Table A.2.1.2-1: ID token standard claims
Parameter Description
* * *
Iss REQUIRED. The URL of the SIM-S. Sub REQUIRED. A case-sensitive, never
reassigned string (not to exceed 255 bytes), which uniquely identifies the VAL
user within the VAL server provider\'s domain. Aud REQUIRED. The Oauth 2.0
client_id of the SIM-C Exp REQUIRED. Implementers MAY provide for some small
leeway, usually no more than a few minutes, to account for clock skew (not to
exceed 30 seconds) iat REQUIRED. Time at which the ID Token was issued. Its
value is a JSON number representing the number of seconds from
1970-01-01T0:0:0Z as measured in UTC until the date/time.
### A.2.1.3 VAL claims
The VAL Connect profile extends the OpenID Connect standard claims with the
additional claims based on the VAL service.
## A.2.2 Access token
### A.2.2.1 Introduction
The access token is opaque to VAL clients and is consumed by the VAL resource
servers. The access token shall be encoded as a JSON Web Token as defined in
IETF RFC 7797 [11]. The access token shall include the JSON web digital
signature profile as defined in IETF RFC 7515 [12].
### A.2.2.2 Standard claims
VAL access tokens shall convey the following standards-based claims as defined
in IETF RFC 7662 [13].
Table A.2.2.2-1: Access token standard claims
Parameter Description
* * *
Exp REQUIRED. Implementers MAY provide for some small leeway, usually no more
than a few minutes, to account for clock skew (not to exceed 30 seconds).
Scope REQUIRED. A JSON string containing a space-separated list of the
authorization scopes associated with this token. The scope(s) contained here
reflect the requested scope(s) from the Authentication Request (clause
A.4.2.2). client_id REQUIRED. The identifier of the SIM-C making the API
request as previously registered with the SIM-S.
### A.2.2.3 VAL claims
The VAL profile extends the standard claims defined in IETF RFC 7662 [13] with
the additional claims based on the VAL service and those shown in table
A.2.2.3-1.
Table A.2.2.3-1: Access token VAL claims
Parameter Description
* * *
SKeyProv OPTIONAL for SEAL. The SKeyProv parameter shall be present when the
VAL Server SKM-C is authorized to provide key material to the KMS.
# A.3 SIM-C registration
Before a SIM-C can obtain ID tokens and access tokens (required to access VAL
resource servers) it shall first be registered with the SIM-S of the service
provider as required by OpenID Connect 1.0. The method by which this is done
is not specified by this profile. For native SIM-C, the following information
shall be registered:
\- The client is issued a client identifier. The client identifier represents
the client\'s registration with the authorization server, and enables the
SIM-S to reference parameters associated with that client\'s registration when
being requested for an access token by the SIM-C.
\- Registration of the client\'s redirect URIs.
Other information about the SIM-C such as (for example): application name,
website, description, logo image, legal terms to be consented to, may
optionally be registered.
# A.4 Obtaining tokens
## A.4.1 General
Once a SIM-C has been successfully registered with the SIM-S of the VAL
service provider, the SIM-C may request ID tokens and access tokens (as
required to access VAL service servers). Only native SIM-C are defined here.
The exact method in which a SIM-C requests the access token depends upon the
client profile. The SIM-C profiles, along with steps required from them to
obtain OAuth access tokens, are explained below.
## A.4.2 Native SIM-C
### A.4.2.1 General
This conforms to the Native Application profile of OAuth 2.0 as per IETF RFC
6749 [3].
SIM-C fitting the Native application profile utilize the authorization code
grant type with the PKCE extension for enhanced security as shown in figure
A.4.2.1-1.
{width="4.841666666666667in" height="3.1416666666666666in"}
Figure A.4.2.1-1: Authorization Code flow
### A.4.2.2 Authentication request
As described in OpenID Connect 1.0, the SIM-C constructs a request URI by
adding the following parameters to the query component of the authorization
endpoint\'s URI using the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format,
redirecting the user\'s web browser to the authorization endpoint of the
SIM-S. The standard parameters shown in table A.4.2.2-1 are required by this
Connect profile. Other parameters defined by the OpenID Connect specification
are optional.
Table A.4.2.2-1: Authentication Request standard required parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | response_type | REQUIRED. For native SIM-C the | | | value shall be set to \"code\". | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | client_id | REQUIRED. The identifier of the | | | SIM-C making the API request. It | | | shall match the value that was | | | previously registered with the | | | SIM-S of the VAL service | | | provider. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scope | REQUIRED. Scope values are | | | expressed as a list of | | | space-delimited, case-sensitive | | | strings which indicate which VAL | | | resource servers the client is | | | requesting access to. If | | | authorized, the requested scope | | | values will be bound to the | | | access token returned to the | | | client. | | | | | | The scope value \"openid\" is | | | defined by the OpenID Connect | | | standard and is mandatory, to | | | indicate that the request is an | | | OpenID Connect request, and that | | | an ID token should be returned | | | to the SIM-C. | | | | | | NOTE: Additional VAL service | | | specific scopes need to be | | | defined by VAL service | | | specification and it is out of | | | scope of the present document. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | redirect_uri | REQUIRED. The URI of the SIM-C | | | to which the SIM-S will redirect | | | the SIM-C\'s user agent in order | | | to return the authorization code | | | to the SIM-C. The URI shall | | | match the redirect URI | | | registered with the SIM-S during | | | the client registration phase. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | State | REQUIRED. An opaque value used | | | by the SIM-C to maintain state | | | between the authorization | | | request and authorization | | | response. The SIM-S includes | | | this value in its authorization | | | response back to the SIM-C. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | acr_values | REQUIRED. Space-separated string | | | that specifies the acr values | | | that the SIM-S is being | | | requested to use for processing | | | this authorization request, with | | | the values appearing in order of | | | preference. For minimum | | | interoperability requirements, a | | | password-based ACR value is | | | mandatory to support. | | | \"3gpp:acr:password\". | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | code_challenge | REQUIRED. The base64url-encoded | | | SHA-256 challenge derived from | | | the code verifier that is sent | | | in the authorization request, to | | | be verified against later. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | code_challenge_method | REQUIRED. The hash method used | | | to transform the code verifier | | | to produce the code challenge. | | | This profile current requires | | | the usage of \"S256\" | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: The order in which they | | | are expressed does not matter. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### A.4.2.3 Authentication response
The authorization endpoint running on the SIM-S issues an authorization code
and delivers it to the SIM-C. The authorization code is used by the SIM-C to
obtain an ID token, access token and refresh token from the SIM-S. The
authorization code is added to the query component of the redirection URI
using the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format. The authorization code
standard parameters are shown in table A.4.2.3-1.
Table A.4.2.3-1: Authentication Response standard required parameters
Parameter Values
* * *
Code REQUIRED. The authorization code generated by the authorization endpoint
and returned to the SIM-C via the authorization response. State REQUIRED. The
value shall match the exact value used in the authorization request. If the
state does not match exactly, then the NGMI API client is under a Cross-site
request forgery attack and shall reject the authorization code by ignoring it
and shall not attempt to exchange it for an access token. No error is
returned.
### A.4.2.4 Access token request
In order to exchange the authorization code for an ID token, access token and
refresh token, the SIM-C makes a request to the authorization server\'s token
endpoint by sending the following parameters using the \"application/x-www-
form-urlencoded\" format, with a character encoding of UTF-8 in the HTTP
request entity-body. Note that client authentication is REQUIRED for native
applications (using PKCE) in order to exchange the authorization code for an
access token. Assuming that client secrets are used, the client secret is sent
in the HTTP Authorization Header. The access token request standard parameters
are shown in table A.4.2.4-1.
Table A.4.2.4-1: Access token request standard required parameters
Parameter Values
* * *
grant_type REQUIRED. The value shall be set to \"authorization_code\". code
REQUIRED. The authorization code previously received from the SIM-S as a
result of the authorization request and subsequent successful authentication
of the VAL user. client_id REQUIRED. The identifier of the client making the
API request. It shall match the value that was previously registered with the
OAuth Provider during the client registration phase of deployment, or as
provisioned via a development portal. redirect_uri REQUIRED. The value shall
be identical to the \"redirect_uri\" parameter included in the authorization
request. code_verifier REQUIRED. A cryptographically random string that is
used to correlate the authorization request to the token request.
### A.4.2.5 Access token response
If the access token request is valid and authorized, the SIM-S returns an ID
token, access token and refresh token to the SIM-C in an access token response
message; otherwise it will return an error.
The access token response standard parameters are shown in table A.4.2.5-1.
Table A.4.2.5-1: Access token response standard parameters
Parameter Values
* * *
access_token REQUIRED. This is the issued access token. token_type REQUIRED.
This field shall be \"bearer\" expires_in REQUIRED. The lifetime in seconds of
the access token. Id_token OPTIONAL. This is the issued id token.
Refresh_token OPTIONAL. This is the issued refresh token.
The SIM-C may now validate the user with the ID token and configure itself for
the user (e.g. by extracting the VAL service ID from the ID Token). The SIM-C
then uses the access token to make authorized requests to the SIM resource
servers on behalf of the end user.
# A.5 Refreshing an access token
## A.5.1 General
To protect against leakage or other compromise, access token lifetimes are
typically short lived (though it is ultimately a matter of security policy &
configuration by the service provider). Some client types can be issued
longer-lived refresh tokens, which enable them to refresh the access token and
avoid having to prompt the user for authentication again when the access token
expires. Refresh tokens are available only to clients utilizing the
authorization code grant type. Figure A.5.1-1 shows how Native SIM-C can use
the refresh token as a grant type to obtain new access tokens.
{width="4.841666666666667in" height="1.7833333333333334in"}
Figure A.5.1-1: Requesting a new access token
## A.5.2 Access token request
To obtain an access token from the SIM-S using a refresh token, the SIM-C
makes an access token request to the token endpoint of the SIM-S. The SIM-C
does this by adding the following parameters using the \"application/x-www-
form-urlencoded\" format, with a character encoding of UTF-8 in the HTTP
request entity-body. The access token request standard parameters are shown in
table A.5.2-1.
Table A.5.2-1: Access token request standard required parameters
**Parameter** **Values**
* * *
grant_type REQUIRED. The value shall be set to \"refresh_token\". Scope Space-
delimited set of permissions that the SIM-C requests. Note that the scopes
requested using this grant type shall be of equal to or lesser than scope of
the original scopes requested by the SIM-C as part of the original
authorization request.
If the SIM-C was provided with client credentials by the SIM-S, then the
client shall authenticate with the token endpoint of the SIM-S utilizing the
client credential (shared secret or public-private key pair) established
during the client registration phase.
## A.5.3 Access token response
In response to the access token request (above) the token endpoint on the
SIM-S will return an access token to the SIM-C, and optionally another refresh
token in an access token response message.
The access token response standard parameters are shown in table A.5.3-1.
Table A.5.3-1: Access token response standard parameters
**Parameter** **Values**
* * *
access_token REQUIRED. This is the issued access token. token_type REQUIRED.
This field shall be \"bearer\" expires_in REQUIRED. The lifetime in seconds of
the access token. Id_token OPTIONAL. This is the issued id token.
Refresh_token OPTIONAL. This is the issued refresh token.
It is possible to configure the SIM-S to confirm that the user account is
still valid each time the refresh token is presented, and to revoke the
refresh token if not. This security practice is RECOMMENDED.
# A.6 Using the token to access VAL resource servers
Connect for VAL shall initially support the bearer access token type. Access
tokens of type \"bearer\" shall be communicated from the VAL or SEAL Clients
in UE to VAL resource servers by including the access token in the HTTP
Authorization Header, per IETF RFC 6750 [4].
The access token is opaque to the VAL or SEAL Clients in UE, meaning that the
client does not have any knowledge of the access token itself. The client will
be given some metadata corresponding to the access token, such as its
expiration time, so that it does not send an expired access token to VAL
resource servers. If the access token is presented to a VAL resource server
and the scope is invalid or the token is expired or revoked, the VAL resource
server should return an error message indicating such to the VAL or SEAL
Clients in UE.
# A.7 Token validation
## A.7.1 ID token validation
The VAL or SEAL Clients in UE shall validate the ID token as per clause
3.1.3.7 of the OpenID Connect 1.0 specification [5].
## A.7.2 Access token validation
VAL resource servers shall validate access tokens received from the VAL or
SEAL Clients in UE according to IETF RFC 7797 [11].
# A.8 Token revocation
**In order to limit the time validity of a token, the \"exp\" and
\"expires_in\" parameters may be used as a method of access token revocation.
If either the \"exp\" or \"expires_in\" parameter is used as a method of
access token revocation, then the following applies:**
**Within the standard claims of an access token, the \"exp\" parameter shall
be used by the authorising server to determine whether or not the token is
valid. If the current time is beyond the time specified by the \"exp\"
parameter, the associated token shall no longer be considered valid and any
requests made with an expired token shall be rejected by the authorising
server.**
**Within the standard claims of an access token response, token exchange
response or token response message, the \"expires_in\" parameter shall be used
by the UE client(s) to determine validity of the associated token. If the
current time is beyond the time specified by the \"expires_in\" parameter, the
associated token shall no longer be considered valid and no client requests
shall be made using the expired token. A refresh token may be used per clause
A.5 to obtain a new access token.**
# A.9 SIM-S interface security
The support of Transport Layer Security (TLS) between the SIM-C in the VAL UE
and the SIM-S is mandatory. The profile for TLS implementation and usage shall
follow the provisions given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [6], annex E.
If PSK TLS based authentication is supported, the SIM-C in the VAL UE and the
SIM-S shall support the TLS version, PSK ciphersuites and TLS Extensions as
specified in the TLS profile given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [6], annex E. The usage
of pre-shared key ciphersuites for TLS is specified in the TLS profile given
in 3GPP TS 33.310 [6], annex E.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Security mechanisms for LWP interfaces
# B.1 General
This annex specifies communication security, authentication and authorization
mechanisms for protocol realizations of the light-weight protocol (LWP) in the
signalling control plane.
# B.2 Communication security for CoAP
CoAP messages [18] shall be protected and deploy the security enhancements of
[22]. When (D)TLS is used, the (D)TLS and certificate profiling shall follow
TS 33.210 [14] and TS 33.310 [6]. When OSCORE is used, the mandatory to
implement provisions given by RFC 8613 [23] shall be followed.
# B.3 Authentication and authorization mechanism on CoAP
## B.3.1 General
When CoAP is used for the LWP, Authentication and authorization for
Constrained Environments (ACE) using OAuth 2.0 Framework (ACE-OAuth) as
specified in [19] shall be supported.
Figure B.3.1-1 shows the functional model which consists of the SEAL Identity
Management Server (SIM-S), SEAL Identity Management Client (SIM-C) and SEAL
server. The IM-UU reference point between the SIM-S and the SIM-C and the
SEAL-UU reference point between SEAL server and SIM-C shall support ACE-OAuth
[19] and OAuth 2.0 [9] with COSE [20].
Figure B.3.1-1: Functional model for SEAL Identity management client, server
and SEAL server
The SIM-S, the SIM-C and a SEAL server respectively play the roles of the
Authorization Server, the Client and the Resource Server in the ACE-OAuth
framework.
For authentication of SIM-S, the security enhancements of CoAP specified in
[22] shall be followed. When (D)TLS is used, the (D)TLS and certificate
profiling shall follow TS 33.210 [14] and TS 33.310 [6]. When OSCORE is used,
authentication shall be based on pre-shared secrets. The authentication method
and credentials of the VAL-UE are out of scope of this specification.
## B.3.2 VAL user authentication
VAL user authentication is executed by the SIM-S before providing access token
for the VAL UE.
NOTE 1: The primary method and credentials for VAL user authentication are
based on VAL service provider policy. The method chosen by the VAL service
provider for authentication and authorization is neither defined nor limited
by the present document.
NOTE 2: VAL user may refer to the user or the device depending on the setting.
## B.3.3 SEAL service authorization
SEAL Service Authorization procedure shall validate the VAL user to access the
SEAL services. In order to gain access to SEAL services, the SEAL client shall
present an access token to the SEAL server for each service of interest. If
the access token is valid, then the client shall be granted to use the
service.
## B.3.4 Authorization framework
Authorization framework is shown in figure B.3.4-1. The ACE-OAuth [19]
framework is followed. The SIM-S and SIM-C shall perform mutual authentication
as specified in B.3.1. After successful authentication, the SIM-C shall
request and receive an access token from the SIM-S over CoAP as described in
clause 5.8 of [19] indicated in steps 1 and 2 in the figure. Before providing
the access token, SIM-S shall authorize the VAL UE for the requested service.
The procedures may be repeated as necessary to obtain additional VAL UE
authorizations.
Figure B.3.4-1: VAL UE Service Authorization
After the VAL UE received an access token it shall establish a secure
connection with the SEAL/VAL server as specified in B.2. The VAL UE shall send
a CoAP message containing the access token to the SEAL/VAL server in a service
authorization request as described in clause 5.10 of [19] indicated in steps 3
and 4 in the figure. On receiving the service authorization message, the
SEAL/VAL server shall validate the access token. If the access token is valid,
the SEAL/VAL server shall provide service-related information according to the
rights granted to the VAL UE in response to subsequent requests indicated in
steps 5 and 6.
The messages sent for the authorization shall be protected. When (D)TLS is
used, the (D)TLS and certificate profiling shall in addition to [22] follow
also TS 33.210 [14] and TS 33.310 [6]. When the VAL UE is authenticating
directly to the SEAL/VAL server, then the DTLS or TLS profile of ACE [21,25]
may be used. In order to authorize clients and protect communication across
proxies, the OSCORE profile of ACE [24] shall be used.
Editor\'s note: The references [21], [25] and [28] needs to be updated to
refer the final version.
## B.3.5 VAL service authorization
The VAL service authorization procedure shall validate the VAL user authorized
to access the VAL services. In order to gain access to VAL services, the VAL
client shall present an access token to the VAL server for each VAL service of
interest (see clause B.3.4). If the access token is valid, then the VAL client
shall be granted use of the requested VAL service.
## B.3.6 Access token
### B.3.6.1 Introduction
The access token is opaque to VAL clients and is consumed by the VAL resource
servers. The access token shall be encoded as a CBOR Web Token as defined in
IETF RFC 8392 [26]. Depending on whether the CWT is signed, MACed or
encrypted, the corresponding COSE object shall be used as defined in IETF RFC
8392 [26].
### B.3.6.2 Standard claims
VAL access tokens shall convey the following standards-based claims as
specified in draft-ietf-ace-oauth-authz-46 [19].
Table B.3.6.2-1: Access token standard claims
Parameter Description
* * *
exp REQUIRED. Implementers MAY provide for some small leeway, usually no more
than a few minutes, to account for clock skew (not to exceed 30 seconds).
scope REQUIRED. Text or byte string. The text string contains a space-
separated list of the authorization scopes associated with this token. The
byte string allows compact encoding of complex scopes. The scope(s) contained
here reflect the requested scope(s) from the Token Request (clause B.3.4). cnf
REQUIRED. The \"cnf\" (confirmation) claim declares that the SEAL client
possesses a particular key and that the SEAL service can cryptographically
confirm that the SEAL client has possession of that key. The value of the
\"cnf\" claim is a CBOR map and the members of that map identify the proof-of-
possession key [27]. audience OPTIONAL. This field indicates the targeted SEAL
servers/resources for the access token [19].
### B.3.6.3 VAL claims
The VAL profile extends the standard claims specified in draft-ietf-ace-oauth-
authz-46 [19] with the additional claims based on the VAL service.
## B.3.7 Obtaining access tokens
### B.3.7.1 Access token request
In order to obtain an access token (and optionally a refresh token) the SEAL
client makes a CoAP request to the authorization server\'s token endpoint by
sending the following parameters using the \"application/ace+cbor\" Content-
format, with a CBOR map in the CoAP payload. Note that mutual authentication
is REQUIRED between SEAL client and SEAL server. The access token request
standard parameters are shown in table B.3.7.1-1.
Table B.3.7.1-1: Access token request standard required parameters
Parameter Values
* * *
scope OPTIONAL. This field requests authorization scopes for the access token.
audience OPTIONAL. This field requests specific SEAL servers/resources for the
access token [19]. cnonce REQUIRED and only used if a client-nonce was
provided in response to an unauthorized resource request to a SEAL
server/resource [19]. req_cnf OPTIONAL. This field contains information about
the key the SEAL client wants to bind to the access token for proof-of-
possession [28].
### B.3.7.2 Access token response
If the access token request is valid and authorized, the SEAL server returns
an access token (and optionally a refresh token) to the SEAL client in an
access token response message; otherwise, it will return an error.
The access token response standard parameters are shown in table B.3.7.2-1.
Table B.3.7.2-1: Access token response standard parameters
Parameter Values
* * *
access_token REQUIRED. This is the issued access token. expires_in REQUIRED.
The lifetime in seconds of the access token. refresh_token OPTIONAL. This is
the issued refresh token. ace_profile REQUIRED. This field indicates the IETF
ACE profile the SEAL client shall use towards the SEAL server/resource [19].
cnf OPTIONAL. This field is REQUIRED for symmetric key usages unless the
secret key is known to the SEAL client (e.g. in case of update of access
rights) [27]. rs_cnf OPTIONAL. This field is REQUIRED for asymmetric key
usages unless the public key of the SEAL server is known to the SEAL client
(e.g. in case of update of access rights) [28].
The SEAL client may now use the access token to make protected and authorized
requests to the SEAL server.
#