# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains requirements and test cases that are specific to
the SMF network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of General Security
Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of the requirements
and test cases given there, as well as specifying requirements and test cases
unique to the SMF network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol
User Plane (GTPv1-U) \".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.255: \"Charging Management; 5G Data Connectivity Domain
Charging\".
[7] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[7] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[7].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CHF Charging Function
SCAS Security Assurance Specification
SMF Session Management Function
TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
UDM Unified Data Management Function
UPF User Plane Function
# 4 SMF-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
SMF specific security requirements include both SMF-specific security
functional requirements in relevant specifications as well as security
requirements introduced in the present document derived from the threats
specific to SMF as described in TR 33.926 [4].
## 4.2 SMF-specific adaptations of security functional requirements and
related test cases
### 4.2.1 Introduction
Present clause contains SMF-specific security functional adaptations of
requirements and related test cases.
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the SMF deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
#### 4.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the SMF deriving from 3GPP
specifications
#### 4.2.2.1.0 General
The general approach in TS 33.117 [2] clause 4.2.2.1 and all the requirements
and test cases in TS 33.117 [2] clause 4.2.2.2 related to SBA/SBI aspect apply
to the SMF network product class.
##### 4.2.2.1.1 Priority of UP security policy
> _Requirement Name_ : Priority of UP security policy
>
> _Requirement Reference:_ TS 23.501 [1], clause 5.10.3
>
> _Requirement Description_ : User Plane Security Policy from UDM takes
> precedence over locally configured User Plane Security Policy as specified
> in TS 23.501 [1], clause 5.10.3
>
> _Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause J.2.2.1 Non-compliant UP
> security policy handling
>
> _Test Case_ :
>
> **Test Name: TC_UP_POLICY_PRECEDENCE_SMF**
>
> **Purpose:**
>
> Verify that the user plane security policy from the UDM takes precedence at
> the SMF under test over locally configured user plane security policy.
>
> **Pre-Conditions:**
>
> Test environment with AMF and UDM may be simulated.
>
> Both UDM and SMF under test are configured with UP security policy, and the
> UP security policies are different.
>
> There is no Session Management Subscription data in SMF.
>
> **Execution Steps**
1) The tester triggers PDU session establishment procedure by sending
Nsmf_PDUSession_CreateSMContext Request message to the SMF.
2) The SMF under test retrieves the Session Management Subscription data using
Nudm_SDM_Get service from UDM, where the Session Management Subscription data
includes the user plane security policy stored in UDM.
3) The tester captures the Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer message sent
from the SMF under test to the AMF.
> **Expected Results:**
>
> There is a Security Indication IE in the N2 SM information contained in the
> Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer message, which is the same with the
> UP security policy configured in the UDM.
>
> **Expected format of evidence:**
>
> Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
> operational results.
##### 4.2.2.1.2 Void
##### 4.2.2.1.3 Security functional requirements on the SMF checking UP
security policy
_Requirement Name:_ UP security policy check.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [8], clause 6.6.1
_Requirement Description: According to TS 33.501 [8], clause 6.6.1,_ the SMF
verifies that the UE\'s UP security policy received from the target ng-eNB/gNB
is the same as the UE\'s UP security policy that the SMF has locally stored.
If there is a mismatch, the SMF sends its locally stored UE\'s UP security
policy of the corresponding PDU sessions to the target gNB. This UP security
policy information, if included by the SMF, is delivered to the target ng-
eNB/gNB in the Path-Switch Acknowledge message. The SMF logs capabilities for
this event and may take additional measures, such as raising an alarm.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause J.2.2.4, Unchecked UP security
policy.
**TEST CASE:**
**Test Name:** TC_UP_SECURITY_POLICY _SMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that the SMF checks the UP security policy that is sent by the ng-
eNB/gNB during handover.
**Pre-Conditions:**
The SMF under test is preconfigured with a UE UP security policy.
**Execution**
1\. The tester sends the Nsmf_PDUSession_UpdateSMContext Request message to
the SMF under test. A UE UP security policy different than the one
preconfigured at the SMF under test is included in the Request message.
2\. The tester captures the Nsmf_PDUSession_UpdateSMContext Response message
sent from the SMF under test.
**Expected Results:**
The preconfigured UE security policy is contained in the 'n2SmInf' IE in the
captured Response message.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Files containing the triggered GTP messages (e.g. pcap trace).
##### 4.2.2.1.4 Charging ID Uniqueness
_Requirement Name:_ Charing ID uniqueness.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 32.255 [6], clause 5.1.2
_Requirement Description:_ According to TS 32.255 [6], clause 5.1.2:
\- The SMF supports PDU session charging using service based interface.
\- The SMF collects charging information per PDU session for UEs served under
3GPP access and non-3GPP access.
\- Every PDU session is assigned a unique identity number for billing purposes
per PLMN. (i.e. the Charging Id).
_Threat Reference:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause J.2.2.3, \"Failure to assign unique
Charging ID for a session\"
**TEST CASE:**
**Test Name:** TC_CHARGING_ID_UNIQUENESS_SMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that the charging ID generated by the SMF for each PDU session is
unique.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment is set up with a Charging Function (CHF), which may be real
or simulated, and the SMF under test. The tester is able to capture the
traffic between the SMF under test and the CHF.
**Execution Step**
1) The tester intercepts the traffic between the SMF under test and the CHF.
2) The tester triggers the establishment of the maximum number of concurrent
PDU sessions that the SMF under test can handle.
3) The tester captures each Charging Data Request [initial] sent from the SMF
under test to the CHF, and verifies the charging ID contained in the 'PDU
Session Charging Information' IE in each Charging Data Request [initial] is
unique.
**Expected Results:**
The charging ID in each Charging Data Request [initial] is unique.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Files containing the Charging Data Request [initial] messages (e.g. pcap
trace).
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.4 Operating Systems
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.5 Web Servers
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2]
### 4.2.6 Network Devices
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.7 Void
## 4.3 SMF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The present clause contains SMF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements
and related test cases.
### 4.3.2 Technical baseline
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.3 Operating systems
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.4 Web servers
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.5 Network devices
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
There are no SMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 of TS 33.117 [2].
## 4.4 SMF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
### 4.4.1 Introduction
There are no SMF specific addtions to clause 4.4.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.2 Port Scanning
There are no SMF specific addtions to clause 4.4.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.3 Vulnerability scanning
There are no SMF specific addtions to clause 4.4.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.4 Robustness and fuzz testing
The test cases under clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2] are applicable to SMF.
The interfaces defined for the SMF are defined in clause 4.2.3 of TS 23.501
[1].
According to clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2], the transport protocols available
on the interfaces providing IP-based protocols need to be robustness tested.
Following TCP/IP layer model and considering all the protocols over transport
layer, for SMF, the following interfaces and protocols are in the scope of the
testing:
\- For Nsmf: The TCP, HTTP2 and JSON protocols.
\- For N4: The UDP and PFCP procotols.
NOTE: There could be other interfaces and/or protocols requiring testing under
clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2]
#