# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains objectives, requirements and test cases that are
specific to the AMF network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of
General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of
the requirements and test cases given there, as well as specifying
requirements and test cases unique to the AMF network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501 (Release 15): \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G
system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
[7] Void
[8] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.509: \"5G System; Authentication Server Services\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 AMF-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
AMF specific security requirements include both requirements derived from AMF-
specific security functional requirements in relevant specifications as well
as security requirements introduced in the present document derived from the
threats specific to AMF as described in TR 33.926 [6].
## 4.2 AMF-specific adaptations of security functional requirements and
related test cases.
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The present clause describes the security functional requirements and the
corresponding test cases for AMF network product class. The proposed security
requirements are classified in two groups:
\- Security functional requirements derived from TS 33.501 [2] and detailed in
clause 4.2.2.
\- General security functional requirements which include requirements not
already addressed in TS 33.501 [2] but whose support is also important to
ensure that AMF conforms to a common security baseline detailed in clause
4.2.3.
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the AMF deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
#### 4.2.2.0 General
The general approach in TS 33.117 [3] clause 4.2.2.1 and all the requirements
and test cases in TS 33.117 [3] clause 4.2.2.2 related to SBA/SBI aspect apply
to the AMF network product class.
#### 4.2.2.1 Authentication and key agreement procedure
##### 4.2.2.1.1 Synchronization failure handling
_Requirement Name_ : Synchronization failure handling
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.1.3.3.2
_Requirement Description_ : As specified in TS 33.501 [2] clause 6.1.3.3.2,
upon receiving an authentication failure message _with synchronisation
failure_ (AUTS) from the UE, the SEAF sends an
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request message with a _synchronisation
failure indication_ to the AUSF and the AUSF sends an
Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request message to the UDM/ARPF, together with the
following parameters:
_\- RAND_ sent to the UE in the preceding Authentication Request, and
_\- AUTS_ received by the SEAF in the response from the UE to that request, as
described in clause 6.1.3.2.0 and 6.1.3.3.1 of TS 33.501 [2].
An SEAF will not react to unsolicited \"synchronisation failure indication\"
messages from the UE.
The SEAF does not send new authentication requests to the UE before having
received the response to its Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request
message with a \"_synchronisation failure indication_ \" from the AUSF (or
before it is timed out)..
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.2.1, Resynchronization
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_SYNC_FAIL_SEAF_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that synchronization failure is correctly handled by the SEAF/AMF.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with UE and AUSF. The UE and the AUSF may be simulated.
\- AMF network product is connected in emulated/real network environment.
**Execution Steps**
Test A:
1) The tester configures the UE to send an authentication failure message to
the SEAF/AMF with _synchronisation failure_ (AUTS) , after receiving the NAS
authentication request message as part of a registration procedure.
2) The SEAF/AMF sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request message
with a \"_synchronisation failure indication_ \" to the AUSF.
3) The AUSF sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message to
the SEAF/AMF immediately after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF, to
make sure the SEAF/AMF will receive the response before timeout.
NOTE: The timeout timer in Test A is the NAS timer T3520.
Test B:
1) The tester configures the UE to send an authentication failure message to
the SEAF/AMF with _synchronisation failure_ (AUTS) , after receiving the NAS
authentication request message as part of a registration procedure.
2) The SEAF/AMF sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request message
with a \"_synchronisation failure indication_ \" to the AUSF.
3) The tester configures the AUSF in a way, that it does not send a
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message to the SEAF/AMF before
timeout.
Test C:
1) The tester triggers a UE to perform a Registration Procedure.
2) While the UE is registered, the tester sends an unsolicited
\"synchronisation failure indication\" message to the SEAF/AMF.
**Expected Results:**
Test A and Test B: Before receiving Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate
Response message from the AUSF and before the timer for receiving
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message runs out,
\- For Test A, the SEAF/AMF may initiate new authentication towards the UE.
\- For Test B, the SEAF/AMF does not send any new authentication request to
the UE.
Test C: The SEAF/AMF does not process the unsolicited \"synchronisation
failure indication\" messages.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet capture or
application logs containing the operational results.
##### 4.2.2.1.2 RES* verification failure handling
_Requirement Name_ : RES* verification failure handling
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.1.3.2.2
_Requirement Description_ :
As specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.1.3.2.2, the SEAF proceeds with step
10 in Figure 6.1.3.2-1 of TS 33.501 [2] and after receiving the
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message from the AUSF in step 12
in Figure 6.1.3.2-1, proceed as described below:
\- If the AUSF has indicated in the Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate
Response message to the SEAF that the verification of the RES* was not
successful in the AUSF, or
\- if the verification of the RES* was not successful in the SEAF,
then the SEAF either rejects the authentication by sending an Authentication
Reject to the UE if the SUCI was used by the UE in the initial NAS message or
the SEAF/AMF initiates an Identification procedure with the UE if the 5G-GUTI
was used by the UE in the initial NAS message to retrieve the SUCI and an
additional authentication attempt may be initiated.
Also, if the SEAF does not receive any Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate
Response message from the AUSF as expected, then the SEAF either rejects the
authentication to the UE or initiate an Identification procedure with the UE.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.2.3, RES* verification failure
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_RES_STAR_VERIFICATION_FAILURE
**Purpose:**
1) Verify that the SEAF/AMF correctly handles RES* verification failure
detected in the SEAF/AMF or/and in the AUSF, when the SUCI is included in the
initial NAS message.
2) Verify that the SEAF/AMF correctly handles RES* verification failure
detected in the SEAF/AMF or/and in the AUSF, when the 5G-GUTI is included in
the initial NAS message.
3) Verify that the SEAF/AMF correctly handles a missing
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message from the AUSF.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
> **Pre-Conditions:**
>
> Test environment with UE and AUSF. The UE and the AUSF may be simulated.
>
> **Execution Steps**
>
> Test Case A:
1) The tester triggers the UE to send a Registration Request with SUCI to the
SEAF/AMF under test, to trigger the SEAF/AMF under test to initiate the
authentication, i.e. to send Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request to
the AUSF.
2) The AUSF, after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF under test,
responds with a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with an
authentication vector to the SEAF/AMF under test.
3) The UE, after receiving the Authentication Request message from the
SEAF/AMF under test, returns an incorrect RES* (prepared by the tester) to the
SEAF/AMF under test in the NAS Authentication Response message, which will
trigger the AMF to compute HRES*, compare HRES* with HXRES* and send an
authentication request to the AUSF. The tester captures the value of RES* in
the request.
4) The AUSF returns the indication of RES* verification failure to the AMF
under test.
> Test Case B:
1) The tester triggers the UE to send a Registration Request with a 5G-GUTI to
the SEAF/AMF under test, to trigger the SEAF/AMF under test to initiate the
authentication, i.e. to send Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request to
the AUSF.
2) The AUSF, after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF under test,
responds with a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with an
authentication vector to the SEAF/AMF under test.
3) The UE, after receiving the Authentication Request message from the
SEAF/AMF under test, returns an incorrect RES* (prepared by the tester) to the
SEAF/AMF in the NAS Authentication Response message, which will trigger the
AMF to compute HRES* and compare HRES* with HXRES*, and send an authentication
request to the AUSF. The tester captures the value of RES* in the request.
4) The AUSF returns an indication of RES* verification failure to the AMF
under test.
> Test Case C:
1) The tester triggers the UE to send a Registration Request with SUCI to the
SEAF/AMF under test, to trigger the SEAF/AMF under test to initiate the
authentication, i.e. to send Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request to
the AUSF.
2) The AUSF, after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF under test,
responds with a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with an
authentication vector to the SEAF/AMF under test.
3) The UE returns RES* to the SEAF/AMF under test in the NAS Authentication
Response message, which will trigger the AMF to compute HRES*, compare HRES*
with HXRES*, and send to the received RES* to the AUSF.
4) The tester prepares the AUSF or intercepts and modifies its
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message to the SEAF/AMF to
indicate that the RES* verification was not successful in the AUSF.
> Test Case D:
1) The tester triggers the UE to send a Registration Request with 5G-GUTI to
the SEAF/AMF under test, to trigger the SEAF/AMF under test to initiate the
authentication, i.e. to send Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request to
the AUSF.
2) The AUSF, after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF under test,
responds with a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with an
authentication vector to the SEAF/AMF under test.
3) The UE returns RES* to the SEAF/AMF under test in the NAS Authentication
Response message, which will trigger the AMF to compute HRES*, compare HRES*
with HXRES*, and send to the received RES* to the AUSF.
4) The tester prepares the AUSF or intercepts and modifies its
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message to the SEAF/AMF to
indicate that the RES* verification was not successful in the AUSF.
> Test E:
1) The tester triggers the UE to send a Registration Request with SUCI to the
SEAF/AMF under test, to trigger the SEAF/AMF under test to initiate the
authentication, i.e. to send Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request to
the AUSF.
2) The AUSF, after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF under test,
responds with a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with an
authentication vector to the SEAF/AMF under test.
3) The UE returns RES* to the SEAF/AMF under test in the NAS Authentication
Response message, which will trigger the AMF to compute HRES*, compare HRES*
with HXRES*, and send the received RES* to the AUSF.
4) The tester prepares the AUSF to not return the
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message and therefore trigger a
timeout at the SEAF/AMF.
> Test F:
1) The tester triggers the UE to send a Registration Request with 5G-GUTI to
the SEAF/AMF under test, to trigger the SEAF/AMF under test to initiate the
authentication, i.e. to send Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request to
the AUSF.
2) The AUSF, after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF under test,
responds with a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with an
authentication vector to the SEAF/AMF under test.
3) The UE returns RES* to the SEAF/AMF under test in the NAS Authentication
Response message, which will trigger the AMF to compute HRES*, compare HRES*
with HXRES*, and send the received RES* to the AUSF.
4) The tester prepares the AUSF to not return the
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message and therefore trigger a
timeout at the SEAF/AMF.
NOTE: The timeout timer is the NAS timer T3520.
**Expected Results:**
For test case A and C, the SEAF/AMF rejects the authentication by sending an
Authentication Reject to the UE.
For test case B and D, the SEAF/AMF initiates an Identification procedure with
the UE to retrieve the SUCI.
For test case E and F, the SEAF/AMF rejects the authentication to the UE or
initiate an Identification procedure with the UE.
For test case A and B, a null value RES* is in the
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request message sent from the SEAF/AMF to
the AUSF. (stated in TS 29.509 [10], clause 5.2.2.2.2).
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
##### 4.2.2.1.3 NAS based redirection from 5GS to EPS
_Requirement Name_ : NAS based redirection from 5GS to EPS
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.16.4, TS 23.501 [8], clause
5.31.3.
_Requirement Description_ : As specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.16.4, when
a UE initiates registration procedure with the AMF, the AMF may redirect the
UE from 5GC to EPC by including a EMM cause indicating to the UE that it shall
not use 5GC, as described in clause 5.31.3 in TS 23.501 [2]. The following
requirements apply to Registration Reject message with an EMM cause which
indicates to the UE that the UE shall not use 5GC:
\- the AMF only sends such a Registration Reject message once NAS security has
been established between the AMF and the UE; and
\- the UE only acts upon such Registration Reject message if received
integrity protected and if UE has verified the integrity of the Registration
Reject message successfully.
NOTE 1: Void
In addition, in networks that support CIoT features in both EPC and 5GC, the
operator may steer UEs from a specific CN type due to operator policy, e.g.
due to roaming agreements, Preferred and Supported Network Behaviour, load
redistribution, etc. Operator policies in EPC and 5GC are assumed to avoid
steering UEs back and forth between EPC and 5GC.
_Threat Reference_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.8, NAS based redirection from
5GS to EPS in 5G CIoT
**Test Name:** TC_AMF_REDIRECTION_5GS_EPS
**Purpose:**
Verify that AMF under test does not send a Registration Reject message
containing an EMM cause indicating to the UE that the UE shall not use 5GC, if
NAS security is not established.
NOTE 2: Void
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- AMF under test supports the security handling in CIoT.
\- Test environment with a CIoT UE. The UE may be simulated.
\- AMF under test is connected in emulated/real network environment.
\- Tester configures the operator policy of the AMF that all the UEs sending
initial registration request should be redirected from 5GS to EPS.
**Execution Steps**
1\. The tester triggers the UE to initiate an initial registration procedure
with the AMF.
2\. The AMF under test determines that the UE shall not use 5GC and needs to
redirect the UE from 5GC to EPC.
3\. The AMF under test sends a Registration Reject message with a 5GMM cause
indicating to the UE that the UE shall not use 5GC.
**Expected Results:**
The NAS SMC is performed before sending the Registration Reject message.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
##### 4.2.2.1.4 NAS integrity failure
_Requirement Name_ : NAS integrity failure
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2] clause 6.4.3.3.
_Requirement Description_ : In case of failed integrity check (i.e. faulty or
missing NAS-MAC) is detected after the start of NAS integrity protection, the
concerned message shall be discarded except for some NAS messages specified in
TS 24.501.
_Threat Reference_ : TBD
**Test Name:** TC_AMF_NAS_INTEGRITY_FAILURE
**Purpose:**
Verify that AMF under test drops messages in case the NAS integrity fails or
is missing.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with UE. The UE may be simulated.
\- AMF under test is connected in emulated/real network environment.
\- NAS Integrity algorithm different than NIA0 is used.
**Execution Steps**
**Test case 1 (wrong NAS-MAC):**
1\. The tester triggers the UE to initiate an initial registration procedure
with the AMF.
2\. The AMF sends the Security Mode Complete message to the UE.
3\. After the Security Mode Complete message, send a NAS message from the UE
to the AMF with a wrong NAS-MAC. The message used must not be an exception in
TS 24.501 [5].
**Test case 2 (missing NAS-MAC):**
1\. The tester triggers the UE to initiate an initial registration procedure
with the AMF.
2\. The AMF sends the Security Mode Complete message to the UE.
3\. After the Security Mode Complete message, send a NAS message from the UE
to the AMF removing the NAS-MAC field. The message used must not be an
exception in TS 24.501 [5].
**Expected Results:**
In both test cases, the AMF discards the NAS messages.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
#### 4.2.2.2 Void
#### 4.2.2.3 Security mode command procedure
##### 4.2.2.3.1 Replay protection of NAS signalling messages
_Requirement Name:_ Replay protection of NAS signalling messages
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.5.2.
_Requirement Description:_ The AMF supports integrity protection and replay
protection of NAS-signalling as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.5.2.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.3.1, Bidding Down
_Test case:_
**Test Name:** TC_NAS_REPLAY_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that the NAS signalling messages are replay protected by AMF over N1
interface between UE and AMF.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
\- AMF network product is connected in emulated/real network environment.
\- Tester shall have access to the NAS signalling packets sent between UE and
AMF over N1 interface.
\- Tester shall ensure that integrity protection algorithm other than NIA0 is
used.
**Execution Steps:**
1\. The tester shall capture the NAS Security Mode Command procedure taking
place between UE and AMF over N1 interface using any network analyser.
2\. The tester shall filter the NAS Security Mode Complete message by using a
filter.
3\. The tester shall replay the captured NAS Security Mode Complete message.
4\. The tester shall check whether the replayed NAS Security Mode Complete
message was not processed by the AMF by capturing traffic over the N1
interface to see if no corresponding response message was sent by the AMF. If
applicable, AMF application logs could be checked for the rejection of the
replayed NAS Security Mode Complete message.
**Expected Results:**
The NAS signalling messages sent from the UE to the AMF over N1 interface are
replay protected.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
##### 4.2.2.3.2 NAS NULL integrity protection
_Requirement Name_ : NAS NULL integrity protection
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.5.2
_Requirement Description_ : NIA0 is disabled in AMF in the deployments where
support of unauthenticated emergency session is not a regulatory requirement
as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.5.2
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.3.3, NAS NULL integrity
protection
_Test Case:_
**Test Name:** TC_NAS_NULL_INT_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that NAS NULL integrity protection algorithm is used correctly.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with a UE. The UE may be simulated.
\- The AMF under test is configured to initiate authentication for both
emergency and non-emergency registrations.
**Execution Steps**
**Test case A:**
1\. The tester triggers the UE to initiate an emergency registration.
2\. The AMF derives the K~AMF~ and NAS signalling keys after successful
authentication of the UE.
3\. The AMF sends the NAS Security Mode Command message to the UE containing
the selected NAS algorithms.
**Test case B:**
1\. The tester triggers the UE to initiate a non-emergency registration.
2\. The AMF derives the K~AMF~ and NAS signalling keys after successful
authentication of the UE.
3\. The AMF sends the NAS Security Mode Command message to the UE containing
the selected NAS algorithms.
**Expected Results:**
In both emergency and non-emergency registrations, the UE was successfully
authentication and the integrity algorithm selected by the AMF in the NAS SMC
message is different from NIA0.
The NAS Security Mode Command message is integrity protected by the AMF.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
##### 4.2.2.3.3 NAS integrity algorithm selection and use
_Requirement Name_ : NAS integrity algorithm selection and use
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.7.1
_Requirement Description_ : The AMF initiates a NAS security mode command
procedure, and include the chosen algorithm and UE security capabilities (to
detect modification of the UE security capabilities by an attacker) in the
message to the UE (see sub-clause 6.7.2 of TS 33.501 [2]). The AMF selects the
NAS algorithm which have the highest priority according to the ordered lists
as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.5.2.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.3.2, NAS integrity selection
and use
_Test Case:_
**Test Name:** TC_NAS_INT_SELECTION_USE_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that the AMF selects the NAS integrity algorithm which has the highest
priority according to the ordered list of supported integrity algorithms and
is contained in the 5G security capabilities supported by the UE.
Verify that the selected NAS security algorithm is being used.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with a UE containing its 5G security capabilities, AUSF
and UDM. The UE, AUSF and UDM may be simulated.
\- The list of ordered NAS integrity algorithms are configured on the AMF
under test.
\- The tester is able to configure the list of ordered NAS integrity
algorithms on the AMF under test.
**Execution Steps:**
> 1) The tester triggers the UE to send a Registration Request with Initial
> Registration type to the AMF unders test.
>
> 2) The tester filters the Security Mode Command and Security Mode Complete
> messages.
>
> 3) The tester examines the selected integrity algorithm in the SMC against
> the list of ordered NAS integrity algorithm and the 5G security capabilities
> supported by the UE. The tester examines the MAC verification of the
> Security Mode Complete at the AMF under test.
>
> 4) The tester changes the default order of the list of ordered NAS integrity
> algorithms on the AMF to one other valid configuration and repeats step 1-3
> once.
**Expected Results:**
The selected integrity algorithm has the highest priority according to the
list of ordered NAS integrity algorithm and is contained in the UE 5G security
capabilities.
The MAC verification of the Security Mode Complete message is successful.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Logs and communication flow saved in a .pcap file.
#### 4.2.2.4 Security in intra-RAT mobility
##### 4.2.2.4.1 Bidding down prevention in Xn-handover
_Requirement Name_ : Bidding down prevention in Xn-handovers
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.7.3.1
_Requirement Description_ : In the Path-Switch message, the target gNB/ng-eNB
sends the UE\'s 5G security capabilities received from the source gNB/ng-eNB
to the AMF. The AMF verifies that the UE\'s 5G security capabilities received
from the target gNB/ng-eNB are the same as the UE\'s 5G security capabilities
that the AMF has locally stored. If there is a mismatch, the AMF sends its
locally stored 5G security capabilities of the UE to the target gNB/ng-eNB in
the Path-Switch Acknowledge message. The AMF supports logging capabilities for
this event and may take additional measures, such as raising an alarm; as
specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.7.3.1.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.4.1, Bidding down on Xn-
Handover
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_BIDDING_DOWN_XN_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that bidding down is prevented by the AMF under test in Xn handovers.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with (source and target) gNBs may be simulated.
The AMF under test is configured with the UE's security context for the UE.
The AMF under test is configured to log UE security capability mismatch.
**Execution Steps**
1) The tester sends 5G security capabilities for the UE, different from the
ones stored in the AMF, to the AMF under test using a Path-Switch message.
2) The tester captures the Path-Switch Acknowledge message sent by AMF under
test to the target gNB.
3) The tester examines the AMF log regarding the capability mismatch.
**Expected Results:**
The Path-Switch Acknowledge message sent by AMF under test to the target gNB,
which includes the locally stored 5G security capabilities in the AMF under
test for that UE.
The log entry shows that the capability mismatch is logged.
**Expected format of evidence**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures and
application log file containing the operational results.
##### 4.2.2.4.2 NAS protection algorithm selection in AMF change
_Requirement Name_ : NAS protection algorithm selection in AMF change
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.7.1.2
_Requirement Description_ : If the change of the AMF at N2-Handover or
mobility registration update results in the change of algorithm to be used for
establishing NAS security, the target AMF indicates the selected algorithm to
the UE as defined in Clause 6.9.2.3.3 of TS 33.501 [2] for N2-Handover (i.e.,
using NAS Container) and Clause 6.9.3 of the same document for mobility
registration update (i.e., using NAS SMC). The AMF shall select the NAS
algorithm which has the highest priority according to the ordered lists (see
sub-clause 6.7.1.1 of TS 33.501 [2]) ; as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause
6.7.1.2.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.4.2, NAS integrity protection
algorithm selection in AMF change
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_NAS_ALG_AMF_CHANGE _AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that NAS protection algorithms are selected correctly.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with source gNB, target gNB and source AMF. Source and target
gNBs and source AMF may be simulated.
**Execution Steps**
Test case 1: N2-Handover
1) The AMF under test receives the UE security capabilities and the NAS
algorithms used by the source AMF from the source AMF. The AMF under test
selects the NAS algorithms which have the highest priority according to the
ordered lists. The lists are configured such that the algorithms selected by
the AMF under test are different from the ones received from the source AMF.
2) he tester captures the NGAP HANDOVER REQUEST message containing the NASC IE
(NAS Container) sent by the AMF under test to the gNB.
Test case 2: Mobility registration update
The AMF under test receives the UE security capabilities and the NAS
algorithms used by the source AMF from the source AMF. The AMF under test
selects the NAS algorithms which have the highest priority according to the
ordered lists. The lists are configured such that the algorithms selected by
the AMF under test are different from the ones received from the source AMF.
**Expected Results:**
For Test case 1, the NASC IE of the captured NGAP HANDOVER REQUEST message
sent by the AMF under test to the gNB includes the chosen algorithm.
For Test case 2, the AMF under test initiates a NAS security mode command
procedure and includes the chosen algorithms.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
#### 4.2.2.5 5G-GUTI allocation
##### 4.2.2.5.1 5G-GUTI allocation
_Requirement Name_ : 5G-GUTI allocation
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.12.3
_Requirement Description_ : As specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.12.3, a
new 5G-GUTI is sent to a UE only after a successful activation of NAS
security. The 5G-GUTI is defined in TS 23.003 [19].
Upon receiving Registration Request message of type \"initial registration\"
or \"mobility registration update\" from a UE, the AMF shall send a new
5G-GUTI to the UE during the registration procedure.
Upon receiving Registration Request message of type \"periodic registration
update\" from a UE, the AMF should send a new 5G-GUTI to the UE during the
registration procedure.
Upon receiving Service Request message sent by the UE in response to a Paging
message, the AMF sends a new 5G-GUTI to the UE. This new 5G-GUTI is sent
before the current NAS signalling connection is released or the N1 NAS
signalling connection is suspended.
Upon receiving an indication from the lower layers that the RRC connection has
been resumed for a UE in 5GMM-IDLE mode with suspend indication in response to
a Paging message, the AMF shall send a new 5G-GUTI to the UE. This new 5G-GUTI
shall be sent before the current NAS signalling connection is released or the
suspension of the N1 NAS signalling connection.
NOTE 1: It is left to implementation to re-assign 5G-GUTI more frequently than
in cases mentioned above, for example after a Service Request message from the
UE not triggered by the network..
NOTE 2: Void
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.7.1, Failure to allocate new
5G-GUTI
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_5G_GUTI_ALLOCATION_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that a new 5G-GUTI is allocated by the AMF under test in these
scenarios accordingly.
**Pre-Conditions:**
For the following test case 1, 2, and 3, the following pre-conditions apply.
\- Test environment with a UE. The UE may be simulated.
\- Tester has access to the NAS signalling packets sent over N1 interface.
\- Tester has the knowledge of the UE's security context used for protecting
the Registration Request of type \"mobility registration update\" and Service
Request, including the old 5G-GUTI, ngKSI, UE NR security capability, NAS
security context. And the tester shall configure the UE's security context on
the AMF under test or perform a new Registration Procedure with the UE for
each corresponding test case..
For the following test case 4, more pre-conditions are required.
\- Both the UE and the AMF under test support UP CIoT 5GS Optimization.
\- The UE has requested the use of UP CIoT 5GS Optimization during the
registration procedure, and afterwards the UE has gone to CM Idle with Suspend
Indicator.
**Execution Steps**
> Test case 1:
>
> Upon receiving Registration Request message of type \"initial registration\"
> from a UE (triggered by the tester), the AMF sends a new 5G-GUTI to the UE
> during the registration procedure.
>
> Test case 2:
>
> Upon receiving Registration Request message of type \"mobility registration
> update\" from a UE (triggered by the tester), the AMF sends a new 5G-GUTI to
> the UE during the registration procedure.
>
> Test case 3:
>
> Upon receiving Service Request message sent by the UE in response to a
> Paging message (triggered by the tester), the AMF sends a new 5G-GUTI to the
> UE.
>
> Test case 4:
>
> The AMF under test is triggered by the tester to page the UE in CM Idle with
> Suspend Indicator. After paging the UE in CM-Idle with Suspend indicator,
> the AMF shall send a new 5G-GUTI to the UE.
NOTE 1: Test case 4 is only applicable to AMF supporting UP CIoT 5GS
Optimization.
**Expected Results:**
For Test case 1, 2, 3 and 4, the tester retrieves a new 5G-GUTI by accessing
the NAS signalling packets sent by the AMF under test over N1 interface during
registration procedure.
For Test case 1, 2, 3 and 4, the NAS message encapsulating the new 5G-GUTI is
confidentiality and integrity protected by the AMF under test using the NAS
security context, which is same as the UE's NAS security context.
The new 5G-GUTI is different from the old 5G-GUTI.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
#### 4.2.2.6 Security in registration procedure
##### 4.2.2.6.1 Invalid or unacceptable UE security capabilities handling
_Requirement Name_ : Invalid or unacceptable UE security capabilities handling
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 24.501 [5], clause 5.5.1.2.8
_Requirement Description_ : For the case where _UE security capabilities
invalid or unacceptable: if the REGISTRATION REQUEST message is received with
invalid or unacceptable UE security capabilities (e.g. no 5GS encryption
algorithms (all bits zero), no 5GS integrity algorithms (all bits zero),
mandatory 5GS encryption algorithms not supported or mandatory 5GS integrity
algorithms not supported, etc.), the AMF returns a REGISTRATION REJECT
message,_ as specified in TS 24.501 [5], clause 5.5.1.2.8.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.6.1, Invalid or unacceptable
UE security capabilities
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_UE_SEC_CAP_HANDLING_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that UE security capabilities invalid or unacceptable are not accepted
by the AMF under test in registration procedure.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with (target) UE, which may be simulated.
The tester configures invalid/unacceptable UE security capabilities (no 5GS
encryption algorithms (all bits zero), no 5GS integrity algorithms (all bits
zero), mandatory 5GS encryption algorithms not supported or mandatory 5GS
integrity algorithms not supported) on the UE.
**Execution Steps**
The tester triggers the UE to send the following sets of UE security
capabilities to the AMF under test using registration request messages:
1) no 5GS encryption algorithms (all bits zero)
2) no 5GS integrity algorithms (all bits zero)
3) mandatory 5GS encryption algorithms not supported
4) mandatory 5GS integrity algorithms not supported
**Expected Results:**
The tester captures the Registration reject messages sent by AMF under test to
the UE.
**Expected format of evidence**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
##### 4.2.2.6.2 Correct transfer of UE security capabilities in AS security
establishment
_Requirement Name:_ Correct transfer of UE security capabilities in AS
security establishment
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.7.3.0.
_Requirement Description_ : As specified in TS33.501 [2], clause 6.7.3.0, when
AS security context is to be established in the gNB/ng-eNB, the AMF sends the
UE 5G security capabilities to the gNB/ng-eNB.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause K.2.6.2 Invalid encoding of UE
security capabilities on the NG interface
_Test Case:_
**Test Name: TC_UE_SEC_CAPS_AS_CONTEXT_SETUP**
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Purpose:**
Verify that the UE security capabilities sent by the UE in the initial NAS
registration request are the same UE security capabilities sent in the NGAP
Context Setup Request message to establish AS security.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with UE, gNodeB, AUSF and UDM. All of them may be
simulated.
\- The tester configures valid UE 5G security capabilities.
\- The tester captures the NGAP traffic between the gNodeB and AMF on the N2
interface.
**Execution Steps:**
The tester triggers the initial NAS registration procedure with valid UE
security capabilities.
**Expected Results:**
The NGAP Context Setup Request contains the same UE 5G security capabilities
as sent in the initial NAS registration request.
**Expected format of evidence:**
\- List of configured UE 5G security capabilities
\- Network trace (*.pcap file) containing the captured messages.
#### 4.2.2.7 RRCRestablishment in Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimization
_Requirement Name:_ RRCRestablishment in Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimization
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 38.413 [9], clause 8.3.8.2
_Requirement Description:_ _\"_ Upon receiving the RAN CP RELOCATION
INDICATION message, the AMF shall authenticate the request using the NAS-level
security information received in the UL CP Security Information IE and if the
authentication is successful initiate the Connection Establishment Indication
procedure including NAS-level security information in the DL CP Security
Information IE.
In case the AMF cannot authenticate the UE\'s request, the CONNECTION
ESTABLISHMENT INDICATION message does not contain security information, and
the NG-RAN node fails the RRC Re-establishment.
In case of authentication failure, the NG-RAN node and the AMF should locally
release the allocated NG resources, if any.\" as specified in TS 38.413 [9],
clause 8.3.8.2.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [5], clause K.2.9.1 --Failed Verification of UE
Identity during RRC Reestablishment Procedure for CP CIoT 5GS Optimization.
_**Test Case** :_
**Test Name:** TC_AMF_REEST_CP_CIOT
**Purpose:** To verify that the verification of RRC Reestablishment is applied
correctly.
**Pre-Condition:**
\- AMF under test is able to support the CIoT scenario.
\- Test environment with UE and ng-eNB, which may be simulated. The UE is
using Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimization.
-AMF
Capability:
Ability to support the CIoT senario.
**Execution Steps:**
Test Case A
1) The tester triggers the UE to send the RRC Connection Reestablishment
Request message to the ng-eNB.
2) The ng-eNB sends RAN CP RELOCATION INDICATION message to the AMF.
Test Case B
1) The tester triggers the UE to send the RRC Connection Reestablishment
Request message to the ng-eNB.
2) The ng-eNB sends RAN CP RELOCATION INDICATION message to the AMF. The ng-
eNB modifies UL NAS MAC in UL CP Security Information
**Expected Results:**
For test case A, the AMF sends CONNECTION ESTABLISHMENT INDICATION to the ng-
eNB, and DL CP Security Information is included.
For test case B, the AMF sends CONNECTION ESTABLISHMENT INDICATION to the ng-
eNB, and DL CP Security Information is not included.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
#### 4.2.2.8 Security in PDU session establishment procedure
##### 4.2.2.8.1 Validation of S-NSSAIs in PDU session establishment request
_Requirement Name_ : validation of S-NSSAIs in PDU session establishment
request
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 24.501 [5], clause 5.4.5.2.5
_Requirement Description_ : As specified in TS 24.501 [5], clause 5.4.5.2.5,
if the Request type IE is set to \"initial request\" and the S-NSSAI IE
contains an S-NSSAI that is not allowed by the network, then the AMF sends
back to the UE the 5GSM message which was not forwarded as specified in
subclause 5.4.5.3.1 case e) or case f); of TS 24.501 [5].
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.X, Incorrect Validation of
S-NSSAIs
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_VALIDTATION_SNSSAI_IN_PDU_REQUEST
**Purpose:**
Verify that S-NSSAIs which are not within Allowed NSSAI list are not accepted
by the AMF under test in PDU session establishment procedure.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- AMF under test supports the Network Slice Specific Authentication and
Authorization scenario.
\- Test environment with UE, UDM, SMF and NSSAAF, which may be simulated.
\- The tester configures UDM with an S-NSSAI that require Network Slice-
Specific Authentication and Authorizationin in UE's subscription information.
-AMF
Capability:
Ability to support Network Slice Specific Authentication and Authorization
scenario.
**Execution Steps**
Test Case A
1) The tester triggers the UE to send the S-NSSAI that require NSSAA to the
AMF under test using registration request message.
2) After receiving the NSSAA request from the AMF, the NSSAAF sends EAP
success to AMF.
3) The UE sends PDU session establishment request to the AMF with the S-NSSAI.
Test Case B
1) The tester triggers the UE to send the S-NSSAI that require NSSAA to the
AMF under test using registration request message.
2) After receiving the NSSAA request from the AMF, the NSSAAF sends EAP
failure to AMF.
3) The UE sends PDU session establishment request to the AMF with the S-NSSAI.
**Expected Results:**
For test case A, the AMF continues the PDU session establishment procedure by
sending a Nsmf_PDUSession_CreateSMContext Request to the SMF.
For test case B, the AMF aborts the PDU session establishment procedure by
sending back the 5GSM message to the UE.
**Expected format of evidence**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
List of allowed S-NSSAIs.
#### 4.2.2.9 Network Slice Specific Authentication and Authorization
##### 4.2.2.9.1 NSSAA revocation
_Requirement Name_ : NSSAA revocation
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 16.5
_Requirement Description_ : If no S-NSSAI is left in Allowed NSSAI for an
access after the revocation, and no Default NSSAI can be provided to the UE in
the Allowed NSSAI or a previous NSSAA failed for the Default NSSAI over this
access, then the AMF executes the Network-initiated Deregistration procedure
for the access as described in subclause 4.2.2.3.3 in TS 23.502 [8], and it
includes in the explicit De-Registration Request message the list of Rejected
S-NSSAIs, each of them with the appropriate rejection cause value; as
specified in TS 33.501[2], clause 16.5.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926, clause K.2.X
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_NSSAA_REVOCATION
**Purpose:**
Verify that AMF deregisters UE when, after slice specific authorization
revocation, there is no allowed NSSAI or Default NSSAI that can be used by UE.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- AMF under test supports Network Slice Specific Authentication and
Authorization.
\- Test environment with UE. The UE may be simulated.
\- The AMF under test is configured with one specific S-NSSAI in the Allowed
NSSAI and no default S-NSSAI.
\- The UE is registered at the AMF using the specific S-NSSAI configured in
the AMF.
**Execution Steps**
A message requesting the AMF under test to revoke the authorization of the
S-NSSAI in the Allowed NSSAI is created simulated and sent to the AMF under
test by the tester.
**Expected Results:**
The Deregistration Request message is sent by the AMF under test to the UE.
The Deregistration Request message includes the list of rejected S-NSSAIs,
each of them with the appropriate rejection cause value.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot, packet captures or
application log files containing the operational results.
NOTE 1: Void
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.4 Operating Systems
There are no AMF -specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.5 Web Servers
There are no AMF -specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3]
### 4.2.6 Network Devices
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
## 4.3 AMF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The present clause contains AMF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements
and related test cases.
### 4.3.2 Technical baseline
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.3 Operating systems
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.4 Web servers
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.5 Network devices
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 [3].
## 4.4 AMF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
### 4.4.1 Introduction
There are no AMF specific addtions to clause 4.4.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.4.2 Port Scanning
There are no AMF specific addtions to clause 4.4.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.4.3 Vulnerability scanning
There are no AMF specific addtions to clause 4.4.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.4.4 Robustness and fuzz testing
The test cases under clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [3] are applicable to AMF.
The interfaces defined for the AMF are in 4.2.3 of TS 23.501 [8].
According to clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [3], the transport protocols available
on the interfaces providing IP-based protocols need to be robustness tested.
Following TCP/IP layer model and considering all the protocols over transport
layer, for AMF, the following interfaces and protocols are in the scope of the
testing:
\- For N2: the SCTP and NGAP procotols.
\- For Namf: the TCP, HTTP2 and JSON protocols.
NOTE: There could be other interfaces and/or protocols requiring testing under
clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [3]
#