# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains objectives, requirements and test cases that are
specific to the SEPP network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of
General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of
the requirements and test cases given there, as well as specifying
requirements and test cases unique to the SEPP network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of General Security Assurance
> Requirements\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
> critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
>
> [5] Void.
>
> [6] 3GPP TS 29.573: \"5G System; Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)
> Interconnection\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
> Architecture\".
>
> [8] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for 5G System (5GS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
IPX IP eXchange service
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
JWS JSON Web Signature
NF Network Function
SEPP Security Edge Protection Proxy
# 4 SEPP-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
SEPP specific security requirements include both requirements derived from
SEPP-specific security functional requirements in relevant specifications as
well as security requirements introduced in the present document derived from
the threats specific to SEPP as described in TR 33.926 [4].
## 4.2 SEPP-specific adaptations of security functional requirements and
related test cases
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The present clause describes the security functional requirements and the
corresponding test cases for SEPP network product class. The proposed security
requirements are classified in two groups:
\- Security functional requirements derived from TS 33.501 [3] and detailed in
clause 4.2.2.
\- General security functional requirements which include requirements not
already addressed in TS 33.501 [3] but whose support is also important to
ensure that SEPP conforms to a common security baseline detailed in clause
4.2.3.
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the SEPP deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
#### 4.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the SEPP deriving from 3GPP
specifications -- general approach
In addition to the requirements and test cases in TS 33.117 [2], clause
4.2.2.1, an SEPP shall satisfy the following:
\- It is assumed for the purpose of the present SCAS that an SEPP conforms to
all mandatory security-related provisions pertaining to an SEPP in:
\- 3GPP TS 33.501 [3]: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\";
\- other 3GPP specifications that make reference to TS 33.50 [3]1 or are
referred to from TS 33.501 [3] Security procedures pertaining to an SEPP are
typically embedded in NF/NF service status discovery/subscribe/notify
procedures across PLMNs and are hence assumed to be tested together with them.
#### 4.2.2.2 Correct handling of cryptographic material of peer SEPPs and IPX
providers
_Requirement Name:_ Correct handling of cryptographic material of peer SEPPs
and IPX providers
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clause 5.9.3.2
_Requirement Description:_
The SEPP is able to clearly differentiate between certificates used for
authentication of peer SEPPs and certificates used for authentication of
intermediates performing message modifications.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause G.2.2.1, Misusing cryptographic
material of peer SEPPs and IPX providers
_Test Case:_
**Test Name:** TC_CRYPT_MATERIAL_SEPP_IPX_SEPARATION
**Purpose:**
Verify that the SEPP under test does not accept raw public keys/certificates
by intermediate IPX-providers for N32-c TLS connection establishment. The
opposite is to be ensured as well: The SEPP under test shall not accept N32-f
JSON patches signed with raw public keys/certificates of peer SEPPs.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, which details how raw public
keys/certificates of peer SEPPs are to be configured and how internal log
files can be accessed.
\- A second SEPP instance for N32 communication with the SEPP under test,
which allows for the creation of custom N32-f messages. This system may be
simulated.
\- Both SEPPs are to be configured with a raw public key/certificate of their
communication peer to be able to establish a N32-c connection.
\- Test environment with one node simulating an IPX-provider. This
functionality includes parsing N32-f messages, creation of JSON-patches for
message modifications and JWS operations, among others.
\- Two public/private key pairs representing IPX-providers. These
cryptographic keys need to be different from those of the two SEPPs.
**Execution Steps**
1.1 Both SEPPs are configured for N32-f communication via the simulated IPX-
system.
1.2 Both SEPPs establish a N32 connection with each other. The secondary SEPP
provides the IPX-provider\'s public key/certificate to the SEPP under test as
part of the _IPX security information list_ via N32-c.
1.3 While the N32 connection from the previous step is still active, the
tester attempts to establish an additional N32-c TLS connection using the IPX-
providers private key.
1.4 Based on the internal log files, the tester validates how the SEPP under
test handles the N32-c connection attempt.
2.1 Both SEPPs are configured for N32-f communication via the simulated IPX-
system.
2.2 Both SEPPs establish a N32-c connection with each other. The secondary
SEPP provides the IPX-provider\'s public key/certificate to the SEPP under
test as part of the _IPX security information list_ via N32-c.
2.3 The tester sends a N32-f message from the secondary SEPP via the IPX-
system towards the SEPP under test.
2.4 The intermediate IPX-system appends an arbitrary JSON-(NULL-)patch to the
N32-f message and signs it not with its own private key, but the private key
of the secondary SEPP. The modified message is then forwarded to the SEPP
under test.
2.5 Based on the internal log files, the tester validates how the received
N32-f message is handled by the SEPP under test.
Expected Results:
\- The N32-c TLS connection establishment using the cryptographic material of
the intermediate IPX-system fails with the SEPP to be tested (step 1.4).
\- The JSON patch signed with the peer SEPP\'s private key is discarded by the
SEPP under test (step 2.5).
**Expected format of evidence:**
Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.
#### 4.2.2.3 Connection-specific scope of cryptographic material by IPX-
providers
_Requirement Name:_ Connection-specific scope of cryptographic material by
IPX-providers
_Requirement Reference:_ TBA
_Requirement Description:_
Cryptographic material from IPX providers, i.e. raw public keys or
certificates, used to authenticate N32-f message modifications is only valid
for the N32 connection it is exchanged in. The SEPP under test shall not
accept N32-f message modifications signed by IPX-providers other than the ones
whose cryptographic material has been exchanged as part of the _IPX security
information list_ via the related N32-c connection.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause G.2.2.2, Misusing cryptographic
material beyond connection-specific scope
_Test Case:_
**Test Name:** TC_CONNECTION_SPECIFIC_SCOPE_CRYPT_MATERIAL
**Purpose:**
Verify that the SEPP to be tested does not use cryptographic material from
IPX-providers other than the ones whose raw public key/certificate has been
exchanged in the related N32-c connection to authenticate N32-f message
modifications.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, which details how raw public
keys/certificates of peer SEPPs are to be configured and how internal log
files can be accessed.
\- Test environment with one node simulating an IPX-provider. This
functionality includes parsing N32-f messages, creation of JSON-patches for
message modifications and JWS operations, among others.
\- Two public/private key pairs representing IPX-providers.
\- A second SEPP instance for N32 communication with the SEPP under test,
which allows for the creation of custom N32-f messages. This system may be
simulated.
\- Both SEPPs are to be configured with the raw public key/certificate of
their communication peer to be able to establish an N32-c TLS connection.
**Execution Steps**
1\. Both SEPPs are configured for N32-f communication via the simulated IPX-
system.
2\. Both SEPPs establish a mutual N32-c connection. As part of the _IPX
security information list_ , the secondary SEPP provides one of the prepared
raw public keys/certificates of the IPX-providers (KEY_A) to the SEPP under
test.
3\. Parallel to the N32 connection in step 1, an additional connection is
established between the two SEPPs. Within this connection, an alternate raw
public key/certificate of the IPX-providers (KEY_B) shall be exchanged.
4\. Within the N32 connection established in step 1, the tester sends an N32-f
message from the secondary SEPP towards the SEPP under test. The intermediate
IPX-system appends an arbitrary JSON-(NULL-)patch, which is signed with the
private key belonging to KEY_B, i.e. the one out of scope of this particular
N32 connection. The modified message is then forwarded to the SEPP to be
tested.
5\. Based on the log files of the SEPP under test, the tester validates how
the received N32-f message is handled.
**Expected Results:**
\- N32-f message modifications which have been signed by IPX-providers whose
information has not been exchanged as part of the related N32-c connection are
discarded by the SEPP under test.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.
#### 4.2.2.4 Correct handling of serving PLMN ID mismatch
_Requirement Name:_ Correct handling of serving PLMN ID mismatch
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clause 13.2.4.7, and TS 33.501 [3],
clause 13.4.1.2
_Requirement Description_ :
The receiving SEPP verifies that the PLMN-ID contained in the incoming N32-f
message matches the PLMN-ID in the related N32-f context as specified in TS
33.501 [3], clause 13.2.4.7.
The pSEPP checks that the serving PLMN ID of subject claim in the access token
matches the remote PLMN ID corresponding to the N32-f context Id in the N32
message\" as specified in TS 33.501 [3], clause 13.4.1.2.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause G.2.3.1, Incorrect handling for
PLMN ID mismatch
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_PLMN_ID_MISMATCH
**Purpose:**
Verify that the SEPP under test is able to identify the mismatch between the
PLMN-ID contained in the incoming N32-f message and the PLMN-ID in the related
N32-f context, and take action accordingly.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with a peer SEPP instance (as cSEPP), which may be
simulated.
\- The SEPP under test and the peer SEPP have mutually authenticated and
already established N32-c connection.
\- The SEPP under test has established N32-f context with the peer SEPP. The
SEPP under test is in possession of the N32-f peer information which contains
remote PLMN ID of the peer SEPP.
\- The tester shall have access to the interfaces of the SEPP under test and
the peer SEPP.
**Execution Steps:**
1\. The tester computes an access token correctly, except that the PLMN ID
appended in the subject claim of the access token is different from PLMN ID of
the peer SEPP, and then includes the access token in a NF Service Request.
2\. The peer SEPP sends to the SEPP under test a N32 message containing the NF
Service Request with the access token.
3\. The SEPP under test receives the incoming N32 message from the peer SEPP
and verifies that the PLMN ID in the subject claim of the access token does
not match the remote PLMN ID in the N32-f peer information in the N32-f
context.
**Expected Results:**
\- The SEPP under test sends an error signalling message containing the N32-f
Message Id and error code to the peer SEPP on the N32-c connection.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.
#### 4.2.2.5 Confidential IEs replacement handling in original N32-f message
_Requirement Name: Confidential IEs replacement handling_ in original N32-f
message
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 29.573 [6], clause 5.3.2.3
_Requirement Description:_
Based on the protection policy exchanged between the SEPPs, the sending SEPP
prepares an input for the JWE ciphering and integrity protection as an array
of free form JSON objects in the \"DataToIntegrityProtectAndCipher\" block
with each entry containing either a HTTP header value or the value of a JSON
payload IE of the API message being reformatted. The index value
\"encBlockIdx\" in the payload part of DataToIntegrityProtectBlock points to
the index of a header value or IE value in this input array.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause G.2.4.2, Exposure of confidential
IEs in N32-f message
_Test Case:_
**Purpose:**
Verify that the SEPP under test correctly replaces information elements
requiring encryption with the value \" encBlockIdx \".
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, which details how raw public
keys/certificates of peer SEPPs are to be configured and how internal log
files can be accessed.
\- A second SEPP instance for N32 communication with the SEPP under test,
which allows for the creation of custom N32-f messages. This system may be
simulated.
\- Both SEPPs are to be configured with a raw public key/certificate of their
communication peer to be able to establish a N32-c connection.
\- An arbitrary Data-type encryption policy which includes at least one
information element requiring encryption on N32-f. The SEPP under test is to
be configured with this policy.
**Execution Steps**
1\. Both SEPPs establish a mutual N32-c connection.
2\. Via the PLMN-internal interface, the tester provides the SEPP under test
with a message to be forwarded to the peer SEPP on N32. This message needs to
contain at least one information element that requires encryption according to
the locally configured Data-type encryption policy.
3\. The tester captures the related N32-f message after transformation by the
SEPP under test.
**Expected Results:**
Information elements in the original message that require encryption according
to the Data-type encryption policy are replaced with the value \" encBlockIdx
\".
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. text representation of the captured
N32-f message.
#### 4.2.2.6 Correct handling of protection policy mismatch
_Requirement Name:_ Correct handling of protection policy mismatch
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.501 [3], clause 13.2.3.6
_Requirement Description_ :
\"When a SEPP receives a data-type encryption or modification policy on N32-c
as specified in clause 13.2.2.2, it compares it to the one that has been
manually configured for this specific roaming partner and IPX provider. If a
mismatch occurs for one of the two policies, the SEPP performs one of the
following actions, according to operator policy:
\- Send the error message as specified in TS 29.573 [6], clause 6.1.4.3.2, to
the peer SEPP
\- Create a local warning\"
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause G.2.3.2, Incorrect handling for
protection policy mismatch
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_SEPP_POLICY_MISMATCH
**Purpose:**
Verify that the SEPP under test is able to identify the mismatch between the
protection policies manually configured for a specific roaming partner and IPX
provider and the protection policies received on N32-c connection, and take
action accordingly.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with a peer SEPP instance (as cSEPP), which may be
simulated.
\- The SEPP under test and the peer SEPP have mutually authenticated and
already established N32-c connection.
\- Exchanging of Data-type encryption policies and Modification policies is
required to be performed between the SEPP under test and the peer SEPP.
\- The tester shall have access to the interfaces of the SEPP under test and
the peer SEPP.
\- The tester has configured on the SEPP under test the policies for receiving
messages, i.e. the Data-type encryption policy _d_ of the peer SEPP and the
Modification policy _m_ for the peer SEPP and an IPX provider _I_ used for the
peer SEPP.
\- The tester has configured on the peer SEPP the policies for sending, i.e.
the peer SEPP\'s Data-type encryption policy _d\'_ and the Modification policy
_m\'_ for the IPX provider _I_ used for the peer SEPP.
\- There are three cases to test:
a) the data encryption policies d and d\' are identical, the modification
policies m and m\' are different
b) the data encryption policies d and d\' are different, the modification
policies m and m\' are identical
c) both the data encryption policies d and d\' and the modification policies m
and m\' are different
NOTE: The test case below only applies in case the SEPP under test supports
manual configuration of the data encryption policy and/or modification policy
for the specific roaming partner and IPX provider.
\- The tester has configured on SEPP under test the action to be taken for
policy mismatch, which is sending error message.
**Execution Steps:**
For each of the three cases above, the following is executed:
1\. The peer SEPP sends a Security Parameter Exchange Request message to the
SEPP under test including the peer SEPP\'s Data-type encryption policy _d\'_ ,
and the Modification policy _m\'_.
2\. The SEPP under test stores the received Data-type encryption policy _d\'_
and the Modification policy _m\'_ , then compare them with the Data-type
encryption policy _d_ and the Modification policy _m_ configured on it.
**Expected Results:**
\- The SEPP under test sends an error signalling message to the peer SEPP on
the N32-c connection or logs the error.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.
#### 4.2.2.7 JWS profile restriction
_Requirement Name:_ JWS profile restriction
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.501 [3], clause 13.2.4.9
_Requirement Description_ :
SEPPs and IPXs follow the JWS profile as defined in TS 33.210 [8] with the
restriction that they shall only use ES256 algorithm.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause G.2.4.1, Use of weak JWS algorithm
_Test case:_
**Test Name:** TC_JWS_PROFILE_RESTRICTION
**Purpose:**
Verify that the SEPP under test is able to restrict the JWS profile to only
use ES256 algorithm with IPX entities.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Network product documentation of the SEPP under test, containing the
information about the supported signature algorithms for JWS operation.
\- Test environment with a peer SEPP instance, which may be simulated.
\- Test environment with one node simulating an IPX-provider, which supports
JWS operation among others.
\- The SEPP under test and the peer SEPP have mutually authenticated and
already established N32-c connection.
\- The tester shall have access to the interfaces of the SEPP under test, the
peer SEPP, and the simulated IPX node.
\- The tester has configured both the SEPP under test and peer SEPP for N32-f
communication via the simulated IPX node.
\- The tester has configured a JWS profile differently from what is required
in TS 33.501 [3], clause 13.2.4.9 in the simulated IPX node for JWS operation.
**Execution Steps:**
1\. The tester shall check that the supported JWS algorithms in the network
product documentation complies with the requirement on the restriction.
2\. The tester sends a N32-f message from the peer SEPP via the intermediate
IPX node towards the SEPP under test.
3\. The IPX node modifies one or more attributes of the N32-f message from the
peer SEPP and creates a modifiedDataToIntegrityProtect object, which is
protected by the IPX node using the JWS algorithm configured by the tester.
4\. The IPX node forwards the modified N32-f message to the SEPP under test.
5\. Based on the internal log files, the tester validates how the received
N32-f message is handled by the SEPP under test.
**Expected Results:**
\- The modified N32-f message from the IPX node is discarded by the SEPP under
test.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.
#### 4.2.2.8 No misplacement of encrypted IEs in JSON object by IPX
_Requirement Name:_ No misplacement of encrypted IE in JSON object by IPX
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.501 [3], clause 13.2.3.4 and clause 13.2.4.1
_Requirement Description_ :
As specified in TS 33.501 [3] clause 13.2.3.4, the following basic validation
rules are always applied irrespective of the policy exchanged between two
roaming partners:
\- IEs requiring encryption will not be inserted at a different location in
the JSON object.
A SEPP verifies that an intermediate IPX has not moved or copied an encrypted
IE to a location that would be reflected from the producer NF in an IE without
encryption\" as specified in TS 33.501 [3], clause 13.2.4.1.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause G.2.4.2 Exposure of confidential
IEs in N32-f message
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_NO_ENCRYPTED_IE_MISPLACEMENT
**Purpose:**
Verify that the SEPP under test is able to verify that an intermediate IPX has
not misplaced (moved or copied) an encrypted IE to a different location in a
JSON object that would be reflected from the producer NF for an IE without
encryption.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, which details how raw public
keys/certificates of peer SEPPs are to be configured and how internal log
files can be accessed.
\- A second SEPP instance for N32 communication with the SEPP under test,
which allows for the creation of custom N32-f messages. This system may be
simulated.
\- Both SEPPs are to be configured with a raw public key/certificate of their
communication peer to be able to establish a N32-c connection.
\- Test environment with one node simulating an IPX-provider. This
functionality includes parsing N32-f messages, creation of JSON-patches for
message modifications and JWS operations, among others. It is configured with
a modification policy.
\- An arbitrary Data-type encryption policy which includes at least one
information element requiring encryption on N32-f.
\- The SEPP under test is to be configured with the Data-type encryption
policy and the same modification policy as the one configured on the simulated
IPX-system.
**Execution Steps:**
1\. Both SEPPs are configured for N32-f communication via the simulated IPX-
system.
2\. Both SEPPs establish a mutual N32-c connection.
3\. The tester sends a N32-f message from the secondary SEPP via the IPX-
system towards the SEPP under test. This message needs to contain at least one
information element that requires encryption according to the locally
configured Data-type encryption policy.
4\. The IPX-system modifies the N32-f message according to its configured
modification policy. The tester then inserts the encBlockIDx into a cleartext
IE in the modified N32-f message before sending to the SEPP under test.
5\. The IPX-system sends the modified N32-f message to the SEPP under test.
6\. Based on the internal log files, the tester validates how the received
N32-f message is handled by the SEPP under test.
**Expected Results:**
\- The N32-f message is discarded by the SEPP under test. The error defined in
the clause 6.1.5.3.7 of TS 29.573[6] is sent by the SEPP via N32-c interface.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Logs and the communication flow saved in a .pcap file.
##### 4.2.2.9 Correct Handling of Inter-PLMN Routing
_Requirement Name_ : Correct Handling of Inter-PLMN Routing
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 29.500 [7], clause 6.1.4.3.3
_Requirement Description_ :
If the SEPP receives an HTTP request from a NF with a request URI containing a
telescopic FQDN and with a 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header, the SEPP ignores
the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header and route the request using the telescopic
FQDN.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause G.2.x.a, Inter-PLMN routing using
the incorrect reference
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_CORRECT_INTER_PLMN_ROUTING
**Purpose:**
> Verify that the SEPP under test correctly route the NF request to a remote
> PLMN when receving both a 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header and a telescopic
> FQDN contained in the Request URI in the HTTP request from a NF.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
> **Pre-Conditions:**
\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, which details the methods
supported for TLS protection between the NF and the SEPP and how internal log
files can be accessed.
\- A peer SEPP instance of a remote PLMN for N32 communication with the SEPP
under test, which may be simulated.
\- A NF for sending HTTP request to the remote PLMN of the peer SEPP via the
SEPP under test, which may be simulated and supports both telescopic FQDN and
the custom 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header. The NF is configured with:
> \- The NF service profile containing service URI with \"https\" scheme and
> an authority of the remote PLMN for communication with the NF producer in
> the remote PLMN.
>
> \- The telescopic FQDN of the NF producer in the remote PLMN, having the
> FQDN of the SEPP under test as the trailing part.
>
> \- The FQDN of the SEPP under test.
\- The SEPP under test is configured with:
> \- The FQDN of the peer SEPP in the remote PLMN.
>
> \- The security mechanism negotiated with the peer SEPP in the remote PLMN.
>
> **Execution Steps**
1) The NF sets up a TLS connection with the authoritative server for the
configured telescopic FQDN, i.e. the SEPP under test.
2) The NF sends a HTTP service request with the request URI containing the
configured telescopic FQDN within the TLS connection to the SEPP under test,
before which the tester inserts in the HTTP request a 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot
header set to the apiRoot of a NF producer in another PLMN different from the
remote PLMN.
3) The NF sends a HTTP service request within the TLS connection to the SEPP
under test, before which the tester inserts in the HTTP request a 3gpp-Sbi-
Target-apiRoot header set to the apiRoot of the NF producer in the remote PLMN
and changes the telescopic FQDN in request URI to be different from the
configured one.
**Expected Results:**
After step 2), the peer SEPP received the HTTP request from the NF through the
SEPP under test.
After step 3), the peer SEPP did not receive the HTTP request from the NF
through the SEPP under test
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. screenshot containing the
operational results.
##### 4.2.2.10 Correct Handling of Custom HTTP Header with PRINS Security
_Requirement Name_ : Correct Handling of the Custom HTTP Header with PRINS
Security
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 29.500 [7], clause 6.1.4.3.4
_Requirement Description_ :
The 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header is not used between SEPPs if PRINS security
is negotiated between the SEPPs.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause G.2.x.b, Tampering of target API
root
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_HANDLING_CUSTOM_HTTPHEADER_WITH_PRINS
**Purpose:**
> Verify that the SEPP under test correctly handle the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot
> custom HTTP header received from a NF when PRINS security is negotiated with
> the peer SEPP in a remote PLMN.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
> **Pre-Conditions:**
\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, including the security
mechanisms supported for protection between SEPPs.
\- A peer SEPP instance of a remote PLMN for N32 communication with the SEPP
under test, which may be simulated.
\- A NF for sending HTTP request to the remote PLMN of the peer SEPP via the
SEPP under test, which may be simulated and supports 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot
header. The NF is configured to route all HTTP messages with inter PLMN FQDN
as the \"authority\" part of the URI via the SEPP under test.
\- The SEPP under test is configured with PRINS security as the security
mechanism negotiated with the peer SEPP in the remote PLMN.
\- A TLS connection is setup between the SEPP under test and the peer SEPP in
the remote PLMN for N32-f forwarding.
> **Execution Steps**
1) The NF initiates a HTTP message sent to the SEPP under test, which includes
the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header containing the apiRoot of the target URI in
the remote PLMN and the apiRoot in the request URI set to the apiRoot of the
SEPP under test.
2) The SEPP under test forwards the HTTP request to the peer SEPP in the
remote PLMN within the N32-f TLS tunnel.
**Expected Results:**
The peer SEPP received the protected HTTP Request from the NF through the SEPP
under test, in which the apiRoot in the request URI is the apiRoot of the
target URI in the remote PLMN and no 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header is
present.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. screenshot containing the
operational results.
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.4 Operating Systems
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.5 Web Servers
_Requirement Name_ : Correct Handling of HTTPS Trust Anchoring
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clause 13.1.2
_Requirement Description:_ The SEPP maintains a set of trust anchors, each
consisting of a list of trusted root certificates and a list of corresponding
PLMN-IDs. Any given PLMN-ID appears in at most one trust anchor. During N32-c
connection setup, the SEPP maps the PLMN-ID of the remote SEPP leaf (server or
client) certificate to the associated trust anchor for the purposes of
certificate chain verification. Only the root certificates in the associated
list is treated as trusted during certificate chain verification. If the
remote SEPP certificate contains multiple PLMN-IDs that are mapped to
different trust anchors, then that certificate is rejected.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause 5.3.3.7, Eavesdropping, clause
5.3.6.10, Insecure Network Services
_Test Case:_
**Test Name:** TC_CORRECT_TRUST_ANCHORING
**Purpose:**
Verify that the SEPP under test correctly implements trust anchoring when
setting up HTTPS (TLS) connections.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- System documentation of the SEPP under test, which details the methods
supported for TLS protection on N32 and how internal log files can be
accessed.
\- Two simulated, independent root CAs, denoted RCA1 and RCA2
\- A peer SEPP instance of a remote PLMN for N32 communication with the SEPP
under test, which may be simulated.
**Execution Steps**
1\. The tester selects two different PLMN IDs, denoted ID1 and ID2, e.g.
ID1={MCC=262, MNC=01} and ID2={MCC=262, MNC=02}.
2\. The tester configures two trust anchors in the SEPP under test, as
follows:
\- ID1 gets associated with RCA1 and
\- ID2 gets associated with RCA2.
3\. The tester generates a server certificate for the SEPP under test with
which it authenticates itself towards a peer SEPP. The peer SEPP is configured
to accept these certificates.
4\. The tester generates four TLS client certificates C1, C2, C3, C4 for the
peer SEPP, as follows:
\- C1 contains ID1 and is signed by RCA1 (or a subCA which is signed only by
RCA1)
\- C2 contains ID2 and is signed by RCA2 (or a subCA which is signed only by
RCA2)
\- C3 contains ID1 and is signed by RCA2 (or a subCA which is signed only by
RCA2)and
\- C4 contains both ID1 and ID2 and is signed by RCA1 or RCA2 (or a subCA
which is signed by RCA1 or RCA2).
NOTE 1: The expression \"contains IDX\" means that there exists a Subject
Alternative Name (SAN) field in the certificate that contains the value chosen
in step 1. Examples of the SAN field contents are
example.sepp.5gc.mnc02mcc262.3gppnetwork.org and
example.sepp.5gc.mnc01mcc262.exampleipx.ipxnetwork.org
5\. The peer SEPP is configured to authenticate itself using C1. If C1 was
issued by a SubCA, then the SubCA certificate is included in the certificate
chain which the peer SEPP uses to authenticate itself. The tester initiates an
N32c connection from the SEPP under test towards the peer SEPP and observes
whether the HTTPS connection succeeds, and, if not, documents the failure
reasons as shown in the log files of the SEPP under test.
6\. The tester repeats step 5, replacing C1 with C2, C3, and C4 iteratively.
7\. Steps 3 to 6 are repeated in order to test for reversed client/server
roles. Specifically, in step 3 the tester generates a client certificate
(instead of a server certificate), in step 4 the tester generates four server
certificates (instead of four client certificates), and in step 5 the tester
initiates the connection from the peer SEPP (instead of initiating the
connection from the SEPP under test).
**Expected Results:**
In step 5, the TLS (HTTPS) connection setup succeeds for the iterations with
C1 and C2 and fails for the iterations with C3 and C4.
NOTE 2: The iteration with C3 fails because the PLMN-ID indicated in the
client certificate does not match any of the trusted certificates in the
corresponding trust anchor. The iteration with C4 fails because the PLMN-IDs
indicated in the client certificate are not associated with the same trust
anchor.
**Expected format of evidence:**
The evidence is in the form of log file entries associated with eight TLS
connection establishment attempts, where entries for the cases with C1 and C2
indicate success, and entries for the cases with C3 and C4 indicate failure
and show the corresponding failure reasons, including TLS Error Alert 48
(unknown_ca).
### 4.2.6 Network Devices
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 in TS 33.117 [2].
## 4.3 SEPP-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The requirements proposed hereafter (with the relative test cases) aim to
securing SEPP by reducing its surface of vulnerability. In particular, the
identified requirements aim to ensure that all the default configurations of
SEPP (including operating system software, firmware and applications) are
appropriately set.
### 4.3.2 Technical baseline
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 in TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.3 Operating systems
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 in TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.4 Web servers
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 in TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.5 Network devices
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 in TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 [2].
## 4.4 SEPP-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
### 4.4.1 Introduction
There are no SEPP specific addtions to clause 4.4.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.2 Port Scanning
There are no SEPP specific addtions to clause 4.4.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.3 Vulnerability scanning
There are no SEPP specific addtions to clause 4.4.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.4 Robustness and fuzz testing
The test cases under clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2] are applicable to SEPP.
The interface defined for the SEPP are in 4.2.4 of TS 23.501 [8].
According to clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2], the transport protocols available
on the interfaces providing IP-based protocols need to be robustness tested.
Following TCP/IP layer model and considering all the protocols over transport
layer, for SEPP, the following interfaces and protocols are in the scope of
the testing:
\- For SBI: the TCP, HTTP2 and JSON protocols.
\- For N32-C: The TCP, HTTP2 and JSON procotols.
\- For N32-F: The TCP, HTTP2 and JSON procotols.
NOTE: There could be other interfaces and/or protocols requiring testing under
clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2]
#