# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains requirements and test cases that are specific to
the UDM network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of General Security
Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of the requirements
and test cases. It also specifies the requirements and test cases unique to
the UDM network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.926 \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G security; Security architecture\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Subscription Identifier:** Defined in TS 23.501 [5] and in TS 23.003 [6].
**Subscription Concealed Identifier:** Defined in TS 33.501 [2].
**Subscription Identifier De-concealing Function:** Defined in TS 33.501 [2].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GS 5G System
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
AKA Authentication and Key Agreement
ARPF Authentication credential Repository and Processing Function
AUSF Authentication Server Function
EAP Extensible Authentication Protocol
SIDF Subscription Identifier De-concealing Function
SUCI Subscription Concealed Identifier
SUPI Subscription Permanent Identifier
UDM Unified Data Management
UDR Unified Data Repository
# 4 UDM-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
UDM specific security requirements include both requirements derived from UDM
specific security functional requirements in relevant specifications as well
as security requirements introduced in the present document derived from the
threats specific to UDM as described in TR 33.926 [4].
## 4.2 Security functional requirements on the UDM derived from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
### 4.2.0 General
The general approach in TS 33.117 [3] clause 4.2.2.1 and all the requirements
and test cases in TS 33.117 [3] clause 4.2.2.2 related to SBA/SBI aspect apply
to the UDM network product class.
### 4.2.1 User Privacy Procedure
#### 4.2.1.1 De-concealment of SUPI from the SUCI based on the protection
scheme used to generate the SUCI
_Requirement Name:_ De-concealment of SUPI from the SUCI based on the
protection scheme used to generate the SUCI.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.8.2.
_Requirement Description:_ The SIDF resolves the SUPI from the SUCI based on
the protection scheme used to generate the SUCI as specified in TS 33.501 [2],
clause 5.8.2.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause E.2.2.1, Incorrect SUCI de-
concealment.
**TEST CASE:**
**Test Name:** TC_DE-CONCEAL_SUPI_from_SUCI_UDM
**Purpose:**
Verify that the SIDF De-conceals the SUPI from the SUCI based on the
protection scheme used to generate the SUCI.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
\- UDM network product is connected in simulated/real network environment
including an AUSF and AMF.
\- Tester shall have access to the subscription data stored in UDR.
\- Tester shall record the SUPI from the UE.
**Execution Steps:**
**Test case:**
Tester shall capture the entire authentication procedure between UE and AMF
over N1, N12 and N13 interface using any network analyser.
1\. Tester shall filter the Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response message sent
from UDM to AUSF over N13 interface containing the SUPI.
2\. Tester shall compare the SUPI gotten from UE and the SUPI retrieved from
Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response message.
NOTE: The tester may filter the Nausf_UEAutentication_Authenticate Response
message sent from the UDM/AUSF to the AMF over N12 interface containing the
SUPI, if the UDM and AUSF network products are collocated without an open N13
interface.
**Expected Results:**
SIDF resolves the SUPI from the SUCI based on the protection scheme used to
generate the SUCI.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., evidence can be presented in the
form of screenshot/screen-capture.
### 4.2.2 Authentication and key agreement procedure
#### 4.2.2.1 Synchronization failure handling
_Requirement Name_ : Synchronization failure handling
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.1.3.3.2.
_Requirement Description_ : When the UDM/ARPF receives an
Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request message with a \"synchronisation failure
indication\" it acts as described in TS 33.102 [7], clause 6.3.5 where ARPF is
mapped to HE/AuC. The UDM/ARPF sends an Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response
message with a new authentication vector for either EAP-AKA\' or 5G-AKA
depending on the authentication method applicable for the user to the AUSF as
specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.1.3.3.2.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause E.2.2.2, Synchronization failure.
_Test Case_ :
**Purpose:**
Verify that synchronization failure is recovered correctly in the home
network.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with an AUSF. The AUSF or AMF may be simulated.
**Execution Steps**
1\. The AUSF sends an Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request message to the UDM
with a \"synchronisation failure indication\" and parameters RAND and AUTS.
2\. The UDM/ARPF performs steps 1-5 as described in TS 33.102, clause 6.3.5.
**Expected Results:**
The UDM sends an Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response message with a new
authentication vector to the AUSF.
NOTE: The expected results would be that the UDM/AUSF sends an
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with EAP
Request/AKA'-Challenge for EAP AKA', or 5G SE AV for 5G AKA to the AMF, if the
UDM and AUSF network products are collocated without an open N13 interface.
#### 4.2.2.2 Storing of authentication status of UE by UDM
_Requirement Name:_ Storing of authentication status of UE by UDM.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.1.4.1a
_Requirement Description:_ The UDM stores the authentication status of the UE
(SUPI, authentication result, timestamp, and the serving network name) after
authentication as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.1.4.1a.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause E.2.2.3, Failure to store of
authentication status.
**TEST CASE:**
**Test Name:** TC_AUTH_STATUS_STORE_UDM
**Purpose:**
Verify that the UDM under test stores the authentication status of UE, which
is identical to the UE authentication information sent to/from the AUSF and
the AMF.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
\- UDM network product is connected with an AUSF in simulated/real network
environment involving AMF, eNB.
\- The tester shall have access to all the authentication specific data sent
over N1 interface, N12 interface and N13 interface.
\- The tester shall have access to the UDM under test.
**Execution Steps:**
1\. The tester shall capture the entire authentication procedure and
authentication confirmation procedure over N12 and N13 interface using any
network analyser.
2\. the tester shall filter the Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request message sent
over the N13 interface to retrieve serving network name.
3\. The ester shall filter the Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response message sent
over N13 interface to find the SUPI.
4\. The tester shall filter the Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response
message sent over N12 interface to retrieve the Authentication result (EAP
success/failure for EAP-AKA\' or Result for 5G AKA).
5\. The tester shall filter the Nudm_UEAuthentication_ResultConfirmation
Request message to retrieve the authentication result and time of
authentication procedure sent from the AUSF to the UDM over N13 interface.
6\. The tester shall compare the serving network name stored in the UDM
against the serving network name retrieved from the Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get
Request message and the serving network name retrieved from the
Nudm_UEAuthentication_ResultConfirmation Request message.
7\. The tester shall compare the authentication status stored in the UDM
against the authentication result retrieved from N12 interface.
8\. The tester shall compare the SUPI stored in the UDM against the SUPI
retrieved from the Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response message and the SUPI
retrieved from the Nudm_UEAuthentication_ResultConfirmation Request message.
9\. The tester shall compare the timestamp stored in the UDM against the time
of authentication procedure retrieved from the
Nudm_UEAuthentication_ResultConfirmation Request message.
**Expected Results:**
The storing of authentication status (SUPI, authentication result, timestamp,
and the serving network name) of UE at the UDM is verified.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., evidence can be presented in the
form of screenshot/screen-capture.
NOTE: this test case does not apply to the deployment scenario where the UDM
and AUSF network products are collocated without an open N13 interface.
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.4 Operating Systems
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.5 Web Servers
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.6 Network Devices
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.7 User plane security procedures
#### 4.2.7.1 UP Security enforcement configuration for TSC service
_Requirement Name_ : UP security enforcement configuration
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause L.3, TS 23.501 [5], clause
5.10.3.
_Requirement Description_ :
\"After the 5GS TSC-enabled UE is authenticated and data connection is set up,
any data received from a TSC bridge or another 5GS TSC-enabled UE shall be
transported between DS-TT (in the UE) and NW-TT (in the UPF) in a protected
way using the mechanisms for UP security as described in clause 6.6.
The UP security enforcement information shall be set to \"required\" for data
transferred from gNB to a 5GS TSC-enabled UE. This is also applicable to the
gPTP messages sent in the user plane.\"
as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause L.3.
\"The SMF determines at PDU session establishment a User Plane Security
Enforcement information for the user plane of a PDU session based on:
\- subscribed User Plane Security Policy which is part of SM subscription
information received from UDM; and
\- User Plane Security Policy locally configured per (DNN, S-NSSAI) in the SMF
that is used when the UDM does not provide User Plane Security Policy
information.
\- The maximum supported data rate per UE for integrity protection for the
DRBs, provided by the UE in the Integrity protection maximum data rate IE
during PDU Session Establishment. The UE supporting NR as primary RAT, i.e.
NG-RAN access via Standalone NR, shall set the Integrity protection maximum
data rate IE for Uplink and Downlink to full rate at PDU Session Establishment
as defined in TS 24.501 [47].\"
as specified in TS 23.501 [5], clause 5.10.3.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4].
NOTE: The test case below only applies to the UDMs which support the setting
and providing of User Plane Security Policy for dedicated TSC service.
_Test Case_ :
**Purpose:**
Verify that UP security enforcement information is set to \"required\" for
dedicated TSC service.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with SMF. The SMF may be simulated.
A dedicated DNN/S-NSSAI combination is defined to identify the TSC service.
The security policy is configured in the UDM.
**Execution Steps**
1\. During the PDU session establishment procedure, the SMF sends a
Nudm_SDM_Get Request message to the UDM under test with a dedicated
DNN/S-NSSAI combination.
2\. The UDM under test sends the Nudm_SDM_Get Response back to the SMF with UP
security enforcement information.
**Expected Results:**
The confidentiality and integrity protection requirements of the UP security
enforcement information are set to \"required\".
**Expected format of evidence:**
Save the logs and the communication flow in a .pcap file.
### 4.2.8 User plane security procedures
#### 4.2.8.1 UP security policy configuration for 5G LAN service
_Requirement Name_ : UP security enforcement configuration
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause K.3, TS 23.501 [5], clause
5.10.3.
_Requirement Description_ : \"To reduce incremental complexity added by
security, all PDU sessions associated with a specific 5G LAN group should have
the same UP security policy. When generating the policy enforcement
information, and to avoid the redundant double protection, the SMF may
consider information by a DN-AAA about DN protection mechanisms already
applied.\"
as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause K.3.
\"The SMF determines at PDU session establishment a User Plane Security
Enforcement information for the user plane of a PDU session based on:
\- subscribed User Plane Security Policy which is part of SM subscription
information received from UDM; and
\- User Plane Security Policy locally configured per (DNN, S-NSSAI) in the SMF
that is used when the UDM does not provide User Plane Security Policy
information.
\- The maximum supported data rate per UE for integrity protection for the
DRBs, provided by the UE in the Integrity protection maximum data rate IE
during PDU Session Establishment. The UE supporting NR as primary RAT, i.e.
NG-RAN access via Standalone NR, shall set the Integrity protection maximum
data rate IE for Uplink and Downlink to full rate at PDU Session Establishment
as defined in TS 24.501 [47].\"
as specified in TS 23.501 [5], clause 5.10.3.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4].
NOTE 1: The test case below only applies to the UDMs which support the setting
and providing of User Plane Security Policy for 5G LAN service.
_Test Case_ :
**Purpose:**
Verify that UP security policy is set to the same for all the 5G LAN UEs.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with SMF. The SMF may be simulated.
A dedicated DNN/S-NSSAI combination is defined to identify the 5G LAN service.
The security policy of the 5G LAN service is configured in the UDM.
**Execution Steps**
1\. During the PDU session establishment procedure initiated by the UE1, the
SMF1 sends a Nudm_SDM_Get Request message to the UDM under test with a
dedicated DNN/S-NSSAI combination, and SUPI1.
2\. The UDM under test sends the Nudm_SDM_Get Response back to the SMF1 with
UP security policy1.
3\. During the PDU session establishment procedure initiated by the UE2, the
SMF2 sends a Nudm_SDM_Get Request message to the UDM under test with a
dedicated DNN/S-NSSAI combination, and SUPI2.
4\. The UDM under test sends the Nudm_SDM_Get Response back to the SMF2 with
UP security policy2.
NOTE 2: SMF1 and SMF2 could be the same network function.
**Expected Results:**
The confidentiality and integrity protection requirements of the UP security
policy1 and UP security policy2 are the same.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Save the logs and the communication flow in a .pcap file.
## 4.3 UDM-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The present clause contains UDM-specific adaptations of hardening requirements
and related test cases.
### 4.3.2 Technical baseline
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.3 Operating systems
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.4 Web servers
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.5 Network devices
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
There are no UDM-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 [3].
## 4.4 UDM-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
### 4.4.1 Introduction
There are no UDM specific addtions to clause 4.4.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.4.2 Port scanning
There are no UDM specific addtions to clause 4.4.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.4.3 Vulnerability scanning
There are no UDM specific addtions to clause 4.4.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.4.4 Robustness and fuzz testing
The test cases under clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [3] are applicable to UDM.
The interfaces defined for the UDM are in clause 4.2.3 of TS 23.501 [5].
According to clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [3], the transport protocols available
on the interfaces providing IP-based protocols need to be robustness tested.
Following TCP/IP layer model and considering all the protocols over transport
layer, for UDM, the following interface and protocols are in the scope of the
testing:
\- For Nudm: The TCP, HTTP2 and JSON protocols.
NOTE: There could be other interfaces and/or protocols requiring testing under
clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
#