# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The gNB can be deployed as more than one entity by splitting the gNB into gNB-
CU and gNB-DU(s) and possibly further splitting the gNB-CU into gNB-CU-CP and
gNB-CU-UP(s) (see TS 38.401 [5]). The present document contains objectives,
requirements and test cases that are specific to the various split gNB network
product classes. Test cases for such deployments are provided, are based upon
and borrow heavily from the specification for the gNB product class (see TS
33.511 [6]). The main differences are the inclusion of cases for the F1
signalling and user plane connection and the E1 signalling connection on the
top of the gNB cases as well as some revised cases to account for the split
functionality. The present document also refers to the Catalogue of General
Security Assurance Requirements (see TS 33.117 [2]) and formulates specific
adaptions of the requirements and test cases given there, as well as
specifying requirements and test cases unique to the various split gNB network
product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non-specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.511: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for the next
generation Node B (gNodeB) network product class\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for 5G System (5GS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR and NG-RAN Overall Description\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
gNB-CU as defined in TS 38.401 [5]
gNB-CU-CP as defined in TS 38.401 [5]
gNB-CU-UP as defined in TS 38.401 [5]
gNB-DU as defined in TS 38.401 [5]
# 4 gNB-CU-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
gNB-CU specific security requirements include both requirements derived from
gNB-CU-specific security functional requirements as well as security
requirements derived from threats specific to gNB-CU as described in TR 33.926
[4]. Generic security requirements and test cases common to other network
product classes have been captured in TS 33.117 [2] and are not repeated in
the present document.
## 4.2 Security functional adaptations of requirements and related test cases
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The present clause contains gNB-CU-specific security functional adaptations of
requirements and related test cases. Many of the security functional
requirements are directly inherited from the gNB product class.
### 4.2.2 Requirements and test cases deriving from 3GPP specifications
#### 4.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the gNB-CU deriving from 3GPP
specifications -- TS 33.501 [3]
##### 4.2.2.1.1 Security functional requirements inherited from gNB
The following security functional requirements in clause 4.2.2.1 of TS 33.511
[6] apply to the gNB-CU by changing the gNB to gNB-CU for the entity under
test in the test cases and with the below change to threat references:
4.2.2.1.1 Integrity protection of RRC-signalling
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.2 -- Control plane data
integrity protection.
4.2.2.1.2 Integrity protection of user data between the UE and the gNB
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.4 -- User plane data
integrity protection.
4.2.2.1.4 RRC integrity check failure
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.2 -- Control plane data
integrity protection.
4.2.2.1.5 UP integrity check failure
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.4 -- User plane data
integrity protection.
4.2.2.1.6 Ciphering of RRC-signalling
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.1 -- Control plane data
confidentiality protection.
4.2.2.1.7 Ciphering of user data between the UE and the gNB
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.3 -- User plane data
confidentiality protection at gNB.
4.2.2.1.8 Replay protection of user data between the UE and the gNB
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.4 -- User plane data
integrity protection.
4.2.2.1.9 Replay protection of RRC-signalling
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.2 -- Control plane data
integrity protection.
4.2.2.1.10 Ciphering of user data based on the security policy sent by the SMF
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.8 -- Security Policy
Enforcement.
4.2.2.1.11 Integrity of user data based on the security policy sent by the SMF
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.8 -- Security Policy
Enforcement.
4.2.2.1.12 AS algorithms selection
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.5 -- AS algorithm selection
and use.
4.2.2.1.13 Key refresh at the gNB
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.7 -- Key Reuse.
4.2.2.1.14 Bidding down prevention in Xn-handovers
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.6 -- Bidding Down on Xn-
Handover.
4.2.2.1.15 AS protection algorithm selection in gNB change
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.5 -- AS algorithm selection
and use.
4.2.2.1.18 Key update at the gNB on dual connectivity
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.7 -- Key Reuse.
4.2.2.1.19 UP security activation in Inactive scenario
_Threat Reference_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.9 -- State transition from
inactive state to connected state.
##### 4.2.2.1.2 Control plane data confidentiality protection over N2/Xn/F1
interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.16 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU supports the F1
interface.
_Requirement Name:_ Control plane data confidentiality protection over
N2/Xn/F1 interface.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9, 9.2 and 9.4.
_Requirement Description:_ F1-C interface supports confidentiality, integrity
and replay protection, the transport of control plane data over N2 is
integrity, confidentiality and replay-protected and the transport of control
plane data and user data over Xn is integrity, confidentiality and replay-
protected as specified in TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9, 9.2 and 9.4.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.1 -- Control plane data
confidentiality protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2]
##### 4.2.2.1.3 Control plane data integrity protection over N2/Xn/F1
interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.17 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU supports the F1
interface.
_Requirement Name:_ Control plane data integrity protection over N2/Xn/F1
interface
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9, 9.2 and 9.4.
_Requirement Description: F1-C interface supports confidentiality, integrity
and replay protection, the transport of control plane data over N2 is
integrity, confidentiality and replay-protected and the transport of control
plane data and user data over Xn shall be integrity, confidentiality and
replay-protected_ as specified in TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9, 9.2 and 9.4.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.2 -- Control plane data
integrity protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.2.1.4 User plane data confidentiality protection over N3/Xn/F1
interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.20 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU supports the F1
interface.
_Requirement Name:_ User plane data confidentiality protection over N3/Xn/F1
interface.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9, 9.3 and 9.4.
_Requirement Description:_ The gNB supports confidentiality, integrity and
replay protection on the gNB DU-CU F1-U interface for user plane, the
transport of user data over N3 is integrity, confidentiality and replay-
protected, and the transport of control plane data and user data over Xn is
integrity, confidentiality and replay-protected as specified in TS 33.501 [3],
clauses 5.3.9, 9.3 and 9.4.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.3 -- User plane data
confidentiality protection at gNB.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.2.1.5 User plane data integrity protection over N3/Xn/F1 interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.S of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU supports the F1
interface.
_Requirement Name:_ User plane data integrity protection over N3/Xn/F1
interface.
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9, 9.3 and 9.4.
_Requirement Description:_ The gNB supports confidentiality, integrity and
replay protection on the gNB DU-CU F1-U interface for user plane, the
transport of user data over N3 is integrity, confidentiality and replay-
protected, and the transport of control plane data and user data over Xn shall
be integrity, confidentiality and replay-protected as specified in TS 33.501
[3], clauses 5.3.9, 9.3 and 9.4.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause R.2.2.4 -- User plane data
integrity protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
The baseline technical requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB
product class given in clause 4.2.3 of TS 33.511 [6].
### 4.2.4 Operating systems
There are no gNB-CU-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
NOTE: The ICMP changes applied for a gNB only apply for a DU. In a split
deployment where the CU(-CP/UP) is deployed in a data center, the CU(-CP/UP)
should be treated as any other IP nodes (e.g., UPF) as the data center nodes
are assumed to have connectivity to IP networks whereas DU can be considered
like a gNB from ICMP threat perspective.
### 4.2.5 Web servers
There are no gNB-CU-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.6 Network devices
These requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB product class given
in clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.511 [6].
## 4.3 Adaptations of hardening requirements and related test cases
These requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB product class given
in clause 4.3 of TS 33.511 [6].
## 4.4 Adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements and related
test cases
### 4.4.1 Introduction
There are no gNB-CU specific additions to clause 4.4.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.2 Port Scanning
There are no gNB-CU specific additions to clause 4.4.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.3 Vulnerability scanning
There are no gNB-CU specific additions to clause 4.4.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.4 Robustness and fuzz testing
The test cases under clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2] are applicable to gNB-CU.
The interface defined for the gNB-CU are in clause 4.2.3 of TS 23.501 [7] and
in clause 4.1 of TS 38.300 [8].
According to clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2], the transport protocols available
on the interfaces providing IP-based protocols need to be robustness tested.
Following TCP/IP layer model and considering all the protocols over transport
layer, for gNB-CU, the following interfaces and protocols are in the scope of
the testing:
For N2: the SCTP and NGAP protocols.
For N3: the UDP and GTP-U protocols.
For Xn: the SCTP and XnAP protocols.
For F1-c: the SCTP and F1AP protocols.
For F1-u: the UDP and GTP-U protocols.
NOTE: There could be other interfaces and/or protocols requiring testing under
clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
# 5 gNB-CU-CP-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 5.1 Introduction
gNB-CU-CP specific security requirements include both requirements derived
from gNB-CU-CP-specific security functional requirements as well as security
requirements derived from threats specific to gNB-CU-CP as described in TR
33.926 [4]. Generic security requirements and test cases common to other
network product classes have been captured in TS 33.117 [2] and are not
repeated in the present document.
## 5.2 Security functional adaptations of requirements and related test cases
### 5.2.1 Introduction
The present clause contains gNB-CU-CP-specific security functional adaptations
of requirements and related test cases. Many of the security functional
requirements are directly inherited from the gNB product class.
### 5.2.2 Requirements and test cases deriving from 3GPP specifications
#### 5.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the gNB-CU-CP deriving from
3GPP specifications -- TS 33.501 [3]
##### 5.2.2.1.1 Security functional requirements inherited from gNB
The following security functional requirements from clause 4.2.2.1 of TS
33.511 [6] apply to the gNB-CU-CP by changing the gNB to gNB-CU-CP for the
entity under test in the test cases and with the below changes of threat
reference:
4.2.2.1.1 Integrity protection of RRC-signalling
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.2 -- Control plane data
integrity protection.
4.2.2.1.4 RRC integrity check failure
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.2 -- Control plane data
integrity protection.
4.2.2.1.6 Ciphering of RRC-signalling
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.1 -- Control plane data
confidentiality protection.
4.2.2.1.9 Replay protection of RRC-signalling
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.2 -- Control plane data
integrity protection.
4.2.2.1.12 AS algorithms selection
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.3 -- AS algorithm selection
and use.
4.2.2.1.13 Key refresh at the gNB
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.5 -- Key Reuse.
4.2.2.1.14 Bidding down prevention in Xn-handovers
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.4 -- Bidding Down on Xn-
Handover.
4.2.2.1.15 AS protection algorithm selection in gNB change
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.3 -- AS algorithm selection
and use.
4.2.2.1.18 Key update at the gNB on dual connectivity
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.5 -- Key Reuse.
4.2.2.1.19 UP security activation in Inactive scenario
_Threat Reference_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.7 -- State transition from
inactive state to connected state.
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Control plane data confidentiality protection over N2/Xn/F1/E1
interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.16 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU-CP supports the
F1 and E1 interfaces.
_Requirement Name:_ Control plane data confidentiality protection over
N2/Xn/F1/E1 interface.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9, 5.3.10, 9.2 and 9.4
_Requirement Description:_ F1-C interface supports confidentiality, integrity
and replay protection, the E1 interface between CU-CP and CU-UP is
confidentiality, integrity and replay protected, the transport of control
plane data over N2 is integrity, confidentiality and replay-protected and the
transport of control plane data and user data over Xn is integrity,
confidentiality and replay-protected _as specified in TS 33.501 [3], clauses
5.3.9, 5.3.10, 9.2 and 9.4._
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.1 -- Control plane data
confidentiality protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2]
##### 5.2.2.1.3 Control plane data integrity protection over N2/Xn/F1/E1
interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.17 of\ TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the CU-CP supports the F1
and E1 interfaces.
_Requirement Name:_ Control plane data integrity protection over N2/Xn/F1/E1
interface.
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9, 5.3.10, 9.2 and 9.4.
_Requirement Description:_ F1-C interface supports confidentiality, integrity
and replay protection, the E1 interface between CU-CP and CU-UP is
confidentiality, integrity and replay protected, the transport of control
plane data over N2 is integrity, confidentiality and replay-protected and the
transport of control plane data and user data over Xn is integrity,
confidentiality and replay-protected as specified in TS 33.501 [3], clauses
5.3.9, 5.3.10, 9.2 and 9.4.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.2 -- Control plane data
integrity protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 5.2.2.1.4 Ciphering of user data based on the security policy sent by
the SMF
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.10 of\ TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU-CP informs both
the gNB-CU-UP and UE whether to use a non-NULL ciphering algorithm or not.
_Requirement Name:_ Ciphering of user data based on the security policy sent
by the SMF.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clause 5.3.2.
_Requirement Description: The gNB activates ciphering of user data based on
the security policy sent by the SMF_ as specified in TS 33.501 [3], clause
5.3.2.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.6 -- Security Policy
Enforcement.
_**Test Case** :_
**Test Name:** TC-UP-DATA-CIP-SMF_gNB-CU-CP
**Purpose:** To verify that the user data packets are confidentiality
protected based on the security policy sent by the SMF via AMF
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The gNB-CU-CP network product shall be connected in emulated/real network
environments. The UE and the 5GC may be simulated.
\- The tester shall have access to the NG RAN air interface.
\- The tester shall have knowledge of the RRC and UP ciphering algorithm and
protection keys and of the security keys, etc., needed to decrypt the messages
on the E1 interface.
\- RRC ciphering is already activated at the gNB.
**Execution Steps:**
1\. The tester triggers PDU session establishment procedure by sending PDU
session establishment request message.
2\. Tester shall trigger the SMF to send the UP security policy with ciphering
protection \"required\" or \"not needed\" to the gNB-CU-CP.
3\. The tester shall capture the Bearer Context Setup Request message sent to
the gNB-CU-UP over the E1 interface.
4\. The tester shall decrypt the Bearer Context Setup Request message.
5\. The tester shall capture the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure
between gNB-CU-CP to UE over NG RAN air interface. And filter the RRC
connection reconfiguration message sent by gNB-CU-CP to UE.
6\. The tester shall decrypt the RRC connection Reconfiguration message and
retrieve the UP ciphering protection indication presenting in the decrypted
message.
7\. The tester shall verify if the UP ciphering policy received at gNB-CU-CP
is same as the UP ciphering protection indication notified by the gNB-CU-CP to
the UE in the RRC connection Reconfiguration message and the gNB-CU-UP in the
Bearer Context Setup Request message.
**Expected Results:**
Both the messages indicate that ciphering is to be used inline with the
received policy.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. Screenshot containing the
operational results.
##### 5.2.2.1.5 Integrity of user data based on the security policy sent by
the SMF
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.11 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU-CP informs both
the gNB-CU-UP and UE whether to use a non-NULL integrity algorithm or not.
_Requirement Name:_ Integrity of user data based on the security policy sent
by the SMF.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clause 5.3.2.
_Requirement Description:_ _The gNB activates integrity protection of user
data based on the security policy sent by the SMF_ as specified in TS 33.501
[3], clause 5.3.2.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause S.2.2.6 -- Security Policy
Enforcement.
_**Test Case** :_
**Test Name:** TC-UP-DATA-INT-SMF_gNB-CU-CP
**Purpose:** To verify that the user data packets are integrity protected
based on the security policy sent by the SMF.
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The gNB-CU-CP network product shall be connected in emulated/real network
environments. The UE and the 5GC may be simulated.
\- The tester shall have access to the NG RAN air interface.
\- The tester shall have knowledge of the integrity algorithm and protection
keys and of the security keys, etc., needed to decrypt the messages on the E1
interface.
\- RRC integrity and cipher are already activated at the gNB.
**Execution Steps:**
1\. The tester triggers PDU session establishment procedure by sending PDU
session establishment request message.
2\. Tester shall trigger the SMF to send the UP security policy with integrity
protection is \"required\" or \"not needed\" to the gNB.
3\. The tester shall capture the Bearer Context Setup Request message sent to
the gNB-CU-UP over the E1 interface.
4\. The tester shall decrypt the Bearer Context Setup Request message.
5\. The tester shall capture the RRC connection reconfiguration message sent
by gNB to UE over NG RAN air interface.
6\. The tester shall decrypt the RRC connection reconfiguration message and
retrieve the UP integrity protection indication presenting in the decrypted
message.
7\. Tester shall check whether UP integrity policy received at gNB-CU-UP is
same as the UP integrity protection indication notified by the gNB-CU-CP to
the UE in the RRC connection reconfiguration message and the gNB-CU-UP in the
Bearer Context Setup Request message.
**Expected Results:**
Both the messages indicate that integrity is to be used inline with the
received policy.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. Screenshot containing the
operational results.
### 5.2.3 Technical Baseline
The baseline technical requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB
product class given in clause 4.2.3 of TS 33.511 [6].
### 5.2.4 Operating systems
There are no gNB-CU-CP specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 5.2.5 Web servers
There are no gNB-CU-CP specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 5.2.6 Network devices
These requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB product class given
in clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.511 [6] except the GTP-U Filtering case in clause
4.2.6.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2] as the gNB-CU-CP does not support user plane
interfaces.
## 5.3 Adaptations of hardening requirements and related test cases
These requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB product class given
in clause 4.3 of TS 33.511 [6].
## 5.4 Adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements and related
test cases
### 5.4.1 Introduction
There are no gNB-CU-CP specific additions to clause 4.4.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 5.4.2 Port Scanning
There are no gNB-CU-CP specific additions to clause 4.4.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 5.4.3 Vulnerability scanning
There are no gNB-CU-CP specific additions to clause 4.4.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 5.4.4 Robustness and fuzz testing
The test cases under clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2] are applicable to gNB-CU-
CP.
The interface defined for the gNB-CU-CP are in clause 4.2.3 of TS 23.501 [7]
and in clause 4.1 of TS 38.300 [8].
According to clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2], the transport protocols available
on the interfaces providing IP-based protocols need to be robustness tested.
Following TCP/IP layer model and considering all the protocols over transport
layer, for gNB-CU-CP, the following interfaces and protocols are in the scope
of the testing:
For N2: the SCTP and NGAP protocols.
For Xn: the SCTP and XnAP protocols.
For F1-c: the SCTP and F1AP protocols.
For E1: the SCTP and E1AP protocols.
NOTE: There could be other interfaces and/or protocols requiring testing under
clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
# 6 gNB-CU-UP-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 6.1 Introduction
gNB-CU-UP specific security requirements include both requirements derived
from gNB-CU-UP-specific security functional requirements as well as security
requirements derived from threats specific to gNB-CU-UP as described in TR
33.926 [4]. Generic security requirements and test cases common to other
network product classes have been captured in TS 33.117 [2] and are not
repeated in the present document.
## 6.2 Security functional adaptations of requirements and related test cases
### 6.2.1 Introduction
The present clause contains gNB-CU-UP-specific security functional adaptations
of requirements and related test cases. Many of the security functional
requirements are directly inherited from the gNB product class.
### 6.2.2 Requirements and test cases deriving from 3GPP specifications
#### 6.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the gNB-CU-UP deriving from
3GPP specifications -- TS 33.501 [3]
##### 6.2.2.1.1 Security functional requirements inherited from gNB
The following security functional requirements from clause 4.2.2.1 of TS
33.511 [6] apply to the gNB-CU-UP by changing the gNB to gNB-CU-UP for the
entity under test in the test cases and with the below changes of threat
reference:
4.2.2.1.5 UP integrity check failure
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [4], clause T.2.2.4 -- User plane data
integrity protection.
4.2.2.1.8 Replay protection of user data between the UE and the gNB
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause T.2.2.4 -- User plane data
integrity protection.
##### 6.2.2.1.2 Control plane data confidentiality protection over E1
interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.16 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU-UP only supports
the E1 interface.
_Requirement Name:_ Control plane data confidentiality protection over E1
interface
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.10.
_Requirement Description:_ The E1 interface between CU-CP and CU-UP is
confidentiality, integrity and replay protected as specified in TS 33.501 [3],
clauses 5.3.10.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause T.2.2.1 -- Control plane data
confidentiality protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 6.2.2.1.3 Control plane data integrity protection over E1 interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.17 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU-UP only supports
the E1 interface.
_Requirement Name:_ Control plane data integrity protection over E1 interface
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.10.
_Requirement Description:_ The E1 interface between CU-CP and CU-UP is
confidentiality, integrity and replay protected as specified in TS 33.501 [3],
clauses 5.3.10.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause T.2.2.2 -- Control plane data
integrity protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 6.2.2.1.4 User plane data confidentiality protection over N3/Xn/F1
interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.R of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU-UP supports the
F1 interface.
_Requirement Name:_ User plane data confidentiality protection over N3/Xn/F1
interface.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9, 9.3 and 9.4.
_Requirement Description:_ The gNB supports confidentiality, integrity and
replay protection on the gNB DU-CU F1-U interface for user plane, the
transport of user data over N3 is integrity, confidentiality and replay-
protected, and the transport of control plane data and user data over Xn is
integrity, confidentiality and replay-protected as specified in TS 33.501 [3],
clauses 5.3.9, 9.3 and 9.4.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause T.2.2.3 -- User plane data
confidentiality protection at gNB.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 6.2.2.1.5 User plane data integrity protection over N3/Xn/F1 interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.S of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU-UP supports the
F1 interface.
_Requirement Name:_ User plane data integrity protection over N3/Xn/F1
interface.
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9, 9.3 and 9.4.
_Requirement Description:_ The gNB supports confidentiality, integrity and
replay protection on the gNB DU-CU F1-U interface for user plane, the
transport of user data over N3 is integrity, confidentiality and replay-
protected, and the transport of control plane data and user data over Xn is
integrity, confidentiality and replay-protected as specified in TS 33.501 [3],
clauses 5.3.9, 9.3 and 9.4.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause T.2.2.4 -- User plane data
integrity protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 6.2.2.1.6 Integrity protection of user data between the UE and the gNB-
CU-UP
NOTE 1: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given
in clause 4.2.2.1.2 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU-CP informs the
gNB-CU-UP to use a non-NULL integrity algorithm.
_Requirement Name:_ Integrity protection of user data between the UE and the
gNB-CU-UP.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.3.3
_Requirement Description:_ _The gNB supports integrity protection and replay
protection of user data between the UE and the gNB_ as specified in TS 33.501
[2], clause 5.3.3.
NOTE 2: This requirement does not apply to the gNB that is used as a secondary
node connecting to the EPC.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause T.2.2.4 -- User plane data
integrity protection.
_**Test Case** :_
**Test Name:** TC-UP-DATA-INT_gNB-CU-UP
**Purpose:** To verify that the user data packets are integrity protected over
the NG RAN air interface.
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The gNB-CU-UP network product shall be connected in emulated/real network
environments. UE may be simulated.
\- Tester shall enable the user plane integrity protection and ensure NIA0 is
not used.
\- Tester shall have knowledge of integrity algorithm and integrity protection
keys.
\- The tester can capture the message via the NG RAN air interface, or can
capture the message at the UE.
**Execution Steps:**
1\. The NIA0 is disabled at UE and gNB-CU-UP.
2\. The gNB-CU-UP is sent by the gNB-CU-CP a Bearer Context Setup Request
message with integrity protection indication \"on\".
3\. Check any User data sent by gNB-CU-UP after receiving the Bearer Context
Setup Request message and before UE enters CM-Idle state is integrity
protected.
**Expected Results:**
Any user plane packets sent between UE and gNB-CU-UP over the NG RAN air
interface after gNB-CU-UP receives the Bearer Context Setup Request is
integrity protected.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface e.g. Screenshot containing the operational
results.
##### 6.2.2.1.7 Ciphering of user data between the UE and the gNB-CU-UP
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.7 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-CU-CP informs the
gNB-CU-UP to use a non-NULL confidentiality algorithm.
_Requirement Name:_ Ciphering of user data between the UE and the gNB-CU-UP
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.3.2
_Requirement Description:_ _The gNB supports ciphering of user data between
the UE and the gNB_ as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.3.2.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause T.2.2.3 -- User plane data
confidentiality protection at gNB
_**Test Case** :_
**Test Name:** TC-UP-DATA-CIP_gNB
**Purpose:** To verify that the user data packets are confidentiality
protected over the NG RAN air interface.
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The gNB-CU-UP network product shall be connected in emulated/real network
environments. The UE may be simulated.
\- The tester shall have access to the NG RAN air interface or can capture the
message at the UE.
**Execution Steps:**
1\. The gNB-CU-UP is sent by the gNB-CU-CP a Bearer Context Setup Request
message with ciphering protection indication \"on\".
2\. Check any user data sent by the gNB-CU-UP after receiving the Bearer
Context Setup Request message and before the UE enters into CM-Idle state.
**Expected Results:**
The user plane packets sent to the UE after the gNB-CU-UP receives the Bearer
Context Setup Request is confidentiality protected.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface e.g. Screenshot containing the operational
results.
### 6.2.3 Technical Baseline
The baseline technical requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB
product class given in clause 4.2.3 of TS 33.511 [6].
### 6.2.4 Operating systems
There are no gNB-CU-UP specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 6.2.5 Web servers
There are no gNB-CU-UP specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 6.2.6 Network devices
These requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB product class given
in clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.511 [6].
## 6.3 Adaptations of hardening requirements and related test cases
These requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB product class given
in clause 4.3 of TS 33.511 [6].
## 6.4 Adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements and related
test cases
### 6.4.1 Introduction
There are no gNB-CU-UP specific additions to clause 4.4.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 6.4.2 Port Scanning
There are no gNB-CU-UP specific additions to clause 4.4.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 6.4.3 Vulnerability scanning
There are no gNB-CU-UP specific additions to clause 4.4.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 6.4.4 Robustness and fuzz testing
The test cases under clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2] are applicable to gNB-CU-
UP.
The interface defined for the gNB-CU-UP are in clause 4.2.3 of TS 23.501 [7]
and in clause 4.1 of TS 38.300 [8].
According to clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2], the transport protocols available
on the interfaces providing IP-based protocols need to be robustness tested.
Following TCP/IP layer model and considering all the protocols over transport
layer, for gNB-CU-UP, the following interfaces and protocols are in the scope
of the testing:
For N3: the UDP and GTP-U protocols.
For F1-u: the UDP and GTP-U protocols.
For E1: the SCTP and E1AP protocols.
NOTE: There could be other interfaces and/or protocols requiring testing under
clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
# 7 gNB-DU-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 7.1 Introduction
gNB-DU specific security requirements include both requirements derived from
gNB-DU-specific security functional requirements as well as security
requirements derived from threats specific to gNB-DU as described in TR 33.926
[4]. Generic security requirements and test cases common to other network
product classes have been captured in TS 33.117 [2] and are not repeated in
the present document.
## 7.2 Security functional adaptations of requirements and related test cases
### 7.2.1 Introduction
The present clause contains gNB-DU-specific security functional adaptations of
requirements and related test cases.
### 7.2.2 Requirements and test cases deriving from 3GPP specifications
#### 7.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the gNB-DU deriving from 3GPP
specifications -- TS 33.501 [3]
##### 7.2.2.1.1 Control plane data confidentiality protection over F1
interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.16 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-DU only supports
the F1 interface.
_Requirement Name:_ Control plane data confidentiality protection over F1
interface
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9.
_Requirement Description:_ F1-C interface supports confidentiality, integrity
and replay protection as specified in TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause U.2.2.1 -- Control plane data
confidentiality protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2]
##### 7.2.2.1.2 Control plane data integrity protection over F1 interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.17 of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-DU only supports
the F1 interface.
_Requirement Name:_ Control plane data integrity protection over F1 interface
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9.
_Requirement Description:_ F1-C interface supports confidentiality, integrity
and replay protection as specified in TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause U.2.2.2 -- Control plane data
integrity protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 7.2.2.1.3 User plane data confidentiality protection over F1 interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.R of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-DU only supports the
F1 interface.
_Requirement Name:_ User plane data confidentiality protection over F1
interface.
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9.
_Requirement Description:_ The gNB supports confidentiality, integrity and
replay protection on the gNB DU-CU F1-U interface for user plane as specified
in TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause U.2.2.3 -- User plane data
confidentiality protection at gNB.
_Test Case: T_ he test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 7.2.2.1.4 User plane data integrity protection over F1 interface
NOTE: This is based on the security functional requirement on the gNB given in
clause 4.2.2.1.S of TS 33.511 [6] but modified as the gNB-DU only supports the
F1 interface.
_Requirement Name:_ User plane data integrity protection over F1 interface.
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9.
_Requirement Description:_ The gNB supports confidentiality, integrity and
replay protection on the gNB DU-CU F1-U interface for user plane as specified
in TS 33.501 [3], clauses 5.3.9.
_Threat References:_ TR 33.926 [4], clause U.2.2.4 -- User plane data
integrity protection.
_Test Case:_ The test case in subclause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 7.2.3 Technical Baseline
The baseline technical requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB
product class given in clause 4.2.3 of TS 33.511 [6].
### 7.2.4 Operating systems
These requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB product class given
in clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.511 [6].
### 7.2.5 Web servers
There are no gNB-DU specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 7.2.6 Network devices
These requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB product class given
in clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.511 [6].
## 7.3 Adaptations of hardening requirements and related test cases
These requirements are identical to the ones for the gNB product class given
in clause 4.3 of TS 33.511 [6].
## 7.4 Adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements and related
test cases
### 7.4.1 Introduction
There are no gNB-DU specific additions to clause 4.4.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 7.4.2 Port Scanning
There are no gNB-DU specific additions to clause 4.4.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 7.4.3 Vulnerability scanning
There are no gNB-DU specific additions to clause 4.4.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 7.4.4 Robustness and fuzz testing
The test cases under clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2] are applicable to gNB-DU.
The interface defined for the gNB-DU are in clause 4.1 of TS 38.300 [7].
According to clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2], the transport protocols available
on the interfaces providing IP-based protocols need to be robustness tested.
Following TCP/IP layer model and considering all the protocols over transport
layer, for gNB-DU, the following interfaces and protocols are in the scope of
the testing:
For F1-u: the UDP and GTP-U protocols.
For F1-c: the SCTP and F1AP protocols.
NOTE: There could be other interfaces and/or protocols requiring testing under
clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
#