# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains objectives, requirements and test cases to
virtualized network product classes.
Several virtualized network product classes share very similar if not
identical security requirements for some aspects. Therefore, these are
collected in the present document applicable to many virtualized network
product classes. In addition to this catalogue, requirements specific to
different network product classes will be captured in separate documents.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TR 33.927: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS); threats and
critical assets in 3GPP virtualized network product classes\".
[4] ETSI GS NFV 002: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Architectural
Framework\".
[5] Void
[6] ETSI GS NFV 003: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Terminology for
Main Concepts in NFV\".
[7] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Catalogue of security requirements and related test cases for virtualized
network product
## 4.1 Introduction
### 4.1.1 Pre-requisites for testing
The SCAS tests, as described in the present specification, are to be applied
to a virtualized network product whose software and/or hardware has been
brought into use so that the network product can provide the intended
functionality, either in a real network environment or in a simulated
environment. This implies that, before any testing is performed, the software
and/or hardware has been installed correctly, the virtualized network product
is instantiated, and communication has been established over all standardized
interfaces and OAM interfaces related with the network product\'s
functionality, as described in the vendor\'s documentation. In addition,
supporting environment for GVNP has also been provided before the testing is
performed. The assumption of requirement for the NFVI supporting environment
have been included in the vendor\'s documentation.
Communication over external non standardized interfaces that may exist and are
marked as optional, according to the vendor\'s documentation, shall also be
established during testing unless they are explicitly marked as \"not
recommended\" in the vendor\'s documentation.
For each of the enabled external communication interfaces there may be various
optional capabilities. During testing, all such capabilities shall be enabled
unless they are explicitly marked as \"not recommended\" in the vendor\'s
documentation.
In some cases a test case might require configuration changes as part of the
execution steps or pre-conditions. After such test is executed and prior to
any further test execution it needs to be ensured that the state of the ToE is
restored back in the original state.
SCAS testing is not about security in operations and deployments. So, in
particular, SCAS testing is independent of any operator guidelines or
considerations on specific deployment scenarios.
### 4.1.2 Use of tools in testing
The following text shall apply to all test cases described in the present
document:
The present document takes into account that the landscape of testing tools
evolves more rapidly than SCAS specifications. It is therefore allowed that,
for each requirement, the actual test carried out may deviate from the
stepwise description of the test case in the present document if the following
conditions are fulfilled:
(1) The test is carried out by preferably using Commercial-of-the-Shelf (COTS)
and Free-Open-Source-Software (FOSS) tools that are available for other
testers that may want to repeat the test. In case a tool not in any of these
two categories is used then evidence of the quality assurance of the tool
needs to be provided. This applies only to tools used to perform the actual
test and not supportive tools needed for setting up the testing environment
like for example traffic generators/ simulators.
In cases where a test lab is not able to obtain the necessary tools to perform
the test, vendor proprietary test tools may be used by the test lab as long
the test tool is controlled under a suitable quality management system (QMS).
The test lab ensures that this QMS is in place in order to avail of a vendor's
test tool.
Additionally in cases where the accredited test lab does not have the
necessary test environment to perform a test, it shall be possible for the
accredited test lab personnel to perform the test in a vendor\'s test lab. In
such cases the accredited lab should record details of test environment, test
set-up used and how the test was performed.
(2) The tester provides evidence, e.g. by referring to the documentation of
the tool, that the tool is suitable to verify the requirement, and the scope
of testing is equal or larger to the one of the test case described in the
present document. The evidence needs to be sufficiently detailed for experts
in the field of testing, not for the general public.
(3) The tester provides evidence that the tool has been actually used for
testing the network product (e.g. by providing a trace).
### 4.1.3 Documentation Requirements
When a test case makes an assumption on the availability of certain items in
the product documentation then this assumption is to be considered part of the
requirement even if the requirements text does not mention the documentation.
## 4.2 Security functional requirements and related test cases
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The present clause describes security functional requirements and the
corresponding test cases, independent of a specific virtualized network
product class of type 1. According to security threat analysis in TR 33.927
[2], the proposed security requirements for GVNP of type 1 are classified in
three groups:
\- Security functional requirements deriving from 3GPP specifications in
clause 4.2.2.
\- General security functional requirements which include requirements not
already addressed in the 3GPP specifications but whose support is also
important to ensure a network product conforms to a common security baseline
detailed in clause 4.2.3.3.5.
\- Security functional requirements related to Virtualization layer, hardware
and resource isolation, among others. These requirements can be called
security functional requirements deriving virtualization for simplify and
detailed in clause 4.2.7.
Compared to physical network products, GVNP of type 1 faces the threats
relating to ETSI-definer interfaces defined in [3] and [4]. So, the security
requirements of the above first and second group shall base on the security
requirements in clause 4.2 of TS 33.117 [1] to identify the different security
requirements for GVNP of type 1.
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements deriving from 3GPP specifications
and related test cases
Clause 4.2.2 in TS33.117[1] can be reused. There are no VNF-specific additions
to clause 4.2.2 of TS 33.117 [1].
### 4.2.3 technical baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The technical baseline in clause 4.2.3 of TS33.117[1] is a generic set of
security requirements to be fulfilled by all virtualized network products.
In particular these requirements counter the security threats identified in
the TR 33.927 [2] and they basically aim to guarantee the network product
confidentiality, integrity and availability.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.3.2 applies to GVNP of type 1.
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
##### 4.2.3.3.1 System handling during overload situations
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.3.3.1 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 4.2.3.3.2 Boot from intended memory devices only
All text from TS 33.117[1], clause 4.2.3.3.2 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 4.2.3.3.3 System handling during excessive overload situations
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.3.3.3 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 4.2.3.3.4 System robustness against unexpected input
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.3.3.4 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 4.2.3.3.5 Virtualized Network product software package integrity
##### 4.2.3.3.5.1 Overview
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.3.3.5 applies to GVNP of type 1.
In addition, VNF package and VNF image integrity shall be validated when on
board, and VNF image integrity shall be validated when in instantiated. The
detailed potential security requirements and related test cases are as
following.
###### 4.2.3.3.5.2 VNF package and VNF image integrity
_Requirement Name_ : VNF package and VNF image integrity
_Requirement Description_ :
1) VNF package and image shall contain integrity validation value (e.g. MAC).
2) VNF package shall be integrity protected during on boarding.
_Threat Reference_ : Clause 5.3.2.5.1 of the TR 33.927[2], \"Software
Tampering \";
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_VNF PACKAGE AND IMAGE_ INTEGRITY
**Purpose:**
1\. To test whether the VNF package has been integrity protected or not.
2\. To test whether the VNF image has been integrity protected or not.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The virtualized network product document describes information regarding
integrity protection of VNF package and VNF images, including details of how
the integrity check is carried out, who makes the digital signatures of VNF
package, what evidence is created to prove that the integrity check has been
executed and what the result of the check is, etc.
\- A valid VNF package and a not-valid VNF package (e.g. a tampered image in
VNF package) are available.
\- A valid VNF image (i.e. a correct HASH value is attached) and a not-valid
VNF image (i.e. an incorrect HASH value is attached, e.g. the VNF image can be
tampered when the VNF image is sent from the NFVO to the VIM or when the VNF
image is stored in the image repository) are available in the image repository
of VIM.
\- There are NFVO and VIM, or simulated NFVO and VIM. The certificate or the
public key which is used to verify the digital signature of VNF package and
image has been pre-configured in the NFVO.
**Execution Steps**
Execute the following steps:
1\. Review the documentation provided by the vendor describing how VNF package
integrity is verified;
2\. During VNF package on boarding, the tester uploads a valid VNF package
into a NFVO. The NFVO verifies the integrity of the VNF package by validating
the digital signature of the VNF package using the pre-configured certificate
according to the documentation;
3\. During VNF package on boarding, the tester uploads a not-valid VNF package
into a NFVO. The NFVO validates the digital signature of the VNF package using
the pre-configured certificate;
4\. During VNF instantiation, the VIM selects a VNF image with a correct
integrity protection value from the image repository to instantiate the VNF
image.
5\. During VNF instantiation, the VIM selects a VNF image with an incorrect
integrity protection value from the image repository to instantiate the VNF
image.
**Expected Results:**
1\. The VNF package is successfully on boarded into the NFVO;
2\. The not-valid VNF package is not on boarded;
3\. The VNF image with a correct integrity protection value is instantiated by
the VIM;
4\. The VNF image with an incorrect integrity protection value is not
instantiated by the VIM.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Snapshots containing the result of the VNF package on boarding and the VNF
image instantiation.
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.3.4 applies to virtualized network
products.
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.3.5 applies to virtualized network
products.
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.3.6 applies to virtualized network
products.
### 4.2.4 Operating systems
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.4 applies to guest operating systems
for GVNP of type 1.
### 4.2.5 Web servers
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.5 applies to GVNP of type 1.
### 4.2.6 Network devices
All text from TS 33.117 [1], clause 4.2.6 applies to GVNP of type 1.
### 4.2.7 Security functional requirements deriving from virtualisation and
related test cases
#### 4.2.7.1 Security functional requirements on GVNP lifecycle management
_Requirement Name_ : GVNP lifecycle management security
_Requirement Description_ :
1) VNF shall authenticate VNFM when VNFM initiates a communication to VNF.
2) VNF shall be able to establish securely protected connection with the VNFM.
3) VNF shall check whether VNFM has been authorized when VNFM access VNF\'s
API.
4) VNF shall log VNFM\'s management operations for auditing.
Note: According to the definition in ETSI GS NFV 003 [6], VNFM is responsible
for the lifecycle management of VNF. The lifecycle management of VNF is set of
functions required to manage the instantiation, maintenance and termination of
VNF. The GVNP of type 1 is 3GPP VNF. A 3GPP VNF lifecycle management begins
when the 3GPP VNF is instantiated by a VNFM after the 3GPP VNF package is
delivered to the operator and uploaded to NFVO. It is different terminology
with the product lifecycle management process in clause 6 that includes set of
functions required to manage first commercial introduction, update, minor
release, major release, end of life.
_Threat Reference_ : Threats on interface between 3GPP VNF and VNFM, in clause
5.3.2.3 of TR 33.927 [3].
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT SECURITY
**Purpose:**
1\. To test the VNF authenticates VNFM when VNFM initiates a communication to
VNF.
2\. To test the VNF establishes secure connection with the VNFM after
successful authentication.
3\. To test the VNF check whether VNFM has been authorized when VNFM access to
VNF\'s API.
4\. To check whether VNF logs the lifecycle management operations from VNFM.
Note: This test case is not applicable when the VNF and VNFM belongs to the
same VNF vendor. If the VNF and VNFM belongs to the same VNF vendor and the
interface between VNF and VNFM is proprietary interface, the API level
authorization is not needed.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
1\. There is a VNFM (or simulated VNFM) in the test environment.
2\. The VNF vendor\'s document describes how VNF authenticates/authorizes
VNFM. Execution Steps
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester triggers the establishment of communication between the VNF and
the VNFM.
2\. The tester captures the communication between the VNF and the VNFM using a
tool (e.g. wireshark).
3\. The tester checks whether the VNF authenticates the VNFM or not according
to the mechanism described in the vendor\'s document. For example, the VNF can
use HTTPS to communicate with the VNFM, the VNF uses VNFM\'s certificate for
authentication.
4\. The tester checks whether the VNF establishes secure connection with the
VNFM after successful authentication. For example, a TLS connection is
established after the VNF successfully authenticates the VNFM.
5\. The tester using the VNFM to access the VNF\'s API and checks whether the
VNF authorizes the VNFM or not according to the mechanism described in the
vendor\'s document. For example, VNF can use OAuth2.0 to authorize the VNFM.
The VNF uses VNFM\'s token for authorization.
6\. The tester checks whether the VNF logs the operations from VNFM or not.
**Expected Results:**
1\. Secure communication is established between VNF and VNFM with integrity
and confidentiality protection.
2\. The VNFM successfully accesses the VNF\'s API.
3\. The VNF logs the operations from VNFM.
**Expected format of evidence:**
1\. Pcap traces contain the authentication and authorization processes.
2\. Screenshot contains the logs.
#### 4.2.7.2 Security functional requirements on executive environment
provision
_Requirement Name_ : secure executive environment provision
_Requirement Description_ :
The VNF shall support to compare the owned resource state with the parsed
resource state from VNFD (VNF Description) by the VNFM. The VNF can query the
parsed resource state by the VNFM from the OAM. The VNF shall send an alarm to
the OAM if the two resource states are inconsistent. This comparing process
can be triggered periodically by the VNF, or the administrator can manually
trigger the VNF to perform the comparing process.
_Threat Reference_ : Threats on interface between 3GPP VNF and virtualisation
layer, in clause 5.3.2.3 of TR 33.927 [3].
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_SECURE EXECUTIVE ENVIRONMENT PROVISION
**Purpose:**
1\. To test whether the VNF compares the owned resource state with the parsed
resource state.
2\. To test whether the VNF send an alarm to the OAM if the two resource
states are inconsistent.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
There are a VNF, a virtualization layer (or simulated virtualization layer),
an OAM, a VNFM, a VIM (or simulated OAM, VNFM, VIM) on the test environment.
**Execution Steps**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester utilizes the virtualization layer to change the resource state
of VNF (e.g. change vCPU size of the VNF).
2\. The tester uses the VNF to query the parsed resource state from the OAM.
3\. The tester uses the OAM to query the parsed resource state of the VNF from
the VNFM and send the received resource state to the VNF.
4\. The tester checks whether the VNF sends an alarm to the OAM when the VNF
receives the parsed resource state from the OAM and finds that the owned
resource state and the parsed resource state are inconsistent.
**Expected Results:**
1\. The VNF send an alarm to the OAM when the VNF receives the parsed resource
state from the OAM and find that the owned resource state and the parsed
resource state are inconsistent.
**Expected format of evidence:**
1\. Screenshot contains the alarm on the OAM.
#### 4.2.7.3 Instantiating VNF from trusted VNF image
_Requirement Name_ : Instantiating VNF from trusted VNF image
_Requirement Description_ :
A VNF shall be initiated from trusted images in a VNF package. The VNF
image(s) shall be signed by an authorized party. The authorized party is
trusted by the operators.
_Threat Reference_ : TR 33.926 [7], Clause5.3.4.1, \"Software Tampering \";
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_INSTANTIATING VNF _ TRUSTED IMAGE
**Purpose:**
> To test whether the instantiating VNF from trusted VNF image.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The virtualized network product document describes information regarding
digital signature protection of VNF images, including details of how the
signature check is carried out, who makes the digital signature of VNF image
etc.
\- One VNF package included two trusted VNF images and the VNF package carries
a correct digital signature of the VNF package.
\- Another VNF package included untrusted VNF image which carry wrong digital
signature of VNF image and the VNF package carries a correct digital signature
of the VNF package.
\- There are a NFVO, or a simulated NFVO. A certificate or public key which is
used to verify the digital signature of VNF image has been pre-configured in
the NFVO. This certificate is trusted by the operator. It means the digital
signature of the VNF image is successfully verified by using the public key in
the certificate trusted by the operator
**Execution Steps:**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. Review the documentation provided by the vendor describing how digital
signature of the VNF image is verified;
2\. The tester uploads a VNF package included two trusted VNF images into a
NFVO. The NFVO verifies the VNF images by validating each digital signature of
the VNF image using the pre-configured certificate or the public key according
to the documentation;
3\. The tester uploads another VNF package included un-trusted VNF image into
NFVO. The NFVO verifies the VNF image(s) by validating each digital signature
of the VNF image using the pre-configured certificate or the public key
according to the documentation.
Note: The digital signature validation of the image is also described in
clause 4.2.3.3.5.2 VNF package and VNF image integrity, but the two test cases
have the different test purposes. This test case focuses on VNF image
credibility, while clause 4.2.3.3.5.2 is concerned with VNF image integrity.
**Expected Results:**
1\. In the step 2, the signatures of the VNF images are successfully validated
and the VNF package is successfully on boarded into the NFVO;
2\. In the step 3, the signature of the un-trusted VNF image is failed to be
validated and the VNF package is not on boarded into the NFVO;
**Expected format of evidence:**
Snapshots containing the result of the VNF package on boarding.
## 4.3 Security requirements and related test cases related to hardening
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The requirements proposed in the present clause aim to securing virtualised
network products (including the network functions in service-based
architecture) by reducing its surface of vulnerability. In particular the
identified requirements aim to ensure that all the default virtualised network
product configurations (including operating system software, firmware and
applications) are appropriately set. The hardening requirements were proposed
in TS 33.117 [2] are general and generally apply to GVNP of type 1. So, the
potential hardening requirements for GVNP of type 1 also include four aspects,
i.e. general hardening requirements (i.e. technical baseline), operating
system, web server, network devices.
Compared to the physical network products, GVNP of type 1 has not hardware,
but contains 3GPP functions, other functions and guest OS, it also has inter-
VNF traffic and intra-VNF traffic in addition to than O&M traffic, control
plane traffic and data plane traffic etc. The following clauses describe how
to reduce the exposure from these new features.
### 4.3.2 Technical baseline
#### 4.3.2.1 No unnecessary or insecure services / protocols
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.3.2.1 applies to GVNP of type 1.
#### 4.3.2.2 Restricted reachability of services
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.3.2.2 applies to GVNP of type 1.
#### 4.3.2.3 No unused software
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.3.2.3 applies to GVNP of type 1.
#### 4.3.2.4 No unused functions
As GVNP of type 1 does not contain the hardware layer, all text from TS 33.117
[2] clause 4.3.2.4 applies to GVNP of type 1, except the requirements and
testing on hardware functions.
#### 4.3.2.5 No unsupported components
As GVNP of type 1 does not contain the hardware layer, all text from TS 33.117
[2] clause 4.3.2.5 applies to GVNP of type 1, except the requirements and
testing on hardware components.
#### 4.3.2.6 Remote login restrictions for privileged users
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.3.2.6 applies to GVNP of type 1.
#### 4.3.2.7 File system Authorization privileges
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.3.2.7 applies to GVNP of type 1.
### 4.3.3 Operating systems
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.2.4 applies to guest operating systems
for GVNP of type 1.
### 4.3.4 Web servers
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.2.5 applies to GVNP of type 1.
### 4.3.5 Network devices
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.2.6 applies to GVNP of type 1.
### 4.3.6 Virtualized Network Products
#### 4.3.6.1 Traffic separation
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.3.5.1 applies to GVNP of type 1, except
for the supporting physical separation of traffic belonging to different
network domains. However, the supporting separation of traffic belonging to
different network domain shall be supported for virtualized network products.
It needs to have same testing step but to set Pre-condition from two separate
interface to two separate logical interface from TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.3.6.2 Separation of inter-VNF and intra-VNF traffic
_Requirement Name_ : inter-VNF and intra-VNF Traffic Separation
_Requirement Description_ :
The network used for the communication between the VNFCs of a VNF (intra-VNF
traffic) and the network used for the communication between VNFs(inter-VNF
traffic) shall be separated to prevent the security threats from the different
networks affect each other.
_Threat Reference:_ Security threat caused by lack of GVNP traffic isolation
in clause 5.3.2.7.15 of TR 33.927 [3]
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_TRAFFIC_SEPARATION_INTER-VNF_INTRA-VNF
**Purpose:**
To test whether the traffics between inter-VNF traffic and intra-VNF traffic
are separated.
Procedure and execution steps:
**Pre-Condition:**
1\. There has a VNF instance on the test environment. This VNF instance has
more than one VNFCI (VNF component Instance). The network between VNFCIs means
intra-VNF network which is private network provided by vendor.
2\. The document which describes how to separate the inter-VNF traffic with
the intra-VNF traffic has been provided by the vendor. For example, the
different network segments are described in the document.
3\. Another VNF instance (or a simulated VNF instance) is on the test
environment and can communicate with the tested VNF instance.
Execution Steps
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester checks whether the inter-VNF traffic and intra-VNF traffic are
separated according the document by the vendor. For example, the tester checks
whether the different network segments used by inter-VNF traffic and intra-VNF
traffic respectively.
2\. The tester checks whether a VNFCI refuses inter-VNF traffic on all intra-
VNF interfaces. For example, the tester can send ping to all intra-VNF
interfaces through an inter-VNF interface.
3\. The tester checks whether a VNFCI refuses intra-VNF traffic on all inter-
VNF interfaces. For example, the tester can send ping to all inter-VNF
interfaces through an intra-VNF interface.
**Expected Results:**
In the step 1, the inter-VNF traffic and intra-VNF traffic are separated
according the document by the vendor. In the step 2 and step 3, the VNFCI
refuses traffic.
**Expected format of evidence:**
A PASS or FAIL.
## 4.4 Basic vulnerability testing requirements
### 4.4.1 Introduction
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.4 applied to all types of GVNPs.
### 4.4.2 Port Scanning
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.4.2 applied to all types of GVNPs.
### 4.4.3 Vulnerability Scanning
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.4.3 applied to all types of GVNPs.
### 4.4.4 Robustness and Fuzz testing
All text from TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.4.4 applied to all types of GVNPs.
#