# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains objectives, requirements and test cases that are
specific to the MnF network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of
General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of
the requirements and test cases given there, as well as specifying
requirements and test cases unique to the MnF network product class. In the
present document, the MnF network product class represents independently
deployed management product supporting 3GPP defined management services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\"
[3] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
MnF Management Function
# 4 MnF-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
## 4.2 MnF-specific security functional adaptations of requirements and
related test cases
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The present clause contains MnF-specific security functional adaptations of
requirements and related test cases.
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the MnF deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
The requirements and test cases in TS 33.117 [3] clause 4.2.2 apply to the MnF
network product class with the following considerations:
\- The requirements and test cases in TS 33.117 [3] clause 4.2.2.2 are only
applicable when the product supports HTTP/2-based SBI interfaces.
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
The test case can also address the MnF-specific threat \"Unprotected
Management data during transmission\" of clause V.2.2.2 in TR 33.926 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
.
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
##### 4.2.3.3.1 System handling during overload situations
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.3.2 Boot from intended memory devices only
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.3.3 System handling during excessive overload situations
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.3.4 System robustness against unexpected input.
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.3.5 Network Product software package integrity
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
##### 4.2.3.4.1 Authentication policy
##### 4.2.3.4.1.1 System functions shall not be used without successful
authentication and authorization. {#system-functions-shall-not-be-used-
without-successful-authentication-and-authorization. .H6}
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.1.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.4.1.2 Accounts shall allow unambiguous identification of the user.
{#accounts-shall-allow-unambiguous-identification-of-the-user. .H6}
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.1.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.4.2 Authentication attributes
###### 4.2.3.4.2.1 Account protection by at least one authentication
attribute.
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.2.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
###### 4.2.3.4.2.2 Predefined accounts shall be deleted or disabled.
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.2.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
###### 4.2.3.4.2.3 Predefined or default authentication attributes shall be
deleted or disabled.
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.2.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.4.3 Password policy
###### 4.2.3.4.3.1 Password Structure
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.3.1 of TS 33.117 [3]..
###### 4.2.3.4.3.2 Password changes
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
###### 4.2.3.4.3.3 Protection against brute force and dictionary attacks
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
###### 4.2.3.4.3.4 Hiding password display
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.4.4 Specific Authentication use cases
###### 4.2.3.4.4.1 Network Product Management and Maintenance interfaces
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.4.4.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.4.5 Policy regarding consecutive failed login attempts
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.4.6 Authorization and access control
##### 4.2.3.4.6 Authorization and access control
###### 4.2.3.4.6.1 Authorization policy
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.6.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
The test case can also address the MnF-specific threat \"Over-privileged data
process\" of clause V.2.2.1 in TR 33.926 [2].
###### 4.2.3.4.6.2 Role-based access control
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4.6.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
##### 4.2.3.5.1 Protecting sessions -- logout function
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.5.2 Protecting sessions -- Inactivity timeout
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
##### 4.2.3.6.1 Security event logging
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.6.2 Log transfer to centralized storage
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.6.3 Protection of security event log files
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.4 Operating systems
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.5 Web servers
#### 4.2.5.1 HTTPS
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.5.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.5.2 Logging
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.5.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.5.3 HTTP User sessions
For the requirement defined in clause 4.2.5.3 of TS 33.117[3]:
\- The requirement \"In addition to the Session Idle Timeout (see clause
4.2.3.5.2 of TS 33.117 [3]), the Network Product shall automatically terminate
sessions after a configurable maximum lifetime. This maximum lifetime defines
the maximum session span. When the maximum lifetime expires, the session shall
be closed, the session ID shall be deleted and the user shall be forced to
(re)authenticate in the web application and to establish a new session. The
default value for this maximum lifetime shall be set to 8 hours.\" may not be
applicable to the MnF product.
#### 4.2.5.4 HTTP input validation
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.5.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.6 Network devices
#### 4.2.6.1 Protection of data and information
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6.2.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.6.2 Protecting availability and integrity
##### 4.2.6.2.1 Packet filtering
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6.2.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.6.2.2 Interface robustness requirements
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6.2.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.6.2.3 GTP-C Filtering
The requirement and test case in clause 4.2.6.2.3 of TS 33.117 [3] is not
applicable to MnF.
##### 4.2.6.2.4 GTP-U Filtering
The requirement and test case in clause 4.2.6.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3] is not
applicable to MnF.
## 4.3 MnF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases.
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The present clause contains MnF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements
and related test cases.
### 4.3.2 Technical Baseline
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.3 Operating Systems
#### 4.3.3.1 General operating system requirements and test cases
##### 4.3.3.1.1 IP-Source address spoofing mitigation
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3.1.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.3.3.1.2 Minimized kernel network functions
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3.1.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.3.3.1.3 No automatic launch of removable media
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3.1.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.3.3.1.4 SYN Flood Prevention
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3.1.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.3.3.1.5 Protection from buffer overflows
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3.1.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.3.3.1.6 External file system mount restrictions
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3.1.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.4 Web Servers
#### 4.3.4.1 General
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.2 No system privileges for web server
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.3 No unused HTTP methods
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.4 No unused add-ons
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.5 No compiler, interpreter, or shell via CGI or other server-side
scripting
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.6 No CGI or other scripting for uploads
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.7 No execution of system commands with SSI
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.7 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.8 Access rights for web server configuration
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.8 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.9 No default content
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.9 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.10 No directory listings
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.10 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.11 Web server information in HTTP headers
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.11 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.12 Web server information in error pages
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.12 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.13 Minimized file type mappings
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.13 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.14 Restricted file access
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.14 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.4.15 Execute rights exclusive for CGI/Scripting directory
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4.15 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.5 Network Devices
#### 4.3.5.1 Traffic Separation
The requirement and test case in clause 4.3.5.1 of TS 33.117 [3] is not
applicable to MnF-specific network product.
### 4.3.6 Network Functions in service-based architecture
#### 4.3.6.1 Introduction
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.3.6.2 No code execution or inclusion of external resources by JSON
parsers
The requirement and test case in clause 4.3.6.2 of TS 33.117 [3] is not
applicable to MnF-specific network product.
#### 4.3.6.3 Unique key values in IEs
The requirement and test case in clause 4.3.6.3 of TS 33.117 [3] is not
applicable to MnF-specific network product.
#### 4.3.6.4 The valid format and range of values for IEs
The requirement and test case in clause 4.3.6.4 of TS 33.117 [3] is not
applicable to MnF-specific network product.
## 4.4 MnF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
There are no MnF-specific additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
#