# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains requirements and test cases that are specific to
the AAnF network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of General Security
Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of the requirements
and test cases given there, as well as specifying requirements and test cases
unique to the AAnF network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\"
[3] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.535: \"Authentication and Key Management for Applications
(AKMA) based on 3GPP credentials in the 5G System (5GS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for 5G System (5GS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAnF Authentication and Key Management for Applications (AKMA) Anchor Function
# 4 AAnF-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction {#introduction-1}
AAnF specific security requirements include both AAnF-specific security
functional requirements in relevant specifications as well as security
requirements introduced in the present document derived from the threats
specific to AAnF as described in TR 33.926 [3].
## 4.2 AAnF-specific adaptations of security functional requirements and
related test cases
### 4.2.1 Introduction {#introduction-2}
The present clause contains AAnF-specific security functional adaptations of
requirements and related test cases.
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the AAnF deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
#### 4.2.2.0 General
The general approach in TS 33.117 [2] clause 4.2.2.1 and all the requirements
and test cases in TS 33.117 [2] clause 4.2.2.2 related to SBA/SBI aspects
apply to the AAnF network product class.
#### 4.2.2.1 AKMA key storage and update
_Requirement Name_ : AKMA key storage update
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.535 [4], clause 6.1
_Requirement Description_ : The AAnF stores the latest information sent by the
AUSF. After receiving the new generated A-KID and K~AKMA~, the AAnF deletes
the old A-KID and K~AKMA~ and stores the new generated A-KID and K~AKMA~ as
specified in TS 33.535 [4], clause 6.1.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [3], Annex W.2.2.3, AKMA key storage and
update
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_AKMA_Key_Storage_Update
**Purpose:**
Verify that the AAnF stores only the latest AKMA context received by the AUSF.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with AUSF and AF. The AUSF and the AF may be simulated.
\- AAnF network product is connected in emulated/real network environment.
**Execution Steps**
Test A:
1) Primary authentication is simulated for a specific UE, leading to the
simulated AUSF pushing SUPI, A-KID1, K~AKMA~1 to the AAnF.
2) The AF requests a K~AF~ from the AAnF by proving A-KID1 and AF_ID.
3) Another primary authentication is simulated for the same UE, leading to the
simulated AUSF pushing SUPI, A-KID2, K~AKMA~2 to the AAnF.
4) The AF requests a K~AF~ by providing A-KID1 to the AAnF.
5) The AF requests a K~AF~ by providing A-KID2 to the AAnF.
**Expected Results:**
The AF received an error message indicating the AKMA context related to A-KID
1 is not found after step 4). After step 5), the AF received a K~AF~ which is
different from the K~AF~ that received after step 2).
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction {#introduction-3}
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no AAnF -specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no AAnF -specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
##### 4.2.3.2.4.1 Confidentiality, integrity and replay protections over SBA
interface
_Requirement Name_ : Confidentiality, integrity and replay protections over
SBA interface
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.535 [4], clause 4.4.0
_Requirement Description_ : The SBA interface between the AAnF and the AUSF is
confidentiality, integrity and replay protected as specified in TS 33.535 [4],
clause 4.4.0
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [3], Annex W.2.2.1, Control plane data
protection with AUSF
_Test Case:_
**Test Name:** TC_PROTECT_SBA_AAnF_AUSF
**Purpose:**
Verify that the transported data between AAnF and AUSF are confidentiality,
integrity and replay protected over SBA interface.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- AAnF and AUSF network products are connected in simulated/real network
environment.
\- Network product documentation containing information about supported TLS
protocol and certificates is provided by the vendor.
\- Tester shall have access to the SBA interface between AAnF and AUSF.
**Execution Steps:**
The requirement mentioned in this clause is tested in accordance with the
procedure mentioned in clause 4.2.2.2.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
**Expected Results:**
The user data transported between AAnF and AUSF is confidentiality, integrity
and replay protected.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., evidence can be presented in the
form of screenshot/screen-capture or pcap traces.
##### 4.2.3.2.4.2 Confidentiality, integrity and replay protections over SBA
interface
_Requirement Name_ : Confidentiality, integrity and replay protections over
SBA interface
_Requirement Reference_ : TS 33.535 [4], clause 4.4.0
_Requirement Description_ : The SBA interface between AAnF and AF/NEF is
confidentiality, integrity and replay protected as specified in TS 33.535 [4],
clause 4.4.0
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [3], Annex W.2.2.2, Control plane data
protection with AF/NEF
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name** : TC_PROTECT_AAnF_AF_NEF
**Purpose** :
Verify that the transported data between AAnF and AF/NEF are confidentiality,
integrity and replay protected over SBA interface.
**Pre-Conditions** :
\- AAnF and AF/NEF network products are connected in simulated/real network
environment.
\- Network product documentation containing information about supported TLS
protocol and certificates is provided by the vendor.
\- Tester shall have access to the SBA interface between AAnF and AF/NEF.
**Execution Steps** :
The requirement mentioned in this clause is tested in accordance with the
procedure mentioned in clause 4.2.2.2.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
**Expected Results** :
The user data transported between AAnF and AF/NEF is confidentiality,
integrity and replay protected.
**Expected format of evidence** :
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., evidence can be presented in the
form of screenshot/screen-capture or pcap traces.
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.4 Operating systems
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.5 Web servers
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.6 Network devices
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 [2].
## 4.3 AAnF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases.
### 4.3.1 Introduction {#introduction-4}
The present clause contains AAnF-specific adaptations of hardening
requirements and related test cases.
### 4.3.2 Technical Baseline
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.3 Operating Systems
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.4 Web Servers
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.5 Network Devices
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.6 Network Functions in service-based architecture
There are no AAnF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 of TS 33.117 [2].
## 4.4 AAnF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
### 4.4.1 Introduction {#introduction-5}
There are no AAnF specific addtions to clause 4.4.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.2 Port scanning
There are no AAnF specific addtions to clause 4.4.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.3 Vulnerability scanning
There are no AAnF specific addtions to clause 4.4.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.4.4 Robustness and fuzz testing
The test cases under clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2] are applicable to AAnF.
The interfaces defined for the AAnF are in 4.2.3 of TS 23.501 [5].
According to clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2], the transport protocols available
on the interfaces providing IP-based protocols need to be robustness tested.
Following TCP/IP layer model and considering all the protocols over transport
layer, for AAnF, the following interface and protocols are in the scope of the
testing:
\- For Naanf: The TCP, HTTP2 and JSON protocols.
NOTE: There could be other interfaces and/or protocols requiring testing under
clause 4.4.4 of TS 33.117 [2]
*\ *
#