# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the security features and mechanisms to support
authentication and key management aspects for applications based on
subscription credential(s) in 5G system as defined in TS 33.501 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs\".
[6] IETF RFC 7542: \"The Network Access Identifier\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.222: \" Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
network application functions using HypertextTransfer Protocol over Transport
Layer Security (HTTPS)\".
[8] Void
[9] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[10] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.503: \"5G System; Unified Data Management Services \".
[12] IETF RFC 9146: \"The Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Protocol
Version 1.3\"
[13] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP network layer
security\".
[14] IETF RFC 8613: \"Object Security for Constrained RESTful Environments
(OSCORE)\".
[15] IETF RFC 8949: \"Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)\".
[16] IETF RFC 5869: \"HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function
(HKDF)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**AKMA subscription data:** The data in the home operator\'s network
indicating whether or not the subscriber is allowed to use AKMA.
**AKMA context: A set of parameters stored in AAnF, including SUPI, GPSI,
K~AKMA~ and A-KID.**
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
A-KID AKMA Key IDentifier
A-TID _AKMA Temporary UE IDentifier_
AAnF AKMA Anchor Function
AF Application Function
AF_ID AF Identifier
AKMA Authentication and Key Management for Applications
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
AUSF AUthentication Server Function
CBOR Concise Binary Object Representation
CoAP Constrained Application Protocol
K~AF~ AKMA Application Key
K~AKMA~ AKMA Anchor Key
KDF Key Derivation Function
NEF Network Exposure Function
OSCORE Object Security for Constrained RESTful Environments
RID Routing InDicator
UDM Unified Data Management
# 4 Architecture for AKMA
## 4.1 Reference model
Figure 4.1-1 shows a fundamental network model of AKMA, as well as the
interfaces between them.
Figure 4.1-1: Fundamental Network Model for AKMA
NOTE: Figure 4.1-1 shows the case where AAnF is deployed as a standalone
function. Deployments can choose to collocate AAnF with AUSF or with NEF
according to operators\' deployment scenarios.
Figure 4.1-2 shows the AKMA architecture using the reference point
representation.
Figure 4.1-2: AKMA Architecture in reference point representation for (a)
internal AFs of HPLMN and (b) external AFs
The AKMA service requires a new logical entity, called the AKMA Anchor
Function (AAnF).
The AKMA Architecture in Figure 4.1-2 is applicable to both roaming scenario
and non-roaming scenario:
\- non-roaming: UE is in HPLMN and accessing an AF;
\- roaming scenario#1: UE is in VPLMN and accessing an internal HPLMN AF;
\- roaming scenario#2: UE is in VPLMN and accessing an internal VPLMN AF;
\- roaming scenario#3: UE is in VPLMN and accessing an external AF in the Data
Network.
## 4.2 Network elements
### 4.2.1 AAnF
The AAnF is the anchor function in the HPLMN. The AAnF stores the AKMA Anchor
Key (K~AKMA~) and SUPI/GPSI for AKMA service, which is received from the
AUSF/UDM after the UE completes a successful 5G primary authentication. The
AAnF also generates the key material to be used between the UE and the
Application Function (AF) and maintains UE AKMA contexts. The AAnF sends
SUPI/GPSI of the UE to AF located inside the operator\'s network according to
the AF request or sends SUPI to NEF. The AAnF has the capability to trigger a
primary authentication for K~AKMA~ refreshing purpose.
### 4.2.2 AF
The AF is defined in TS 23.501 [3] with additional functions:
\- AF with the AKMA service enabling requests for AKMA Application Key, called
K~AF,~ from the AAnF using A-KID.
\- AF shall be authenticated and authorized by the operator network before
providing the K~AF~ to the AF.
\- The AF located inside the operator\'s network performs the AAnF selection.
### 4.2.3 NEF
The NEF is defined in TS 23.501 [3] with additional functions:
\- The NEF enables and authorizes the external AF assessing AKMA service and
forwards the request towards the AAnF.
\- The NEF performs the AAnF selection.
### 4.2.4 AUSF
The AUSF is defined in TS 23.501 [3] with additional functions:
\- AUSF provides the SUPI and AKMA key material (A-KID,K~AKMA~) of the UE to
the AAnF.
\- AUSF performs the AAnF selection.
### 4.2.5 UDM
The UDM is defined in TS 23.501 [3] with the additional functions:
\- UDM stores AKMA subscription data of the subscriber.
## 4.3 AKMA Service Based Interfaces(SBIs)
### 4.3.0 General
The following interfaces are involved in AKMA network architecture:
**\- Nnef:** Service-based interface exhibited by NEF.
**\- Nudm:** Service-based interface exhibited by UDM.
NOTE 1: UDM services related to AKMA service are defined in TS 33.501 [2]
clause 14.2.2 and 14.2.6.
**\- Naanf:** Service-based interface exhibited by AAnF.
The AAnF interacts with the AUSF and the AF using Service-based Interfaces.
When the AF is located in the operator\'s network, the AAnF shall use Service-
Based Interface to communicate with the AF directly. When the AF is located
outside the operator\'s network, the NEF shall be used to exchange the
messages between the AF and the AAnF.
### 4.3.1 Void
## 4.4 Security requirements and principles for AKMA
## 4.4.0 General
The following security requirements are applicable to AKMA:
\- AKMA shall reuse the same UE subscription and the same credentials used for
5G access.
\- AKMA shall reuse the 5G primary authentication procedure and methods
specified in TS 33.501 [2] for the sake of implicit authentication for AKMA
services.
\- The SBA interface between the AAnF and the AUSF shall be confidentiality,
integrity and replay protected.
\- The SBA interface between AAnF and AF/NEF shall be confidentiality,
integrity and replay protected.
\- The AKMA Application Key (K~AF~) shall be provided with a maximum lifetime
based on the operator's local authentication policy.
NOTE: Void
### 4.4.1 Requirements on Ua* reference point
The Ua* reference point is application specific. The generic requirements for
Ua* are:
\- Ua* protocol shall be able to carry AKMA Key Identifier (A-KID) .
\- The UE and the AKMA AF shall be able to secure the reference point Ua*
using the AKMA Application Key derived from the AKMA Anchor Key.
NOTE 1: The exact method of securing the reference point Ua* depends on the
application protocol used over reference point Ua*.
NOTE 2: Void
\- The Ua* protocol shall be able to handle the expiration of K~AF.~
### 4.4.2 Requirements on AKMA Key Identifier (A-KID)
Requirements for AKMA Key Identifier (A-KID) are:
\- A-KID shall be globally unique.
\- A-KID shall be usable as a key identifier in protocols used in the
reference point Ua*.
\- AKMA AF shall be able to identify the AAnF serving the UE from the A-KID.
### 4.4.3 Requirements on the UE
The requirements on the UE are:
\- Applications on the UE shall not be able to get access to K~AKMA.~
\- An application on the UE shall only get the K~AF~ keys related to specific
AF Identifiers (AF_IDs) that the application is authorized to get.
\- An application on the UE shall not be able to get access to the K~AF~ keys
that belong to other applications.
NOTE: How these requirements are satisfied is out of scope of 3GPP.
## 4.5 AKMA reference points
The AKMA architecture reuses the following reference point from the 5GC for
the execution of the primary authentication procedure:
**N1:** Reference point between the UE and the AMF.
**N2:** Reference point between the (R)AN and the AMF.
**N12:** Reference point between AMF and AUSF.
**N13:** Reference point between the UDM and the AUSF.
**N33:** Reference point between NEF and an external AF.
The AKMA architecture defines the following reference points:
**N61** : Reference point between the AAnF and the AUSF.
**N62** : Reference point between the AAnF and an internal AF.
**N63** : Reference point between the AAnF and NEF.
**Ua*** : Reference point between the UE and an AF.
NOTE: The reference point Ua* carries the application protocol, which is
secured using the key material agreed between UE and AAnF as a result of
successful AKMA procedures.
## 4.6 Roaming
### 4.6.1 AKMA roaming requirements
\- The roaming subscriber shall be able to utilize the AKMA feature provided
by the home network.
\- The home network shall be able to control whether its subscriber is
authorized to use the service in the visited network.
## 4.7 Use of Authentication Proxy (AP)
### 4.7.1 Architecture of using AP
An Authentication Proxy (AP) is a proxy which takes the role of an AF and
delegates a group of Application Servers (ASs). It may reside between the UE
and the AS as depicted in the figures below. The AP helps the ASs behind the
AP to execute AKMA procedures to save the consumption of signalling resources
and AAnF computing resources. It may also relieve the AS of security tasks.
The use of an AP is fully compatible with the architecture specified in the
present document.
The AP can assure the ASs that the request is coming from an authorized
subscriber of the MNO.
Figure 4.7.1-1: Environment and reference points of AP when AP is internal
Figure 4.7.1-2: Environment and reference points of AP when AP is external
If the Ua* is HTTP based, the UE is configured with the FQDN of AS, and the AP
is a reverse proxy to handle the communication between the UE and the AS. The
AP takes the role of an AF. The AKMA Application Key (i.e. K~AF~), which is
utilized between the UE and the AP, is derived based on the FQDN of the AS.
If the Ua* is not HTTP based, it is left to implementation, e.g., how the AP
identifies the traffic towards corresponding AS may be pre-configured in the
AP by the operator who deploys the AP.
### 4.7.2 AP-AS reference point
The HTTP protocol is run over the AP-AS reference point.
Confidentiality and integrity protection can be provided for the reference
point between the AP and the AS using NDS/IP mechanisms as specified in TS
33.210 [5]. For traffic between different security domains, the Za reference
point shall be operated. For traffic inside a security domain, it is up to the
operator to decide whether to deploy the Zb reference point.
### 4.7.3 Example of using AP for TLS tunnels
When the TLS based protocol is used as Ua* profile, the AP can be used to
handle the TLS security relation with the UE and relieves the AS of this task.
When an HTTPS request is destined towards an AS behind an AP, the AP
terminates the TLS tunnel and performs UE authentication. The AP proxies the
HTTP requests received from UE to one or many application servers. The AP may
add an assertion of identity of the subscriber for use by the AS, when the AP
forwards the request from the UE to the AS.
Figure 4.7.3-1: Environment and reference points of AP for TLS tunnels when AP
is internal
Figure 4.7.3-2: Environment and reference points of AP for TLS tunnels when AP
is external
# 5 Key management
## 5.1 AKMA key hierarchy
The key hierarchy (see Figure 5.1-1) includes the following keys: K~AUSF~,
K~AKMA~, K~AF.~ K~AUSF~ is generated by AUSF as specified in clause 6.1 of TS
33.501 [2].
Keys for AAnF:
\- K~AKMA~ is a key derived by ME and AUSF from K~AUSF~.
Keys for AF:
\- K~AF~ is a key derived by ME and AAnF from K~AKMA~.
K~AKMA~ and K~AF~ are derived according to the procedures of clauses 6.1 and
6.2.
Figure 5.1-1: AKMA Key Hierarchy
## 5.2 AKMA key lifetimes
The K~AKMA~ and A-KID are valid until the next successful primary
authentication is performed (implicit lifetime), in which case the K~AKMA~ and
A-KID are replaced.
AKMA Application Keys K~AF~ shall use explicit lifetimes based on the
operator\'s policy. The lifetime of K~AF~ shall be sent by the AAnF as
described in clauses 6.2 and 6.3. In case that a new AKMA Anchor Key K~AKMA~
is established, the AKMA Application Key K~AF~ can continue to be used for the
duration of the current application session or until its lifetime expires,
whichever comes first. When the K~AF~ lifetime expires, a new AKMA Application
Key is established based on the current AKMA Anchor Key K~AKMA~.
NOTE: When the K~AF~ lifetime expires and the K~AKMA~ has not changed in AAnF,
according to the Annex A.4, the AKMA Application Key which is established
based on the current AKMA Anchor Key K~AKMA~ is not a new one.
# 6 AKMA Procedures
## 6.1 Deriving AKMA key after primary authentication
There is no separate authentication of the UE to support AKMA functionality.
Instead, AKMA reuses the 5G primary authentication procedure executed e.g.
during the UE Registration to authenticate the UE. A successful 5G primary
authentication results in K~AUSF~ being stored at the AUSF and the UE. Figure
6.1-1 shows the procedure to derive K~AKMA~ after a successful primary
authentication.
Figure 6.1-1: Deriving K~AKMA~ after primary authentication
1) During the primary authentication procedure, the AUSF interacts with the
UDM in order to fetch authentication information such as subscription
credentials (e.g. AKA Authentication vectors) and the authentication method
using the Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request service operation.
2) In the response, the UDM may also indicate to the AUSF whether the AKMA
Anchor key needs to be generated for the UE. If the AKMA indication is
included, the UDM shall also include the RID of the UE.
3) If the AUSF receives the AKMA indication from the UDM, the AUSF shall store
the K~AUSF~ and generate the AKMA Anchor Key (K~AKMA~) and the A-KID from
K~AUSF~ after the primary authentication procedure is successfully completed.
The UE shall generate the AKMA Anchor Key (K~AKMA~) and the A-KID from the
K~AUSF~ before initiating communication with an AKMA Application Function.
4) After AKMA key material is generated, the AUSF selects the AAnF as defined
in clause 6.7, and shall send the generated A-KID and K~AKMA~ to the AAnF
together with the SUPI of the UE using the Naanf_AKMA_KeyRegistration Request
service operation. The AAnF shall store the latest information sent by the
AUSF.
NOTE 1: The AUSF need not store any AKMA key material after delivery to the
AAnF.
NOTE 1a: When re-authentication runs, the AUSF generates a new A-KID, and a
new K~AKMA~ and sends the new generated A-KID and K~AKMA~ to the AAnF. After
receiving the new generated A-KID and K~AKMA~, the AAnF deletes the old A-KID
and K~AKMA~ and stores the new generated A-KID and K~AKMA~.
5) The AAnF sends the response to the AUSF using the
Naanf_AKMA_AnchorKey_Register Response service operation.
A-KID identifies the K~AKMA~ key of the UE.
A-KID shall be in NAI format as specified in clause 2.2 of IETF RFC 7542 [6],
i.e. username\@realm. The username part shall include the RID and the A-TID
(_AKMA Temporary UE Identifier_), and the realm part shall include Home
Network Identifier.
The A-TID shall be derived from K~AUSF~ as specified in Annex A.3.
The AUSF shall use the RID received from the UDM as described in step 2 to
derive A-KID.
NOTE 2: The chance of A-TID collision is not zero but practically low as the
A-TID derivation is based on KDF specified in Annex B of TS 33.220 [4]. The
detection of A-TID collision as well as potential handling of collision is not
addressed in the present document.
K~AKMA~ shall be derived from K~AUSF~ as specified in Annex A.2. Since K~AKMA~
and A-TID in A-KID are both derived from K~AUSF~ based on primary
authentication run, the K~AKMA~ and A-KID can only be refreshed by a new
successful primary authentication.
## 6.2 Deriving AKMA Application Key for a specific AF
### 6.2.1 AAnF response with UE Identity
Figure 6.2-1 shows the procedure used by the AF to request application
function specific AKMA keys from the AAnF, when the AF is located inside the
operator\'s network.
Figure 6.2-1: K~AF~ generation from K~AKMA~
Before communication between the UE and the AKMA AF can start, the UE and the
AKMA AF need to know whether to use AKMA. This knowledge is implicit to the
specific application on the UE and the AKMA AF or indicated by the AKMA AF to
the UE (see clause 6.5).
1\. The UE shall generate the AKMA Anchor Key (K~AKMA~) and the A-KID from the
K~AUSF~ before initiating communication with an AKMA Application Function.
When the UE initiates communication with the AKMA AF, it shall include the
derived A-KID (see clause 6.1) in the Application Session Establishment
Request message. The UE may derive K~AF~ before sending the message or
afterwards.
2\. If the AF does not have an active context associated with the A-KID, then
the AF selects the AAnF as defined in clause 6.7, and sends a
Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get request to AAnF with the A-KID to request the
K~AF~ for the UE. The AF also includes its identity (AF_ID) in the request.
AF_ID consists of the FQDN of the AF and the Ua* security protocol identifier
(see Annex A.4). The latter parameter identifies the security protocol that
the AF will use with the UE.
The AAnF shall check whether the AAnF can provide the service to the AF based
on the configured local policy or based on the authorization information
available in the signalling (i.e., Oauth2.0 token). If it succeeds, the
following procedures are executed. Otherwise, the AAnF shall reject the
procedure.
The AAnF shall verify whether the subscriber is authorized to use AKMA based
on the presence of the UE specific K~AKMA~ key identified by the A-KID.
If K~AKMA~ is present in AAnF, the AAnF shall continue with step 3.
If K~AKMA~ is not present in the AAnF, the AAnF shall continue with step 6
with an error response.
3\. Once receving the request from the AF, if the AAnF determines this
specific AF needs GPSI, according to its local policy, the AAnF sends a
Nudm_SDM_Get Request to the UDM to fetch the GPSI of the UE. If the specific
AF does not need GPSI, the AAnF shall continue with step 5.
4\. The UDM responds with the GPSI of the UE. The AAnF shall store the
received GPSI as part of UE's AKMA context.
5\. The AAnF derives the AKMA Application Key (K~AF~) from K~AKMA~ if it does
not already have K~AF~.
The key derivation of K~AF~ shall be performed as specified in Annex A.4.
6\. The AAnF sends Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get response to the AF with SUPI,
K~AF~ and the K~AF~ expiration time. Whether to send SUPI or GPSI is
determined by AAnF based on the local policy.
7\. The AF sends the Application Session Establishment Response to the UE. If
the information in step 6 indicates failure of AKMA key request, the AF shall
reject the Application Session Establishment by including a failure cause.
Afterwards, UE may trigger a new Application Session Establishment request
with the latest A-KID to the AKMA AF.
### 6.2.2 AAnF response without UE Identity
In some scenarios, anonymous user access to the AF is desirable (e.g., UE
identification is not required at the AF). For allowing such anonymous user
access to the AF, the procedure detailed in clause 6.2.1 of the present
document is used with the following changes:
\- in step 2, instead of Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get request,
Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_AnonUser_Get request is used by the AF; and
\- in step 6, the AAnF sends Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_AnonUser_Get response
to the AF with K~AF~ and the K~AF~ expiration time.
The A-KID functions as a temporary user identifier.
## 6.3 AKMA Application Key request via NEF
Figure 6.3-1 shows the procedure used by the AF to request K~AF~ from the AAnF
via NEF, when the AF is located outside the operator\'s network.
Figure 6.3-1: AKMA Application Key request via NEF
1\. When the AF is about to request AKMA Application Key for the UE from the
AAnF, e.g. when UE initiates application session establishment request as in
clause 6.2.1, the AF discovers the HPLMN of the UE based on the A-KID and
sends the request towards the AAnF via NEF service API. The request shall
include the A-KID and the AF_ID and optionally UE Id not needed indication.
NOTE: In the case of architecture without CAPIF support, the AF is locally
configured with the API termination points for the service. In the case of
architecture with CAPIF support, the AF obtains the service API information
from the CAPIF core function via the Availability of service APIs event
notification or Service Discover Response as specified in TS 23.222 [5].
2\. If the AF is authorized by the NEF to request K~AF~, including the
authorization after verification of the AF_ID in step 1, the NEF discovers and
selects an AAnF as defined in clause 6.7.
3\. The NEF sends a Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get request to the selected AAnF
with the A-KID to request the KAF for the UE.
The AAnF shall process the request in the same way as specified in clause
6.2.1 with following changes:
If K~AKMA~ is present in AAnF, the AAnF shall continue with step 4 in this
clause.
If K~AKMA~ is not present in the AAnF, the AAnF shall continue with step 5 in
this clause with an error response.
4\. The AAnF generates the K~AF~ as specified in clause 6.2.1 and sends the
response to the NEF with the K~AF~, the K~AF~ expiration time (K~AF~ exptime)
and SUPI.
5\. The NEF forwards the response to the AF with the K~AF~, the K~AF~
expiration time (K~AF~ exptime) and optionally GPSI (external ID). Based on
local policy, the NEF uses the Nudm_SubscriberDataManagement service which is
specified in TS 29.503[11] to translate SUPI to GPSI (external ID) and
optionally include GPSI (external ID) in the response. If UE Id not needed
indication is received in the incoming request, the NEF shall not provide the
GPSI (external ID) to AF. The NEF shall not send the SUPI to the AF.
## 6.4 AKMA key change
### 6.4.1 K~AKMA~ re-keying
K~AKMA~ shall be re-keyed by running a successful primary authentication as
described in clause 6.1.
### 6.4.2 K~AF~ re-keying
The K~AF~ re-keying depends on the lifetime of the K~AF~ and may be trigged by
the AF, which means that when a new K~AKMA~ is derived, the K~AF~ will not be
re-keyed automatically.
When the lifetime of K~AF~ expires, the AF may reject UE's access to the AF or
refresh the K~AF~ as described in clause 6.4.3 based on its policy. If the AF
chooses to reject UE's access, the AF may provide a cause indicating that the
KAF has expired via Ua* protocol specific means so that the UE can take
appropriate action. If therehas been a change of K~AUSF~ (e.g., due to a
successful run of primary authentication), the UE may re-try accessing the AF
by using the A-KID derived from the new K~AUSF~.
### 6.4.3 K~AF~ refresh
There is no support for an explicit K~AF~ refresh procedure in this document.
If a primary authentication does not take place, the K~AUSF~, K~AKMA~ and
K~AF~ remain unchanged since the latest primary authentication.
The K~AF~ may be refreshed by the K~AKMA~ refresh defined in clause 6.4.4 as
decided by AAnF.
NOTE 1: The AAnF can decide KAKMA refresh based on local policy..
Ua* protocol may support refresh of derived session keys from K~AF~. If the
Ua* protocol supports the refresh of derived session keys from K~AF~, the AF
may refresh the K~AF~ at any time using the Ua* protocol.
NOTE 2: How a fresh key is derived for AKMA is up to Ua* protocol
implementation.
NOTE 3: A session key based on K~AF~ refreshed using the Ua* protocol is only
known by UE and AF.
### 6.4.4 K~AKMA~ refresh
As defined in TS 33.501[2] clause 6.1.5, the AAnF may decide to refresh the
K~AKMA~ based on the operator's local authentication policy by sending the
Nudm_UECM_AuthTrigger Request message to the UDM. The UDM may further decide
whether to trigger the primary authentication as defined in clause 6.1.5 of TS
33.501[2].
## 6.5 Initiation of AKMA
In case when the UE does not know to use AKMA for a service, then the
following procedure shown in figure 6.5-1 applies.
{width="2.716666666666667in" height="1.85in"}
Figure 6.5-1: Initiation of AKMA
1\. The UE may start communication over reference point Ua* with the AF with
or without any AKMA-related parameters.
2\. If the AF requires the use of shared keys obtained by means of the AKMA,
but the request from UE does not include AKMA-related parameters, the AF
replies with an AKMA initiation message. The form of this initiation message
may depend on the particular reference point Ua*.
In case the UE knows to use AKMA for a service, then it directly initiates the
procedure in clause 6.2.
## 6.6 AAnF AKMA context removal
### 6.6.1 General
This procedure is used to remove the AKMA context in the AAnF. NF consumers
may initiate this procedure due to local policy.
Figure 6.6.1-1: AAnF AKMA context removal procedure
1\. NF initiates an AAnF AKMA context removal procedure to delete the AKMA
context in AAnF.
> 2\. NF discovers the AAnF of the UE, as specified in clause 6.7 and sends a
> Naanf_AKMA_Context_Remove request to AAnF to remove AKMA context for the UE.
>
> 3\. AAnF shall delete AKMA Context (e.g. SUPI, A-KID and K~AKMA~) from its
> local database.
4\. AAnF sends a Naanf_AKMA_Context_Remove response to NF.
## 6.7 AAnF Discovery and Selection
The NF consumer or the SCP performs AAnF discovery to discover an AAnF
instance.
In the case of NF consumer-based discovery and selection, the following
applies:
\- Internal AFs and the NEF performs AAnF instance selection that handles the
AKMA request. The AF/NEF shall utilize the NRF to discover the AAnF
instance(s) unless AAnF information is available by other means, e.g. locally
configured on the AF/NEF.
\- The AUSF performs AAnF selection to allocate an AAnF Instance to send the
AKMA key material related to the UE. The AUSF shall utilize the NRF to
discover the AAnF instance(s) unless AAnF information is available by other
means, e.g. locally configured on the AUSF.
\- The NF specified in clause 6.6 performs AAnF instance selection that
handles the AKMA request. The NF shall utilize the NRF to discover the AAnF
instance(s) unless AAnF information is available by other means, e.g. locally
configured on the the NF specified in clause 6.6.
The AAnF selection functionality in NF consumer or in SCP should consider the
following factor:
\- the UE\'s Routing Indicator.
NOTE 1: The AF/NEF obtains the Routing Indicator as part of the A-KID in the
AKMA request. The AUSF obtains the Routing Indicator within the
Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response from the UDM.
Internal AFs, the NEF and the AUSF shall select the same AAnF set based on the
UE's Routing Indicator.
When the UE\'s Routing Indicator is set to its default value as defined in TS
23.003 [9], the AAnF NF consumer can select any AAnF instance within the home
network of the UE.
NOTE 2: In scenarios where multiple sets of AAnFs are deployed, it is left up
to implementation how to ensure that the AAnF NF consumers select an AAnF
instance within the AAnF set the UE belongs to when the UE\'s Routing
Indicator is set to its default value.
In the case of delegated discovery and selection in SCP, the AAnF NF consumer
shall send all available factors to the SCP.
# 7 Security related services
## 7.1 Services provided by AAnF
### 7.1.1 General
The following table shows the AAnF Services and AAnF Service Operations.
Table 7.1.1-1: List of AAnF Services
+--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Service Name | Service | Operation | Example | | | Operations | | Consumer(s) | | | | Semantics | | +==============+================+================+================+ | Naanf_AKMA | Ancho | Re | AUSF | | | rKey_Register | quest/Response | | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Appli | Re | AF, NEF | | | cationKey_Get | quest/Response | | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Ap | Re | AF | | | plicationKey_ | quest/Response | | | | AnonUser_Get | | | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.1.2 Naanf_AKMA_AnchorKey_Register service operation
**Service operation name:** Naanf_AKMA_AnchorKey_Register.
**Description:** The NF consumer requests the AAnF to store the AKMA related
key material.
**Input, Required:** SUPI, A-KID, K~AKMA~
**Input, Optional:** None.
**Output, Required:** None.
**Output, Optional:** None.
### 7.1.3 Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get service operation
**Service operation name:** Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get.
**Description:** The NF consumer requests AKMA Application Key and UE ID from
the AAnF.
**Input, Required:** A-KID, AF_ID
**Input, Optional:** None.
**Output, Required:** K~AF~, K~AF~ expiration time and SUPI or GPSI.
**Output, Optional:** None.
### 7.1.4 Naanf_AKMA_Context_Remove operation
**Service operation name:** Naanf_AKMA_Context_Remove.
**Description:** The NF consumer requests the AAnF to remove the AKMA related
key material.
**Input, Required:** SUPI.
**Input, Optional:** None.
**Output, Required:** None.
**Output, Optional:** None.
### 7.1.5 Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_ AnonUser_Getservice operation
**Service operation name:** Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_AnonUser_Get.
**Description:** The NF consumer requests only the AKMA Application Key from
the AAnF. This service is for allowing anonymous user access to the AF based
on A-KID (i.e., UE identification is not required at the AF). The A-KID
functions as a temporary user identifier.
**Input, Required:** A-KID, AF_ID
**Input, Optional:** None.
**Output, Required:** K~AF~, K~AF~ expiration time.
**Output, Optional:** None.
## 7.2 Void
## 7.3 Services provided by NEF
### 7.3.1 General
The NEF exposes AKMA Application Key derivation service to the requester NF.
The following table shows the NEF Services and NEF Service Operations related
to AKMA service.
Table 7.3.1-1: List of NEF Services
+--------------+---------------------+------------------+---------------------+ | Service Name | Service Operations | Operation | Example Consumer(s) | | | | | | | | | Semantics | | +==============+=====================+==================+=====================+ | Nnef_AKMA | ApplicationKey_Get | Request/Response | AF | +--------------+---------------------+------------------+---------------------+
### 7.3.2 Nnef_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get service operation
**Service operation name:** Nnef_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get.
**Description:** The NF consumer requests the NEF to provide AF related key
material.
**Input, Required:** A-KID, AF_ID
**Input, Optional:** UEID not needed indication.
**Output, Required:** K~AF~, K~AF~ expiration time.
**Output, Optional:** GPSI (external ID).
## 7.4 Services provided by UDM
UDM services related to AKMA service are defined in TS 33.501 [2] clause
14.2.2.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Key derivation functions
# A.1 KDF interface and input parameter construction
## A.1.1 General
All key derivations for AKMA shall be performed using the key derivation
function (KDF) specified in Annex B.2.2 of TS 33.220 [4].
This clause specifies how to construct the input string, S, and the input key,
KEY, for each distinct use of the KDF. Note that \"KEY\" is denoted \"Key\" in
TS 33.220 [4].
## A.1.2 FC value allocations
The FC number space used is controlled by TS 33.220 [4], FC values allocated
for the present document are in the range of 0x80 -- 0x82.
# A.2 K~AKMA~ derivation function
When deriving a K~AKMA~ from K~AUSF~, the following parameters shall be used
to form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0x80;
\- P0 = \"AKMA\";
\- L0 = length of \"AKMA\"; (i.e. 0x00 0x04)
\- P1 = SUPI;
\- L1 = length of SUPI.
The input key KEY shall be the K~AUSF~.
SUPI shall be the same value as parameter P0 in Annex A.7.0 of TS 33.501 [2].
# A.3 A-TID derivation function
When deriving the A-TID from K~AUSF~, the following parameters shall be used
to form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0x81;
\- P0 = \"A-TID\";
\- L0 = length of \"A-TID\"; (i.e. 0x00 0x05)
\- P1 = SUPI;
\- L1 = length of SUPI.
The input key KEY shall be K~AUSF~.
SUPI shall be the same value as parameter P0 in Annex A.7.0 of TS 33.501 [2].
# A.4 K~AF~ derivation function
When deriving a K~AF~ from K~AKMA~, the following parameters shall be used to
form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0x82;
\- P0 =AF_ID;
\- L0 = length of AF_ID
The input key KEY shall be K~AKMA~.
AF_ID is constructed as follows:
AF_ID = FQDN of the AF \|\| Ua* security protocol identifier, where the Ua*
security protocol identifier is specified as Ua security protocol identifier
in Annex H of TS 33.220 [4].
Annex B (normative):\ AKMA profiles for Ua* protocols
# B.1 TLS based protocols
## B.1.1 General
This annex contains profiles of the share key-based UE authentication with
certificate-based AF authentication and the shared key-based mutual
authentication between UE and AF that are similar to the ones defined in 3GPP
TS 33.222 [7].
## B.1.2 Shared key-based UE authentication with certificate-based AF
authentication
### B.1.2.1 General
The following clause provides the changes needed to adapt the Ua protocol
given in clause 5.3 of TS 33.222 [7] to work with a K~AF~ derived using the
AKMA procedures.
### B.1.2.2 Procedures
The procedures follow those given in clause 5.3.0 of TS 33.222 [7] with the
AKMA AF taking the role of the NAF from GBA (see TS 33.220 [4]), with the
following changes.
At step 2, if the clients supports AKMA with this protocol then the client
shall add the constant string \"3gpp-akma\" to the \"User-Agent\" HTTP header
as product tokens as specified in IETF RFC 7231 [10].
At step 3, if the AF selects AKMA for deriving the key, then the AF shall
include the \"3GPP-bootstrapping-akma\" within the WWW-Authenticate header
field. If the AF has choice between GBA_Digest (see TS 33.220 [4]) and AKMA
keying, then the AF shall select AKMA over GBA_Digest (see TS 33.222 [7] for
similar consideration between GBA methods).
NOTE 1: The choice between AKMA and AKA-based GBA is application dependent.
At step 4, on receiving the response from the AF, the client shall verify that
the FQDN in the realm attribute corresponds to the FQDN of the AF it
established the TLS connection with. If failure the client shall terminate the
TLS connection with the AF.
At step 5 given AKMA has been selected for keying, the client shall send a
response with an Authorization header field where Digest is inserted using the
A-KID as username. K~AF~ shall be used as password in the Digest calculation.
At step 6 given AKMA has been selected for keying, the AF shall verify the
value of the password attribute using K~AF~ retrieved from AAnF using the
A-KID received as username attribute in the query. If the AF is not able to
obtain the AF-specific key when using AKMA mode, the AF shall respond with an
appropriate error message not containing the realm attributes from step 3.
## B.1.3 Shared key-based mutual authentication between UE and AF
### B.1.3.1 General
The following clause provides the changes needed to adapt the Ua protocol
given in clause 5.4 of TS 33.222 [7] to work with a K~AF~ derived using the
AKMA procedures.
### B.1.3.2 Procedures
#### B.1.3.2.1 Procedures for TLS 1.2
The procedures follow those given in clause 5.4.0.1 of TS 33.222 [7] with the
AKMA AF taking the role of the NAF from GBA (see TS 33.220 [4]), with the
following changes.
At step 2, the AF shall include a constant string \"3GPP-AKMA\" is used as
PSK-identity hint to indicate that AKMA based keying is supported.
At step 3, the UE may use an AKMA generated key if support was indicated by
the AF (even if GBA-based keys were also indicated as supported by the AF). To
use AKMA generated key, the UE shall derive the TLS premaster secret from
K~AF~ and shall send a ClientKeyExchange message including a PSK identity
consisting of \"3GPP-AKMA\" and the A-KID. If the UE has choice between
GBA_Digest (see TS 33.220 [4]) and AKMA keying, then the UE shall select AKMA
over GBA_Digest (see TS 33.222 [7] for similar consideration between GBA
methods).
NOTE 1: The choice between AKMA and AKA-based GBA is application dependent.
At step 4, if the AF receives the \"3GPP-AKMA\" prefix and the A-KID in the
ClientKeyExchange messages it fetches the AF specific shared secret (K~AF~)
from the AAnF using the A-KID. The AF shall derive the TLS premaster secret
from the AF specific key (K~AF~).
#### B.1.3.2.2 Procedures for TLS 1.3
The procedures follow those given in clause 5.4.0.2 of TS 33.222 [7] with the
AKMA AF taking the role of the NAF from GBA (see TS 33.220 [4]), with the
following changes.
In step 1, the PSK identities in the ClientHello shall include a prefix
indicating the PSK-identity name space (i.e. \"3GPP-AKMA\") and the A-KID to
indicate the UE supports keying with AKMA.
In step 2 if the AF is willing to establish a TLS tunnel using PSK
authentication with AKMA keys, then the AF shall indicate the index of the
AKMA psk identity in the ServerHello message. If the AF has choice between
GBA_Digest (see TS 33.220 [4]) and AKMA keying, then the AF shall select AKMA
over GBA_Digest (see TS 33.222 [7] for similar consideration between GBA
methods).
NOTE 1: The choice between AKMA and AKA-based GBA is application dependent.
The UE and NAF shall derive the TLS external PSK from K~AF~.
###### ## Annex C (normative): AKMA Ua* protocol based on DTLS
# C.1 General
This Annex covers the aspects specific to the AKMA Ua* protocol based on DTLS.
This feature is optional to be supported for the UE and AF. If the feature is
supported, the following clauses apply.
## C.1.1 Requirement on the UE
UE hosts the DTLS client. The UE should be able to send the AKMA PSK identity
to the AF to indicate which key (K~AF~) the UE intends to use to secure the
Ua* reference point based on DTLS.
The PSK identity specified in B.1 for TLS is also applicable for DTLS.
## C.1.2 Requirement on the AF
DTLS should be supported by the AF for the UE-AF reference point (Ua*).
The AF should be able to require that a certain key (i.e., K~AF~) used to
secure the Ua reference point based on DTLS.
# C.2 Shared key-based mutual authentication between UE and AF
## C.2.1 General
The TLS profile specified in TS 33.210 [13] clause 6.2 apply to DTLS 1.3[12].
## C.2.2 Procedures for DTLS 1.3
The procedures given in B.1.3.2.2 for TLS 1.3 is also applicable for DTLS 1.3.
AKMA PSK identity should be delivered via DTLS message.
###### ## Annex D (normative): Ua* security protocol: Object Security for
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)
# D.1 General
This annex describes how to secure access to an AF using Object Security for
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE) [14].
The specification of the OSCORE as an AKMA Ua* protocol follows the
architecture of GBA OSCORE Ua protocol in TS 33.220 [4], Annex P with the AF
taking the role of the NAF.
# D.2 Requirements
## D.2.1 General
This Annex covers the aspects specific to the AKMA Ua* protocol based on
OSCORE. This feature is optional to be supported for the UE and AF. If the
feature is supported, the following clauses apply.
## D.2.2 Requirements on the UE
To utilise AKMA as described in this document the UE shall be equipped with an
CoAP capable client implementing the particular features of AKMA as specified
in this document.
## D.2.3 Requirements on the AF
To utilise AKMA as described in this document the AF shall support the
features of AKMA as specified in this document.
## D.2.4 Requirements on the OSCORE
The same requirements outlined in TS 33.220 [4], clause P.2.4 apply in this
clause.
# D.3 IETF OSCORE as an AKMA Ua* protocol
## D.3.1 General
The IETF OSCORE as an AKMA Ua* protocol is specified in this clause by
providing the details about the procedures, the OSCORE security context and
how it is related to the AKMA KAF and the encoding of OSCORE messages using
IETF CBOR specified in IETF RFC 8949 [15].
## D.3.2 Procedures
The procedures for the AKMA OSCORE Ua* protocol are the same as the TS 33.220
[4], clause P.3.2 with the following changes.
1) In Step 1, the CoAP Client (UE) shall send a CoAP request to the AF. This
is the Application Session Establishment Request in Step 1 in clause 6.2. The
CoAP request shall consist of the following:
i) CoAP Method: POST.
ii) URI of the AKMA resource on the AF. The URI shall have the format of
\/akma, where AF_IP_or_FQDN indicates the IP address or the
FQDN of the host that hosts the AF.
NOTE 1: It is assumed that the AF IP address or FQDN is already provisioned to
the UE for AKMA purposes.
iii) Payload: CoAP Security protocol identifer, A-KID, N1, AF-SID, ?OSC-INP
The parameters \"CoAP Security protocol identifier\", N1, AF-SID, ?OSC-INP
have the same semantics as the corresponding parameters in TS 33.220 [4],
clause Y.2.3. Step 1.
2) Steps 2-4 follow clause 6.2 in the present document.
3) The CoAP Server (AF) shall respond to the CoAP Client (UE) with a CoAP
response. This is the Application Session Establishment Response in Step 5 in
clause 6.2. The response shall have the following content:
i) Response Code: \"Created\".
ii) Payload: N2, UE-SID.
The parameters N2, UE-SID have the same semantics as the corresponding
parameters in TS 33.220 [4], clause P.2.3. Step 3.
## D.3.3 OSCORE Security context
The OSCORE security context used in AKMA OSCORE Ua* protocol is similar to the
GBA OSCORE security context specified in TS 33.220 [4], clause Y.3.3 with the
following changes. The OSCORE security context for the OSCORE profile of Ua*
shall have the following values:
\- OMS = OSCORE Master Secret = HKDF(K~AF~, \"AKMA-OSCORE\").
\- Master Salt = Request Payload \| Response Payload.
\- UE Sender ID = UE-SID generated by CoAP Server and sent to the CoAP Client
in the Application Session Establishment Response (Step 3 in clause D.3.2).
\- AF Sender ID = AF-SID generated by CoAP Client and sent to the CoAP Server
in the Application Session Establishment Request(Step 1 in clause D.3.2).
where HKDF shall be the HMAC-based Key Derivation Function specified in IETF
RFC 5869 [16].
## D.3.4 Refresh of OSCORE key material
OSCORE allows both the communication endpoints (UE or AF) to renegotiate the
OSCORE security context after the OSCORE security context is established,
according to Appendix B.2 in IETF RFC 8613 [14], which is shown in the figure
D.3.4-1, Step 1.
Moreover even if K~AF~ remains constant upon a new application session
establishment (Step 1 in clause D.3.2) or a renegotiation of the OSCORE key
material, the nonces N1, N2, used in OSCORE security context shall be
(stochastically) different from the previous OSCORE security context
negotiation to ensure that the OSCORE security context is different.
Figure D.3.4-1: OSCORE key refresh
## D.3.5 OSCORE Ua* protocol payload encoding
IETF CoAP and OSCORE shall use the IETF Concise Binary Object Representation
(CBOR) specified in the IETF RFC 8949 [15] for payload encoding for efficient
information transfer between constrained IoT devices.
The CoAP media type for CBOR encoding shall be:
\- Media Type: application/cbor
\- CoAP Content-Format: 60
The Request Payload in the Application Session Request shall be formatted as a
CBOR Array as follows:
Request Payload = [\ A-KID : bstr,\ N1 : bstr,\ AF-SID : bstr,\ ? OSC-INP:
bstr\ ]
A-KID = [\ RID : tstr,\ A-TID : bstr,\ HPLMN-ID : tstr\ ]
OSC-INP = { ; CBOR Map\ ? 1 => int, ; version\ ? 3 => int, ; hkdf\ ? 4 => int,
; alg\ ? 5 => bstr, ; salt\ ? 6 => bstr ; contextId\ }
The Response Payload in the Application Session Response shall be formatted as
a CBOR Array as follows:
Reponse Payload = [ ; CBOR Array\ N2 : bstr,\ UE-SID : bstr\ ]
#