# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document investigates the security and privacy aspects of
satellite access/NTN. The study is based on the architectural and functional
requirements on integration of satellite components in the 5GS/EPS
architecture, so as to ensure that the proposed solutions address the security
and privacy implications on the architecture enhancements agreed in TR
23.700-28 [x]. Specifically, it covers the following:
\- The identified security and privacy issues, threats, and potential
requirements for protecting the UE in the enhanced 5GS/EPS architecture
supporting discontinuous coverage with satellite access;
\- The potential solutions addressing the identified security and privacy
issues as above.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.700-28: \"Study on Integration of satellite components in the
5G architecture; Phase 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Assumptions
Discontinuous satellite coverage for satellite access in the context of this
study is characterized by the fact that Uu interface is available for the UE
less than 100% of the time, due to predictable patterns of satellite coverage.
According to TR 23.700-28 [2], the work on satellite access focuses on further
5GC/EPC enhancements to support discontinuous satellite access, which mainly
aim for mobility enhancement and power saving optimizations. Therefore,
security solutions should be applicable to both 5GS and EPS while minimizing
the impact on 5GS and EPS protocols, and not adversely affect mobility
enhancement and power saving optimizations.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Protection of satellite coverage information received by
5GC/EPC
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
To support mobility enhancement and power saving optimization, multiple
solutions were documented in TR 23.700-28 [2], which require 5GC/EPC to move
the UE into CM-IDLE state and provide power saving parameters or mobility
management parameters properly, when the UE is about to leave satellite
coverage. This requires that satellite coverage availability information in
the affected area to be made aware of by 5GC/EPC. According to the conclusions
in TR 23.700-28 [2] and normative work in 23.501 [4], such satellite coverage
availability information could be received by 5GC/EPC from different potential
sources, e.g. the OAM, the AF/external server (e.g. Coverage Map Server).
While the sources like the OAM could be trusted, the sources like the
AF/external server may not always be trusted.
### 5.1.2 Threats
If 5GC/EPC receives falsified or tampered satellite coverage availability
information, the 5GC/EPC may be misled to put a CM-CONNECTED UE into CM-IDLE
state when the UE is still in satellite coverage, leading to service
interruption; or the 5GC/EPC may be misled to provide inappropriate mobility
management parameters and/or power saving parameters to the UE, which fails
the optimization of power consumption. Both cases are a type of DoS attack on
the UE.
If an AF is not authorized to provide satellite coverage availability
information in the affected area, the 5GC/EPC may also suffer from the above
threat.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
The 5GS/EPS shall provide a means to ensure that the AF/external server is
authorized to provide satellite coverage availability information to 5GC/EPC.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: AF authorization for providing satellite coverage
information in 5GS
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the requirement in Key Issue #1 \"_The 5GS/EPS shall
provide a means to ensure that the AF is authorized to provide satellite
coverage availability information to 5GC/EPC_ \".
### 6.1.2 Solution details
It is proposed that the AF providing satellite coverage information is
authorized using one of the following methods:
\- Based on local NEF configuration on authorization.
\- OAuth token-based authorization by the NEF as defined in clause 12.4 of TS
33.501 [3] is reused.
\- If the CAPIF is supported by the NEF, the authorization mechanism defined
in clause 12.5 of TS 33.501 [3] is reused.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
The solution is based on either the local configuration on authorization in
the NEF or the existing OAuth token-based authorization mechanisms supported
by the AF and NEF. Hence it has no impact on the existing system.
The solution only applies to 5GS.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Conclusion on Key Issue #1
For key issue #1 on protection of satellite coverage information received by
the 5GC/EPC, satellite coverage information is provisioned to the AMF by O&M
only. Hence no normative work is needed on AF authorization.
#