# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The aim of the present document is to study the security aspects for any
potential enhancements to be developed based on the outcome of the study in TR
23.700-08 [2]. For each of the objectives in the scope of the study in TR
23.700-08 [2], potential security aspects that are to be covered in this study
are as follows:
\- Support for enhanced mobility by enabling support for idle and connected
mode mobility between SNPNs without new network selection.
\- Study if existing security mechanisms for mobility between PLMNs can be
reused for SNPNs or if new security mechanisms are needed.
\- Support for non-3GPP access for SNPN
\- Study if existing security mechanisms for enabling non-3GPP access in a
PLMN can be reused for enabling non-3GPP access in an SNPN or if new security
mechanisms are needed.
\- Address new requirements (e.g., TS 22.261 [3] requirements for Providing
Access to Local Services) related to NPN
\- Study the trust model for the resulting architecture for enabling Localized
Services via a local hosting NPN.
\- Study if existing mechanisms for a UE to access an NPN can be reused for
enabling a UE to authenticate with and access the local hosting NPN and the
localized services via the hosting NPN with proper authorization, or if new
security mechanisms are needed.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.700-08: \"Study on enhanced support of Non-Public Networks;
Phase 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[5] IETF RFC 7296: \"Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[8] NIST Special Publication 800-90A (2015): \"Recommendation for Random
Number Generation Using Deterministic Random Bit Generators\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[10] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
[11] IETF RFC 2903: \"Generic AAA Architecture\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Local service, Localized service:** Service, which is localized (i.e.
provided at specific/limited area) and/or can be bounded in time. The service
can be realized via applications (e.g. live or on-demand audio/video stream,
electric game, IMS, etc), or connectivity (e.g. UE to UE, UE to Data Network,
etc.) as defined in TR 23.700-08 [2].
**Hosting network:** A network providing access to Local/Localized services as
defined in TR 23.700-08 [2].
## 3.2 Symbols
void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
void
# 4 Assumptions
void
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Security of non-3GPP access for SNPN
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
TR 23.700-08 [2] studies \"Key Issue #2: Support of Non-3GPP access for
SNPN\". Clause 5.2.1 of TR 23.700-08 [2] states: _\"Currently the 3GPP
specifications do not support direct connection to SNPN via non-3GPP access
networks\"_ and _\"One objective of this key issue is to enable the 5GS to
support direct connection of non-3GPP access networks to the SNPN\'s 5GC.\"_
The intention of this key issue is to study if existing security mechanisms
for enabling non-3GPP access in a PLMN can be reused for enabling non-3GPP
access in an SNPN, or if new security mechanisms are needed.
### 5.1.2 Threats
If non-3GPP access in an SNPN does not provide mutual authentication between
UE and SNPN, it is possible to impersonate the UE or SNPN.
If communication between UE and SNPN via non-3GPP access is not
confidentiality, integrity or replay-protected, it is possible to disclose,
tamper or replay the communication.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G system shall provide the means for UE and SNPN to mutually authenticate
if non-3GPP access is used.
The 5G system shall provide the means to confidentiality, integrity and replay
protect communication between UE and SNPN, if non-3GPP access is used.
NOTE: Threats and requirements for devices that are not UEs (e.g. FN-RG or
N5GC device behind RG) are not addressed in this document.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: Authentication for UE access to hosting network
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
The terms \"localized service\" and \"hosting network\" are explained in
clause 3.1 of the present document.
TR 23.700-08 [2] studies \"Key Issue #3: Enabling NPN as hosting network for
providing access to localized services\" and \"Key Issue #4: Enabling UE to
discover, select and access NPN as hosting network and receive localized
services\".
The intention of this key issue is to study authentication of UE access to a
hosting network, if existing security mechanisms can be reused or new security
mechanisms are needed.
### 5.2.2 Threats
If the UE is not authenticated towards the network, it is possible to
impersonate the UE.
If the network is not authenticated towards the UE, it is possible to
impersonate the network.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
The UE and the hosting network shall support mutual authentication between the
UE and the network.
# 6 Proposed solutions
## 6.0 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 6.0-1: Mapping of solutions to key issues
Solutions **KI#1:** Security of non-3GPP access for SNPN **KI#2:**
Authentication for UE access to hosting network
* * *
Solution #1: Authentication mechanism for untrusted non-3GPP Access in SNPN
scenarios X  
Solution #2: Authentication mechanism for trusted non-3GPP Access in SNPN
scenarios X  
Solution #3: Use of anonymous SUCI in t**rusted non-3GPP access for SNPN** X  
Solution #4: Authentication for devices that do not support 5GC NAS over WLAN
access in SNPN scenarios X  
Solution #5: Anonymous authentication during connection establishment in
trusted non-3GPP network access X  
Solution #6: Trusted non-3GPP Access for SNPN X  
Solution #7: Untrusted non-3GPP Access for SNPN X  
Solution #8: Reusing Existing N3GPP Security for SNPN X  
Solution #9: NSWO support in SNPN using any key-generating EAP-method X  
Solution #10: Access to localized services using existing mechanisms X
Solution #11: High-level solution on authentication for UE access to hosting
network X Solution #12: Localised service authentication through onboarding
procedure and registration afterwards. X Solution #13: Home network primary
authentication -- secondary authentication towards localised service X
Solution #14: NSWO support in SNPN using any key-generating EAP-method for
SNPN using CH AUSF/UDM X  
Solution #15: NSWO using SNPN credentials from CH AAA X  
Solution #16: Localized Service related authentication and network access X
Solution #17: Authentication for UE to access hosting network and receive
localized services using existing mechanisms. X Solution #18: UE creates the
identifier in trusted non-3GPP access X  
Solution #19: Supporting CH using AAA for N3GPP Security in SNPN X  
Solution #20: NSWO using SNPN credentials from CH AAA via 5GC X
## 6.1 Solution #1: Authentication mechanism for untrusted non-3GPP Access in
SNPN scenarios
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1.
TR 23.700-08 [2] studies \"Key Issue #2: Support of Non-3GPP access for
SNPN\". Clause 5.2.1 of TR 23.700-08 [2] states: \"_Currently the 3GPP
specifications do not support direct connection to SNPN via non-3GPP access
networks\" and \"One objective of this key issue is to enable the 5GS to
support direct connection of non-3GPP access networks to the SNPN\'s 5GC._ \"
To access to SNPN via no-3GPP access, on the one hand, the UE may need to
handle the new identity (e.g., onboarding SUCI/onboarding SUPI) and the new
Registration Type (i.e. SNPN Onboarding) to N3IWF. On the other hand, the UE
may use anonymous value SUCI during the registration procedure, which will
result in N3IWF failing to locate K~N3IWF~ to authenticate the identity of UE.
This solution is proposed to address the aforementioned problem and enables
the UE to access SNPN via an untrusted non-3GPP access network.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
This solution reuses the untrusted non-3GPP access authentication procedure in
PLMN scenarios in clause 7.2.1 of TS 33.501 [4] with the following
modifications:
\- In SNPN scenarios, if the construction of SUCI as described in clause 6.12
of TS 33.501 [4] cannot be used and if the employed EAP method supports SUPI
privacy, then the UE can send an anonymous value SUCI to N3IWF based on
configuration. And SNPN identifier, which consists of PLMN ID and NID, should
also be included in AN parameters, which are sent to the N3IWF. Moreover, to
fulfil the onboarding requirements, the UE may also send onboarding SUCI to
the N3IWF.
\- The AMF can choose 5G AKA, EAP-AKA\', or any other key-generating EAP
authentication method to authenticate UE as described in clause 6.1.3 or
clause I.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4].
\- If EAP-AKA\' or key-generating EAP authentication method is used for
authentication as described in clause 6.1.3.1 and clause I.2.2 of TS 33.501
[4], the AUSF includes the EAP-Success in step 7.
NOTE: The need for including SUPI privacy is not addressed in the present
document.
### 6.1.3 System impact
This solution has impact on N3IWF.
### 6.1.4 Evaluation
UE can send an anonymous value SUCI/onboarding SUCI to N3IWF based on
configuration.
SNPN identifier is sent to the N3IWF.
The AMF can choose 5G AKA, EAP-AKA\', or any other key-generating EAP
authentication method to authenticate UE.
If EAP-AKA\' or key-generating EAP authentication method is used for
authentication, the AUSF needs to be able to send an EAP-Success message to
AMF.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Authentication mechanism for trusted non-3GPP Access in
SNPN scenarios
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1.
Specifically, in SNPN scenarios, the UE may register for onboarding, therefore
the UE needs to send new registration type to TNAN. Moreover, TNGF may need to
leverage IDi to identify K~TNGF~, which can authenticate the identity of the
UE. And IDi can be set as the SUCI/onboarding SUCI. However, in some cases,
the UE may send anonymous value SUCI to TNGF in the registration request,
making TNGF not able to locally link the identity of the UE with the
corresponding K~TNGF.~ Without the mapping between UE identity and K~TNGF,~
TNGF cannot authenticate the identity of the UE.
To access to SNPN, on the one hand, the UE may provide the new identity (e.g.
onboarding SUCI/onboarding SUPI) and the new Registration Type (i.e. SNPN
Onboarding) to TNAN. On the other hand, the UE may use anonymous value SUCI
during the registration procedure, which results in the consequence that TNGF
cannot locate K~TNGF~ to authenticate the identity of UE.
This solution enables the UE to access SNPN via trusted non-3GPP access
network.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
This solution reuses the authentication mechanism in clause 7A.2.1 of TS
33.501 [4] with the following modifications.
\- The UE may send SUCI/onboarding SUCI to the TNAP/TNGF. If the construction
of SUCI as described in clause 6.12 of TS 33.501 [4] cannot be used and if the
employed EAP method supports SUPI privacy, then the UE can send an anonymous
value SUCI to TNAP/TNGF. If the UE indents to access SNPN, AN parameters
should also include SNPN identifier, which consists of PLMN ID and NID. The
authentication mechanisms could be 5G AKA, EAP-AKA\', and any other key-
generating EAP authentication method as described in clause I.2 of TS 33.501
[4].
\- For the IKE_AUTH exchange part in step 13a of clause 7.2.1 of TS 33.501
[4], names in the ID payloads should correspond to the keys used to generate
the AUTH payload. In case the UE utilizes the anonymous value SUCI in step 5,
the UE initiates an IKE_AUTH exchange and includes the hash of its SUPI in ID
payloads rather than anonymous value SUCI. To help TNGF identify K~TNGF~, the
AMF should send the newly generated K~TNGF~ and the corresponding hash of the
SUPI to the TNGF. The AMF may obtain the SUPI from the AUSF.
NOTE: The UE can only provide SUCI/Onboarding SUCI in case it is configured
with SUPI privacy parameters.
### 6.2.3 System impact
This solution has impact on TNAP/TNGF.
### 6.2.4 Evaluation
UE can send an anonymous value SUCI /onboarding SUCI to TNAP/TNGF.
AN parameters including SNPN identifier should be sent to TNAP/TNGF.
For trusted non-3GPP Access in SNPN scenarios, the authentication mechanisms
could be 5G AKA, EAP-AKA\', and any other key-generating EAP authentication
method as described in clause I.2 of TS 33.501 [4] should be supported
UE and TNGF leverages the hash of the SUPI to identify K~TNGF~ when anonymous
SUCI is employed in the EAP procedure.
The K~TNGF~ identification mechanism has impacts on UE, AMF, and the TNGF.
In specific, the UE should be able to generate the hash of the SUPI.
The AMF should be able to generate and deliver the hash of the SUPI for the
TNGF.
The TNGF should be able to locate the K~TNGF~ via the hash of the SUPI.
This solution allows the UE to be tracked as the same hash value is sent each
time
This solution allows TNGF to track the UE as the hash of the SUPI remains the
same across connections
## 6.3 Solution #3: Use of anonymous SUCI in t**rusted non-3GPP access for
SNPN**
### 6.3.1 Introduction
This solution solves Key issue #1 in the case of using anonymous SUCI in
trusted non-3GPP access.
When introducing non-3GPP access in SNPN it is assumed that most security
procedures can be reused. However, the use of anonymous SUCI is only
applicable to SNPNs so there are not yet any procedures specified for this
case in relation to non-3GPP access.
In the current procedures for trusted non-3GPP access in clause 7A.2.1 of TS
33.501 [4], it is specified to use the SUCI/GUTI to map the user to the
correct K~TNGF~ in step 13. When using anonymous SUCI, this is not a good
solution since an anonymous SUCI is not unique. Instead, another identifier is
needed. This solution proposes to use a hash of the key K~TNGF~ as identifier
in case anonymous SUCI is used during the authentication towards the SNPN.
This solution defines adaptations of existing procedures needed to support the
use of anonymous SUCI in trusted access for SNPN.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
Procedures in clause 7A.2.1 of TS 33.501 [4] are reused with the following
exception:
\- In step 13, if the construction of SUCI as described in clause 6.12 of TS
33.501 [4] cannot be used, then a new type of identifier is used. The new
identifier is proposed to be a hash of the key K~TNGF~. (potentially using
some additional input). It is proposed to send the new identifier using the
IDi payload.
It is already specified in section 3.5 of RFC 7296 [5] that the ID payload
used for transport of IDi can be used to transfer a key identifier by setting
the ID Type to ID_KEY_ID. Support of this ID Type is mandatory. The RFC does
not specify how such a key identifier is generated. The proposal here is thus
to use a hash of the key K~TNGF~ potentially using some additional input to
create a key identifier.
### 6.3.3 System impact
This solution has impact on UE and TNGF.
### 6.3.4 Evaluation
This solution solves Key issue #1 in the case of using anonymous SUCI in
trusted non-3GPP access. If anonymous SUCI is not supported in trusted
non-3GPP access, methods like EAP-TLS can only be used if the UE is also
configured with a public key for SUCI concealment.
The solution requires that the TNGF decides that it is an anonymous SUCI and
not a legacy SUCI or 5G-GUTI and generates a new KEY ID based on this decision
## 6.4 Solution #4: Authentication for devices that do not support 5GC NAS
over WLAN access in SNPN scenarios
### 6.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1.
TR 23.700-08 [2] studies \"Key Issue #2: Support of Non-3GPP access for
SNPN\". Clause 5.2.1 of TR 23.700-08 [2] states: \"_Currently the 3GPP
specifications do not support direct connection to SNPN via non-3GPP access
networks\" and \"One objective of this key issue is to enable the 5GS to
support direct connection of non-3GPP access networks to the SNPN\'s 5GC_.\"
_Devices that do not support 5GC NAS signalling over WLAN access (referred to
as \"Non-5G-Capable over WLAN\" devices, or N5CW devices for short) may access
5GC in a SNPN via a trusted WLAN Access Network that supports a Trusted WLAN
Interworking Function (TWIF)._
This solution enables N5CW to access SNPN via trusted non-3GPP _WLAN Access
Network_.
### 6.4.2 Potential solution details
For N5CW device in a PLMN, the authentication procedure only include EAP-
AKA\', which is defined in clause 6.1.3.1 of TS 33.501 [4]. However, in SNPN
scenarios, N5CW supports key-generating EAP authentication methods.
This solution reuses the authentication procedure in clause 7A.2.4 of TS
33.501 [4] with the following modifications.
\- As described in clause I.2 of TS 33.501 [4], the authentication mechanisms
utilized in step 8 of clause 7A.2.4 of TS 33.501 [4] should include key-
generating EAP authentication methods.
\- In step 2, NAI includes identifier of SNPN (i.e. PLMN ID and the NID of the
SNPN).
\- N5CW sends UE identity (e.g. SUCI/on boarding SUCI) and AN parameters to
the TWAP/TWIF. And SNPN identifier, which consists of PLMN ID and NID, should
be included in AN parameters. Moreover, in SNPN scenarios, if the construction
of SUCI as described in clause 6.12 of TS 33.501[4] cannot be used and if the
employed EAP method supports SUPI privacy, the UE can send an anonymous value
SUCI based on configuration.
\- If the UE is accessing 5GS for Onboarding, the AN parameters sent from UE
to TWAP /TWIF needs to include Onboarding indication. And the Registration
Type needs to be set as \"SNPN Onboarding\".
\- The TWIF shall create a 5GC Registration Request message on behalf of the
N5CW device. The TWIF needs to use UE identity, AN parameters, Registration
Type that are received from N5CW.
NOTE 1: Whether onboarding for N5CW devices is in scope is not addressed in
the present document.
NOTE 2: The need for including SUPI privacy is not addressed in the present
document.
### 6.4.3 System impact
This solution has impact on TWAP/TWIF.
### 6.4.4 Evaluation
UE identity (e.g. SUCI/on boarding SUCI)/ anonymous value SUCI should be sent
to the TWAP/TWIF.
SNPN identifier should be sent to TWAP/TWIF.
NAI sent to TWAP/TWIF should include the identifier of SNPN (i.e. PLMN ID and
the NID of the SNPN).
## 6.5 Solution #5: Anonymous authentication during connection establishment
in trusted non-3GPP network access.
### 6.5.1 Introduction
This is a solution to KI#1.
When a UE access a trusted non-3gpp access network, it used either SUCI or
5G-GUTI for identification. In case of an NPN deployment, the UE might use an
anonymous SUCI when the EAP method supports its, as specified in TS 33.501 [4]
clause I.5. The anonymous SUCI will protect the identity of the UE and makes
it impossible to differentiate between a group of UE\'s using the same realm.
As the authentication and key derivation steps are independent of the IPsec
establishment, the TNGF cannot link the authentication and derived key to an
IKE_AUTH request \-- As the same identifier is used for multiple UE\'s.
This solution provides a method to fill the gap caused by introducing the
anonymous SUCI which is already standardised in TS 33.501 [4] clause I.5. The
solution proposes, that the TNGF creates a unique temporary identifier, shares
it after authentication alongside other information necessary to establish the
IPsec connection (e.g., TNGF address), to the UE. When the UE initiates the
establishment of the IPSec channel, the UE uses the temporary identifier as
identifier and thereby enables the TNGF to identify the correct key material
(K~TNGF~) for the session.
The temporary identifier is only applicable when the anonymous identifier is
used, therefore it is proposed as an optional parameter.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
Procedures in clause 7A.2.1 of TS 33.501 [4] are reused with the following
exception:
\- In step 9b, when an anonymous SUCI has been used in step 5, transfer a
unique temporary identifier, allocated by the TNGF, to the UE alongside the
TNGF address.
\- In step 13b, use the unique temporary identifier provided in step 9b as
IDi, in case an anonymous identifier was used in step 5.
The allocation of a temporary identifier by the TNGF, distributed to the UE,
enables the TNGF to identify the K~TNGF~ which is used in the IKE_AUTH
procedure in step 13b and c.
### 6.5.3 System impact
This solution impacts TNGF and UE.
### 6.5.4 Evaluation
The solution fulfils the requirements for key issue #1 by extending the
procedure in TS 33.501 [4] clause 7A.2.1 to encounter for the use of an
anonymised SUCI/SUPI when concealment is not applicable. This gives a UE and
SNPN the means to mutually authenticate and hereby confidentiality, integrity
and replay protect the communication as stated in the requirements.
## 6.6 Solution #6: Trusted non-3GPP Access for SNPN
### 6.6.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1.
The normal trusted access procedures are used, only if the UE sends an
anonymous SUCI, then the TNGF and the UE use the assigned IP address, which is
unique within the TNGF, as identifier in the IDi according to RFC 7296.
### 6.6.2 Solution details
This solution reuses the trusted non-3GPP access authentication procedure in
PLMN scenarios in clause 7A.2.1 of TS 33.501 [4] with the following
modifications:
If the UE sends an anonymous SUCI in step 5 of the procedure, then the TNGF
will use the IP address, which the TNGF assigns to the UE as unique identifier
to bind the security key. In step 13, the UE includes the ID_IPV4_ADDR or
ID_IPV6_ADDR with the assigned IP address in the IDi. The TNGF uses the
received IP address to locate the K~TIPSe~ for the connection.
### 6.6.3 System impact
This solution impacts TNGF.
This solution may impact the protocol between TNGF and TNAP.
### 6.6.4 Evaluation
The assigned IP address is unique within an TNGF and can be used as identifier
to locate the security key.
The TNGF has to identify an anonymous SUCI and uses in that case the IP
address of the UE to locate the key. Another issue is, the TNGF may not be
always involved to assign the IP address according to the TS 23.502[7], thus
the solution may need the TNAP to send the IP address of the UE to the TNGF
when the TNAP is used to assign the IP address. Thus, it may impact to
protocol used between TNAP and TNGF.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Untrusted non-3GPP Access for SNPN
### 6.7.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1.
The normal untrusted access procedures are used, only if the UE sends an
anonymous SUCI, then the N3IWF assigns a unique identifier and the UE uses the
unique identifier in the IDi when sending the IKE_AUTH with AUTH.
### 6.7.2 Solution details
This solution reuses the untrusted non-3GPP access authentication procedure in
PLMN scenarios in clause 7.2.1 of TS 33.501 [4] with the following
modifications:
If the UE sends an anonymous SUCI in step 5 of the procedure, then the N3IWF
assigns a unique identifier, which is unique within the N3IWF and used to bind
the communication and the security key received in step 12. The N3IWF provides
the assigned unique identifier to the UE in an IKE_AUTH_Response and the UE
includes the unique identifier in the IDi when sending the IKE_AUTH with AUTH
in step 14. The N3IWF uses the received unique identifier to locate the
K~N3IWF~ for the connection.
### 6.7.3 System impact
The N3IWF assigns a unique identifier to the UE when sending an anonymous
SUCI, the UE sends the unique identifier with the IKE_AUTH with AUTH.
### 6.7.4 Evaluation
The identifier is unique within the N3IWF and used to bind the communication
and the security key to the UE.
The IDi is the random number added by the UE to locate the K~N3IWF~ in step3
of 7.2.1 of TS 33.501[2], thus, the existing procedure defined in clause 7.2.1
of TS 33.501 [2] can be reused.
NOTE: Further evaluation is not addressed in the present document.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Reusing Existing N3GPP Security for SNPN
### 6.8.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1 on Security of non-3GPP access for SNPN.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
For support of untrusted non-3GPP access for SNPN, it is proposed to reuse the
security mechanisms defined in clause 7 in TS 33.501 [4].
For support of trusted non-3GPP access for SNPN, it is proposed to reuse the
security mechanisms defined in clause 7A in TS 33.501 [4].
For support of wireline access for SNPN, it is proposed to reuse the security
mechanisms defined in clause 7B in TS 33.501 [4].
For support of NSWO for SNPN, it is proposed to reuse the security mechanisms
defined in Annex S in TS 33.501 [4].
NOTE: The solution does not address the case of anonymous SUCI.
### 6.8.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirement of key issue #1.The solution is based
on existing N3GPP Security mechanisms and procedures and hence has no
additional standard impact.
This solution proposes to reuse trusted non-3GPP access defined in clause 7A
in TS 33.501 [4] for SNPN. However, the existing solution defined in clause 7A
in TS 33.501 [4] can only be used when SUPI or 5G-GUTI is used.
## 6.9 Solution #9: NSWO support in SNPN using any key-generating EAP-method
### 6.9.1 Introduction
This solution solves Key issue #1 in the case of NSWO using any key-generating
EAP-method.
Current procedures for NSWO are only defined to use EAP-AKA\'. This solution
extends the NSWO procedures to be able to use any key-generating EAP-method in
SNPN.
The proposed procedure is based on the current procedures in Annex S.2.3 of TS
33.501 [4]. The procedures assume access to subscribed SNPN.
### 6.9.2 Solution details
Figure 6.9.2-1: Authentication procedure for NSWO in SNPN
Steps 1-2 are performed as described in Annex S.3.2 of TS 33.501 [4].
Step 3 is performed as described in Annex S.3.2 of TS 33.501 [4] with the
following addition: If the EAP method supports privacy and the UE is
configured to use anonymous SUCI, the UE may send an anonymous value SUCI
based on configuration.
Steps 4-6 are performed as described in Annex S.3.2 of TS 33.501 [4].
7\. Upon reception of the Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request, the UDM invokes
SIDF to de-conceal SUCI to gain SUPI.
Based on the subscription the UDM selects the appropriate EAP method to be
used. The UDM includes an indicator of the selected EAP method and the SUPI to
AUSF in a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response message.
8\. Authentication is performed between the AUSF and UE using the selected EAP
method. After a successful authentication the AUSF derives the MSK key. The
decision to use MSK instead of EMSK is based on the NSWO indicator received in
step 5.
Steps 9-11 are performed as described in steps 16-18 of Annex S.3.2 of TS
33.501 [4].
### 6.9.3 System impact
The solution has impact on UE and AUSF. No impact on WLAN AP, NSWOF or UDM.
### 6.9.4 Evaluation
This solution solves Key issue #1 in aspect of supporting NSWO in SNPN that
has AUSF/UDM. It reuses the procedures of Annex S of TS 33.501 [4] as much as
possible adding the possibility of using any key-generating EAP-method. This
addition affects the following steps of the procedure:
\- Step 3: added possibility to use anonymous SUCI as described in clause
6.9.2
\- Step 7: UDM selects EAP method based on configuration as described in
clause 6.9.2
\- Step 8: Authentication may be performed using any key generating EAP-method
as described in clause 6.9.2
## 6.10 Solution #10: Access to localized services using existing mechanisms
### 6.10.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #2 (Authentication for UE access to hosting
network). The proposed solutions use existing mechanisms in 33.501 [4].
As per the conclusion in 23.700-08 [2], clause 8.4, when UE accesses the
Hosting network using the subscription/credentials of its Home network, only
two cases are considered:
\- If the Home network is PLMN, the Hosting network can be PNI-NPN or SNPN.
\- If the Home network is SNPN, the Hosting network can be only SNPN.
In both cases, solutions to these scenarios can be considered in the following
categories
\- UE uses home network credentials to access the hosting network.
\- UE uses credentials obtained using the onboarding procedure as defined in
33.501[4] Annex I.9(\"Security of UE onboarding in SNPNs\" to access the
hosting network.
Note: Onboarding procedures only provide connectivity to obtain credentials.
The credentials provisioning protocol is out of scope.
Following clause details how UE can use existing mechanisms and methodologies
to access localized services.
### 6.10.2 Solution details
#### 6.10.2.1 Solution for access to localized services based on Home Network
Credentials
To access the hosting network, the UE determines whether it can reuse home
network credentials. As per 23.700-08 [2], the UE concludes that a home
network credential can be utilized if the SNPN ID of the hosting network is
contained in the SNPN priority lists connected with the home network
subscription and the hosting network shows support for CH credentials.
Existing 33.501 [4] primary authentication can be reused in this case. No
normative work is needed from the SA3 WG perspective.
#### 6.10.2.2 Solution for access to localized services based on Onboarding
Mechanism
Figure 6.10.2.2-1 shows a general overview of the access to localized services
based on the onboarding mechanism. If UE uses credentials other home network
credentials, then credentials obtained using the onboarding procedure as
defined in 33.501 [4] Annex I.9 (\"Security of UE onboarding in SNPNs\" can be
used to access the hosting network.
Figure 6.10.2.2-1: Overview of Access to localized services based on
Onboarding Mechanism per Annex I.9.2 of TS 33.501 [4]
Figure 6.10.2.2-2 shows the procedures for access to localized services.
Figure 6.10.2.2-2: Procedures to Access localized services based on Onboarding
1\. The Localized Service Provider (LSP) establishes a service agreement with
the operator of a Hosting Network. The LSP also establishes a service
agreement with the UE to enable the UE to receive the information needed to
discover/access Hosting Network and the localized service. The hosting network
is configured based on the service agreement, e.g., DNN/S-NSSAI configuration
for access to localized service, QoS, number of end-users, time, location,
whether home network services can be accessed via the hosting network, etc.
The configuration of the Hosting Network is performed by means that are
outside of the 3GPP scope. The UE performs the procedures defined in TS 23.502
to get the 5GC network access.
NOTE 1: In figure 6.10.2.2-2, the same network takes the role of the
Onboarding network and then of the hosting network. Also, DCS can be involved
in step 1c for primary authentication or as a part of step 2 (secondary
authentication).
2\. Localized service advertisements prompt UE\'s user using default
credentials where UE authenticates with the DCS (e.g., per TS 33.501 [4] Annex
I.9.2). The procedures are similar to the existing 23.501 [6] clause
5.30.2.10.2. e.g., After a successful onboarding procedure, the LSP sends a
Security Profile corresponding to the UE and LSP certificate to the LSP
access. The Security Profile associated with the LSP contains all the
necessary data to establish a TLS tunnel between the LSP and UE.
NOTE 2: Aspects related to information configuration, such as PVS IP address
and PVS FQDN, depend on WG SA2\'s conclusions.
3\. After step 2, the UE needs to disconnect from the network (so far in the
role of onboarding network) and reconnect again (now in the role of Hosting
network). The user performs a selection of the Hosting Network. UE connects to
the Hosting Network and is authenticated by the LSP in the role of Credential
Holder (e.g., using a AAA server) using credentials downloaded in 2. UE
requests a PDU Session and accesses the localized service of the LSP via the
Hosting Network. Upon expiry of the time-restricted credentials, the LSP in
the role of Credential Holder requests a release of the UE. When the localized
service agreement is terminated, the Hosting Network removes the configured
information by means that are outside of the 3GPP scope.
### 6.10.3 System Impact
_For clause 6.10.2.1, there is not any system impact on existing security
architecture per 33.501 [4]._
_For clause 6.10.2.2, the existing UE onboarding procedure cannot be used as
is for access to localized services._ As per 23.501 [6] clause 5.30.2.10.4.2
(Onboarding configuration for the UE), _The PVS information, such as PVS IP
address and PVS FQDN(s) provided by the onboarding network takes precedence
over any such information stored in the UE. In contrast, the PVS information
provided by the DCS takes precedence over the information stored in the
onboarding network._
### 6.10.4 Evaluation
_For clause 6.10.2.1,_ With the proposed solutions above, there is not any
system impact on the existing security architecture per 33.501 [4]. The
solution addresses key issue 2 and fulfils the requirements of mutual
authentication between UE and the Hosting Network.
The solution considers two scenarios for UE access to the hosting network
using the subscription/credentials of the home network:
\- If the home network is a PLMN, the hosting network can be a PNI-NPN or a
stand-alone network providing non-3GPP access (SNPN).
\- If the home network is an SNPN, the hosting network can only be an SNPN.
In both cases, the UE has two options for accessing the hosting network:
\- The UE can use home network credentials to access the hosting network, in
which case existing primary authentication methods in TS 33.501 [4] can be
reused.
\- The UE can use credentials obtained through an onboarding procedure defined
in Annex I.9 of TS 33.501 [4], which provides connectivity to obtain
credentials. The credentials provisioning protocol is outside the scope of
this solution. The solution addresses both cases where if UE is preconfigured
with PVS address information and the UE receives PVS address information from
the SMF during the PDU Session Establishment Accept message; the UE can
determine based on local configuration whether to apply or ignore the PVS
address information provided by the SMF.
## 6.11 Solution #11: High-level solution on authentication for UE access to
hosting network
### 6.11.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #2 \"Authentication for UE access to hosting
network\". It provides a high-level exploration of the solution space, based
on the analysis of the different possible use and business cases.
### 6.11.2 Solution details
The study in TR 23.700-08 [2] has considered different scenarios for UE access
to hosting network. From an authentication point of view, the scenarios can be
broadly classified into the following two cases:
1) There is a business relationship between hosting network and home network.
2) There is no business relationship between hosting network and home network.
For case 1), the business relationship between hosting network and home
network can have different implications on the authentication architecture. At
least the following cases are possible:
1a) Home network (PLMN or SNPN) is Credentials Holder using AUSF/UDM, hosting
network is SNPN.
1b) Hosting network is PNI-NPN and home network is the underlying PLMN.
1c) Hosting network is PNI-NPN and the underlying PLMN has a roaming
relationship with the home network.
For case 1a), the authentication to the hosting network is already specified
in Annex I.2.4 of TS 33.501 [4]. For case 1b), the authentication to the
hosting network can be based on the PLMN-credentials of the home network.
Additional secondary or slice-specific authentication to access the hosting
network is also possible. For case 1c), the authentication to the hosting
network can also be based on the PLMN-credentials of the home network. In
addition to primary authentication, secondary authentication to access the
hosting network (PNI-NPN deployed by the VPLMN) is possible with local
breakout.
For case 2), the following cases need to be considered:
2a) Hosting network is SNPN and does not have a business relationship with the
home network.
2b) Hosting network is PNI-NPN and the underlying PLMN does not have a roaming
relationship (or other business relationship) with the home network: This case
does not seem to be possible, since PLMNs usually have a roaming relationship.
In case 2a), the UE needs new credentials to authenticate to the hosting
network. Hosting network credentials can be provisioned to UE using existing
user plane mechanisms, over visited or home network connectivity or using
onboarding as specified in TS 23.501 [6] clause 5.30.2.10, TS 23.502 [7]
clause 4.2.2.2.4 and TS 33.501 [4] Annex I.9. Onboarding requires default UE
credentials to be pre-configured on the UE.
This solution structures the possible scenarios in a different way than in the
conclusions in TR 23.700-08, clause 8.4.1.
### 6.11.3 System impact
The high-level solutions described in the solution details do not have
normative specification impact.
### 6.11.4 Evaluation
This solution addresses the security requirements of Key Issue #2
\"Authentication for UE access to hosting network\". It does not require new
normative work.
NOTE: Further evaluation is not addressed in the present document.
## 6.12 Solution #12: Localised service authentication through onboarding
procedure and registration afterwards.
### 6.12.1 Introduction
This is a solution to KI#2.
The solution proposes to use the onboarding procedures defined in TS 33.501
[4] clause I.9 and TS 23.501 [6] clause 5.30.2.10 to provision the
credentials, which afterwards are used to authenticate to the hosting network
and hereby get access to the localised service.
The solutions assumes that the service provider and user have a service
agreement and as part of that agreement the UE also have the default
credentials provisioned. The license agreement and provisioning of default
credentials is out of scope.
The onboarding of the UE is done towards the hosting network, which might host
the DCS or the DCS can be located at the service provider. The hosting network
enables the UE to get onboarded through the onboarding service provided,
implying credentials to the hosting network/service is installed. In this
solution the hosting network is not an PNI-NPN, as default credentials-based
onboarding is not applicable because the UE already have a subscription for
the HPLNM.
To access the localised service, the UE registers to the hosting network using
the installed credentials.
### 6.12.2 Solution details
Procedures in this solution is based the procedures defined in TS 33.501 [4]
clause I and TS 23.501 [6] clause 5.30.2.10 concerning UE onboarding.
1) The service provider and user contractual agrees to enable the service.
This implies that the service provider, provides the UE with the default UE
credentials. The provisioning of default UE credentials is out of scope.
2) The UE initiates an onboarding procedure towards the hosting network which
in this case act like an onboarding network. The DCS may be hosted in the
hosting network or by the service provider. The onboarding procedures follow
the already standardised solution in TS 23 23.501 [6] clause 5.30.2.10 and TS
33.501 [4] clause I.9.
NOTE: Provisioning of credentials is out of scope.
3) The UE registers to the hosting network and authenticates using credentials
provisioned in step 2. After registration the UE has access to the localised
service.
### 6.12.3 System impact
No system impacts.
### 6.12.4 Evaluation
This solution fulfils the requirement in key issue #2 by utilising the
onboarding procedure to provision credentials which then is used to mutual
authenticate to the hosting network during registration to the hosting
network.
## 6.13 Solution #13: Home network primary authentication -- secondary
authentication towards localised service
### 6.13.1 Introduction
This is a solution to KI#2.
This solution proposes to use home routed primary authentication towards the
home network to establish the connection and secondary authentication towards
the localised service provider to authenticate and get access to the service.
The solution reuses already existing methods to authenticate the UE, namely
home routed authentication, and local break out (break out from hosting
network) secondary authentication towards the localised service provider.
### 6.13.2 Solution details
Procedures in this solution is based the procedures defined in TS 33.501 [4]
clause 11 concerning secondary authentication.
Figure 6.13.2-1
1) The hosting network, home network and service provider agree on a service
agreement.
2) The UE registers to the hosting network which "home routes" the
authentication request to the home network which performs the primary
authentication of the subscriber and establishes the key hierarchy as defined
in TS 33.501 clause 6. The hosting network will act as a visited network and
the home network as the home network.
3) The SMF in the hosting network will initiate the secondary authentication
as described in TS 33.501 [4] clause 11, as defined for the local breakout
configuration. The AAA can either be managed by the service provider or the
hosting network.
### 6.13.3 System impact
No system impacts.
### 6.13.4 Evaluation
This solution fulfils the requirement in key issue #2 by primary authenticate
with the home network to mutual authenticate the UE and establishing the root
of the key hierarchy for the hosting network and afterwards provide the
hosting network the capability secondary authenticate according to TS 33.501
clause 11 configured as local break out.
## 6.14 Solution #14: NSWO support in SNPN using any key-generating EAP-method
for SNPN using CH AUSF/UDM
### 6.14.1 Introduction
This solution solves Key issue #1 in the case of NSWO using any key-generating
EAP-method in SNPN with CH AUSF/UDM.
The proposed procedure is based on the current procedures for roaming in Annex
S.4 of TS 33.501 [4].
### 6.14.2 Solution details
The description of NSWO for roaming defined in Annex S.4 of TS 33.501 [4] can
be applied with the following adjustments:
\- The procedures of Annex S.4 point to the roaming architecture options
described in clause 4.2.15 in TS 23.501 [6].
\- This roaming architecture is applicable by letting the Credential Holder
taking the part of HPLMN. Figure 6.14.2-1 shows a modified version of Figure
4.2.15-3 of TS 23.501 [6], where HPLMN is replaced with CH and VPLMN is
replaced by SNPN.
\- The only impact on the SNPN is that it needs to deploy a AAA Proxy.
\- The CH needs to deploy a NSWOF
\- To be able to support all key-generating EAP-mechanisms, the procedures of
Solution #9 of the present document can be applied on the proposed
architecture.
Figure 6.14.2-1: Proposed roaming reference architectures to support
authentication for Non-seamless WLAN offload in SNPN with CH AUSF/UDM
### 6.14.3 System impact
The solution has impact on UE (needs to support NSWO).SNPN needs to deploy AAA
proxy and CH needs to deploy NSWOF.
### 6.14.4 Evaluation
This solution solves Key issue #1 in aspect of supporting NSWO in SNPN that
deploys CH AUSF/UDM. It reuses the procedures of Annex S of TS 33.501 [4] as
much as possible adding the possibility of using any key-generating EAP-
method.
## 6.15 Solution #15: NSWO using SNPN credentials from CH AAA
### 6.15.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key issue #1 in the case of NSWO using SNPN
credentials from Credentials Holder AAA.
The proposed procedure is based on the current procedures for NSWO in Annex
S.4 of TS 33.501 [4].
### 6.15.2 Solution details
In this solution, NSWO using SNPN credentials from CH AAA is achieved by
reusing procedures defined in Solution 9 of the present document with
following modifications:
\- The WLAN AN can route the SWa messages directly to the CH AAA via AAA proxy
instead of NSWOF/AUSF/UDM.
\- The same key generating EAP method (including the SUPI/identifier privacy
aspects) used by the SNPN over NG-RAN is reused over WLAN AN.
Figure 6.15.2-1: Reference architecture to support authentication for Non-
seamless WLAN offload using SNPN credentials from CH AAA Server
NOTE: The ability to differentiate the authentication of the UE between NSWO
case and primary authentication case has not been addressed in the present
document.
### 6.15.3 System impact
The solution has impact on UE (needs to support NSWO over WLAN). SNPN/CH needs
to deploy AAA proxy.
### 6.15.4 Evaluation
This solution solves Key issue #1 in case of the SNPN wants to reuse the
credentials from CH AAA for NSWO. To support this architecture, Rel-17 NSWO
can be reused and there is no specification impact on the entities involved in
the 3GPP network side. Therefore, no normative work is expected.
## 6.16 Solution #16: Localized Service related authentication and network
access
### 6.16.1 Introduction
The solution address KI#2.
### 6.16.2 Solution details
The solution covers the following different scenarios of authentication
related to Providing Access to Localized Services (PALS) based on TR 23.700-08
[2].
Considering security aspects related to network access, the authentication
scenarios can be broadly classified as two Cases based on the type of
credentials used for the hosting network access authentication:
Case 1. The UE hosting network access relies on home network credentials.
1a: The hosting network can be PNI-NPN or SNPN and the home network is PLMN.
1b: The hosting network can be SNPN and the home network is SNPN
For both scenarios listed above, the UE can determine to use home network
credentials based on TR 23.700-08 [2] clause 8.4.5. The primary authentication
for case 1 can be similar to TS 33.501 [4] Clause I.6 i.e., based on home
network credentials. The primary authentication for case 1b can be based on TS
33.501[4] Clause I.2, the home network acts as credentials holder using
AUSF/UDM. For the above two cases, as the UE uses home network credentials,
the SUPI protection with SUCI can be achieved similar to TS 33.501 [4].
Case 2. The UE hosting network access relies on other credentials (e.g.,
preconfigured/provisioned using application layer outside the scope of 3GPP
similar to localized service information preconfiguration described in TR
23.700-08 [2] Clause 8.4.3). For the following cases, it can be possible that
the credential holder can hold the provisioned UE credentials to support
hosting network access, further it can be possible that in case 2a, the SUPI
protection using SIDF functions cannot be achieved due to lack of SIDF support
at the localized server provider side, but the localized service provider
offers other means to ensure SUPI privacy (i.e., for the NAI). Similarly in
case 2b, it can be possible that the provisioned credentials do not include
hosting network public key and related information to support non-null scheme
SUCI generation even if the hosting network supports UDM with SID
functionality.
2a: The hosting network can be the Onboarding network and the external
credential holder can belong to the localized service provider.
2b: The hosting network can be the Onboarding network and the credential
holder can belong to the hosting network itself.
For cases 2a and 2b, it is very essential to consider two main security
aspects listed below:
1\. The procedure defined in TS 33.501 [4] Clause I.2.2.2, uses anonymous SUCI
whereas per TS 23.003 [9] Clause 2.2B, the username set to either the
\"anonymous\" string or to an empty string. Where the first option is a static
string and the later one is skipping the username part. In both cases, the
main threat is that an end user can launch DDoS over the network, and the
network will be able to identify the UE only after executing multiple round-
trips of authentication related message exchanges leading to DDoS with
flooding over the network.
2\. According to TR 33.926 [10], Denial of service (DoS) attacks deny service
to valid users, and it insists that, \'need to protect against certain types
of DoS threats simply to improve system availability and reliability\'.
Further it states, \'A large number of compromised or misbehaving user
equipments (UE) can cause a fault on the GNP with a consequent denial of
service.\'.
So, any security procedure including authentication procedure should take into
account these finding to improve the security from the previous releases.
Therefore, following aspects are proposed for cases 2a and 2b, if non-null
schemes cannot be used for SUPI protection.
For Cases 2a and 2b if the SUPI privacy with non-null SUCI generation is not
feasible, then it is proposed that, the credentials provisioned to the UE and
the credential holder will contain an identifier (ID) which is associated to
the actual SUPI related to the localized service subscription information.
This ID do not leak any information about the UE/User (i.e., it can be
anonymous or pseudonymous and it assignment is completely up to the localized
service provider outside the scope of 3GPP). This ID is termed as digital
identifier in general here in this solution. The UE while generating the null
SUCI from the SUPI, the UE uses only the digital identifier as username part
of the NAI to ensure SUPI privacy during primary authentication.
For NAI based SUPI, if the UE is provisioned with a digital identifier, then
the UE can use the digital identifier as the username part of NAI for SUCI
generation. The SUCI construction related to scheme Output can be same as
described in TS 33.501 [4], but the SUPI type should be set as digital
identifier based NAI type.
For case 2a, the AUSF/UDM can forward the SUPI, which is digital identifier
username based NAI, further the external CH (e.g., AAA) can fetch associated
subscription information and executes primary authentication as defined in TS
33.501 [4] Clause I.2.2.2.2.
For case 2b, the UDM on receiving the SUCI with SUPI type indicating \'digital
identifier based NAI type\', deconceals the SUCI as in TS 33.501 [4], fetches
the SUPI (i.e., NAI SUPI) related to the digital identifier and continues with
the existing authentication procedure defined in TS 33.501 [4].
_[\"]{.underline}As clearly stated in RFC 7542, the purpose of the NAI is to
allow a user to be associated with an account name, as well as to assist in
the routing of the authentication request across multiple domains. In
alignment the proposal in this solution allows the NAI to use a digital
identifier (i.e., available as part of the default credentials related to PALS
service) in the username part which allows the external CH to find the default
credentials related to the UE and initiate a suitable authentication. Further
the realm part of the NAI facilitates to route to the right external CH.\"_
NOTE: As an option if required based on the configurations available in the
default credentials, the NAI can be signed by the UE and the external CH can
verify the sign., e.g., legacy AAA is already capable of doing this as covered
in generic AAA architecture RFC 2903 [11].
### 6.16.3 System impact
For case 1, no impact as existing mechanism from TS 33.501 [4] is reused.
For case 2, the UE need to support an identifier which do not reveal any
information about the UE to be used in username part of the NAI to access the
network and to assist in identifying the credentials associated to the UE. The
credential holder needs to fetch the actual subscription
information/identifiers associated to the digital identifier to perform the
authentication. As, this identifier needs to be routed via AMF and AUSF up to
the external CH the related impact applies.
### 6.16.4 Evaluation
The solution proposes the usage of a pseudonymous SUCI for the case of
onboarding. However, identifiers used during onboarding are generally only
used once, since onboarding only happens once. Therefore, a pseudonymous SUCI
is not needed in the case of onboarding.
## 6.17 Solution #17: Authentication for UE to access hosting network and
receive localized services using existing mechanisms.
### 6.17.1 Introduction
This solution addresses KI #2: Authentication for UE access to hosting
network.
### 6.17.2 Solution details
As per the conclusions of the study in TR 23.700-08 [2], it is up to UE to
discover, select the hosting network, and decided what credentials are used to
access hosting network.
From an authentication point of view, there are two types of cases for UE
access to hosting network:
1) The UE accesses the Hosting network using the subscription/credentials of
its Home network.
2) The UE accesses the Hosting network using the other credentials rather than
the subscription/credentials from the UE Home network.
For case 1), The authentication method specified in in Annex I.2 of TS 33.501
[4] can be reused for UE access to SNPN as hosting network. Existing primary
authentication can be reused for UE access to PNI-NPN as hosting network. In
the case of PNI-NPN as hosting network using S-NSSAI, slice-specific
authentication can also be used.
NOTE 1: Only UEs equipped with a USIM configured with PLMN credentials can
access a hosting network which is a PNI-NPN. When the UE requests to access
the hosting network, the home PLMN credential(s) are used during
authentication procedure.
For case 2), The provisioning of Default credentials is out of scope, for
example, it can be pre-configured on the UE. If the UE has Default credentials
and the UE determines that new credentials for accessing hosting network are
needed, the UE uses the Default credentials for the onboarding mechanism with
the ON-SNPN acting as hosting network. The onboarding procedures are already
specified in TS 23.501 [6] clause 5.30.2.10, TS 23.502 [7] clause 4.2.2.2.4
and TS 33.501 [4] Annex I.9 to provision the credentials.
NOTE 2: In case that the UE is preconfigured with PVS address information and
the UE receives PVS address information from the SMF during the PDU Session
Establishment Accept message, the UE may determine based on local
configuration whether to apply or ignore the PVS address information provided
by the SMF.
After having the access to the hosting network, the UE can receive localized
services based on the services agreements between the hosting network and
localized service provider.
### 6.17.3 System impact
This solution does not have system impacts.
### 6.17.4 Evaluation
This solution addresses the security requirements of KI #2: Authentication for
UE access to hosting network.
It uses existing mechanisms, and does not require normative work.
## 6.18 Solution #18: UE creates the identifier in trusted non-3GPP access
### 6.18.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1.
When anonymous SUCI is used as IDi sent in the IKEv2 message, the TNGF cannot
get the right Key K~TGNF~, because different UE may use the same anonymous
SUCI. This solution proposes the UE creates a random number that is included
in both AN parameter and IDi payload, and the N3IWF can use the existing logic
to find the Key K~TGNF~.
### 6.18.2 Solution details
This solution reuses the trusted non-3GPP access authentication procedure in
clause 7.2A.1 of TS 33.501 [4] with the following modifications:
\- In step 5, when anonymous SUCI is used, the UE sets any random number into
the UE ID of the AN parameters part.
NOTE 1: How to include the random number is not addressed in this solution,
because it is in the scope of CT1. For example, CT1 may agree with a solution
either put the UE ID together with the anonymous SUCI, or define a new IE.
\- In step 13b, the UE sets the ID type as ID_KEY-ID in this message and set
its value equal to the random number as used in step 5.
NOTE 2: The random numbers assigned by different UEs may be the same, and the
TNGF can mitigate this issue by implementation, for example by using a 64bit
or 128bit random number which reduces the probability of collision.
### 6.18.3 System impact
The solution impacts on UE.
The solution may impact on TNGF due to the different potential designs of
sending the UE ID.
### 6.18.4 Evaluation
This solution addresses KI#1 when the anonymous SUCI is used in trusted
non-3GPP access by UE sets a random number in the AN parameter and IDi
payload.
How to include the random number and whether it impacts on TNGF is stage3
work, thus this solution may or may not impact on the TNGF.
The random numbers assigned by different UEs may be the same, and the TNGF can
mitigate this issue by implementation, for example, by using a 64bit or 128bit
random number which reduces the probability of collision.
## 6.19 Solution #19: Supporting CH using AAA for N3GPP Security in SNPN
### 6.19.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1 on Security of non-3GPP access for SNPN.
### 6.19.2 Solution details
For untrusted non-3GPP access in SNPN, support for credential holder using AAA
server for primary authentication between the UE and the AAA server**,** as
specified in clause I.2.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4].
For trusted non-3GPP access in SNPN, support for credential holder using AAA
server for primary authentication between the UE and the AAA server**,** as
specified in clause I.2.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4].
For trusted WLAN access for N5CW devices in SNPN, support for credential
holder using AAA server for primary authentication between the N5CW device and
the AAA server**,** as specified in clause I.2.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4].
For NSWO in SNPN, support for credential holder using AAA server for primary
authentication between the UE and the AAA server**,** can use the solution
specified in clause 6.15 of the present document.
### 6.19.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirement of key issue #1 by applying clause
I.2.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4] for primary authentication to procedures in SNPN,
including untrusted N3GPP procedure, trusted N3GPP procedure and trusted WLAN
access procedure (N5CW devices).
This solution requires minimal normative work since it reuses existing
specifications in TS 33.501 [4].
## 6.20 Solution #20: NSWO using SNPN credentials from CH AAA via 5GC
### 6.20.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key issue #1 in the case of NSWO using SNPN
credentials from Credentials Holder AAA.
The proposed procedure is based on the current procedures for NSWO in Annex
S.4 of TS 33.501 [4] and for Credential Holder using AAA server for primary
authentication in clause I.2.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4].
### 6.20.2 Solution details
Figure 6.20.2-1: Procedure for NSWO using SNPN credentials from CH AAA Server
via 5GC
Steps 1-5 are performed as described in Annex S.3.2 of TS 33.501 [4], with the
following addition: If the EAP method supports privacy and the UE is
configured to use anonymous SUCI, the UE may send an anonymous value SUCI
based on configuration. If the construction of SUCI as described in clause
6.12 of TS 33.501 [4] cannot be used and if the employed EAP method supports
SUPI privacy, then the UE can send an anonymous SUPI based on configuration.
Steps 6-16 are replaced by steps 3-10 of clause I.2.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4],
except in step 6 that an NSWO_indicator is also sent to the UDM by the AUSF.
Remaining steps are performed as described in steps 16-18d of Annex S.3.2 of
TS 33.501 [4].
### 6.20.3 System impact
The solution has no new impact on UE, WLAN AN, or 5GC.
### 6.20.4 Evaluation
This solution solves Key issue #1 when the credentials from CH AAA are used
for NSWO.
It reuses Annex S.3.2 and clause I.2.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4], thus require
minimal normative specification.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Conclusions for KI#1 Security of non-3GPP access for SNPN
### 7.1.1 Scope
TR 23.700-08 [2] has concluded in clause 8.2 that N3GPP access to SNPN
includes the following types of access:
\- Untrusted/Trusted N3GPP access including support for onboarding
\- NSWO access to SNPN using SNPN credentials
The case of N5CW devices has not been addressed by TR 23.700-08 [2], but there
are solutions for this case proposed in this study.
### 7.1.2 Conclusion for Untrusted N3GPP access to SNPN
Solution #1 is selected as basis for normative work for untrusted access to
SNPN.
This means that the procedure specified in TS 33.501 [4] clause 7.2.1 will be
reused for normative work with the following modifications:
\- **Support for all key generating EAP-methods:** Extend the applicable
authentication mechanism in steps 7 and 8 to key-generating EAP authentication
methods
\- **Support for onboarding** : Add possibility to send onboarding SUCI in
step 5
\- **Support for usage of anonymous SUCI** : Add possibility to send anonymous
SUCI in step 5 (also affecting steps 6 and 7) if the construction of SUCI as
described in clause 6.12 of TS 33.501 [4] cannot be used and if the employed
EAP method supports privacy.
\- **Support for credential holder using AAA server for primary
authentication,** as specified in clause I.2.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4].
\- Support for Credentials Holder using AUSF and UDM for primary
authentication, as specified in clause I.2.4 of TS 33.501 [4].
### 7.1.3 Conclusion for Trusted N3GPP access to SNPN
The following is agreed as basis for normative work with regards to the
aspects:
\- Support for all key generating EAP-methods
\- Support for usage of anonymous SUCI
\- Support for onboarding
This implies that the procedure specified in TS 33.501 [4] clause 7A.2.4 will
be reused for normative work with the following modifications:
\- **Support for usage of anonymous SUCI:**
\- Add possibility to send anonymous SUCI in step 5 (affecting also following
steps 5-8) if the construction of SUCI as described in clause 6.12 of TS
33.501 [4] cannot be used and if the employed EAP method supports privacy.
\- If the construction of SUCI as described in clause 6.12 of TS 33.501 [4]
cannot be used to identify the UE, the UE sends a 64-bit random number in step
5 and use this random number as key identifier in step 13\. The random number
generation by the UE should follow the recommendations given in SP 800-90A
[13] or equivalent.
\- If the TNGF cannot locate the UE (e.g., due to collision), the TNGF will
reject the UE. The UE may retry with a new random number.
**\- Support for all key generating EAP-methods:** Extension of applicable
authentication mechanism in step 8 to key-generating EAP authentication
methods.
**\- Support for onboarding:** Add possibility to send onboarding SUCI in step
5
\- **Support for credential holder using AAA server for primary
authentication,** as specified in clause I.2.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4].
\- Support for Credentials Holder using AUSF and UDM for primary
authentication, as specified in clause I.2.4 of TS 33.501 [4].
### 7.1.4 Conclusion for N5CW device access to SNPN
Solution #4 is selected as basis for normative work with regards to the
aspects:
\- Support for all key generating EAP-methods
\- Support for usage of anonymous SUCI if the construction of SUCI as
described in clause 6.12 of TS 33.501 [2] cannot be used and if the employed
EAP method supports privacy.
\- Support for SNPN Id (PLMN Id and NID) carried in NAI
\- Support for credential holder using AAA server for primary authentication,
as specified in clause I.2.2.2 of TS 33.501 [4].
\- Support for Credentials Holder using AUSF and UDM for primary
authentication, as specified in clause I.2.4 of TS 33.501 [4].
### 7.1.5 Conclusion for NSWO support in SNPN
The solutions support usage of anonymous SUCI if the construction of SUCI as
described in clause 6.12 of TS 33.501 [4] cannot be used and if the employed
EAP method supports privacy.
Solution #9 is selected as basis for normative work with respect to the
aspects of supporting NSWO in SNPN that has AUSF/UDM.
How the UDM selects authentication method in case of anonymous SUCI is to be
specified as part of normative work.
Solution #14 is selected as basis for normative work with respect to the
aspects of supporting NSWO in SNPN using a CH with AUSF/UDM.
Solution #15 is selected as basis for normative work with respect to the
aspects of supporting NSWO in SNPN using SNPN credentials from CH AAA.
## 7.2 Conclusions for KI#2 Authentication for UE access to hosting network
Existing authentication procedures can be used for authentication for UE
access to hosting network in the possible scenarios as concluded in TR
23.700-08 [2].
## 7.3 Other conclusions
Security of UE Onboarding in SNPNs as described in Annex I.9 of TS 33.501 [4]
does not require the usage of anonymous SUCI.
#