# Foreword {#foreword-1}
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
According to TS 33.501 [2], use of mutual TLS for authentication of NF
requires compliance to 3GPP TS 33.310 [3] section 6.1.3c for TLS client and
TLS server certificate profiles in addition to TLS profile compliance with
section 6.2a of [3].
The use of TLS certificates in 5G SBA is ubiquitous.
However, unlike standardised model using CMPv2 in RAN, SBA does not have a
standardised model and set of procedures for automated certificate management.
SBA also does not have a standardised protocol for managing life cycle events
of the certificates, e.g., bootstrap, request, issue, enrolment, revocation,
renewal etc.
\- Lack of standardisation has resulted into number of bespoke methodologies
and varying choices of certificate management protocols resulting into
inconsistent model.
\- Once service slicing and NPN are introduced in service provider network,
manual management or lack of standardised procedures for life cycle management
of TLS certificates belonging to separate legal entities could further
complicate the architecture.
All the above have potential of increasing the security risk and impact the
deployment and availability of operators\' 5G SBA network.
RAN has benefitted from the standardisation of CMPv2 to be used for
eNodeB/gNodeB automated certificate management. The specification defined a
bootstrap procedure based on the use of vendor certificate for requesting an
operator certificate for the set-up of IPSec IKE2 towards the SeGW. 5G SBA is
within the operator core network domain that could benefit from a study that
leads to the standardisation of an automated certificate management procedure
using a standardised protocol that fits for purpose to serve the 5G Core
Network.
# 1 Scope
The objectives of this study are to identify key issues, potential security
and privacy requirements and solutions with respect to
\- Standardise the use of a single automated certificate management protocol
and procedures for certificate life cycle events within intra-PLMN 5G SBA
(i.e. to be used by all 5GC NFs including NRF, SCP, SEPP etc.).
\- Study the impact of service mesh in certificate management within 5G SBA.
_\- S_ tudy which lifecycle events (e.g., enrolment, renewal, revocation
(e.g., OCSP, CRLs), status monitoring) of a certificate need to be covered.
\- Study the relation between certificate management lifecycle and NF
management lifecycle.
_\- Study to reference at minimum following principles:_
\- Principle to be reusable when 5G SBA is for NPN (standalone and PNI)
\- Principles standardised to be able to support NFs doing mutual TLS in
Slicing.
\- Principles standardised to support both intra and inter PLMN, in the latter
referring to SEPP certificates in N32 interfaces and potential cross-
certification considerations.
\- Principles involving \'Chain of Trust\' of Certificate Authorities
hierarchies.
\- Principles for security of CA\'s cryptographic private key.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[4] IETF RFC 7515: \"JSON Web Signature\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network function repository services; Stage
3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[8] IETF RFC 6960: \"X.509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online
Certificate Status Protocol - OCSP\".
[9] IETF RFC 6712:\"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure -- HTTP Transfer
for the Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)\".
[10] IETF RFC 4210: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate
Management Protocol\".
[11] IETF: Certificate Management Protocol (CMP) Updates,
[https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lamps-cmp-
updates-21]{.underline}.
[12] ETSI GR NFV-SEC 005 V1.2.1: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Trust; Report on Certificate Management\".
[13] ETSI GS-NFV 006 V2.1.1: \"Management and Orchestration; Architectural
Framework Specification\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.502: \" Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[15] IETF RFC 6066: \"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
Definitions\".
[16] IETF RFC 6961: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Multiple Certificate
Status Request Extension.
[17] 3GPP TR 33.848: \"Study on Security Impacts of Virtualisation\".
[18] IETF RFC 4211: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate
Request Message Format (CRMF)\".
[19] IETF RFC 5280: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and
Certificate Revocation List (CRL) Profile\".
[20] [draft-ietf-lamps-cmp-algorithms-15 - Certificate Management Protocol
(CMP) Algorithms]{.underline} \"Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)
Algorithms\".
[21] IETF draft-ietf-lamps-nf-eku-00: \"X.509 Certificate Extended Key Usage
(EKU) for (JOSE) and CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)\"
[https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lamps-nf-eku]{.underline}.
[22] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[23] IETF RFC 8555: \"Automatic Certificate Management Environment (ACME)\".
[24] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[25] IETF RFC 9110: \"HTTP Semantics\".
[26] IETF RFC 8738: \"Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) IP
Identifier Validation Extension\".
[27] IETF draft-ietf-acme-authority-token-tnauthlist-12: \"TNAuthList profile
of ACME Authority Token\" [https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-
acme-authority-token-tnauthlist-12.]{.underline}
[28] IETF RFC 8739: \"Support for Short-Term, Automatically Renewed (STAR)
Certificates in the Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACME Automatic Certificate Management Environment
CA Certification Authority
CCA Client Credential Assertion
CeEF Certificate Enrolment Function
CEMAF Certificate Enrolment and MAnagement Framework
CeMF CEMAF Management Function
CM Certificate Management
CMNE Certificate Management Network Entity
CMP Certificate Management Protocol
CRL Certification Revocation List
CSR Certificate Signing Request
CUO Certificate Update Orchestrator
EE End Entity
EKU Extended Key Usage
IAK Initial Authentication Key
JWS JSON Web Signature
LCM Lifecycle Management
NSCOF Network Slice Certificate Orchestration Function
OAM Operations, Administration and Maintenance
OCSP Online Certificate Status Protocol
PKCS Public Key Cryptography Standards
PKI Public Key Infrastructure
POP Proof of Possession
PSK Pre-Shared Key
RA Registration Authority
SAN Subject Alt Name
STAR Short Term Automatically Renewed
TLS Transport Layer Protocol
UUID Universally Unique IDentifier
VNF Virtual Network Function
# 4 Architectural and security assumptions
## 4.1 Security Assumption #1: Security requirements of intra NF
communications
### 4.1.1 Background
It is likely that SBA services will be made up from software components that
communicate with each other over a LAN. This \"intra-SBA\" communication needs
to be secured. Even if intra-SBA is not standardised, requirements on the
security of this communications need to be present so that suitable
certification methods can be created to test the SBA service.
### 4.1.2 Security threats
If the intra-SBA communication is insecure then, depending on the SBA service,
user data may be leaked to an attacker, or an attacker may be able to insert
information that may cause adverse actions.
### 4.1.3 Detailed Assumptions
Communications that are internal to an SBA service but carried on a LAN
connection should be integrity protected.
Communications that are internal to an SBA service but carried on a LAN
connection should be confidentiality protected.
Communications that are internal to an SBA service but carried on a LAN
connection should be replay protected.
The endpoints for communications that are internal to an SBA service should be
mutually authenticated.
## 4.2 Security Assumption #2: Protection of private keys at rest
### 4.2.1 Background
The TLS process produces private keys that need to be kept secure at rest.
### 4.2.2 Security threats
If the private keys are not stored securely, then an attacker can access the
keys and then emulate the SBA service as though it is the genuine service
leading to data loss and the ability to perform Man in the Middle attacks.
### 4.2.3 Detailed Assumptions
Private keys are securely stored at rest.
Where a private key is stored internally to a service then it should be
confidentiality and integrity protected.
Where a private key is stored in a secure central key repository, then the
repository should be at least as secure as the key agreement method and the
communications between the SBA service and the secure central key repository
are also be secured.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Single certificate management protocol and procedures
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
Considering virtualization in 5G SBA, it is impossible to manage certificates
manually.
If there is no standardized use of an automated cert management protocol, the
certificate management needs to be done manually which may lead to missing
refreshment of certificates and usage of expired certificates.
It will increase the implementation and deployment complexity when several
automated certificate management protocol and procedures are defined. And
there will be interoperability issue for different implementation because NF
may not be able to have a certificate from CA or may not be able to verify the
certificate of other NF.
This KI is to investigate required certificate management capabilities (e.g.,
enrolment, renewal), to be used for corresponding certificate life cycle
events, expected from a certificate management protocol and whether it is
feasible to have a single certificate management protocol and procedures for
all these certificate life cycle events within intra-PLMN 5G SBA, which is
mandatory for implementation.
### 5.1.2 Security threats
Not applicable.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
Not applicable.
## 5.2 Key Issue #2: Security protection of NF certificate enrolment
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
An instantiated NF needs to obtain the certificate from the CA for securing
the communication with other NFs, encrypting messages, or signing tokens,
among other purposes in SBA. Thus, a secure and automated certificate
enrolment procedure is indispensable to obtain the certificates. Before
issuing a certificate, operator CA/RA needs to establish an initial trust with
the requestor NF instance, ensuring that the requestor NF instance is the
correct one and is entitled to request a certificate.
This key issue considers the procedure of certificate enrolment including the
establishment of the initial NF trust, the protection of certificate enrolment
procedure, and the authentication between NF and CA.
### 5.2.2 Security threats
If the NF cannot obtain a certificate, and the certificate enrolment procedure
is not secured, the following problems may occur:
1\. The NF cannot communicate with each other.
2\. If certificate enrolment parameters are tampered, the CA issues an
incorrect certificate.
3\. Without pre-established trust between the NF and CA/RA, an attacker
claiming to be a trusted NF with connectivity in SBA could apply for a valid
operator certificate.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
New NF instances need an automated and secure procedure to build initial trust
with the CA/RA during certificate enrolment procedure.
5GS should support the means to secure the automated enrolment of
certificates, include integrity protection and Anti-replay protection of
enrolment procedure.
5GS should support the mutual authentication between involved parties during
the enrolment procedure.5GS should support the verifying of certificate
validity for certificate enrolment.
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: NF Certificate Update
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
NF certificate update is a necessary part of an automated certificate
management mechanism because the long validity period certificate is
considered not secure. Therefore, it is important that each certificate is set
with an appropriate period of validity. Furthermore, it is necessary to update
the NF certificate when the certificate is about to expire or has expired.
Otherwise, NF communication can be disrupted in the middle of operation due to
an unhandled certificate expiry.
If a vast number of NF instances and services simultaneously require
certificate updates, for example due to same expiration date, or a common CA
certificate revocation, or the compromise of a crypto algorithm in use among
other causes, the automated certificate management framework may trigger the
certificate update procedure for all affected end entities at the same time.
If there are no mechanisms to manage this situation, it can bring congestion
and/or overload in the automated certificate management framework, leading to
temporary service unavailability.
### 5.3.2 Security threats
If the NF certificate is not updated, or the certificate update procedure is
not secured, the following problems can occur:
1) An attacker misuses the update mechanism to get hold of valid certificates
from CA and mount impersonation attacks.
In some implementations the simultaneous update / renewal of a vast number of
certificates may lead to partial or complete disruption of the automated
certificate management framework.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirements
5GS should support to update the NF certificate securely.
## 5.4 Key Issue #4: Trust Chain of Certificate Authority Hierarchy
### 5.4.1 Key issue details
According to the scope of the present document, the study should reference at
minimum the following principles:
Principles involving \'Chain of Trust\' of Certificate Authorities.
Principles for security of CA\'s cryptographic private key.
As emphasized in the principles, the legitimacy and credibility of certificate
authority are critical for automated certificate management in SBA. Building
the legitimacy and credibility relies on a trust chain of CA hierarchy, which
specifies the CA hierarchy and their transitive trust relationship. Based on
the chain of trust, each CA can be verified by a trusted source. And after the
verification is passed, the CA can act as the new trusted source and issue the
digital certificate for the child CA or the TLS entity. This transitive trust
relationship enables TLS entities in 5G SBA to obtain their own certificates
and verify the certificate of other TLS entities. In the study of automated
certificate management in 5G SBA, the trust chain of CA hierarchy is
indispensable.
Currently, there is no clear requirement about the trust chain of CA hierarchy
in TS 33.310 [3]. The TS 33.310 [3] specifies SBA certificate profiles in
clause 6.1.3c and the general architecture for issuing TLS certificates in
clause 5.1.1.2. However, under the general architecture, it is unclear how to
generate different types of SBA certificates and how SBA certificates can be
verified between different types of NFs.
### 5.4.2 Security threats
Due to the lack of trust chain, the TLS entity in SBA cannot verify the
credibility of SBA certificates sent by other TLS entities. This means that
the connection cannot be established.
Under the general architecture for issuing TLS certificates, CAs may not be
able to generate all the SBA certificates as specified in TS 33.310 [3] clause
6.1.3c.
### 5.4.3 Potential security requirements
The TLS entity in SBA should be able to verify the received certificate based
on the trust chain.
The TLS entity should be able to obtain the corresponding certificate based on
its role, e.g. the NF service producer shall be able to obtain the TLS server
certificate.
## 5.5 Key Issue #5: Certificates revocation procedures
### 5.5.1 Key issue details
Certificates revocation procedures are a critical part of the overall
certificate lifecycle management. Every certificate has a finite validity
period, during the one it is expected to be in use. However, during that
validity period the certificate owner and/or Certificate Authority may
consider and declare that a certificate is not longer trusted, i.e., invalid
prior to the expiration of the validity period, due to multiple circumstances
(e.g., suspected compromise of the private key).
Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs), Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)
and OCSP stapling are revocation schemes/functions of certificate revocation.
Clauses 6.1a and 6.1b of TS 33.310 [3] provides profiles for CRL and OCSP
respectively.
5G Core SBA Network functions and operator PKI need a certificate revocation
schema, part of the overall certificate lifecycle management framework, with
the following characteristics:
1) Scalable -- the number of revoked certificates should not be a concern in
terms of latency and/or performance of the SBA architecture and network
functions.
2) Providing fast/near real time responses -- the revocation function should
serve in a highly dynamic environment hosted by virtualized cloud
infrastructure.
3) Resilient -- in case of operator CA outages, or issues in the communication
to revocation infrastructure, the revocation procedures should be minimally
affected, and the Network Functions should be able to check the validity
status of the certificate to be verified.
### 5.5.2 Security threats
If the process of publishing a new updated CRL is too slow, it can leave the
client open to attacks. E.g., a revoked certificate may be maliciously used
during the time window between the revocation and the reception of the CRLs.
The lifecycle of ephemeral/short live Network Functions (e.g., in Network
Slicing) will likely reduce even more the time window for distributing and
retrieve the information on the revocation status of the certificates. There
is a risk that the clients are not updated accordingly, creating a security
vulnerability.
Lean Network Function designs based on micro-services type of software
architectures are aiming to optimize the use of resources. Intensive demand of
revocation status checks can generate a severe impact in service availability
by downgrading the performance of the Network Function.
### 5.5.3 Potential security requirements
Not Applicable.
## 5.6 Key Issue #6: Relation between certificate management lifecycle and NF
management lifecycle
### 5.6.1 Key issue details
Although the NF management lifecycle and certificate management lifecycle can
require different management mechanisms and processes, they have some
relations because the certificates are issued for the NFs. Thus, it is
necessary to investigate the relations and consider these relations while
specifying the automated certificate management for SBA.
Generally, since NF lifecycle processes are independent from the validity
period of the associated certificates, if certificate management mechanism is
designed not considering the NF lifecycle, then there can be some cases such
as having NFs with no certificates or existing certificates belonging to no
NF. For example, when the certificate of a producer NF instance has been
revoked without the knowledge of the NRF, the NRF returns that producer NF
instance ID in the discovery procedure. In this case, the consumer NF will try
to get service from the producer NF, but it will not be able to get the
service because the producer NF\'s certificate has been revoked. This type of
cases will lead to inconsistent status in NRF and reduce the service
availability.
Because of the reasons explained above, the relations between NF management
and certificate management lifecycles need to be considered in the design of
an automated certificate management for SBA. Solutions to this key issue need
to explain how the relations between NF management and certificate lifecycles
can be considered in automated certificate management for SBA.
### 5.6.2 Security threats
Inconsistencies between the NF management lifecycle and certificate management
lifecycle processes can lead to severe vulnerabilities in the system. For
example, if after decommissioning of a NF instance, cryptographic keys and
certificates are still valid, they can be compromised by a potential attacker
and used to access the network and corresponding services. Furthermore, an NF
instance with an expired certificate can still be discovered by NFs in SBA.
Such NF with expired certificate in hands of a potential attacker can
compromise other NFs.
### 5.6.3 Potential security requirements
In the certificate lifecycle management, NF lifecycle should be considered.
## 5.7 Key Issue #7: Multiples certificates to be associated with a Network
Function
### 5.7.1 Key issue details
In SBA the Network Functions (NFs) could require to support multiple operator
certificates, which can be issued by different operator sub-CAs or root CAs
depending on the established CA hierarchies and predefined network domains,
for different purposes and interfaces.
Each type of certificate per Network Function could have different security
considerations. The type of certificates in Network Functions of SBA are the
following:
1) TLS client EE certificates (for NF consumers)
2) TLS server EE certificates (for NF producers)
NOTE: Clause 6.1.3 of TS 33.310 [3] profiles the TLS entity certificates to be
used for 5GC SBA.
3) Certificates for signing the access tokens for authorization (JSON Web
Signature (JWS) as described in RFC 7515 [4]) (for NRFs)
4) Certificates for encrypting HTTP messages between SEPPs (clause 13.2.4.4 of
TS 33.501 [2])
5) Certificates for signing Client credentials assertion (CCA) tokens (clause
13.3.8.2 of TS 33.501 [2])
### 5.7.2 Security threats
If the purpose of the issued certificates is not restricted, i.e., the type of
operations for which a public key contained in the certificate can be used are
not specified, those certificated could be used for another purpose than
intended, violating the CA policies, and increasing the risk of cross-protocol
attacks.
Failure to ensure proper segregation of duties means that a NF who generates
the encryption keys and applies for a certificate to the operator CA, could
obtain a certificate which can be misused for tasks that this NF is not
entitled to perform. E.g., a consumer could impersonate producers using their
own client certificate.
### 5.7.3 Potential security requirements
The Network Functions should be able to indicate the purpose of the
certificate being requested in the CSR (Certificate Signing Request) to the
operator CA.
The certificate management framework, i.e., the set of protocols and
procedures for automated certificate management, in 5G SBA shall be able to
provide means for identifying, monitoring, and validating the usage of the
issued certificates.
## 5.8 Key Issue #8: Trusted Network Function instances identifiers
### 5.8.1 Key issue details
Service mesh describes a network of microservices, in which applications are
shared and interaction between applications is possible. To gain operational
control over such distributed microservice architecture, a service needs to be
identified.
SBA can be implemented as a service mesh architecture. In SBA Network Function
(NF) instances offer services to other NFs or NF instances. In order for a
requested NF type, NF service, or NF service instance, to be discovered via
the NRF, the NF instance needs to be registered in the NRF. After
registration, the NRF maintains NF profiles of available NF instances and
their supported services. The NF is identified by a NF instance ID. The
Information Element (IE) NFInstanceID among other IEs is included in the NF
profile maintained in the NRF are specified in TS 23.501[5] clauses 6.2.6 and
6.3.1, and in TS 29.510 [6].
When a NF requests a X.509 certificate needs to send a Certificate Signing
Request (CSR) message to the operator CA in order to get a X.509 certificate
created. A CSR is often generated by the same NF on which the certificate is
to be installed, although it can also be generated by other trusted
intermediary entity acting on behalf of the NF if the NF does not have such
capability. The public key is included in the CSR and used by the CA to create
the certificate, and the private key is used to sign the information contained
in the CSR (integrity protection). Apart from the public key, the CSR can have
other information (e.g., Common Name, Organization, location, etc.).
TS 23.501 [5] defines an NF instance as an identifiable instance of the NF.
CSRs need to contain a trusted and unique identity of the NF instance
requesting the certificate. TS 33.310 [3] in clause 6.1.3c describes that, as
part of the SBA NF certificate profile, the subjectAltName (SAN) field should
contain a URI-ID with the URI for the NF instance ID as an URN. This URI-ID
needs to contain the identifier of the NF (e.g., SCP, SEPP, NRF, AF, etc.)
instance (nfInstanceID), only using the format of clause 5.3.2 of TS 29.571
[7], what is a Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID). Thus, the flexibility
that a service mesh could offer by integrating different types of services
across heterogeneous environments (and in case of 5GS across different
operator domains) is limited by the use of UUID as identifier.
Operator RA/CA would need to keep track on UUIDs in order to be able to verify
and accept the CSRs, only based on those identifiers.
### 5.8.2 Security threats
A malicious or compromised NF instance can send a rogue CSR message using a
compromised NF Instance Id. Thus, same UUIDs would be used for various NF
instances, including the potential malicious or compromised NF. If the
operator RA/CA does not have the mechanisms to verify and accept a trusted NF
instance identity, then that malicious or compromised NF instance would fetch
a valid certificate and cause different types of attacks in the SBA.
### 5.8.3 Potential security requirements
The certificate management framework should be able to manage and track the NF
instance identifiers per end entity.
## 5.9 Key Issue #9: Automated Certificate Management for Network Slicing
### 5.9.1 Key issue details
A network slice can be understood as a logical network on top of a shared
infrastructure. Network slicing is a key feature of 5G wireless network
standards and allows operators to manage and orchestrate different logical
networks for different kinds of service level requirements. For example, the
communication services using network slicing may include:
\- V2X services
\- 5G seamless eMBB service with FMC
\- massive IoT connections
There can be different network slices logically isolated based on Slice
Service Type (SST) value, as shown in the following diagram:
{width="4.843055555555556in" height="1.7395833333333333in"}
Figure 5.9-1: Different slices logically isolated for different slice
customers
Network slicing facilitates a lot of vertical industries to create and manage
logically separated resources across the 5G system dedicated for their own
applications, while ensuring the desired service level agreements are always
met.
Different slices allocated to different slice customers may have different
requirements for automated certificate management. Generally, network slices
need to rely on operator-provided services for automated certificate
management services. Nevertheless, certain slices allocated to slice customers
can require to perform management and operation tasks over operator CA, or
even to use their own CA and certificate management procedures for all or part
of the slice-specific services and NFs. For the latter case, both operator and
slice customer need to agree on how establish the trust between operator and
customer domain and interconnect their CAs, e.g., via cross-certification.
There are also several approaches to address access control and authorization
of NFs for slicing in SBA. The NF can be deployed to serve a dedicated slice
or multiple slices, and network slices can be dynamically or statically
created and removed as per business needs. Depending on NF deployment option,
the lifecycle of a NF can be different from a lifecycle of network slices
assigned to the NF. Therefore, when considering the alignment between NF
lifecycle and certificate lifecycle, the network slicing lifecycles can also
need to be taken into account depending on NF and network slices deployment
solution.
### 5.9.2 Security threats
A potential compromise or malfunction in the certificate management framework
of the operator may impact in the certificate management framework of the
slice and vice versa. E.g., if automated certificate updates are not completed
before the expiration dates, it can lead to service / slice un-availability,
requiring manual administration of certificates.
Misalignment between lifecycles of certificate and slices could lead to
service unavailability for customer specific slices.
### 5.9.3 Potential security requirements
The framework should take into account the fact that certificates might belong
to different domains, e.g. in deployment where different 3rd party slices co-
exist and interoperate.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.0 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 6.0-1: Mapping of solutions to key issues
Solutions Key Issues
* * *
                                                                                                                 \#1          \#2   \#3   \#4   \#5   \#6   \#7   \#8   \#9
#1: Certificate Enrolment and MAnagement Framework (CEMAF) X  
#2: Using CMP protocol for certificate enrolment and renewal X  
#3: Secure initial enrolment of NF certificates X  
#4: Cross-Certification Based Trust Chain in the SBA Architecture X  
#5: Interconnection CA Based Trust Chain in the SBA Architecture X  
#6: OCSP based revocation procedure X  
#7: A solution addressing the relation between certificate lifecycle
management and NF lifecycle management X  
#8: Enhance the security protection for Certificate parameters X X  
#9: Certificates revocation query procedure based on NRF X  
#10: Solution to indicate and validate the purpose of the certificate X  
#11: OCSP Stapling addressing Key Issues #5 and #6 X X  
#12: Automated Certificate Management for Network Slices X #13: Build initial
trust for NF certificate enrolment X  
#14: Ensuring the management of bulk certificate updates X  
#15: Policy based certificate update/renewal X  
#16: Using ACME protocol for certificate enrolment and renewal X  
#17: Assurance of unique NF identifiers in certificates X  
#18: Slice specific initial enrolment procedure X
## 6.1 Solution #1: Certificate Enrolment and MAnagement Framework (CEMAF)
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The solution addresses key issue 1. The solution presents an overall
architecture and the building blocks of an automated Certificate Enrolment and
MAnagement Framework henceforth referred to as CEMAF. For some of the building
blocks, the details are left out and deferred to potential other solutions
addressing different key issues. The solution does take a stand on the
protocols used.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
#### 6.1.2.1 General
It is assumed that the operator has already a PKI infrastructure supporting
normal CA/RA operations similar to those required for base station or TLS
entity enrolment as described in TS 33.310 [3]. Since this framework pertains
to SBA entities, it is assumed that all of the framework\'s communications is
HTTP-based and hence security can be provided by TLS. This would not incur big
impact on NFs since they are expected to already support such protocols. OCSP
[8] is HTTP based and CMPv2 can be encapsulated in HTTP messages [9].
Therefore, this assumption does not preclude re-using such protocols.
#### 6.1.2.2 Architecture
Figure 6.1.2.2-1 below illustrates the reference point based architecture of
the framework. The ce1 reference point is used for enrolment and any other
procedures related to certificate provisioning and updates. The ce2 reference
point is used for certificate status checking. Accordingly, the corresponding
functionalities have been split over two NFs. The CEMAF Enrolment Function
CeEF is expected to support all the necessary functionality for provisioning
and update of certificates to enrolling NFs. The CEMAF Management Function
CeMF is expected to support maintenance functionalities such as revocation and
certificate status information provisioning. The proposed grouping does not
preclude that the functions are collocated or fully integrated in the CA/RA.
This will depend on the final solutions.
{width="2.3756944444444446in" height="1.4569444444444444in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2-1 CEMAF reference point architecture
The motivation behind this split of the reference points is that most likely
different credentials would be used to secure them. On the one hand, the CeEF
needs to be able to interact with enrolling NFs that are yet to be provisioned
by operator certificates. How trust is initially established and the
credentials used to secure the enrolment procedures with the CeEF are deferred
to other solutions. On the other hand, the CeMF is expected to be involved
after the enrolment procedure and hence is expected to interact with NFs that
have been already provisioned with valid certificates.
#### 6.1.2.3 Procedures
Figure 6.1.2.3-1 illustrates the grouping of the different CEMAF procedures.
The description of the different blocks is given below.
{width="5.0in" height="2.8958333333333335in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3-1 CEMAF procedures
\- B1: This is the set of mechanisms and procedures that enables the CeEF and
enrolling NFs to establish trust for the remaining operations. Solutions
addressing key issue #2 will provide the means to realize this block.
\- B2: This is the set of mechanisms and procedures that enables the CeEF to
provision NFs with new certificates. Solutions addressing key issue #2 will
provide the means to realize this block.
\- B3: This is the set of mechanisms and procedures that enables the CeMF to
manage certificates including updates, revocation, status notification and any
other maintenance operation. Solutions addressing key issue #3, #5 and #6 will
provide the means to realize this block. Observe that trust establishment may
be needed as well for CeMF interaction.
NOTE: NFs are not expected to have the permission or ability to perform or
trigger revocation by themselves.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
This solution is a high-level description of the building blocks of a complete
certificate management framework, here denoted by CEMAF. The solution does not
propose any technical requirements and all the details for the building blocks
have been left to other solutions.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Using CMP protocol for certificate enrolment and renewal
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue 1: Single certificate management protocol
and procedures.
It is beneficial to have a single certificate management protocol and
procedures for the certificate enrolment and renewal, to avoid manual
certificate management which may lead to missing refreshment of certificates
and usage of expired certificates.
CMP family is a good candidate to support automatic certificate enrolment and
renewal procedure. CMP provides built-in integrity protection and
authentication. CMP also provides revocation support with the operation of
Revocation Request/Response, Revocation Announcement and CRL Announcement
[10].
The CMP is a very solid and capable protocol, but the protocol offers a too
large set of features and options which means implementation of all options is
not realistic because this would take undue effort. And many details of the
CMP protocol have been left open or have not been specified in full
preciseness which increases burden on interoperability. Furthermore, automated
scenarios for a machine-to-machine communication are not covered sufficiently.
CMP is under update to overcome some limitations [11]. Also, 3GPP can specify
a profile of CMP that specifies clearly which options and features of CMP are
used and how they are used.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
#### 6.2.2.0 General
It is assumed that the secure communication channel setup and initial trust
between NF and CA/RA is solved by the solution for Key Issue 2, so the
solution of Key Issue 2 need also be taken into account as a complete solution
for Key Issue 1.
Transport of CMP messages between end entities (network elements) and CA/RA
uses HTTP-based protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6712 [9].
The NF entities use CMP protocol or out-of-band procedures to register at the
CA/RA.
The NF entities use CMP protocol to initiate the certificate request to the
CA/RA, and receive the certificate from the CA/RA in a secure and automated
procedure.
The NF entities use CMP protocol to update the key and certificate to the
CA/RA, and receive the renewed certificate from the CA/RA before the
certificate expires in a secure and automated procedure.
NOTE 1: The CA/RA can be:
\- either a stand-alone CA implementing a CMP server; or
\- a CA having delegated certain tasks to an RA, which is in this solution
operating the CMP server.
NOTE 2: The parameters embedded in the CMP certificate request need to be
verified by the CA/RA for the supplied information by the NF in its request.
So relevant information for the NF needs to be pre-provisioned out of band in
CA/RA for NF\'s CMP certificate request validation.
#### 6.2.2.1 CMPv2 Profiling for SBA
##### 6.2.2.1.0 General
The following CMPv2 procedures are in the scope of certificate management for
SBA:
\- Certificate Enrolment:
\- Certificate request: \"CMPv2 Initialization Request\" (for initial
certificate requests) \"CMPv2 Certification Request\" (for subsequent
certificate requests)
\- Certificate Renewal:
\- Key updates: \"CMPv2 Key Update Request\"
##### 6.2.2.1.1 General Requirements
The following requirements applies to CMPv2 usage in Service Based
Architecture:
\- This CMPv2 profile only includes certificate request and key update
functions. Revocation processing, Cross-Certification and PKCS#10 requests are
not part of this CMPv2 profile.
\- For PKI Message integrity protection, this CMP profile uses asymmetric
algorithms, or alternatively use shared secret information established via
out-of-band means as defined in RFC 4210 [10].
\- The NF as End Entity (EE) may be pre-provisioned with the operator root CA
certificate.
\- If the NF is not pre-provisioned with the operator root CA certificate,
then the NF takes the operator root certificate from the certificates received
in the initialization response. The selection is based on checking which root
certificate can be used to validate the received NF certificate.
NOTE 1: Certificate renewal for operator root certificates is not in scope of
this clause. Thus, it is assumed that the NF always has a valid operator root
certificate available for validation of key update responses.
\- The RA/CA supports the authentication of initialization requests (ir) based
on the verification of out-of-band distributed Initial Authentication Key
(IAK) and reference value (mandatory scheme in RFC 4210 [10]).
NOTE 1a: The secure communication channel setup and initial trust between NF
and CA/RA is expected to be solved by the solutions for Key Issue 2, so the
solution of Key Issue 2 needs also be taken into account as a complete
solution for Key Issue 1. More precisely the initial authentication mechanisms
to be used for initialization requests are subject to KI#2 conclusions.
\- The RA/CA authenticates key update requests based on signatures which are
validated against the operator root CA.
\- The RA/CA is configured with the root certificate of the operator.
\- The RA/CA is configured with a RA/CA certificate which is signed either by
the operator root CA or by an intermediate CA under the operator root CA.
\- If the RA/CA uses different private keys to sign the generated certificates
and the CMPv2 messages, the RA/CA is configured with the two related
certificates, i.e., the RA/CA certificate for signing signatures and the RA/CA
certificate for signing CMP messages.
\- If the RA/CA certificate or certificates (two in case separate private keys
are used for signing of certificates and CMP messages) are not signed directly
by the operator root CA, also the certificates of the intermediate CAs are
configured into the RA/CA.
\- The hash algorithms used before generating signatures in the protection
field of PKIMessage and for proof-of-possession are the same as the hash
algorithms specified in subclause 6.1.1 of TS 33.310 [3] for certificate
signatures. The signature algorithms are the same as that used in the related
certificate profile.
NOTE 2: [draft-ietf-lamps-cmp-algorithms-15 - Certificate Management Protocol
(CMP) Algorithms]{.underline} [20] lists current cryptographic algorithms
usable with CMP to offer an easier way maintaining the list of suitable
algorithms over time.
The certificate profiles are specified in subclause 6.1.3c of TS 33.310 [3].
NOTE 3: These certificate profiles implicitly specify which algorithms are to
be used for the different signatures for proof-of-possession and PKIMessage
signing specified in the following subclauses.
NOTE 4: Policies within RA/CA governing the generation and issuing of
certificates are not in scope of the present document and left to operator
decision.
##### 6.2.2.1.2 Profile for PKIMessage
The following profile is applied to the PKIMessage as specified in IETF RFC
4210 [10]:
\- The support and usage of the optional protection field of type
PKIProtection is required by this profile. The message-specific private key to
be used in the NF is specified in the subclause 6.2.2.1.4 of TS 33.310 [3] in
the profiling of the single PKI message bodies for requests sent by the NF.
For the RA/CA the RA/CA private key is used, or the separate RA/CA private key
for signing CMP messages, if NF certificates and CMPv2 messages are signed by
different private keys.
\- The support of the optional extraCerts field is required by this profile.
The certificates within this field may be ordered in any order. The message-
specific content of this field is specified in the subclause 6.2.2.1.4 of TS
33.310 [3] in the profiling of the single PKI message bodies.
\- All CMPv2 messages used within this profile consist of exactly one
PKIMessage, i.e., the size of the sequence for PKIMessages is 1 in all cases.
##### 6.2.2.1.3 Profile for PKIHeader Field
The following profile is applied to the PKIHeader field as specified in IETF
RFC 4210 [10]:
\- The sender field contains the identity of the NF as EE. This identity is
identical to the subject name of the NF instance present in the certificate
for the public key whose related private key is used to sign the PKIMessage.
\- The recipient field contains the identity of the RA/CA.
NOTE: The subject name of RA/CA needs to be available before the CMPv2 run.
\- As the field \"protection\" of PKIMessage is mandatory, also the field
\"protectionAlg\" of PKIHeader is mandatory. The protectionAlg is of type
MSG_SIG_ALG. The signature algorithm is based upon the algorithm contained in
the algorithm field of the SubjectPublicKeyInfo field of the signer\'s
certificate (belonging to the NF or the RA/CA). The hash algorithm used before
signing the PKIMessage follows the same specification as given for usage
before certificate signing in clause 6.1.1 of TS 33.310 [3].
\- The usage of the transactionID field is mandatory. The recommended
procedures for handling of the transactionID given in IETF RFC 4210 [10] are
followed. The NF sets this field to a random number that is at least 8 bytes
long for the first message and use the same random number in any subsequent
message in the transaction.
\- The usage of the senderNonce and the recipNonce fields is mandatory. The
length of the fields as recommended in IETF RFC 4210 [10] is used. The
recipNonce in the very first message in the transaction is set to 0 by the
sender and is disregarded by the recipient of the message.
##### 6.2.2.1.4 Profile for the PKIBody Field
##### 6.2.2.1.4.1 General {#general-3 .H6}
The NF Instance certificate enrolment supports the following CMPv2 PKI message
bodies:
\- Initialization Request (ir)
\- Initialization Response (ip)
\- Certification Request (cr)
\- Certification Response (cp)
\- Key Update Request (kur)
\- Key Update Response (kup)
\- Confirmation (pkiconf)
\- Certificate confirm (certconf)
Profiles for the single message bodies above are given in the subclauses
below. If no specific profile is given, the provisions of IETF RFC 4210 [10]
and IETF RFC 4211 [18] apply.
##### 6.2.2.1.4.2 Initialization Request {#initialization-request .H6}
The Initialization Request as specified in IETF RFC 4210 [10] contains exactly
one CertReqMessages as specified in IETF RFC 4210 [10] and IETF RFC 4211 [18],
i.e., the size of the sequence for CertReqMessages is 1 in all cases.
The following profile is applied to the CertReqMessage field and its sub-
fields:
\- The subject field of the CertTemplate contains the nfInstanceID of the NF.
\- The publicKey field of the CertTemplate is mandatory and contains the
public key of the NF to be certified by the RA/CA. The private/public key pair
may be pre-provisioned to the NF, or generated inside the NF, or generated by
a certificate management NF acting on behalf of the NF, for the CMPv2 protocol
run. The format of this field follows IETF RFC 5280 [19].
\- The CertReqMessage contains a POP field of type ProofOfPossession. The POP
field contains a signature field of type POPOSigningKey. The
algorithmIdentifier field of the POPOSigningKey field contains the signing
algorithm which is used by the NF to produce the Proof-of-Possession value,
i.e., the signature within POPOSigningKey field.
\- If the poposkInput field of type POPOSigningKeyInput within POPOSigningKey
field is used, the sender field within POPOSigningKeyInput is mandatory and
contains the identity of the NF Instance (\"nfInstanceID\").
NOTE 1: According to IETF RFC 4211 [19], the poposkInput field is mandatory if
either the subject field or the publicKey field of the CertTemplate field is
omitted.
NOTE 2: According to IETF RFC 4211 [18], the sender field of
POPOSigningKeyInput is used only if an authenticated identity has been
established by the sender.
NOTE 3: The secure communication channel setup and initial trust between NF
and CA/RA is expected to be solved by the solutions for Key Issue 2, so the
solution of Key Issue 2 needs also be taken into account as a complete
solution for Key Issue 1. More precisely the initial authentication mechanisms
to be used for initialization requests are subject to KI#2 conclusions.
The PKIMessage sent by the NF is signed by the generated or provided private
key.
##### 6.2.2.1.4.3 Initialization Response {#initialization-response .H6}
The Initialization Response as specified in RFC 4210 [10] contains exactly one
generated NF certificate, i.e., the size of the sequence for CertResponse is 1
in all cases.
The following profile is applied to the CertRepMessage field and its sub-
fields:
\- The generated certificate is transferred to the NF in the certifiedKeyPair
field of the CertResponse field. The transfer is not required to be encrypted
(i.e., the certificate field in CertorEncCert is mandatory).
The extraCerts field of the PKIMessage carrying the initialization response is
mandatory and contains the operator root certificate (or \'full chain\' if NF
contacted to SubCA using CMPv2) and the RA/CA certificate (or certificates if
separate private keys are used for signing of certificates and CMP messages).
If the RA/CA certificate(s) are not signed by the operator root CA, also the
intermediate certificates for the chain(s) up to the operator root certificate
is included in the extraCerts field.
NOTE: It is sufficient to use ExtraCerts field to contain the NF certificates
chain and CMP message signing certificate chain. Using both ExtraCerts and
caPubs fields will increase the complexity of implementation.
##### 6.2.2.1.4.4 Certification request and Certification Response
{#certification-request-and-certification-response .H6}
The Certification Request (cr) and Certification Response (cp) messages as
specified in RFC 4210 [10] and RFC 4211 [18] are intended to be used when
additional certificates with specific purpose are required by the NF.
The structure and content of these messages is identical to initialization
requests and responses, thus the profiling given in the previous subclauses
for Initialization Request and Initialization Response apply equally, with the
following exceptions:
\- The PKIMessage sent by the NF is signed with the private key which is
related to the last received operator provided NF certificate. The
extraCertsField is mandatory and contains the NF certificate related to the
private key used for signing the PKIMessage. Any intermediate CA certificates
are also included, if the NF certificate is not signed directly by a root CA.
\- The PKIMessage carrying the certification response does not contain the
operator root certificate in the extraCerts field.
##### 6.2.2.1.4.5 Key Update Request and Key Update Response {#key-update-
request-and-key-update-response .H6}
The structure and content of these messages is identical to initialization
requests and responses, thus the profiling given in the previous subclauses
for Initialization Request and Initialization Response apply equally, with the
following exceptions:
\- The PKIMessage sent by the NF is signed with the private key which is
related to the last received operator provided NF certificate. The
extraCertsField is mandatory and contains the NF certificate related to the
private key used for signing the PKIMessage. Any intermediate CA certificates
is also included, if the NF certificate is not signed directly by a root CA.
\- The PKIMessage carrying the key update response does not contain the
operator root certificate in the extraCerts field.
##### 6.2.2.1.4.6 Certificate Confirm Request and Confirmation Response
{#certificate-confirm-request-and-confirmation-response .H6}
Initialization responses and key update responses are always followed by a
Certificate Confirm request and Confirmation response message exchange.
The PKIMessage sent by the NF is signed by the same private key which was used
in the preceding initialization request or key update request.
The extraCerts field of the PKIMessage carrying the Certificate Confirm
request and Confirmation response is omitted.
#### 6.2.2.2 CMPv2 Transport
Transport of CMPv2 messages between end entities (network elements) and RA/CA
is done using HTTP-based protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6712 [9], with the
exception that support for TLS is not mandated.
Support is mandatory for communication initiated by the end entities where
every CMP request triggers a CMP response message from the CA or RA. Support
for RA/CA initiated HTTP requests (i.e., announcements) is not mandatory.
NOTE 1: CMP provides built-in integrity protection and authentication. For
optional usage of HTTP over TLS (HTTPS) according to RFC 9110 [25] or virtual
private networks see IETF RFC 6712 [9].
NOTE 2: Further details on the CMPv2 profiling will be addressed during
normative work.
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
_CMP family is a good candidate to support automatic certificate enrolment and
renewal procedure. CMP provides built-in integrity protection and
authentication._
_The NF entities use CMP protocol to initiate the certificate request to the
CA/RA and receive the certificate from the CA/RA in a secure and automated
procedure._
_The NF entities use CMP protocol to update the key and certificate to the
CA/RA and receive the renewed certificate from the CA/RA before the
certificate expires in a secure and automated procedure._
_Transport of CMP messages between end entities (network elements) and CA/RA
uses HTTP-based protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6712 [9], and the usage of_
HTTP over TLS (HTTPS) according to RFC 9110 [25] enhance the security of the
transportation of CMP messages.
_The CMP is a very solid and capable protocol, but the protocol offers a too
large set of features and open options which increases burden on
implementation and interoperability. Further details on the CMPv2 profiling
need be addressed during normative work._
## 6.3 Solution #3: Secure initial enrolment of NF certificates
### 6.3.1 Introduction
To achieve automated certificate management for NFs in SBA, the establishment
of the initial trust between NF and operator CA is a prerequisite to proceed
with the certificate enrolment procedure (e.g., using CMPv2). Every NF is
expected to have an initial trust identifier to establish that relation. For
that purpose, the solution proposes to use an initial certificate, issued by a
private CA in the same security (trust) domain of the NF. This private CA acts
as an initial trust anchor function for the NFs in the initial enrolment. The
private CA\'s root certificate is configured as trust anchor in the CA in the
operator PKI.
The solution concept is represented in the figure 6.3.1-1.
Figure 6.3.1-1: Secure initial enrolment through Private CA
An alternative and/or complementary implementation of the solution may include
a certificate management NF in the same security trust domain of the NF(s) and
private CA, that is capable to deliver end entity certificates issued by the
private CA to the NFs as a central certificate management entity in the
security trust domain. When certificate management NF is used, the private
keys need to be known by this entity, since it acts on behalf of NFs.
The alternative implementation of the solution is represented in figure
6.3.1-2.
Figure 6.3.1-2: Secure initial enrolment through Private CA and Certificate
Management NF
### 6.3.2 Solution details
For NFs in 5GC SBA to fetch end entity X.509 certificates signed by an
operator CA, the NFs are expected to have an identity that is trusted and
accepted by the operator CA. The initial certificate for an NF, required to
establish the initial trust between NF and operator CA can be obtained with
the following procedure:
Figure 6.3.2-1: Procedure for secure initial enrolment
Precondition: A private CA is created and deployed within the same
network/security (trust) domain of the NFs in 5GC SBA.
1) The public root certificate of the private CA is configured as trust anchor
in the operator PKI
NOTE 1: The private CA could be a CA or sub-CA created by the operator PKI, or
completely different CA deployed by the operator. In either case, the root CA
public certificate of the private CA is installed in the operator CA as a
trust anchor.
2) The NF generates a private-public key pair (if not pre-provisioned by NF
management system) and the sends the Certificate Signing Request (CSR), that
contains the public key, to the Private CA (e.g., PKCS#10, CMPv2).
NOTE 2: Since the NF and private CA are in the same security domain, implicit
trust can be assumed. If initial trust needs to be enabled as per deployment
security requirements, several implementation options may be considered. For
example, the CSR in step 2a) may include the NF Instance Id, which would need
to be pre-provisioned in Private CA to allow the validation. Alternatively, a
pre-shared key along with a reference number (refnum) can be pre-configured at
both ends.
3) The private CA signs the public key and issue a certificate for the NF.
4) The NF, or the Certificate Management NF on behalf of the NF, fetches the
certificate and the trust chain from the private CA. This certificate is used
by the NF as initial certificate for authentication to the operator CA.
5) The NF, or the Certificate Management NF on behalf of the NF, generates a
new private-public key pair, if this is not pre-provisioned, to obtain the
operator signed end entity certificate on its own public key from RA/CA using
for example CMPv2.
6) The NF, or the Certificate Management NF on behalf of the NF, generates a
certificate enrolment request, in case of CMPv2 Initialization Request (ir),
which specifies the requested certificate (e.g., TLS entity certificate to be
used in 5GC SBA (clause 6.1.3c of TS 33.310 [3])). The request includes proof
of possession of the public key be verified by the operator CA (e.g., in CMPv2
by signing the POPOSigningKey field of the CertReqMsg with the relate private
key to the public key to be certified by the operator CA), the Private CA
signed initial certificate, and the certificate chain of the Private CA. The
NF, or the Certificate Management NF on behalf of the NF, signs the request
using the initial private key generated (or pre-provisioned) in step 2), and
includes the digital signature in the request message.
7) The NF, or the Certificate Management NF on behalf of the NF, sends the
signed certificate enrolment request to the operator CA.
9) The operator CA verifies the digital signature on the certificate enrolment
request against the Private CA root certificate (trust anchor) using the
initial certificate sent by the NF, and also verifies the consistency between
the identity of the initial certificate and the requested entity certificate
as well as the proof of possession of the private key for the requested
certificate.
9) The operator CA generates the certificate for the NF and sends a signed
response to the NF (or to the Certificate Management NF) which includes the
issued certificate, the operator public root CA certificate, the signature of
the response, and the operator CA certificate corresponding to the private key
used to sign the response. The appropriate certificate chains for
authenticating the operator CA certificates are also included.
NOTE 3: After the entity certificate is successfully issued by the CA through
above steps, the private CA may revoke the initial certificate in order to
mitigate the risk of misuse of such certificates.
### 6.3.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses the first security requirement of KI#2 related to
building the initial trust with the operator CA/RA. It proposes a procedure to
secure the initial enrolment of the NF certificates, as a pre-requisite to
proceed with the certificate enrolment procedure when the NF fetches an
operator certificate.
NOTE 1: The term \'Private CA\' refers to a local CA used for NFs within SBA
domain and may be managed by OAM system.
The procedure proposes to use an initial certificate for authentication to the
operator CA, signed by a private CA within the same security trust domain of
the NF.
This solution proposes as an alternative and/or complementary implementation,
to use a certificate management NF to act on behalf of other SBA NFs. This
would have limited impact on these NFs.
NOTE 2: The prerequisite of acquiring trustworthiness of the NF that is
requesting the initial certificate to the private CA is assumed to be viable
since the private CA may be managed by OAM system.
The solution requires the implementation of a private CA within the same
security trust domain of the NF, so implicit trust between the private CA and
NF is assumed. The root certificate of that private CA is pre-configured as
trust anchor in the operator CA to enable the authentication of the NF during
the initial certificate enrolment in operator CA.
The introduction of a local CA in the same trust domain as the NF may increase
the threat surface, since the local CA is subject to the same threats and
attack vectors as the NF. If multiple local CAs need to be implemented, the
risk may consequently increase.
## 6.4 Solution #4: Cross-Certification Based Trust Chain in the SBA
Architecture
### 6.4.1 Introduction
Before performing the automated certificate management protocol, the NFs in
the SBA architecture need to obtain the corresponding certificate based on
their role, which requires the trust chain of CA. Based on the proposed trust
chain in this solution, the SBA entities can verify their obtained certificate
and establish the TLS connection.
As per TS 33.310 [3], cross-certification can be used to establish the trust
relationship between two authorities. When an authority A is cross-certified
with authority B, the authority A has chosen to trust certificates issued by
the authority B. Cross-certification process enables the users under both
authorities to trust the other authority\'s certificates, which could benefit
the certificate verification between SEPPs.
The proposed solution describes the cross-certification based CA trust chain.
Based on the CA trust chain, the certificate of SBA entities can be verified.
The solution addresses Key Issue #4: Trust Chain of Certificate Authority
Hierarchy. This solution focuses on the certificate verification in terms of
the chain of trust.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
#### 6.4.2.1 General architecture
{width="6.6875in" height="5.673611111111111in"}
Figure 6.4.2.1-1: General Architecture
In the following, the architecture for issuing SBA certificates using TLS CAs
is described.
\- Root CA: A CA serves as the trust anchor in a chain of trust within a
security domain. Each security domain can have only one root CA. The root CA
generates the self-signed certificate as the root certificate. All
certificates in this security domain are signed by the root certificate
directly or indirectly. When the operators make an interconnection agreement,
the root CA creates cross-certificates to ensure TLS entities of two different
security domains are able to establish a secure connection. The created cross-
certificates may be configured locally in each domain and be stored with the
self-signed root certificate in the TLS entities.
\- NF TLS client CA: A CA that issues end entity TLS client certificates to
TLS entities within a particular operator\'s security domain.
\- NF TLS server CA: A CA that issues end entity TLS server certificates to
TLS entities within a particular operator\'s security domain.
\- SCP TLS client/server CA: A CA that issues intra-domain certificates to SCP
TLS client/server.
\- SEPP TLS client/server CA: A CA that issues inter-domain certificates to
SEPP TLS client/server.
\- NF TLS server: TLS entities acting as 5G NF producers (e.g., AMF, SMF) are
provisioned with TLS server certificates issued by the TLS server CA.
\- NF TLS client: TLS entities acting as 5G NF consumers (e.g., AMF, SMF) are
provisioned with TLS client certificates issued by the TLS client CA.
\- SCP TLS client/server or SEPP TLS client/server: The SCP TLS client/server
or SEPP TLS client/server act as the intermediary point between the NF TLS
client and NF TLS server, assisting TLS entities to establish intra-domain or
inter-domain TLS connections. Network functions (e.g., SCP, SEPP) that act as
proxy functions in SBA architecture are provisioned with intra-domain or
inter-domain certificates issued by the SCP TLS client/server or SEPP TLS
client/server CA.
NOTE 1: Considering that some TLS entities can act as both NF producers and NF
consumers, they may need both TLS client certificates and TLS server
certificates.
NOTE 2: The dynamical management of cross certification is not supported in
this solution.
NOTE 3: The PKI domain is related to the security domain defined by the
operator, i.e., one PKI domain per security domain.
#### 6.4.2.2 Verify certificate in SBA architecture
**Verify the TLS certificate between intra-domain TLS entities:**
It is assumed that the NF TLS client and the NF TLS server are within the same
security domain and are provisioned with the root CA\'s self-signed
certificate before establishing the TLS connection. The certificate
provisioning may be pre-configured or be provisioned during the enrolment.
When the NF TLS client receives the certificate of the NF TLS server as part
of the SSL/TLS handshake, NF TLS client performs the following procedure. If
the mutual TLS for authentication of NF is used, both the NF TLS client and NF
TLS server perform the following procedure.
1\. The receiver checks to ensure that the sender\'s certificate is not
expired. Considering that the sender\'s certificate is signed by the
intermediate CA, the receiver tries to get the intermediate CA\'s certificate.
Once the intermediate CA\'s certificate is obtained, the receiver uses the
intermediate CA\'s public key to verify that the sender\'s certificate is
properly signed.
2\. Then, the receiver attempts to verify that the intermediate CA\'s
certificate is trusted. Considering that the intermediate CA\'s certificate is
signed by the Root CA, the receiver uses the provisioned self-signed root
certificate to verify the signature of the intermediate CA\'s certificate.
3\. In a successful transaction, the receiver will come to a self-signed root
certificate that the receiver implicitly trusts. At this point, the receiver
verifies the identity of sender, builds the chain of trust to the sender, and
the intra-domain SSL/TLS handshake can proceed.
Note: The intermediate CA can be seen as the NF TLS server CA, the NF TLS
client CA or the SCP TLS client/server CA.
**Verify the TLS certificate between inter-domain TLS proxy:**
It is assumed that the SEPP TLS client/serverA and the SEPP TLS client/serverB
are in different security domains and are provisioned with their root CA\'s
self-signed certificate (e.g., SEPP TLS client/serverA is provisioned with the
Root CAA\'s self-signed certificate and SEPP TLS client/serverB is provisioned
with the Root CAB\'s self-signed certificate). When the SEPP TLS
client/serverA receives the certificate of the SEPP TLS client/serverB as part
of the SSL/TLS handshake, the SEPP TLS client/serverA performs the following
procedure. If the mutual TLS for authentication of NF is used, both SEPP TLS
clients/servers perform the following procedure.
1\. The receiver (i.e., SEPP TLS client/serverA) checks to ensure that the
sender\'s (i.e., SEPP TLS client/serverB) certificate is not expired.
Considering that the sender\'s certificate is signed by the SEPP TLS
client/server CAB, the receiver will get the SEPP TLS client/server CAB\'s
certificate. Once the SEPP TLS client/server CAB\'s certificate is obtained,
the receiver uses the SEPP TLS client/server CAB\'s public key to verify that
the sender \'s certificate is properly signed.
2\. Then, the receiver attempts to verify that the SEPP TLS client/server
CAB\'s certificate is trusted. Considering that the SEPP TLS client/server CAB
\'s certificate is signed by the root CAB, the receiver tries to get the Root
CAB\'s certificate. Once the Root CAB\'s certificate is obtained, the receiver
uses the Root CAB\'s public key to verify that the SEPP TLS client/server
CAB\'s certificate is properly signed.
3\. Then, the receiver attempts to verify that the Root CAB\'s certificate is
trusted. Considering that the Root CAB\'s certificate is signed by the Root
CAA, the receiver uses the provisioned self-signed root certificate to verify
the signature of the Root CAB\'s certificate.
4\. In a successful transaction, the receiver will come to a self-signed root
certificate that the receiver implicitly trusts. At this point, the receiver
verifies the identity of sender, builds the chain of trust to the sender, and
the inter-domain SSL/TLS handshake can proceed.
Note: The Root CAA issues the certificate of Root CAB, which is called cross-
certificate. The TLS entities may request the cross-certificate as needed or
be provisioned with the cross-certificate (store with the self-signed root
certificate).
### 6.4.3 Evaluation
This solution proposes a cross-certification based trust chain in the SBA
architecture, which fulfils the requirements of Key Issue #4: Trust Chain of
Certificate Authority Hierarchy.
This solution supports the intra-domain SBA connection and the inter-domain
SBA connection. For the intra-PLMN SBA connection, TLS entities can verify the
received certificate by using the self-signed root certificate. For the inter-
PLMN SBA connection, TLS entities can verify the received certificate by using
the cross-certificate.
In this solution, each TLS entity can obtain the corresponding certificate
based on its role. 5G NF producers (e.g., AMF, SMF) are provisioned with TLS
server certificates. 5G NF consumers (e.g., AMF, SMF) are provisioned with TLS
client certificates. The proxy functions in SBA architecture (i.e., SCP, SEPP)
are provisioned with intra-domain or inter-domain certificates.
The TLS certificates used for intra-domain SBA connection are from different
trust anchor than the TLS certificates used for inter-domain SBA connection
because they are two separate security domains.
## 6.5 Solution #5: Interconnection CA Based Trust Chain in the SBA
Architecture
### 6.5.1 Introduction
Before performing the automated certificate management protocol, the NFs in
the SBA architecture need to obtain the corresponding certificate based on
their role, which requires the trust chain of CA. Based on the proposed trust
chain in this solution, the SBA entities can verify their obtained certificate
and establish the TLS connection.
As per TS 33.310 [3], the interconnection CA can be used to issue certificates
to the SEG CAs, TLS client CA or TLS server CA, of other domains with which
the operator\'s SEGs and TLS entities have interconnection. Based on the
certificate issued by the interconnection CA, the TLS entities under both
authorities can trust the other authority\'s certificates, which could benefit
the certificate verification between SEPPs.
The proposed solution describes the interconnection CA based trust chain.
Based on the trust chain, the certificate of SBA entities can be verified. The
solution addresses Key Issue #4: Trust Chain of Certificate Authority
Hierarchy. This solution focuses on the certificate verification in terms of
the chain of trust.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
#### 6.5.2.1 General architecture
{width="6.6875in" height="5.923611111111111in"}
Figure 6.5.2.1-1: General Architecture
In the following, the architecture for issuing SBA certificates using TLS CAs
is described.
\- Root CA: A CA serves as the trust anchor in a chain of trust within a
security domain. Each security domain can have only one root CA. The root CA
generates the self-signed certificate as the root certificate. All
certificates in this security domain are signed by the root certificate
directly or indirectly.
\- NF TLS client CA: A CA that issues end entity TLS client certificates to
TLS entities within a particular operator\'s security domain.
\- NF TLS server CA: A CA that issues end entity TLS server certificates to
TLS entities within a particular operator\'s security domain.
\- Interconnection CA: A CA that issues cross-certificates on behalf of a
particular operator to SEPP TLS client/server CAs of other domains with which
the operator\'s TLS entities have interconnection.
\- SCP TLS client/server CA: A CA that issues intra-domain certificates to SCP
TLS client/server.
\- SEPP TLS client/server CA: A CA that issues inter-domain certificates to
SEPP TLS client/server.
\- NF TLS server: TLS entities acting as 5G NF producers (e.g., AMF, SMF) are
provisioned with TLS server certificates issued by the NF TLS server CA.
\- NF TLS client: TLS entities acting as 5G NF consumers (e.g., AMF, SMF) are
provisioned with TLS client certificates issued by the NF TLS client CA.
\- SCP TLS client/server or SEPP TLS client/server: The SCP TLS client/server
and SEPP TLS client/server act as the intermediary point between the TLS
client and TLS server, assisting TLS entities to establish intra-domain or
inter-domain TLS connections. Network functions (e.g., SCP, SEPP) that act as
proxy functions in SBA architecture are provisioned with intra-domain or
inter-domain certificates issued by the SCP TLS client/server CA or SEPP TLS
client/server CA.
NOTE 1: Considering that some TLS entities can act as both NF producers and NF
consumers, they may need both TLS client certificates and TLS server
certificates.
NOTE 2: The PKI domain is related to the security domain defined by the
operator, i.e., one PKI domain per security domain.
#### 6.5.2.2 Verify certificate in SBA architecture
**Verify the TLS certificate between intra-domain TLS entities:**
It is assumed that the NF TLS client and the NF TLS server are within the same
security domain and are provisioned with the root CA\'s self-signed
certificate before establishing the TLS connection. The certificate
provisioning may be pre-configured or be provisioned during the enrolment.
When the NF TLS client receives the certificate of the NF TLS server as part
of the SSL/TLS handshake, NF TLS client performs the following procedure. If
the mutual TLS for authentication of NF is used, both the NF TLS client and NF
TLS server perform the following procedure.
1) The receiver checks to ensure that the sender\'s certificate is not
expired. Considering that the sender\'s certificate is signed by the
intermediate CA, the receiver will get the intermediate CA\'s certificate.
Once the intermediate CA\'s certificate is obtained, the receiver uses the
intermediate CA\'s public key to verify that the sender\'s certificate is
properly signed.
2) Then, the receiver attempts to verify that the intermediate CA\'s
certificate is trusted. Considering that the intermediate CA\'s certificate is
signed by the Root CA, the receiver uses the provisioned self-signed root
certificate to verify the signature of the intermediate CA\'s certificate.
3) In a successful transaction, the receiver will come to a self-signed root
certificate that the receiver implicitly trusts. At this point, the receiver
verifies the identity of sender, builds the chain of trust to the sender, and
the intra-domain SSL/TLS handshake can proceed.
NOTE: The intermediate CA can be seen as the NF TLS server CA, the NF TLS
client CA or the SCP TLS client/server CA.
**Verify the TLS certificate between inter-domain TLS proxy:**
It is assumed that the SEPP TLS client/server~A~ and the SEPP TLS
client/server~B~ are in different security domains and are pre-provisioned
with their root CA\'s self-signed certificate (e.g., SEPP TLS client/server~A~
is provisioned with the Root CA~A~\'s self-signed certificate and SEPP TLS
client/server~B~ is provisioned with the Root CA~B~\'s self-signed
certificate). When the SEPP TLS client/server~A~ receives the certificate of
the SEPP TLS client/server~B~ as part of the SSL/TLS handshake, the SEPP TLS
client/server~A~ performs the following procedure. If the mutual TLS for
authentication of NF is used, both SEPP TLS clients/servers perform the
following procedure.
1) The receiver (i.e., SEPP TLS client/server~A~) checks to ensure that the
sender\'s (i.e., SEPP TLS client/server~B~) certificate is not expired.
Considering that the sender\'s certificate is signed by the SEPP TLS
client/server CA~B~, the receiver will get the SEPP TLS client/server CA~B~\'s
certificate. Once the SEPP TLS client/server CA~B~\'s certificate is obtained,
the receiver uses the SEPP TLS client/server CA~B~\'s public key to verify
that the sender\'s certificate is properly signed.
2) Then, the receiver attempts to verify that the SEPP TLS client/server
CA~B~\'s certificate is trusted. Considering that the SEPP TLS client/server
CA~B~\'s certificate is signed by the Interconnection CA~A~, the receiver will
get the Interconnection CA~A~\'s certificate. Once the Interconnection
CA~A~\'s certificate is obtained, the receiver uses the Interconnection
CA~A~\'s public key to verify that the SEPP TLS client/server CA~B~\'s
certificate is properly signed.
3) Then, the receiver attempts to verify that the Interconnection CA~A~\'s
certificate is trusted. Considering that the Interconnection CA~A~\'s
certificate is signed by the Root CA~A~, the receiver uses the provisioned
self-signed root certificate to verify the signature of the Interconnection
CA~A~\'s certificate.
4) In a successful transaction, the receiver will come to a self-signed root
certificate that the receiver implicitly trusts. At this point, the receiver
verifies the identity of sender, builds the chain of trust to the sender, and
the inter-domain SSL/TLS handshake can proceed.
### 6.5.3 Evaluation
This solution proposes an interconnection CA based trust chain in the SBA
architecture, which fulfils the requirements of Key Issue #4: Trust Chain of
Certificate Authority Hierarchy.
This solution supports the intra-domain SBA connection and the inter-domain
SBA connection. For the intra-PLMN SBA connection, TLS entities can verify the
received certificate by using the self-signed root certificate. For the inter-
PLMN SBA connection, TLS entities can verify the received certificate by using
the interconnection CA certificate.
In this solution, each TLS entity can obtain the corresponding certificate
based on its role. 5G NF producers (e.g., AMF, SMF) are provisioned with TLS
server certificates. 5G NF consumers (e.g., AMF, SMF) are provisioned with TLS
client certificates. The proxy functions in SBA architecture (i.e., SCP, SEPP)
are provisioned with intra-domain or inter-domain certificates.
The TLS certificates used for intra-domain SBA connection are from different
trust anchor than the TLS certificates used for inter-domain SBA connection
because they are two separate security domains.
## 6.6 Solution #6: OCSP based revocation procedure
### 6.6.1 Introduction
The solution addresses key issue 5. The provisioning of new certificates is
left out for other solutions addressing key issue 1 and 2.
### 6.6.2 Solution details
#### 6.6.2.1 General
The solution relies on the use of the Online Certificate Status Protocol OCSP
[8]. The necessary parameters for OCSP usage are included in the certificates
as per the certificate profile for SBA entities in clause 6.1.3c.3 of TS
33.310 [3]. Such parameters are assumed to be provisioned in the certificate
during the enrolment procedure which is left for solutions addressing key
issues 1 and 2.
#### 6.6.2.2 Procedure
Both server and client NFs are expected to check the status of each other\'s
certificates during the TLS handshake using the OCSP protocol based on the
parameters included in the certificates (if any). In particular for NF
clients, they are expected to always check the status of the server side
certificate by contacting the OCSP server unless stapling is used by the NF
server. Observe that within the 5G Core, stapling can be used by the \"high
load\" server NFs such as the UDM or NRF to alleviate the burden on the OCSP
servers and reduce the signalling traffic. In case the OCSP server reply is
other than valid, then the OCSP client, i.e., one of the NFs involved in the
handshake, terminates the connection and considers the establishment of TLS
not possible with the other end.
When revocation status is unknown (e.g., due to OCSP server unreachable), the
OCSP client, i.e., one of the NFs involved in the handshake, continue the TLS
connection establishment, and raise alarm for awareness. The alarm details are
out of scope from 3GPP specifications. As an implementation example of such a
handling, the NF logs the session ID and parameters to identify the NF
entities involved in the handshake and the reason for failure and the NF
raises an alarm. Further actions can be taken by the operator based on local
policy.
NFs are expected to regularly check the status of their own certificates. When
to do this regularly could be left to implementation or based on a
configuration parameter controlled by the operator. Typically, an NF could
check its own certificate status after a failure of TLS tunnel establishment.
### 6.6.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses key issue 5 on \"certificates revocation procedures\".
The solution relies on the OCSP protocol [8] which is a well-established
standard protocol for certificate management. The certificate profile for SBA
includes the necessary provisions for the usage of OCSP as described in clause
6.1b of TS 33.310 [3]. Therefore this solution has minimal standard impact.
Furthermore, most of the existing TLS implementations already include support
for OCSP.
## 6.7 Solution #7: A solution addressing the relation between certificate
lifecycle management and NF lifecycle management
### 6.7.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #6 (relation between certificate
management lifecycle and NF management lifecycle). As stated in the key issue
details, NF lifecycle management (LCM) and certificate LCM have some relations
that need to be considered in the certificate management mechanism. Since it
is better to keep certificate and registration authorities (CA/RA) as plain as
possible for easy deployments, as well as for performance reasons, this
solution introduces a new network entity called as Certificate Management
Network Entity (CMNE) that is similar to the certificate management function,
introduced in [12], being responsible for the _synchronization of the VNF LCM
with the certificate LCM events._
The CMNE is responsible for the synchronization between certificate related
events and NF related events. To achieve this role successfully, the CMNE
communicates with the CA/RA and NRF. To have a fine-grained control on both
the certificate lifecycle related events and (V)NF lifecycle events, the CMNE
also communicates with the orchestration entities at the virtualization layer
in NF cloud deployments. For example, the CMNE can be an authorized consumer
of the NFV-MANO exposed interfaces [13].
### 6.7.2 Solution details
The CMNE informs the CA/RA about the events so that CA/RA can take further
actions related to the NF lifecycle events. For certificate lifecycle related
events triggered by CA/RA, the CA/RA informs the CMNE and then CMNE transfers
this information to the NRF and the virtualization orchestration entities.
Figure 6.7.2-1 depicts a high-level procedure for synchronization of NF and
certificate lifecycle management. Step 1 represents the information flow
related to certificate lifecycle events; step 2 shows the high-level flow
related to NF lifecycle related events triggered by the virtualization
orchestration entities. For example, when the certificate of a NF instance is
revoked, the CMNE is informed by the CA/RA and then the CMNE informs to the
NRF so that the NRF may take further actions for the affected NF profiles.
Another example is when an NF termination related information is received from
the orchestration entity, the CNME informs the CA/RA to revoke the certificate
of the corresponding NF.
Figure 6.7.3-1: A high-level procedure for synchronization between certificate
lifecycle management and NF lifecycle management
1\. Certificate management event triggered by CA/RA
1a. NRF subscribes on NF certificate status from CMNE. The subscription can be
applied for all NFs registered in the NRF.
1b. CMNE is informed by the CA/RA about NF certificate status change, or the
CMNE may periodically query the certificate revocation status of all
subscribed NFs from the CRL or the OCSP server and detect the changes.
1c. CMNE notifies NRF about the NF certificate status change, and NRF may take
further actions for the affected NF profiles (e.g., NRF sets NF status as
SUSPENDED or UNDISCOVERABLE when the certificate status is revoked).
2\. Certificate management event triggered by Virtualization orchestration
2a. CMNE subscribes on VNF status from virtualization orchestration entity.
The subscription can be applied for all NFs that are subscribed by the NRF(s)
in step 1a.
2b. Virtualization orchestration entity notifies CMNE about VNF status change
(e.g., VNF termination).
2c. CMNE may take further action about NF certificate change by interacting
with CA/RA. For example, CMNE may request CA/RA to revoke the certificate when
VNF is terminated.
NOTE 1: The interface between CA/RA and CMNE is proprietary and out of scope
of 3GPP.
NOTE 2: The interface between CMNE and virtualization orchestration is out of
scope of 3GPP.
### 6.7.3 Evaluation
This solution introduces a new entity called as Certificate Management Network
Entity (CMNE) that is responsible for the synchronization between certificate
related events and NF related events. For certificate management event
triggered by CA/RA, CMNE transfers this information to the NRF for further
actions. For VNF lifecycle management event triggered by Virtualization
orchestration, CMNE transfers this information to the CA/RA for further
actions. To achieve this role successfully, the CMNE need communicate with the
CA/RA, NRF and orchestration entities at the virtualization layer in NF cloud
deployments.
This solution introduces a new subscription service provided by CMNE and
consumed by NRF, so that NRF is aware of NF certificate status change. The NRF
needs to maintain the certificate status for each NF.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Enhance the security protection for Certificate parameters
### 6.8.1 Introduction
This solution addresses KI#2 and KI#8.
After an NF is instantiated, it needs to request a certificate from the
Certificate Enrolment Function (CeEF)/CA. As highlighted in the security
threat, it is important that CeEF/CA can verify the NF\'s parameters in the NF
profile before issuing the certificate.
The solution proposes that the NF is involved and provides the signature of NF
profile in order to give the necessary assurance to the CeEF/CA for issuing a
certificate.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
#### 6.8.2.1 General
It is assumed that the OAM configures the NF profile during the NF
initialization phase. In this case, the OAM can help to evaluate the NF
profile for its integrity. When applying for a certificate, the NF may provide
some parameters from the NF profile, e.g. NF instance ID, NF type, FQDN/IP
address, PLMN ID, etc.
CeEF/CA verifies the integrity of the provided parameters during the
certificate enrolment procedure to make sure a correct certificate can be
issued. To accomplish the verification. The NF provides the signature of the
parameters in NF profile in certificate enrolment request to build trust. The
OAM signature can apply to the entire NF profile. Alternatively, if the
certificate request only covers some parameters from the NF profile, the OAM
signature can be limited to these parameters.
#### 6.8.2.2 Procedure
{width="3.720779746281715in" height="3.52582895888014in"}
Figure 6.8.2.2-1: The Procedure of CeEF/CA verifying NF profile
0\. The NF is pre-configured with the signature of the parameter in NF profile
(e.g., NF instance ID, NF type, etc.), which is used in certificate enrolment
procedure. The signature can be generated by OAM. For example, OAM can
establish a trust relationship with the CeEF/CA in advance by obtain the
certificate from CeEF/CA, and then the OAM can configure its signature for the
NF.
NOTE 1: the signature can be either sent to NF with its profile or requested
by NF after the instantiation phase in case of some parameters are NF self-
generated (e,g., NF instance id).
1\. The NF sends certificate enrolment request to CeEF/CA including the
signature of NF profile to request a new certificate. For example, in case of
CMPv2 Initialization Request (ir) [10], the signature can be included in the
senderKID or any extended Fields of ir, as long as the CeEF/CA can verify the
integrity of the NF profile in the enrolment procedure. How an NF establishes
the security connection with CeEF/CA is left to implementation or reference to
other solutions.
NOTE 2: Care needs to be taken when verifying the signature in order to avoid
verification failures due to misalignment in the arrangement of the
parameters.
2\. The CeEF/CA verifies the received parameters, including the NF profile
signature. If the verification is not successful, the CeEF/CA sends a failure
response. How to verify the signature of OAM is left to implementation. e.g.,
as proposed in step 0, OAM obtains the certificate from CeEF/CA, and then
CeEF/CA can verify the OAM signature by verifying the certificate.
3\. If the NF profile signature is verified successfully, CeEF/CA continue the
certificate enrolment procedure with NF (e.g., NF and CeEF/CA can use CMPv2 as
specified in IETF RFC 4210 [10] or specified in other solutions).
### 6.8.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses KI#2 and KI #8 by enhancing the integrity of NF
identifier during the certificate enrolment.
For KI#2, this solution mainly addresses the security threat: If certificate
enrolment parameters are tampered, the integrity is violated which results
into failure of initial trust.
The solution may impact the NF certificate enrolment phase. NF is involved and
provides the signature of NF profile in order to give the necessary assurance
when requesting the certificate.
The solution may impact existing interfaces.
The solution induces an overhead on the CeEF/CA side for performing the
additional checks.
Care needs to be taken in deployments where CeEF is a separate entity (not co-
located with the CA) since this would increase the attack surface for the
enrolment procedure.
## 6.9 Solution #9: Certificates revocation query procedure based on NRF
### 6.9.1 Introduction
This solution addresses KI#6.
After a certificate expires or is revoked, the NF may still be discovered by
the NRF during the NF service discovery procedure, when the certificate of a
producer NF instance has been revoked without the knowledge of the NRF, it
will lead to inconsistent status in NRF and reduce the service availability.
For example, when the NF consumer setups a TLS connection with the NF
producer, the connection between the NF consumer and the NF producer may fail
because the certificate of the NF producer is no longer valid. This impact
network efficiency.
### 6.9.2 Solution details
#### 6.9.2.1 General
Based on an existing service discovery procedure, this solution combines the
certificate revocation status query with the service discovery procedure,
thereby optimizing the efficiency of certificate revocation status query.
This solution also prevents the NRF from providing an NF producer to an NF
consumer after the NF producer\'s certificate expires or is revoked, that may
cause connection setup failures.
#### 6.9.2.2 NF service Registration procedure
An NF carries its own certificate during registration. The NRF stores the
certificate information as the NF context. In addition, when the certificate
of the NF is renewed, this certificate needs to be updated in the NRF.
{width="2.662338145231846in" height="2.1517782152230973in"}
Figure 6.9.2.2-1 NRF store the certificate validity during NF registration
1\. NF sends Nnrf_NFManagement_NFRegister Request message to NRF with all
certificates of NF including the certificates in the certificate chain.
2\. NRF stores the certificate information of certificates from NF. The
certificate information can be certificate ID, certificate type and
certificate validity information.
3\. NRF acknowledge NF Registration is accepted via
Nnrf_NFManagement_NFRegister response.
#### 6.9.2.3 NF/NF service discovery in the same PLMN
In the service discovery procedure, the NRF determines whether to provide the
NF producer to the NF consumer based on the certificate status of the NF
producer.
{width="5.767442038495188in" height="2.7577799650043744in"}
Figure 6.9.2.3-2 NRF queries NF producer certificate when NFDiscovery_request
1\. NF consumer initiates service discover procedure. The NF consumer sends
the Nnrf_NFDiscovery_Request message to discover an NF producer for the
service. NRF determines a required candidate NF producer list as specified in
TS 23.501 [5].
2\. After determining the candidate NF producer list, the NRF checks the NF
producers\' certificate validities based on store information in 6.Y.2.2 and
queries the certificate revocation status from the CRL or the OCSP server. The
NRF can interact with the CRL/OCSP server directly or through a proxy
depending on the implantation of the CRL/OCSP server. Certificate validity is
the information preconfigured by CA/RA. The revocation status is to indicate
whether the certificate is revoked. There are some cases that leads to the
revocation (e.g., private key leak, the re-orchestration of NF, etc.)
NOTE: NRF can have a storage mechanism and can be aligned with the update
period of the OCSP server (e.g. OCSP server can announce its thisUpdate time
and nextUpdate Time as specified in IETF RFC 6960 [8]). it may be done in the
implementation level to reduce the signalling.
3\. NRF sends Nnrf_NFDiscovery_Request Response message to NF consumer.
If multiple NRFs are required to discovery a NF producer, NRF can forward the
request to other NRFs as specified in TS 23.502 [14].
### 6.9.3 Evaluation
In this solution, the NRF checks the certificate status from the OCSP/CRL
server, so that the NF discovery service can only provide the NF producer with
a valid certificate, which improve the service availability.
This solution is expected to add more storage requirement in the NRF, and more
signalling and queries during the NF discovery request of NRF. The OCSP/CRL
server query can be implemented during the existing NF producer checks
specified in clause 6.3 in TS 23.501 [2].
This solution assumes that the NRF can determine the mapping between the
certificate and the NFp. This functionality is not defined as part of NRF role
in any other 3GPP specifications. The NRF can maintain this mapping locally or
indirectly in/through another network entity. Though this can be left to
implementation, it does incur additional impact on the NRF.
Care needs to be taken when deploying such solutions in order to avoid
unnecessary overhead such as when OCSP/CRL information is provided already in
the certificates in which case the checks by the NRF would be also performed
by the consumer during the TLS handshake.
Care needs to taken when caching is used by the consumer in which case
whatever information is cached in the consumer needs to be kept up-to-date,
otherwise the solution will not completely eliminate the risk of \"late\"
failure.
The optimization proposed by this solution works for the communication between
the NFc and the NRp, not the communication between the NF and the NRF.
## 6.10 Solution #10: Solution to indicate and validate the purpose of the
certificate
### 6.10.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirements exposed in key issue #7
related to the association of multiple certificates which are used for
different purposes within a single Network Function (NF) in the 5GC SBA
context, namely:
\- TLS client EE certificates
\- TLS server EE certificates
\- Certificates for signing the access tokens for service access authorization
(for NRFs acting as OAuth 2.0 authorization servers)
\- Certificates for encrypting HTTP application layer protection of messages
between SEPPs
\- Certificates for signing Client credentials assertion (CCA) tokens (for NF
consumers)
NOTE: Other purposes may be added for X.509 certificates in the context of 5GC
SBA.
The basic concept is to provide the purpose(s) of the certificate to be used
in 5GC SBA in the CSR (Certificate Signing Request) to the Certification
Authority (CA). The CA should validate the request and add the purpose(s) in
the certificate, specifically in the Extended Key Usage (EKU) field.
When the NF consumer (NFc) request a service to a NF producer (NFp), SCP or
SEPP, and sends its certificate for authentication (mutual TLS
authentication), or when the NFc sends a CCA token (in Nnf service request)
that can be checked against the public key certificate (as indicated by NFc in
\"x5u\" or \"x5c\" parameter in CCA) by the NFp among other situations, the
receiver of the certificate should check whether the received purpose in the
certificate matches the content of the service request. If it does not match,
the receiver of the certificate should reject the request with a corresponding
error code.
### 6.10.2 Solution details
The first step of the procedure for the NF is to fetch a certificate that
includes the purpose(s) of usage in the context of 5GC SBA (e.g., TLS
authentication, CCA signing, etc.). The purpose(s) of the certificate should
be added in Extended Key Usage (EKU) field of X.509 public key certificate by
the CA server:
\- If an automated enrolment protocol is used by the NF to fetch the
certificate, the NF should indicate the purpose(s) of the certificate in the
certificate request message to the CA. E.g., \"ir\" or \"cr\" messages in
CMPv2.
\- The OAM fetches the certificate from the CA with indicated purpose and
install it manually in the NF
Therefore, the solution proposes to use Extended Key Usage (EKU) extension of
X.509 certificate to indicate the purpose of the certificate (e.g., TLS, JSON
signing, etc.) according to RFC 5280 [19] and draft-ietf-lamps-nf-eku-00
_[21]_.
The receiver of the certificate should validate the purpose indicated in the
EKU extension of the certificate, with the actual purpose being used in the
service request (e.g., TLS authentication, CCA signing, etc.).
Figure 6.10.2-1 illustrates the procedure with an example that combines a
successful validation of the certificate to be used for TLS mutual
authentication (NFc à SCP), but it is rejected when used for CCA signing (NFc
à NFp).
Figure 6.10.2-1: Validation of the purpose of the certificate
1) The CA is configured with policies intended to validate the purpose of the
certificate requests from NFs.
2) The NFc sends a certificate request to the CA with PURPOSE = id-kp-
clientAuth, what indicates that the NFc is requesting a certificate in
principle intended to be used only for TLS client authentication purposes.
3) The CA validates the purpose of the certificate with predefined policies
and adds the purpose in the certificate (EKU extension).
4) The CA sends the certificate with purpose information in EKU extension
field to the NFc.
5) The NFc initiates a TLS connection with SCP, which requires mutual
authentication.
6) The SCP validates the TLS client authentication, including the purpose of
the certificate and allows the TLS connection.
7) The NFc sends a service request to NFp via SCP with CCA token in 3gpp-Sbi-
Client-Credentials custom header. Let\'s assume that NFc misuses the single
purpose TLS client certificate by signing the CCA token with the associated
private key and including the associated public key certificate (chain) in
\"x5c\" parameter, or, alternatively, adding X.509 URL in \"x5u\" parameter
for this in the signed CCA token.
8) The purpose of the certificate used to verify the signature of the CCA
token does not include id-kp-jws, which indicates that the public key encoded
in the certificate has not been certified to be used for validating the JWS
signature, so the Nnf service request is rejected by the NFp.
9) The NFp sends the service response rejecting the request with 403 Forbidden
response where the cause attribute is set to \"CCA_VERIFICATION_FAILURE\", as
described in clause 6.7.5 in TS 29.500 [22].
### 6.10.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses the security threats and potential security
requirements of KI#7 by proposing a procedure which allows to indicate and
verify the purpose of the certificates in SBA.
The solution proposes the use of Extended Key Usage extension of X.509
certificate to indicate the purpose of the certificate being used in SBA,
however the actual RFC 5280 (May 2008) [19] only specifies among other
purposes the usage of the certificate for TLS client and TLS server
authentication. To specify the usage of the certificate for JSON signing and
encryption (e.g., CCA) the solution relies upon the IETF draft RFC: draft-
ietf-lamps-nf-eku-00 [21].
## 6.11 Solution #11: OCSP Stapling addressing Key Issues #5 and #6
### 6.11.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #5 by introducing, within the context of 5GC
SBA, the revocation procedures associated to standard OCSP stapling [15] and
[16], whose profile can be found in clause 6.1b of TS 33.310 [3]. The use of
the Certificate Status extension, commonly referred to as \"OCSP stapling\",
aims to offload the consumption of client resources and the contact with the
OCSP server. OCSP stapling makes the server responsible of performing OCSP
requests, thus reducing the latency and increasing the availability of the
revocation service, i.e., the server timestamps and caches the most recent
OCSP responses, so that those can be attached (\"stapled\") to the clients TLS
handshakes responses together with the certificates, even during short CA
and/or OCSP server outages. Every NF should get the OCSP stapling of its end
entity (EE) certificate from OCSP periodically.
The solution addresses the relation of the certificate management lifecycle
and NF management lifecycle described in key issue #6, specifically the
reconciliation of certain NF lifecycle processes such as the discovery
procedure performed by the NRF with the validity period of the certificates,
by adding the OCSP stapling of the NF EE certificate in the NF profile.
Consequently, every NF should register and update its profile with OCSP
stapling of its EE certificate in the NRF. The NRF should check the NF
producer\'s (NFp) OCSP stapling from its profile and accordingly responds to
the NF consumers discovery, access token or subscription requests by including
only the NFps with valid stapling.
### 6.11.2 Solution details
Before the first registration of the NFp in the NRF, the NFp should get the
OCSP stapling for its EE certificate from the OCSP server, and then embed this
information as part of the NF profile registered in the NRF.
The OCSP stapling contains the validity and revocation status of the EE
certificate provided by the OCSP server, despite its initial validity availed
from the CA. The OCSP server will always have the latest information about the
NF certificate status. The OCSP stapling of the EE certificate can be updated
by the periodic requests from the NF to the OCSP server, or by preconfigured
OCSP server policies. The OCSP stapling updates should trigger the
corresponding update of the information in the NF profile within the NRF.
Figure 6.11.2-1 illustrates the procedure:
Figure 6.11.2-1: OCSP stapling procedure for NFp validation in NRF
1) NFp sends a OCSP stapling request for its EE certificate to OCSP server.
2) OCSP server sends the OCSP stapling response to NFp with the latest status
of the EE certificate.
NOTE: Alternatively, OCSP server may push stapling updates to the NFp based on
operator security policy.
3) NFp registers or updates its NF profile in the NRF including the latest
status of the EE certificate.
4a) NRF register the NFp profile, which contains the OCSP stapling
information, i.e., the latest status of the EE certificate.
4b) NRF validates the OCSP stapling message and updates the NF profile.
5) NFc sends a request to NRF for a NFp, e.g., discovery request, access token
request, subscription request.
6a) Checks the OCSP stapling information of the candidate NFps (along with
other parameters in the profile)
6b) If the status of the EE certificate is OK, the NFp is considered in the
response.
7) NRF response to NFc request with a NFp whose EE certificate is valid.
If the NFp instance is removed from the infrastructure by the corresponding
management function, the NF profile is deactivated from the NRF, and the
management function and/or NRF should inform the operator RA/CA to proceed
with the revocation of the certificate. This procedure is left to
implementation.
### 6.11.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses the key issue #5 by using one certificate revocation
schema known as OCSP stapling. OCSP stapling is one of the revocation schemas
profiled in TS 33.310 [3]. In general, OCSP improves the latency and
performance of the revocation related procedures by providing an online
service, thus the number of revoked certificates is not a concern.
Specifically, OCSP stapling enhances the availability of the service in case
of CA or OCSP responder outages, since the server caches the most recent OCSP
responses.
The solution also proposes a procedure to address the relation between
certificate management lifecycle and NF management lifecycle described in key
issue #6, by registering and updating the NF profile with OCSP stapling
information. The status of the certificate of the NFp will be verified by the
NRF before responding the request of the NFc, thus NRF will always respond
with a NFp whose EE certificate is valid.
The solution has the following impact in existing architecture and procedures:
\- the implementation of an OCSP service as part of the PKI infrastructure of
the operator
\- the support of OCSP stapling by the NFs
\- the update of the NF profile with OCSP stapling information
\- the verification of the OCSP stapling information by the NRF
Observations:
\- the update of the OCSP stapling information can represent an issue if the
certificate is revoked before next OCSP stapling is renewed, since neither NRF
nor NF will come to know about the actual OCSP stapling, i.e., status of the
certificate.
\- the solution addresses NFp-NRF segment, responding to the use case
indicated in the KI #6 description. The registration of the NFc is optional
(clause 13.4.1.1.1, TS 33.501). If NFc is registered, the same procedure can
be applied to NFc-NRF segment, and OCSP stapling could be part of the NFc
profile. Nevertheless, for any SBA communication from an NFc to NRF, if done
via TLS, the certificate validation of both peers is implicit, hence NFc does
not need to store stapling in its profile with NRF.
\- NFp could fetch the OCSP stapling of all certificates in the EE certificate
chain and update the same in NF profile with NRF.
\- the solution introduces additional signalling between the OCSP responder
and the NFp corresponding to the updates of OCSP stapling information.
## 6.12 Solution #12: Automated Certificate Management for Network Slices
### 6.12.1 Introduction
The solution addresses key issue #9. The solution presents a proposal to
enable the automated certificate management for network slices, taking into
consideration that certificates might belong to different domains, e.g., in
deployments where different 3^rd^ party slices may co-exist and interoperate.
Different domains may require different configurations with respect to
certificate management, moreover when those domains belong to 3^rd^ parties.
To allow for 3^rd^ party slice tenants / slice service consumers (e.g.,
verticals) to configure the usage of their own CA for the network slices they
own, interfaces need to be provided in order to manage the required
configurations.
This solution proposes a new function referred to as Network Slice Certificate
Orchestration Function (NSCOF) for providing those interfaces between
different domains, including authorized 3^rd^ parties, who can own one or more
network slices. NSCOF function may enable automated certificate management
procedures by orchestrating the communication in the interfaces between the
different CAs and sub-CAs of the referred slicing domains, as well as between
network slice orchestrator and CAs, in the following scenarios (among others):
\- Slice service consumer specific root CA for all network slices owned and
administrated by that slice service consumer. This specific root CA will be
used in the certificate management procedures for all network functions of all
network slices owned by the slice service consumer. Interactions with operator
5G Core shared functions may require cross certification schemas between
operator CA and slice service consumer CA, or alternatively an initial
(manual) out-of-band exchange of public root CA certificates.
\- Network slice specific root CA, used by all network functions for that
specific network slice, owned and administrated by the slice service consumer.
The slice service consumer may have other network slices using the operator
CA.
\- Slice service consumer specific sub-CA, signed by the operator root CA (or
intermediate CA), used for all network slices owned by that slice service
consumer. The administration of the slice service consumer specific sub-CA can
be done by the operator, the slice service consumer (3^rd^ party) or shared
among both entities.
\- Network slice specific sub-CA, signed by the operator root CA, used for all
network functions of that particular slice. The administration of the slice
service consumer specific sub-CA can be done by the operator, the slice
service consumer (3^rd^ party) or shared among both entities.
\- Network Functions (e.g., AMF) can be shared from the operator host network
to serve multiple slices, which can be managed by 3rd party CAs owned by the
slice service consumers. Thus, trust needs to be pre-established between
operator CA and eventually involved 3rd party CAs.
### 6.12.2 Solution details
The figure 6.12.2-1 illustrates an example of orchestration tasks provided by
the NSCOF function to enable automated certificate management for Slices, when
3^rd^ parties (administrators and CAs) are involved.
The pre-requisites for this solution proposal are:
\- Secure mutual TLS connection is established between the 3^rd^ party
certificate administrator and NSCOF function.
\- NSCOF has a pre-established trust relationship with Operator\'s RA/CA
\- Operator\'s RA/CA has a pre-established trust relationship with 3^rd^ Party
CA
NOTE 1: How the NSCOF has built a trust relationship with Operator\'s RA/CA,
and how the operator\'s RA/CA has built a trust relationship with 3^rd^ Party
CA, are aspects left to implementation (e.g., cross certification, exchanging
of public root CA certs as trust anchors, etc.). The latter assumption enables
the certificates of NFs to be used in both environments, host operator network
and slice service consumer network, since the trust has been pre-established.
Figure 6.12.2-1: Example of certificate management procedure orchestrated by
NSCOF
1) 3^rd^ Party Certificate Admin provides slice-specific root-CA OR sub-CA
configurations to NSCOF.
For each NF allocated to applicable slice:
2a) (Optional) In some implementations, after having verified a successful
deployment of NFs associated with specific NSSAIs, the Network Slice
Orchestrator may request NSCOF for certificates for every of those NFs
belonging to specific slices.
2b) (Optional) In some implementations, if NSCOF can identify the NFs
associated with the NSSAIs from the information provided by 3^rd^ party
certificate administrator, NSCOF may send the Certificate Signing Request to
Operator\'s CA on behalf of the NFs.
3) NSCOF provides the operator RA/CA with the information related to the
(sub-) CA, and if applicable 3^rd^ party CA, configurations according to the
NSSAI to which each NF is associated.
4) Operator\'s RA/CA executes the certificate signing procedures with the
corresponding (sub-) CAs (in the diagram a 3^rd^ party CA is represented as
example) as per received configurations.
5) Operator\'s RA/CA provides the signed NF certificate to NSCOF
6a) (Optional) In implementations where Step 2a) is used as trigger for NF
certificate signing, a response is sent to Network Slice Orchestrator, which
takes care of provisioning the signed certificate to the respective NF.
6b) (Optional) In some implementations, NSCOF may provision the signed
certificate to the respective NFs.
NOTE 2: In some implementations, NSCOF can be an integral part of Network
Slice Orchestrator.
### 6.12.3 Evaluation
The solution introduces a new logical function referred to as Network Slice
Certificate Orchestration Function (NSCOF) to enable automated certificate
management for Slices, especially when 3rd parties (administrators and CAs)
are involved.
The solution addresses the requirement for the automated certificate
management framework to manage certificates belonging to different domains
(including authorized 3^rd^ parties) by orchestrating the communication in the
interfaces between the different entities (e.g., Management functions,
operator RA/CA, slice service consumer CA) involved in Network Slicing
certificate management.
When a network slice is created, the slice owner (operator or 3rd party),
based on the specific slice security requirements, decides whether the slice
requires a specific CA (root or sub-CA), and if so, proceeds to provision the
information of that CA in the NSCOF. The NSCOF sends that information to the
operator RA, which at the reception of the CSR for the NF, redirects the
request to the corresponding CA or sub-CA allocated to the slice of which the
NF takes part.
The impact of the solution is:
\- The introduction of a new functionality part of the Slicing orchestration
framework named as Network Slice Certificate Orchestration Function (NSCOF)
Observations:
\- If step 2) (Optional) is performed, the generation of the CSR in NSCOF on
behalf of the NF may represent a security risk, as the key pair
(private/public) is generated in the NSCOF.
NOTE 1: In general, the solution assumes that NSCOF is trusted by the slice
owner. If the NSCOF was not fully trusted by the slice owner, the key pair
would be generated in the NF and only the public key would be sent to NSCOF
for the certificate generation in the corresponding CA.
\- When the administration of the sub-CA and/or root CAs need to be shared,
security aspects related to multi-tenancy need to be considered.
\- In network slices specific sub-CAs share a common root CA, there is a
potential security issue of \"over trust\", since any certificate issued by
those sub-CAs can chain back to the root CA and pass the authentication.
NOTE 2: Specific security requirements on network slices may require to
configure a dedicated root CA per slice, thus avoiding a potential security
issue of \'over trust\'.
## 6.13 Solution #13: Build initial trust for NF certificate enrolment
### 6.13.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue 2: Security protection of NF certificate
enrolment.
As stated in the key issue details, before issuing a certificate, operator
CA/RA needs to establish an initial trust with the requestor NF instance,
ensuring that the requestor NF instance is the correct one and is entitled to
request a certificate. This solution introduces certificate management (CM)
proxy functionality to verify the NF identities, and facilitates the initial
trust establishment between NF and CA/RA. Considering that the new
functionality also acts as a bridge between CA domain and SBA domain, it can
be implemented in the same entity called as Certificate Management Network
Entity (CMNE) that is introduced in the Solution #7: A solution addressing the
relation between certificate lifecycle management and NF lifecycle management
_._
To enhance the trustworthiness of the virtualized 3GPP NF, it is proposed to
have optional procedures where CM proxy acting as Relying Party can verify VNF
based on attestation result when attestation is in use. The details of
attestation solution and procedure is further investigated in the FS_SIV study
[17] and out of scope of this solution.
_It is also assumed that the CM proxy trusts the OAM and CA/RA, and there are
many ways to establish the trust between them (for example SSH or TLS), which
is out of scope of this solution._
### 6.13.2 Solution Details
The following description provides a high-level overview about a possible
solution by introducing the certificate management (CM) proxy as a bridge and
facilitate the initial trust establishment between NF and CA/RA without having
impact on CA/RA. The description shows the steps by which an entity in the NF
receives an end-entity certificate. The individual steps are only indicative.
NOTE 0: How to perform and use attestation and as well as trusted execution is
out of scope of this solution.
Figure 6.13.2-1: High-level procedure to build initial trust for NF
certificate enrolment
1\. NF has been successfully instantiated (with day-0 configuration).
The day-0 configuration can include the initial credential and trust anchors
(e.g., root certificate) to be used by NF to establish a secure communication
channel initiated from CM proxy.
For example, if TLS is used as a secure communication channel between NF and
CM proxy, the NF can be pre-provisioned with a TLS server certificate which is
signed by a root certificate that is stored in the CM proxy.
The initial credential, such as one time secret can be pre-provisioned for
authentication between CM Proxy and NF through day-0 configuration of NF and
CM Proxy.
The initial credential, such as one time secret can be pre-provisioned for
authentication between CA/RA and NF through day-0 configuration of CM Proxy or
CA/RA. In this solution, it is used by CA/RA to authenticate the NF.
2\. (Optional when attestation is in use) To enhance the trustworthiness of
the virtualized 3GPP NF, the virtualised NF instance is attested. It is
assumed that the attestation results are maintained by the Attestation
Verifier for subsequent access [17].
3\. CM proxy is provisioned through OAM procedure with necessary information.
The necessary information includes initial credential to be used by CM proxy
to setup secure communication channel with NF. For example, if TLS is used as
a secure communication channel between NF and CM proxy, the CM proxy can
verify the TLS server certificate of the NF using a preconfigured root
certificate in the CM proxy.
The necessary information also includes NF identities (e.g., FQDNs to be
presented in the certificate).
4\. (Optional when attestation is in use) CM proxy acting as Relying Party can
verify VNF based on attestation result and decide whether the NF is eligible
for certification or not.
5\. CM proxy registers NF end-entity to CA/RA.
The identities of NF end-entity (got from previous steps) are registered to
CA/RA.
6\. CA/RA provides authentication credentials to the CM proxy.
Depends on the agreement with the CA/RA, for example an initial authentication
key (IAK) is agreed to be used in the enrolment protocol to get a certificate
for the NF end-entity, the CA/RA sends IAK as the authentication credentials
to the CM proxy.
NOTE: The Initial Authentication Key (IAK) is described in the RFC 4210
without details. As an example, theauthentication credentials can be a one-
time secret used by CA to authenticate the received certificate signing
request (CSR) associated with the registered NF identity in step 5.
7\. CM proxy provides the NF about enrolment information and authentication
materials.
The enrolment information includes enrolment protocol, CA/RA details and
registered NF identities in step 5.
The authentication materials sending from CM proxy need be protected. For
example, if TLS is used as a transport layer protection between NF and CM
proxy.
8\. NF generates key pair and prepares the CSR (Certificate Signing Request)
message.
9\. NF sends the certificate enrolment request to the CA/RA. Authentication
credential received in step 7 is used to authenticate the origin of CSR from
the end entity to the CA/RA.
The NF can authenticate the CA/RA based on out-of-band means. For example,
CA/RA\'s root certificate is pre-configured as trust anchor in the NF, or it
is installed during step 7.
10\. CA/RA returns the issued certificate to the NF.
CA/RA validates the certificate enrolment request based on local policies
using the identities received in step 5.
### 6.13.3 Evaluation
This solution introduces a new certificate management (CM) proxy functionality
which acts as a bridge between SBA domain and PKI domain, and facilitates the
initial trust establishment between NF and CA/RA without having impact on
CA/RA.
The NF end-entity identities (e.g., FQDNs to be presented in the certificate)
are registered by CM Proxy to CA/RA without having impact on CA/RA. The CA/RA
can validate the certificate enrolment request based on local policies and
registered identities.
The presence of CM Proxy provides a possibility to integrate with an
attestation solution if needed, i.e., CM Proxy acts as Relying Party role and
verifies VNF based on attestation result when attestation is in use. The
details of attestation solution and procedure is further investigated in the
FS_SIV study [17] and out of scope of this solution.
The solution does not cover the initial trust for the CM Proxy.
The solution assumes the NF is pre-provisioned with TLS server certificate and
one time secret (e.g., Initial Authentication Key). The CM Proxy authenticates
the NF using NF\'s TLS server certificate, and NF authenticates CM Proxy using
one time secret.
It is up to implementation policy to determine the (re) usage and type of
Initial Authentication Key (s).
## 6.14 Solution #14: Ensuring the management of bulk certificate updates
### 6.14.1 Introduction
The solution addresses the security threat of KI#3 related to the potential
partial or complete disruption of the automated certificate management
framework due to a simultaneous update / renewal of a vast number of
certificates.
The following scenarios are examples where bulk certificate updates may be
required:
\- Operator or an automation function determines a need to update many
certificates due to a compromised algorithm, or compromised key, or revoked
certificate.
\- Many simultaneous alarms indicating the need to renew a huge number of
certificates that are about to expire.
\- CA may announce revocation of some CA certificates. If some of the root
certificates, being used to sign several certificates for various NFs, are
revoked, this action can lead to simultaneous updates of certificates for many
network functions.
\- Certificate Revocation List (CRL) may be updated with new certificate
revocations, which can affect a large number of NFs.
In order to cater to various possible triggers of bulk certificate updates,
the solution proposes a new network management functionality named in this
solution as Certificate Update Orchestrator (CUO). Such a functionality can be
implemented as part of the MANagement and Orchestration (MANO).
### 6.14.2 Solution details
CUO performs the following actions in order to mitigate the risks of automated
certificate management leading to service un-availability.
\- Monitoring of certificate expiry related alarms reported by network
management systems
\- Monitors CA announcements for certificate revocations
\- CUO may subscribe to CA announcement notifications
\- Monitors CRL/OCSP data stores for certificate revocations
\- CUO may subscribe to notifications from applications that monitor changes /
updates in CRL/OCSP data stores
\- Accept certificate update triggers from the operator or an automation
related function.
To ensure the proper management of the certificate updates for a large number
of NFs, CUO may perform the following actions:
\- Stagger the certificate updates in time such that only a small amount of
certificate updates is ongoing simultaneously, while ensuring the updates are
done within the stipulated time, especially for those that are close to
expiry.
\- Prioritize the certificate updates for those certificates having lesser
time remaining for expiry.
### 6.14.3 Evaluation
This solution has no impacts on NFs, CAs or on any existing signalling
procedures. The CUO described in this solution can be implemented
independently as part of operator\'s management and orchestration framework.
## 6.15 Solution #15: Policy based certificate update/renewal
### 6.15.1 Introduction
This contribution addresses this key issue #3, and in particular the risk that
may occur during the simultaneous update/renewal of a vast number of
certificates.
### 6.15.2 Solution details
Normally, certificate update for CA/ PKI subscribers can be initiated in
advance (e.g., one/two months) before the certificate expires due to the
policy of the CA or the PKI subscribers, so that the new certificate can be
tested while the current certificate is still available. Therefore, the CA has
an enough period of time to process the simultaneous certificate update before
the expiration date. The detailed description is as follows:
1\. The time for updating the certificate before the certificate expires can
be preconfigured in the NF and monitored by the CA.
2\. When the NF discovers that the certificate is about to expire according to
the preconfigured update time, it will trigger the certificate update process.
3\. Even if the NF does not trigger the certificate update process, the CA can
also monitor that the certificate for NF is about to expire, and trigger the
certificate update for NF.
4\. Besides, the CA does not have to update the certificates with the same
expiration date at the same time. The certificates can be divided into
different groups and been updated separately due to the policy of the CA. The
CA can even set different update times for NFs with the same expiration time.
This can also address the scenario of CA\'s certification update and
revocation, which results in the simultaneous certificate update for CA and
the involved entity certificates.
The compromise of a crypto algorithm in use is a corner case, and can also be
addressed by the CA policy as described in step 4.
All the aspects above depend on CA/ PKI subscribers\' policies and NF/CA
internal implementations. So, how to deal with the simultaneous update/renewal
of a vast number of certificates could be left to implementation based on the
policy of CA controlled by the operator. If needed some guidance can be added
in the normative phase to clarify this.
### 6.15.3 Evaluation
This solution specifically addresses the risk of service outage during
simultaneous update/renewal of vast number of certificates. This is a threat
identified in Key Issue #3.
The solution depends on the preconfigured policy and internal implementation
of the NF/CA, and does not have standards impact.
## 6.16 Solution #16: Using ACME protocol for certificate enrolment and
renewal
### 6.16.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue 1: Single certificate management protocol
and procedures.
As stated in Key Issue 1, considering virtualization in 5G SBA, it is
impractical to manage certificates manually. If there is no standardized use
of an automated certificate management protocol, the certificate management
needs to be done manually which may lead to missing refreshment of
certificates and usage of expired certificates.
The solution proposes to use the ACME protocol to solve for the requirements
in Key Issue 1.
It is beneficial to have standardised certificate management protocols and
procedures for certificate enrolment and renewal to ensure that trusted and
valid certificates are in use at all times.
The ACME protocol provides full certificate lifecycle support including
enrolment, renewal and revocation. ACME is focused purely on the certificate
lifecycle which provides simpler implementation and support. Machine to
machine support is readily available with open-source client implementations
in many languages.
ACME offers a solution to fully address the challenges of Key Issue 1 and
provide the following benefits:
\- Enables automatic acquisition and management of certificates
\- Simplifies deployment of TLS across devices
\- Cryptographic key material can be changed automatically, replacement keys
can be rolled out automatically
\- Reduces chance of global outages
\- It reduces the chance of the environment becoming calcified on a single
certificate on accident because they change regularly.
\- It makes monitoring certificate lifecycles easier because changes happen on
a predictable basis, which enables monitoring and proactive issue resolution.
\- Enables quicker responses to global outages when they happen
\- Reduces the chance that a vendor will divest itself the obligation for the
CNF\'s implementation\'s requirement to manage its own certificates in favour
of an \"optional\" certificate life cycle management operational support
system.
\- Reduces the need for third party vendor \'plugins\' to actively manage the
configuration files on a running CNF.
\- Reduces the chance that third party management of certificates violates a
containers\' immutability property, which in an increasingly cloud native and
containerized environment is a pillar of integrity.
\- Removes vendor lock in on certificate issuance enabling migrating from one
solution/vendor without code changes.
\- Using certificates uniformly across this ecosystem could help secure the
network from tampering and other malicious acts.
\- Can be used with public trust anchors or in a private PKI
### 6.16.2 Solution details
#### 6.16.2.1 Solution overview
ACME can be implemented in multiple ways depending on the trust model network
participants wish to use and which aspects of the 5G infrastructure will use
ACME based certificates. IETF RFC 8555 [23] is extensible to many use cases,
such as the TNAuthList profile [27].
ACME architectural elements, as depicted in Figure 6.16.2.1-1, include an ACME
client (Client) and an ACME server (Server). These map directly to the CEMAF
reference point architecture illustrated in Figure 6.1.2.2-1. The ACME client
maps to the NF, and the ACME server maps to the CeEF and to the CeMF. The same
ACME server can be used for both the CeEF and CeMF, or different ACME servers
could be used.
Figure 6.16.2.1-1 Information covered by request signatures Certificate
Issuance
#### 6.16.2.2 ACME Profiling for SBA
##### 6.16.2.2.0 General
The following ACME procedures are in the scope of certificate management for
SBA:
\- Certificate Enrolment: Register an ACME account using an ACME client,
request a certificate and solve the validation challenge to confirm control of
the target(s) and the certificates will be issued. Robust solutions would
include automated challenge solving.
\- Certificate Renewal: At 2/3rds of the certificate lifetime, the certificate
will be renewed. If automation is used, no manual work is required. Where
appropriate, support for RFC 8739 [28] - Short-Term, Automatically Renewed
(STAR) Certificates is desirable.
\- Certificate Revocation: Self-service revocation is possible using the
registered client. Manual revocation by the CA operator is also possible in
cases where self-service is not viable or desirable.
NOTE: The support of SBA certificate profile as specified in TS 33.310 [3] by
ACME has not been addressed in the present document.
##### 6.16.2.2.1 General Requirements
The following requirements apply to ACME usage in Service Based Architecture:
\- ACME provides full certificate lifecycle functionality, but it needs
established trust anchors and appropriate validation challenge solving
architecture.
\- The usage of the senderNonce and the recipNonce fields is mandatory. The
length of the fields as recommended in [23] is used. The recipNonce in the
very first message in the transaction is set to 0 by the sender and is
disregarded by the recipient of the message.
##### 6.16.2.2.2 Profile for PKI Fields
##### 6.16.2.2.2.1 General {#general-8 .H6}
The NF Instance certificate enrolment supports the following ACME PKI message
bodies:
\- Initialization Request (ir)
\- Initialization Response (ip)
\- Certification Request (cr)
\- Certification Response (cp)
\- Key Update Request (kur)
\- Key Update Response (kup)
\- Confirmation (pkiconf)
\- Certificate confirm (certconf)
Profiles for the single message bodies above are given in the subclauses
below. If no specific profile is given, the provisions of [23] apply.
##### 6.16.2.2.2.2 Account Initialization and Response {#account-
initialization-and-response .H6}
The normal ACME flow for ACME account setup below would be adapted to
streamline contact information exchange because participants will already be
known within the ecosystem. TOS acceptance will be dropped, but otherwise
remain a standard ACME flow.
Figure 6.16.2.2.2.2-1:Account Initiation and Response
##### 6.16.2.2.2.3 Certificate Validation {#certificate-validation .H6}
RFC 8555 [23] section 8 covers the 3 TLS validation methods (DNS, HTTP, TLS-
ALPN) in detail. Additional validation methods using reliable RAN and SBA
information. While DNS or HTTP challenges are the most common way in ACME to
check the validity of a signing request, the request can also be validated
independently of any DNS infrastructure through other methods (e.g., external
account bindings).
External account binding is an alternative method of validating a signing
request in 5G SBA CNF that does not depend on any DNS infrastructure. It
involves linking the request to an existing validated account at the
certificate authority (CA) by providing the account key and a digital
signature of the signing request to the CA. This method requires the
requesting entity to have a previously validated account at the CA, and the
security of the validation process depends heavily on the security of the
account key and the digital signature.
While external account binding can provide an alternative to DNS or HTTP
challenges for validating signing requests in 5G SBA CNF, it is crucial to
maintain the security and integrity of the process to prevent unauthorized
certificate issuance. This involves ensuring the account key is kept secure
and not shared, and the digital signature is created using a secure algorithm
and trusted implementation.
When DNS is used as a challenge mechanism to validate the domain ownership by
a client in 5G SBA CNF, there are several security threats that could
compromise the integrity of the validation process. These threats include:
1\. DNS Spoofing: An attacker may attempt to impersonate the DNS server and
provide fake DNS responses to the ACME client, leading to a successful domain
validation. This can be mitigated by using DNSSEC (DNS Security Extensions) to
ensure the authenticity of DNS responses.
2\. DNS Cache Poisoning: An attacker may attempt to poison the DNS cache of
the ACME client with incorrect information, leading to a successful domain
validation. This can be mitigated by implementing DNS cache poisoning
prevention mechanisms such as Response Rate Limiting (RRL) and DNS Cookies.
3\. Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) Attacks: An attacker may intercept the
communication between the ACME client and the DNS server, modify the DNS
responses, and provide fake domain validation results to the ACME client. This
can be mitigated by using secure communication protocols such as HTTPS/TLS to
encrypt the communication and prevent interception.
4\. DNS Server Compromise: A DNS server may be compromised by an attacker,
leading to the issuance of fake DNS responses to the ACME client and
successful domain validation. This can be mitigated by ensuring that the DNS
server is properly secured, regularly updated, and audited for
vulnerabilities.
To mitigate these threats and ensure the protection of DNS when used as a
challenge mechanism to validate the domain ownership by a client in 5G SBA
CNF, the following security measures should be implemented: DNSSEC, RRL or DNS
Cookies, HTTPS/TLS, proper security and regular updates of DNS server.
##### 6.16.2.2.2.4 Key Update Request and Key Update Response {#key-update-
request-and-key-update-response-1 .H6}
RFC 8555 section 7.3.5 covers key updates in detail and is appropriate within
the 3gpp ecosystem.
##### 6.16.2.2.2.5 Certificate acquisition and renewal {#certificate-
acquisition-and-renewal .H6}
RFC 8555 section 7.4 covers certificate acquisition. Renewals are simply
another acquisition request. Typically, renewals happen at 2/3rds the lifetime
of the certificates. Where appropriate, support for RFC 8739 [28] can be
advantageous to support short lived certificates.
NOTE: Life spans for certificates are not defined by ACME and while typical
use is short-lived, the life span of the certificates would be up to
implementation.
#### 6.16.2.3 ACME Transport
Transport of ACME messages between end entities (network elements) and RA/CA
is done over HTTPS as specified in IETF RFC 2818 using JSON Web Signature RFC
7515 [4] for additional protections. Transport between CA elements is up to
the CA operator, but should use a secure channel.
NOTE: Further details on the ACME profiling will be addressed during normative
work.
### 6.16.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #1: Single certificate management protocol
and procedures.
NOTE: ACME has not been profiled for use cases of 5G SBA architecture. Details
of initial trust framework for ACME, ACME signalling handshake message content
for 5G SBA use cases, and ACME architecture for request/response for all five
certificate types used in 5G SBA have not been addressed in the present
document.
It is beneficial to have an automated certificate management protocol and
procedures to avoid missing refreshment of certificates and use of expired
certificates. It is also important that the protocol and procedures be well
established standards as the environments in which they are to be used are
multi-vendor and may cross multiple administrative domains. The ACME protocol
[23] is a good candidate to support automatic certificate enrolment and
renewal procedures. ACME also provides facilities for other certificate
management functions, such as certificate revocation.
ACME is focused purely on the certificate lifecycle, which makes it
lightweight and easy to support. It allows a client to request certificate
management actions using a set of JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) messages
[24] carried over HTTPS [25]. As such, it aligns well with the Certificate
Enrolment and MAnagement Framework (CEMAF) outlined in the present document.
Certificate Enrolment using ACME resembles the certificate issuance process of
a traditional Certificate Authority (CA) in which a client creates an account,
requests a certificate, and proves control of the identifier(s) in that
certificate in order for the CA to issue the requested certificate. CeEF and
CeMF map to ACME servers. NF entities map to ACME clients.
5G SBA in general, and more specifically the increase in modularity of NFs,
has resulted in multi-vendor environments becoming more prevalent. It is now
common for NFs to come from different vendors, and for the cloud native
environment in which they run to come from yet another vendor, and for all of
these to be independent of the CA that is authoritative for the certificates
that are used to secure their communications. A key benefit of ACME over prior
art is its automated validation of authority to represent an identifier. ACME
uses an extensible challenge/response framework for identifier validation.
Although the original focus of ACME was validating domain names for issuing
certificates for Web PKI, ACME supports extensions for other identifiers in
other PKI contexts, including certificates attesting to IP addresses [26].
3GPP specific identifier validation challenges can be defined if necessary.
## 6.17 Solution #17: Assurance of unique NF identifiers in certificates
### 6.17.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security threat exposed in key issue #8 related to
the misuse of NF instance identities to fetch a valid operator certificate.
The solution proposes a procedure that allows the operator CA/RA to verify
that the CSR message comes from a genuine NF instance. The procedure,
performed by the operator CA/RA, consists of validating the NF Instance Id in
the CSR (included in Subject Alt Name (SAN) field as per certificate profile
in 6.3.1c of TS 33.310 [3]) with the NF Instance Id pre-provisioned in NF
(i.e., initial credentials, e.g., initial certificate) during the building of
initial trust between NF and operator CA/RA (please refer to solutions
addressing KI#2 in the present document).
### 6.17.2 Solution details
The following diagram represents the security procedure to ensure that the CSR
message comes from a genuine NF instance and NF Instance Id has not been
misused.
Figure 6.17.2-1: Assurance of unique NF identifiers in certificates
1\. During the process of building initial trust between NF and Operator CA/RA
the NF Instance Id and NF credentials get known by Operator CA/RA.
NOTE: The selected mechanism to establish the initial trust between NF and
Operator CA/RA, e.g., PSK/Refnum, initial certificate, etc., requires
conveying the NF Instance Id of the NF along with the credentials of the NF.
2\. NF creates a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) including the NF Instance
Id in SAN field.
3\. NF sends the CSR to Operator CA/RA
4\. The operator CA/RA verifies the message protection according to the
selected initial trust security mechanism (e.g., pre-shared key, certificate,
etc.).
5\. The operator CA/RA verifies that the NF Instance Id in the SAN field of
the CSR corresponds to the NF Instance Id conveyed during the initial trust
building procedure.
6\. NF fetches the certificate from Operator CA/RA
### 6.17.2 Evaluation
The solution addresses the security threats and potential security
requirements of KI#8 by proposing a procedure which allows the operator CA/RA
to verify that the NF identifier (NF Instance Id) has not been misused to
fetch a valid certificate. Thus, a rogue NF won\'t be able to fetch an
operator certificate by only knowing the NF Instance Id.
The solution binds the NF identifier (NF Instance Id) provided during the
initial trust procedure with operator RA/CA, with the NF identifier provided
in the SAN field of the certificate request to fetch the operator certificate
from the RA/CA.
The specific implementation of the solution depends on the selected mechanism
to build initial trust between NF and operator CA/RA. The mechanisms to build
initial trust between NF and operator CA/RA are not part of this solution.
## 6.18 Solution #18: Slice specific initial enrolment procedure
### 6.18.1 Introduction
This contribution proposes a solution for key issue #9. In particular, the
solution is based on solution #3 which provides initial trust between NF and
operator CA. For the scenario of the automated certificate management for
network slices where different 3rd party slices may co-exist and interoperate,
the initial trust between NF and the 3^rd^ party CA can be established using
the mechanism in solution #3, where the initial certificate is issued by the
operator CA and the entity certificate can be issued by the 3^rd^ party CA.
During the process, the certificate management NF can take the role of
interacting with the 3^rd^ party CA.
The solution concept is represented in the figure 6.18.1-1.
{width="5.427083333333333in" height="1.9069444444444446in"}
Figure 6.18.1-1: Secure initial enrolment through Operator CA and Certificate
Management NF
### 6.18.2 Solution details
For NFs in 5GC SBA to fetch end entity X.509 certificates signed by a 3^rd^
party CA, the NFs are expected to have an identity that is trusted and
accepted by the operator CA and can obtain a certificate from the operator CA.
This certificate issued by the operator CA can be used to protect the process
of requesting the certificate signed by the 3^rd^ party CA. The solution
details are similar with the process of certificate enrolment in solution #3
with the following differences:
\- The private CA is replaced with the operator CA.
\- The operator CA is replaced with the 3^rd^ party CA.
### 6.18.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses the security requirement of KI#9 related to the
scenario of the automated certificate management for network slices by
proposing a procedure for the NF to fetch a certificate from a 3^rd^ party CA,
owned/managed by the slicing customer. The procedure proposes to use an
initial certificate for authentication to the 3^rd^ party CA, signed by an
operator CA. The normal certificate management like certificate update,
revocation can follow the normal process addressed by KI #3 and KI#5. Other
aspects like the alignment between NF lifecycle and certificate lifecycle in
the certificate management for network slicing are not covered.
The prerequisite of this solution is that the NFs have obtained certificates
issued by the operator CA using mechanisms addressing KI#2.
The solution requires the implementation of an operator CA, the root
certificate of that operator CA is pre-configured as trust anchor in the 3^rd^
party CA to enable the authentication of the NF during the initial certificate
enrolment in 3^rd^ party CA.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 KI#1: Single certificate management protocol and procedures
### 7.1.1 Analysis
The key issue addresses the need to use an automated certificate management
protocol and procedures in 5G SBA with capabilities (e.g., enrolment, renewal)
to manage the lifecycle of the certificates. It is also desirable to have one
single solution for the entire lifecycle of the certificates to facilitate
interoperability and reduce the implementation complexity.
Two solutions are presented to cover this key issue.
\- Solution #1 introduces an overall framework named as CEMAF (Certificate
Enrolment and MAnagement Framework). CEMAF proposes to group the certificate
management procedures in three blocks, corresponding to the initial trust
establishment, the enrolment of the certificate, and the management procedures
during the lifecycle of the certificate (updates, revocation, status
notification, etc.).
\- Solution #2 proposes CMP as a protocol for certificate enrolment and
renewal procedures, and a CMPv2 profiling for SBA has been provided
accordingly.
CMP complies with the requirements to be a single certificate management
protocol in 5G SBA for the procedures of enrolment and renewal.
The certificate management framework requires to be completed with the
procedures related to initial trust establishment, and management procedures
not covered in the CMP profiling for 5G SBA (e.g., revocation).
### 7.1.1 Conclusion
It is proposed to pursue CMP protocol in normative specification for the
procedures of certificate enrolment and certificate renewal in 5G SBA.
## 7.2 KI#2: Security protection of NF certificate enrolment
### 7.2.1 Analysis
The protection of the NF certificate enrolment procedure requires to build
initial trust with the CA/RA to fetch the operator certificate, as well as
security mechanisms during the whole procedure that includes integrity
protection, anti-replay protection and mutual authentication.
The conclusion for KI#1 proposes to pursue CMP as selected protocol for the
enrolment procedure. In addition to the intrinsic security features of CMP,
the following solutions have addressed the following security aspects:
\- Solution #3 proposes a procedure to secure the initial enrolment of the NF
certificates, by the introduction of a local CA used for NFs within the same
security domain (e.g., part of the same cloud infrastructure), which delivers
a first initial certificate.
\- Solution #8 proposes a procedure to enhance the protection of the
certificate enrolment by providing a pre-configured signature of the NF
profile in the certificate request, that can be verified in the operator CA.
\- Solution #13 proposes a procedure to build the initial trust for NF
certificate enrolment by the introduction of a new functionality that acts as
a proxy between the NF and the operator CA/RA.
The common ground for all solutions is the involvement of the OAM system,
which instantiates the NF and provides the initial trust (e.g., signature,
certificate, credentials, etc.), which can be verified by the operator CA/RA.
The OAM system is trusted for the operator CA/RA.
### 7.2.2 Conclusion
It is proposed to pursue an approach where the OAM system of the NF provides
the initial trust to be used during NF operator certificate enrolment
procedure. The initial trust can be implemented by an initial (OAM)
certificate (although other implementation options are also valid, e.g.,
signature of certain NF parameters), which can be verified by the operator
CA/RA, since the trust between the OAM system and the operator CA/RA has been
pre-established.
It is agreed to propose the Solution #3 as the basis for the normative work.
## 7.3 KI#3: NF Certificate Update
### 7.3.1 Analysis
The key issue addresses the need to support a certificate update procedure for
NFs for example due to expiry or change in the validity status as well as
scenarios where such an update under certain circumstances is required for a
vast number of NFs.
Now since it is agreed to pursue CMPv2 protocol in the normative phase,
updates or renewal of certificates could as well be handled by the same
protocol without the need to support any new procedure.
Two solutions have been proposed to cover a possible service outage issue when
automated certificate management may lead to simultaneous updates of
certificates for several, even multiple NFs.
Solution #14 proposes a new network management functionality named Certificate
Update Orchestrator (CUO) which can be implemented as part of the management
and orchestration to address the issue. This can be implemented without any
impacts to NFs, CAs, or on any existing signalling procedures.
Solution #15 proposes a policy-based solution which mainly depends on the
CA/NF policies and internal implementations.
### 7.3.2 Conclusion
It is concluded that the update/renewal of certificates could be handled by
the CMPv2 protocol as concluded in clause 7.1.2. The update/renewal trigger,
for example due to expiry, change in validity \"status\" or other events such
as the sudden disclosure of broken cryptographic primitives, could be based on
internal configuration, operator policies, etc. Therefore, no normative work
is needed, and this aspect of the overall framework could be left to
implementation. Whether there is a need for informative guidance for the
security threat related to simultaneous update / renewal of a vast number of
certificates leading to partial or complete service disruption will be decided
in the normative phase.
## 7.4 KI#4: Trust Chain of Certificate Authority Hierarchy
### 7.4.1 Analysis
This key issue addresses the establishment of trust chain of Certificate
Authority Hierarchy, which ensures the legitimacy and credibility of the
certificate authority. Based on the trust chain, each TLS entity in 5G SBA is
able to obtain its certificates and verify the certificates of other TLS
entities.
Two solutions have been proposed to establish the trust chain of Certificate
Authority Hierarchy.
Solution #4 describes the cross-certification based trust chain in the SBA
Architecture, which supports the intra-domain SBA connection and the inter-
domain SBA connection. Cross-certification enables the users under each of the
authorities to trust the other authority\'s certificates, which could benefit
the certificate verification between SEPPs.
Solution #5 describes the interconnection CA based trust chain in the SBA
Architecture, which supports the intra-domain SBA connection and the inter-
domain SBA connection. The interconnection CA can be used to issue
certificates to the SEG CAs, TLS client CA or TLS server CA of other domains,
with which the operator\'s SEGs and TLS entities have interconnection.
### 7.4.2 Conclusion
The validation of the trust chain of CA hierarchy is required in the automated
certificate management framework, and that the solutions presented in the
study are implementation options.
Further details are to be discussed during normative phase.
## 7.5 KI#5: Certificates revocation procedures
### 7.5.1 Analysis
The KI#5 requires for 5G Core SBA a certificate revocation schema, part of the
overall certificate lifecycle management framework, that should be scalable,
fast due to the highly dynamic environment of the infrastructure, and
resilient in case of outages. Certification Revocation Lists (CRLs), Online
Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) and OCSP stapling are listed as possible
schemas, and even they have been profiled in TS 33.310 [3].
Two solutions have been presented in the study:
\- Solution #6 proposes a OCSP based revocation procedure, with the option of
using stapling for \'high load\' server NFs to alleviate the burden of OCSP
servers and reduce the signalling.
\- Solution #11 proposes a OCSP stapling based revocation procedure.
OCSP and OCSP stapling are well-established standard protocols for certificate
management. OCSP improves the latency and performance of the revocation
related procedures by providing an online service, and OCSP stapling enhances
it by caching the OCSP responses, thus ensuring the availability of the
service as well in case of CA or OCSP responder outages.
A profile of OCSP and OCSP stapling can be found in clause 6.1b of TS 33.310
[3].
### 7.5.2 Conclusion
For certificate revocation, it is agreed to pursue CRL in the normative phase.
CRL support for TLS is already specified in TS 33.310 (Table 6.1.3c.3-1:
cRLDistributionPoint as mandatory extension).
OCSP [8] and OCSP stapling [15] and [16] are possible additional certificate
revocation schemas for SBA. The support of those mechanisms will be decided
during normative phase.
## 7.6 KI#6: Relation between certificate management lifecycle and NF
management lifecycle
### 7.6.1 Analysis
The KI#6 requires to consider the NF lifecycle in the certificate lifecycle
management for SBA, thus the solutions need to address the relations between
both lifecycles.
Three solutions have been evaluated in the study:
\- Solution #7 introduces a new network entity named as \'Certificate
Management Network Entity\' (CMNE), responsible for the synchronization
between certificate related events and NR related events, by communicating
with CA/RA, NRF and Virtualization Orchestration platforms.
\- Solution #9 proposes that the NRF checks during the discovery procedure of
the NFc the certificate validity of the NFp from the OCSP/CRL server, so that
the NF discovery service can only provide the response including a NFp with a
valid certificate.
\- Solution #11 proposes to register and update the NF profile in NRF with
OCSP stapling information, so that the status of the certificate of the NFp
will be verified by the NRF before responding the request of the NFc. Thus,
the NRF will always respond with a NFp whose EE certificate is valid.
The common ground among solution #9 and solution #11 is that both solutions
propose to use revocation information provided by OCSP service to coordinate
the relation among the NF lifecycle and the certificate lifecycle. In general,
OCSP stapling offers better efficiency and reliability than OCSP when
providing revocation services by reducing the required signalling and by
ensuring the revocation service in case of eventual outage or non-reachability
of OCSP server.
### 7.6.2 Conclusion
In relation to NF and certificate lifecycle management, it is agreed to
further discuss and decide on the following option during the normative phase:
\- During the NF discovery procedure, the NRF can perform certain checks in
order to determine that the potential producers have valid certificates. Such
checks can be based on locally stored information or by querying other network
entities such as OCSP/CRL servers.
## 7.7 KI#7: Multiples certificates to be associated with a Network Function
### 7.7.1 Analysis
The NFs in SBA may need to support multiple operator certificates for
different purposes (e.g., TLS authentication, JSON signing and encryption).
The key issue addresses the need of certificate management framework in SBA to
provide the means to manage the usage of the issued certificates.
The solution presented to cover this key issue is the following:
\- Solution #10 introduces a procedure to indicate and validate the purpose of
the X.509 certificates used in SBA by using the Extended Key Usage extension
of the certificate as defined in IETF RFC 5280 [19] and IETF draft-ietf-lamps-
nf-eku-00 [21].
### 7.7.2 Conclusion
It is proposed to pursue the proposed procedure in solution #10 to indicate
and validate the purpose of the X.509 certificates in the normative
specification as part of the desired certificate management framework in SBA.
The SBA certificate profile is to be expanded in the possible values for
extendedKeyUsage to cover the usage of JSON signing and encryption.
The usage of the Extended Key Usage extension of the certificated in the
solution has dependency on the final status of IETF draft-ietf-lamps-nf-eku-00
[21], which is work in progress in IETF at the time of writing.
## 7.8 KI#8: Trusted Network Function instances identifiers
### 7.8.1 Analysis
The KI#8 requires that the certificate management framework should be able to
manage and track the NF instance identifiers per end entity, in order to avoid
that a malicious of compromised NF instance could fetch a valid certificate
using a compromised NF instance ID.
Two solutions have been evaluated in the study:
\- Solution #8 introduces a procedure consisting in the pre-configuration of
signature of certain parameter(s) such as NF instance ID or NF type in the NF
profile, that can be verified in the operator CA as part of the certificate
enrolment procedure. OAM system, as trusted entity for the operator CA and NF,
can configure the signature intended to protect the integrity of the NF
identifier.
\- Solution #17 introduces a procedure that allows the operator CA to verify
that NF identifier has not misused. It binds that identifier (NF Instance Id)
provided during the initial trust procedure between NF and operator CA with
the NF identifier provided in the SAN field of the certificate request to
fetch the operator certificate from the operator CA.
The common ground of both solutions is that they require to build an initial
trust between NF and operator CA to later on verify the NF identity at the
certificate enrolment phase.
### 7.8.2 Conclusion
For the normative work, it is agreed to further discuss and decide on the
following principle addressing KI#8:
\- Operator RA/CA should be able to verify that the NF instance ID in the CSR
belongs to the NF instance requesting the certificate.
## 7.9 KI#9: Automated Certificate Management for Network Slicing
### 7.9.1 Analysis
The automated certificate management framework in SBA may need to work with
certificates that belong to different domains, such as customer 3^rd^ party
slices, with different requirements in terms for example of certificate
lifecycles and CA(s) security policies, managed by multiple administrators
(tenants).
Two solutions are presented to cover this key issue: solution #12 and solution
#18.
The proposed solution #12 introduces a new functionality, that can be part of
the slicing orchestration framework, intended to orchestrate the
procedures/processes between the different entities involved in the Network
Slicing certificate management, such as management functions, operator CA/RA
and (sub-)CA for slice(s).
In general, the solution #12 assumes that NSCOF is trusted by the slice owner.
The administration of the sub-CAs and/or root CAs may need to be shared, so
security aspects related to multi-tenancy need to be consider in those
implementations.
Due to specific security requirements of the slice dedicated sub-CAs and/or
root CAs may be needed. It is assumed that those CAs are created together with
the slice, and the information is conveyed by the NSCOF to the corresponding
operator RA, receptor of the CSRs from the NFs.
The proposed solution #18 relies on using an initial certificate for
authentication to the 3^rd^ party CA, signed by an operator CA. The root
certificate of the operator CA is pre-configured as trust anchor in the 3^rd^
party CA to enable the authentication of the NF during the initial certificate
enrolment in 3^rd^ party CA.
### 7.9.2 Conclusion
It is proposed that the automated certificate management framework supports
management of certificates in Network Slicing. The details are left to
normative phase.
Including the description of some relevant use cases/scenarios in Network
Slicing as informative guidelines for deployments is to be decided during
normative phase.
#