# Foreword {#foreword-1}
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies key security issues, potential security and
privacy requirements and solutions with respect to network slicing Phase 3
work. Specifically,
\- It studies potential security impact/requirements/solutions (e.g. Steering
of Roaming) to support the HPLMN to provide a roaming UE the VPLMN slice
information in a secure manner
\- It studies potential security impact/requirements/solutions to support
temporary slices, slice service areas mismatched with Tracking Area (TA)
boundaries, and slices where Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
(NSSAI) are not available in some TAs of a Registration Areas (RA).
\- It studies potential security impact/requirements/solutions to support
secured Network Slice Admission Control (NSAC) procedures in the cases of NSAC
for multiple service areas and network controlled UE behaviours.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for next generation new services
and markets; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.700-41: \"Study on enhancement of network slicing; Phase 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
The following definitions are adopted from TS 23.501 [6] and TS 33.501 [4]:
Access and Mobility Management Function (AMF)
Availability check and update (ACU)
Data Network (DN)
Network Function (NF)
Network Slice Admission Control (NSAC)
Network Slice Admission Control Function (NSACF)
Network Slice Selection Assistance Information (NSSAI)
New Radio (NR) Node B (gNB)
Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM)
Registration Area (RA)
Session Management Function (SMF)
Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information (S-NSSAI)
Unified Data Management (UDM)
Unified Data Repository (UDR)
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DDoS Distributed DoS
DoS Denial of Service
hNSACF HPLMN NSACF
vNSACF VPLMN NSACF
# 4 Key issues
## 4.1 Key Issue #1: providing VPLMN slice information to roaming UE
### 4.1.1 Key issue details
The following requirement for a 5G network is specified in TS 22.261 [2] in
order to support a roaming UE activating network slice services:
> _\"For a roaming UE activating a service/application requiring a network
> slice not offered by the serving network but available in the area from
> other network(s), the HPLMN shall be able to provide the UE with
> prioritization information of the VPLMNs with which the UE may register for
> the network slice\"._
A related key issue is also being studied in TR 23.700-41 [3] for possible
procedure changes to automatic PLMN selection for a roaming UE requiring _a
network slice not offered by the serving network but available in the area
from other network(s)_. It is expected that the corresponding security
procedure will be affected (e.g. Steering of Roaming in TS 33.501 [4]) in
order to support the HPLMN to provide a roaming UE the VPLMN slice
information.
In this key issue, the following aspects will be studied:
\- Would security procedures be impacted? If so which security procedures are
impacted in support of HPLMN proving a roaming UE with information about
prioritization information of the VPLMNs with which the UE may register for
the network slice?
\- How to secure the procedures impacted.
### 4.1.2 Security threats
Void.
### 4.1.3 Potential security requirements
Void.
## 4.2 Key Issue #2: temporary slice authorization and slice service area
authorization
### 4.2.1 Key issue details
Temporary slices are being studied in TR 23.700-41 [3]. The objective is to
support gracefully terminate a network slice and avoid abrupt PDU Session
release.
Temporary slices are expected to be made known to UE during configuration or
other network slicing procedures impacting Configured NSSAI or Allowed NSSAI.
This Key Issue will study security aspects to support temporary slices.
Another sub-issue is slice service area authorization. The current granularity
in terms service area authorization is Registration Area (RA), which covers
multiple Tracking Areas (TA). The key issue needs also to investigate any
impacts to security procedures enabling a different service area than per TA.
### 4.2.2 Security threats
A UE may get access to the network resources even when a network slice is
terminated or the UE may not get access to the network slices if lifetime
information is not conveyed to UE properly or not aligned amongst UE, PLMN and
DN.
### 4.2.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G system shall secure procedures with respect to temporary slices.
## 4.3 Key Issue #3: network slice admission control (NSAC)
### 4.3.1 Key issue details
The network slice admission control (NSAC) issues were studied in Rel-17. It
has been agreed in Rel-18 to enhance NSAC features with the following
features:
\- improved network control of the UE behaviour;
\- support deploying multiple NSACF.
In both cases, better UE admission control is aimed to match the allocated
quota. However, potential issues of Denial of service (DoS) attacks to
legitimate UEs when the additional features are added to the access control
mechanism. The information of actual UE/PDU session usage by a slice, or
misinformation provided by malicious UEs or mischievous NFs may not be
reflected based on current solutions. For example, a NSACF in a VPLMN updating
the number of registered UEs or PDU sessions independently may not provide
trusted information to the home NSACF. Another example is when a UE not using
a network slice is still counted against quota usage of S-NSSAIs where it is
registered. It is notable that an attacker can use legitimate UEs to launch
such attacks.
In the TR 23.700-41 [3], the issue of how to support network slice admission
control (NSAC) involving multiple service areas is being studied, together
with multiple solutions accepted. The general assumption is that multiple
NSACFs are required, either centralized or distributed. In a roaming scenario,
it is assumed that the NSAC may be controlled by an NSACF in the VPLMN or an
NSACF in the HPLMN.
However, in a roaming scenario, the information reported by the NSACF in the
VPLMN is not verified when it is reported to the HPLMN, i.e. there is no
proper home control and a misinformation provided by VPLMN may have negative
impact to the slices in other service areas, either in HPLMN or other VPLMN.
The security control in different serving areas/PLMNs could be different. For
example. the security measure in some service areas is not as strict as what
in other areas, attack surface in PLMN of one region may be higher than other
regions, etc. The compromised/malicious NSACFs (for solution#13 in TR
23.700-41 [3]) in some high risky serving areas/networks may trigger DoS or
other attacks on the home network, e.g., the compromised/malicious
(local/distributed) NSACFs in a risky service area may fake the case that the
number of registration UEs/PDU sessions is reaching the maximum number, and
send Nnsacf_NSAC_NumberUpdate_Request to the Primary NSACF for new quota. The
Primary NSACF may allocate more quota to the NSACF in compromised serving
area/network while decrease the quota of other \"lower load\" area. Finally,
the service of other serving areas/networks could be impacted as the global
maximum number may be exhausted by the compromised/malicious NSACFs. As the
attack complexity is relatively low while the availability impact could be
high, the risk on the system could be high.
In 5G network, network functions in serving network are not always trusted by
HPLMN, and home control was enhanced in 5G security architecture. For example,
linking home control to subsequent procedures during/after primary
authentication procedures to prevent certain types of fraud from serving
network (see clause 6.1.4 of TS 33.501). If AMF/SMF is compromised, only the
service of the attacked area would be impacted. In 3GPP protocol point of
view, it can hardly damage the HPLMN and impact service of other areas without
involving huge number of \"legal\" UEs due to better home network control for
UE access. However, home control for NSAC procedure is not defined in existing
specification. In addition, there\'s almost no cost/complexity for the
compromised/malicious NSACF to launch (D)DoS attack to HPLMN, while it could
cause potential wider service impact.
### 4.3.2 Security threats
The malicious/compromised NSACF(s) in specific area(s) of a PLMN with low
security protection may continuously send fake message primary NSACF to
indicate the number of registration UEs/PDU sessions is reaching the maximum
number, that may cause the primary NSACF to re-distribute the quotas of
maximum number of registration UEs/PDU sessions to NSACFs in serving areas,
finally impact the service of other benign serving areas.
### 4.3.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G System shall provide a means for preventing the quota of maximum of
registration UEs/PDU sessions of a network slice being exhausted by
malicious/compromised NSACF(s).
# 5 Solutions
## 5.1 Solution #1: Verification by Primary NSACF
### 5.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #3.
In this solution, it is proposed that the Primary NSACF at HPLMN should verify
UE registration information or PDU session information in the requests from
the VPLMN NSACF (vNSACF). The proposed solution supports NSAC procedure with
security enhancement linking increased home control.
### 5.1.2 Solution details
In a roaming scenario, multiple and hierarchical NSACFs can be deployed over
different PLMNs to support NSAC in multiple areas. And the primary NSACF can
be deployed in the HPLMN whereas local/distributed NSACFs can be deployed in
the VPLMN.
With reference to figure 5.1.2-1, the steps of the solution are described as
follows:
1-2) The AMF or SMF triggers the availability check and update (ACU) procedure
and sends the update request to vNSACF as described in TS 23.502 [5].
3) vNSACF performs the ACU procedure against its local quota.
4) Based on the local configuration, vNSACF may send an update request to the
home NSACF (hNSACF) for verification or availability check and update.
5) The primary NSACF should verify the validity of the information carried in
the update request before performing the availability check and update
procedure. If the update request carries UE registration information or PDU
session information for an S-NSSAI, the Primary NSACF can verify through
UDM/UDR whether the UE has registered in the vPLMN or whether the UE is a
legitimate subscriber of the S-NSSAI. The ACU procedure will proceed after the
verification is successful.
NOTE: The UDM stores authentication results of UEs after authentication as
described in TS 33.501 [4]. The primary NSACF can distinguish a message is
from the local/distributed NSACF in visited network based on the serving
network name. The primary NSACF can request to fetch UE authentication results
to the UDM in HPLMN.
6) The primary NSACF responses to the vNSACF. It may provide an updated quota
if needed.
7) In case quota information is updated, vNSACF should perform ACU again and
update its records accordingly.
8) The vNSACF sends the update response as in TS 23.502 [5].
Figure 5.1.2-1: Procedure for Home NSACF verification
### 5.1.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the KI#3 through Primary NSACF verification of the
quota information provided by vNSACF.
The procedure is in line with the NSACF procedure specified in TS 23.502 [5].
## 5.2 Solution #2: Protect NSAC procedure in multiple NSACFs deployment
scenario
### 5.2.1 Introduction
The solution addresses KI#3 network slice admission control (NSAC), in which
malicious/compromised NSACF(s) in specific area(s) of a PLMN or in a VPLMN may
launch DoS attack towards the Primary NSACF. The solution suggests the primary
NSACF to validate the number of UEs or PDU sessions for a S-NSSAI when
received the numbers from a NSACF.
When received NSAC number update request from a NSACF in a serving area/VPLMN,
based on pre-configured policy the Primary NSACF may cross check with UDM to
confirm the number reported by the NSACF is matched to actual number recorded
in UDM for a network slice.
If the numbers are not matched, the primary NSACF may stop normal NSAC
procedure with the identified NSACF and may send event to management system.
### 5.2.2 Solution details
Figure 5.2.2-1 workflow to validate number reported by NSACF
**Precondition:**
\- Policies, which related to whether trigger cross check with UDM after
received number update request from a NSACF, are pre-configured in a primary
NSACF. The policies may be defined according to threat surface, security
control and security posture of the VPLMN or specific serving area the NSACF
located, or other criteria.
\- Assume S-NSSAI information of registered UEs/PDU sessions is available in
UDM.
**Procedure** :
0a. After received UE registration request and completed primary
authentication and authorization for the UE, the AMF sends
Nudm_UECM_Registration request to UDM. Once Nudm_UECM_Registration is
completed and AMF decides on allowed slice, the AMF sends registration update
message or Ack message to UDM to inform about the allowed slices list. The
S-NSSAI in this list is the HPLMN mapping of the S-NSSAI in allowed NSSAI of
the registration.
0b. After creating PDU session for a UE on a slice, the SMF sends
Nudm_UECM_Registration request to UDM to register the PDU session with
parameters including a S-NSSAI.
1\. A NSACF in a VPLMN or specific serving area sends
Nnsacf_NSAC_NumberOfUEsUpdate_Request or
Nnsacf_NSAC_NumberOfPDUsUpdate_Request to the Primary NSACF. That implies the
local maximum or upper threshold number of UEs/PDUs is reached.
2\. The primary NSACF check the local policies pre-configured as described in
precondition. If cross check with UDM is not needed according to the policies,
the primary NSACF go to step 10a directly to perform NSAC for the S-NSSAI and
update quota for the NSACF if needed.
3\. If cross check with UDM is needed according to the policies, the primary
NSACF either scans all possible UDMs of the HPLMN or probably discover UDMs
based on pre-configured rules.
4\. The primary NSACF sends request to each UDM to get number of registered
UEs/PDU sessions in specific VPLMNs or AMFs/SMFs for the S-NSSAI.
5\. The UDM generates report for number of registered UEs /number of PDU
sessions in a VPLMN/AMF/SMF List for the S-NSSAI.
6\. The UDM returns the report to the primary NSACF.
7\. The primary NSACF consolidates the numbers collected from all impacted
UDMs, and gets the total number of registered UEs/PDU sessions in specific
VPLMN/serving area for the S-NSSAI.
8\. The primary NSACF compares the total number of registered UEs/PDU sessions
based on UDM reports and the maximum number in the
Nnsacf_NSAC_NumberOfUEsUpdate_Request (or may be stored locally in primary
NSACF).
9a. If the two numbers are matched or deviation is not crossing the configured
threshold, the primary NSACF performs NSAC for the S-NSSAI and update quota
for the NSACF if needed.
9b. If the two numbers do not match or deviation is crossing the configured
threshold, the primary NSACF stop NSAC procedure with the potential malicious
NSACF, and may adjust the quota for the NSACF, and report the anomaly to OAM.
10\. The primary NSACF sends update response to the NSACF, with success or
failure.
### 5.2.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses KI#3 network slice admission control (NSAC) to mitigate
the risk that malicious/compromised NSACF(s) in specific area(s) of a PLMN or
in a VPLMN may launch DoS attack towards the Primary NSACF. The solution
proposed that the primary NSACF validates the number of UEs/PDU sessions for a
S-NSSAI when received NSAC_NumberOfUE/PDUsUpdate_Request from a NSACF. The
primary NSACF validates the number by comparing the number from the
(distributed) NSACF and numbers from UDM.
This solution does not prevent the AMF/SMF providing incorrect information to
both the UDM and vNSCAF to provide incorrect information on slice usage.
However, with home control proposed in the solution, the issue caused by the
AMF/SMF providing incorrect information to the vNSCAF can be partially
mitigated,
For example, a malicious SMF may provide incorrect information on slice usage
to UDM, that may impact the accuracy of PDU session numbers of a slice
reported by UDM in some extent. However, with security feature introduced in
5G for linking home control to subsequent procedures during/after primary
authentication procedures (see clause 6.1.4 of TS 33.501 [4]), and
authorization on slice usage for a UE, as well as feature for limiting number
of PDU sessions for a registered UE, the contribution of malicious AMF/SMF to
the DoS attack in NSAC case can be limited, and its influence on the decision
of primary NSACF can be restricted but not fully prevented.
Impacts on existing entities and interfaces:
Primary NSACF:
\- be capable to get the number of registered UEs/PDU sessions for a network
slice in specific VPLMN or AMF/SMF from the UDM and validate the number from
(distributed) NSACF with numbers from UDM.
NOTE 1: How does the Primary NSACF validate the numbers from (distributed)
NSACF with numbers from the UDM, and handle the abnormal scenario are
implementation dependant.
UDM:
\- support a new service to report number of registered UEs/PDU sessions for a
network slice in specific VPLMN or AMF/SMF.
NOTE 2: How does UDM acquire the number of registered UEs for a S-NSSAI is not
addressed in the present document.
gNB: None
UE: None
## 5.3 Solution #3: Home control mechanism for hierarchical NSAC architecture
### 5.3.1 Introduction
This solution addresses KI#3.
In this solution, before updating the quota of a specific NSACF, the primary
NSACF will check whether the quota of the NSACF is reached.
To enable the primary NSACF to verify the reach of quota of a specific NSACF,
the primary NSACF should be able to be informed by the AMF/SMF served by the
NSACF of the actual allowed NSSAI/the established PDU session ID and the
corresponding UE IDs.
### 5.3.2 Solution details
0). The AMF/SMF served by the NSACF sends the allowed NSSAI/the established
PDU session ID and the corresponding UE IDs to the primary NSACF.
Once the AMF stores the allowed NSSAI about a specific UE after the network
slice access control is successfully performed by a specific NSACF, the AMF
sends its NF ID, NSACF ID, the increase indicator, the UE-ID and the
corresponding allowed NSSAI to the primary NSACF, among which the S-NSSAI
indicates the network slice in which the number of UEs is increased.
Once the AMF deletes the allowed NSSAI about a specific UE (either the UE is
deregistered or the UE is handed over to another AMF) after the network slice
access control is successfully performed by a specific NSACF, the AMF sends
its NF ID, NSACF ID, the decrease indicator, the UE-ID and the corresponding
allowed NSSAI to the primary NSACF, among which the S-NSSAI indicates the
network slice in which the number of UEs is decreased.
After a new PDU session was established for a UE, the related SMF sends its NF
ID, the increase indicator, NSACF ID, the UE-ID, the PDU session ID, and
S-NSSAI to the primary NSACF, among which the S-NSSAI indicates the network
slice for which the number of PDU Sessions is increased.
After an established PDU session was released for a UE, the related SMF sends
its NF ID, the decrease indicator, NSACF ID, the UE-ID, the PDU session ID,
and S-NSSAI to the primary NSACF, among which the S-NSSAI indicates the
network slice for which the number of PDU Sessions is decreased.
1-2) The AMF or SMF triggers the availability check and update (ACU) procedure
and sends the update request to the NSACF as described in TS 23.502 [5].
3) The NSACF performs the ACU procedure against its local quota.
4) Based on the local configuration, the NSACF may send an update request to
the primary NSACF for availability check and update.
5) The Primary NSACF should check if the quota allocated to the NSACF is
reached.
In specifics, if the NSACF requests to increase the quota for the number of
UEs in a specific S-NSSAI, the primary NSACF should check if the total number
of UEs belonging to the specific S-NSSAI has reached the quota. The total
number of UEs belonging to the specific S-NSSAI can be calculated using
allowed NSSAI and UE-IDs provided by the AMF controlled by the requesting
NSACF (per NSACF ID provided by the AMF). If the verification of the reach of
quota is successful, the primary NSACF performs NSAC for the S-NSSAI or update
the quota of the UE for the requesting NSACF if needed. Otherwise, the primary
NSACF terminates the procedure.
If the NSACF requests to increase quota for the number of PDU sessions in a
specific S-NSSAI, the Primary NSACF should check if the total number of PDU
sessions belonging to the specific S-NSSAI has reached the quota. The total
number of PDU sessions belonging to the specific S-NSSAI can be calculated
using PDU session IDs provided by the SMF controlled by the requesting NSACF
(per NSACF provided by the SMF). If the verification of the reach of quota is
successful, the primary NSACF performs NSAC for the S-NSSAI or update the
quota of PDU session for the requesting NSACF if needed. Otherwise, the
primary NSACF terminates the procedure.
6) The primary NSACF responds to the NSACF. It may provide an updated quota if
needed.
7) In case that the quota information is updated, the NSACF should perform ACU
again and update its records accordingly.
8) The NSACF sends the update response as in TS 23.502 [5].
Figure 5.3.2-1: Home control mechanism for hierarchical NSAC architecture
### 5.3.3 Evaluation
This solution has no impact on the UDM. The Primary NSACF can check the number
of UEs and the number of PDU sessions per S-NSSAI via interactions between the
AMF and the SMF.
The solution has the following drawbacks:
The AMF/SMF may send fake information to the primary NSACF.
The impacts of this solution are given as follows.
The AMF needs to report the number of UEs per S-NSSAI to the primary NSACF.
The SMF needs to report the number of PDU sessions per S-NSSAI to the primary
NSACF.
The Primary NSACF should be able to compare the information provided by the
NSACF with the one provided by the AMF/SMF.
# 6 Conclusions
## 6.1 Conclusions to Key Issue #1
Existing SoR mechanism defined in TS 33.501[4] is used for protecting the
enhanced slice-aware SoR information, which includes preferred PLMNs for
specific S-NSSAIs in the UE subscription.
When calculating SoR-MAC-I~AUSF~, the parameter P2 includes the slice-aware
SoR information.
NOTE: Whether normative work is needed to update the parameter P2 is subject
to the work in stage 3.
## 6.2 Conclusions to Key Issue #2
The following conclusions are made on Key Issue #2 \"Temporary slice
authorization and slice service area authorization\":
\- It is concluded that no normative work is required for the Key Issue #2.
## 6.3 Conclusions to Key Issue #3
For protection of the NSAC procedure in a multiple NSACF scenario, the
following principle is recommended:
\- When performing the NSAC procedure in a multiple NSACF scenario and
hierarchical architecture, the primary NSACF needs to verify the number of UEs
and the number of PDU sessions for an S-NSSAI received from other NSACFs
NOTE: Whether a normative work is required it will be decided in the normative
phase.
#