# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The scope of present document is based on the requirements for SNA (TS 22.261
clause 6.10.2) [2] and on the Study on application enablement aspects for
subscriber-aware northbound API access (TR 23.700-95) [3].
The objective of this study is to:
1\. Identify potential new security requirements related to API invocation
(such as user authorization) and define potential solutions to fulfil these
requirements. This encompasses:
\- Whether and how CAPIF functions can determine the resource owner upon CAPIF
invocation.
\- Whether and how CAPIF can support obtaining authorization from the resource
owner.
\- Whether and how CAPIF can support revocation of authorization by the
resource owner.
\- Whether and how CAPIF can support security procedures with the aim to
reduce authorization inquiries for a nested API invocation.
The study is not exclusively tailored to CAPIF, but should align with widely
deployed authorization frameworks.
2\. Identify potential security requirements for APIs used in SNAAPP and
define potential solutions to fulfil these requirements.
This objective includes UE-originated API invocation.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.700-95: \"Study on application enablement aspects for
subscriber-aware northbound API access\".
[4] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.122: \"Security aspects of Common API Framework (CAPIF) for
3GPP northbound APIs\".
[6] openID.net: \"OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 1\".
Available at: [https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-
core-1_0.html]{.underline}
[7] IETF RFC 7009: \"OAuth 2.0 Token Revocation\".
[8] IETF RFC 7515: \"JSON Web Signature (JWS)\".
[9] IETF RFC 7636: \"Proof Key for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients\".
[10] IETF RFC 7662: \" OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection\".
[11] IETF RFC 7542: \"The Network Access Identifier\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs\".
[13] IETF RFC 2617: \" HTTP Authentication: Basic and Digest Access
Authentication\".
[14] 3GPP TS 33.535: \"Authentication and Key Management for Applications
(AKMA) based on 3GPP credentials in the 5G System (5GS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
AEF Application Exposure Function
ANF authentication function
API Application Programming Interface
Authz Authorization
AZF authorization function
CAPIF Common API Framework for 3GPP northbound APIs
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Checking authentication and authorization of invoker
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
Only certain invokers are permitted to invoke subscriber aware northbound
APIs, Therefore it is necessary to authenticate and authorize these invokers
to access the APIs. The requirements for CAPIF apply.
For SNAAPP, the API invoker can also reside on a UE.
### 5.1.2 Potential security requirements
The requirements for the CAPIF-2 interface of 33.122 [5] clause 4.4 shall
apply:
(quoted for convenience)
The CAPIF-2/2e reference points between the API invoker and API exposing
function shall fulfil the following requirements:
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-a] Mutual authentication between the API invoker and the API
exposing function shall be supported.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-b] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-2 and CAPIF-2e
reference points shall be integrity protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-c] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-2 and CAPIF-2e
reference points shall be protected from replay attacks.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-d] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-2 and CAPIF-2e
reference points shall be confidentiality protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-e] Privacy of the 3GPP user over the CAPIF-2 and CAPIF-2e
reference points shall be protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-f] The API exposing function shall determine whether API
invoker is authorized to access service API.
## 5.2 Key Issue #2: Checking authorization before allowing access
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
Resource owners need to be able to control access to their resources. In the
use cases described in TR 23.700-95, the resource owner is the UE\'s user, or
the UE\'s user has been given permission by the subscriber to authorize access
to the resource.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
\- Authn-1-ResOwner: when giving or revoking authorization, the resource owner
shall be authenticated.
\- Authz-1-General: Access to resources of the resource owner via the
northbound APIs shall only be allowed if the resource owner has authorized it.
\- Authz-2-App: Authorization shall be given to an application. Authentication
of applications by the operating system of the UE is out of 3GPP scope.
\- Authz-4-Scope: The 5G system shall be able to limit the scope of API
requests to resources owned by a resource owner.
\- Authz-5-Revoke: The resource owner shall be able to revoke authorization at
any time. From then on access to resources based on the revoked authorization
shall not be allowed.
Priv-1-MSISDN: The 5G system shall be able to preserve the confidentiality of
the UE\'s external identity (i.e. MSISDN) against a third party.
# 6 Proposed solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: Resource Owner Authorization in API Invocation using OAuth
Token
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the requirement in KI#2.
This solution proposes to reuse OAuth 2.0 with authorization code grant model
to obtain resource owner\'s authorization in case that an API invocation of
network exposure is to process the resource owner\'s data.
NOTE 1: How the API invoker is authenticated to the authorization server is
out of scope of this solution.
NOTE 2: How the Resource owner is authenticated to the authorization server is
out of scope of this solution.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
#### 6.1.2.1 Architecture
Figure 6.1.2.1-1: Architecture for CAPIF with SNA enhancement
The architecture is derived from solution 2 in TR 23.700-95 [3]. Definition of
the authorization function, CAPIF-8 is the same. Triggerer has the same
definition of resource owner client(s).
It is proposed that the authorization function is collocated with the CCF.
However, the difference is that CAPIF-9 defined in the TR 23.700-95 [3] is not
needed in this solution because there is no communication with AEF, and
CAPIF-3 can be reused if API related management is needed.
CAPIF-10 defined in the TR 23.700-95 [3] is not needed, because API invoker
can reuse CAPIF-1 to get access token. A new interface CAPIF-X is introduced
between API invoker and Triggers for OAuth 2.0 authorization code grant usage.
#### 6.1.2.2 Procedure
Figure 6.1.2.2-1: Procedure of Obtaining Resource owner Authorization
As shown in the Figure 6.1.2.2-1, the details of obtaining resource owner
authorization in API invocation is summarized as following:
1\. API invoker obtains authentication and authorization method (e.g. method
1: TLS-PSK, or method 2: PKI, or method 3: TLS with OAuth token) as specified
in clause 6.1 in TS 33.122 [5].
NOTE 1: CCF needs to pre-configure with TLS with OAuth token method.
NOTE 2: Onboarding procedure is reused.
2\. API invoker discovers service API as specified in clause 6.3.1.3 in TS
33.122 [5].
3\. Resource owner triggers the API invocation. If resource owner
authorization is needed for the invoked API and the method 3: TLS with OAuth
token is selected, then the API invoker obtains token~CAPIF~ via OAuth 2.0
with authorization code grant model as depicted in clause 6.1.2.3.
4\. The API invoker invokes northbound API to the AEF as depicted in clause
6.5.2.1 or 6.5.2.2 in TS 33.122 [5]. The API Invocation message includes
token~CAPIF~.
The API invoker is pre-configured with a certificate and use TLS to
authenticate with AEF.
5\. The AEF verifies the token~CAPIF~ in the message, and the profile of this
token is depicted in clause 6.1.2.4. The AEF verifies the integrity of
tokenCAPIF and checks whether IDs in the scope are align with the IDs in the
API invocation message. If the verification is successful, it means the
resource owner has authorized the API Invoker to access the API for the
resource owned by the resource owner.
#### 6.1.2.3 OAuth 2.0 role mapping
{width="6.69375in" height="4.970833333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3-1: Procedure of Obtaining Resource owner Authorization (from
RFC 6749 [4])
OAuth 2.0 with authorization code grant model is depicted in clause 4.1 in RFC
6749 [4]. In this solution, the API invoker endorses the role of client, the
triggerer endorses the role of user-agent. The Authorization Function
authenticates the resource owner in step B, which depends on existing
mechanism and is out of this solution. The API invoker (i.e. client) retrieves
token~CAPIF~ from the Authorization function in CCF. The scope of the
token~CAPIF~ includes API invoker ID, service API ID and resource owner ID
(i.e. GPSI).
Authorization can be revoked according to mechanism defined in IETF RFC 7009
[7].
The resource owner ID is equal to the UE ID in the API invocation message,
e.g. GPSI.
It takes use case 1 defined in Annex A.1 in TR 23.700-95 [3] as an example. An
end user (i.e. **resource owner**) is playing a time-sensitive game using a
game client application (i.e. **triggerer**) on the end user\'s UE
communicating with a game server (i.e. **API invoker**), and wants to have a
high-quality and low-latency communication for better service experience.
In step A, the end user requests the game client application, and the game
client application requests game server to try to invoke the QoS API via
**CAPIF-X**. The game server discoveries QoS API, and initiates OAuth
procedure by contacting the game client application, and the game client
application sends the requests to authorization server via **CAPIF-8**.
In step B, the Authorization Server requests the game client application to do
user authentication and authorization via **CAIPF-8** following RFC 2617 [13],
it is also assumed that the game client application has TLS connection with
Authorization Server, the end user may type in his MNO username and password
and click \"consent\" for extra charging for QoS enhancement. The MNO user
name may be set to the current MSISDN so that the authorization server can
retrieve its subscription when the user has multiple subscriptions.
NOTE 1: It is assumed that authorization server has linkage between resource
owner and GPSI.
In step C, after successful authentication and authorization, the
authorization server provides authorization code to the game client
application via **CAPIF-8** , and the game client application sends the
authorization code to the game server via **CAPIF-X**.
In step D, the game server sends authorization code to authorization server
via **CAPIF-1/CAPIF-1e**.
In step E, the game server gets token~CAPIF~ from authorization server. The
game server uses the token~CAPIF~ to invoke QoS API via **CAPIF-2/CAPIF-2e**
to modify the end user\'s QoS.
NOTE 2: The solution does not specify how out-of-scope steps are integrated
into the in-scope steps.
#### 6.1.2.4 Token~CAPIF~ Profile
The token~CAPIF~ is protected by the JSON signature profile as specified in
IETF RFC 7515 [8].
The claim in the token~CAPIF~ includes the parameters defined in clause C.2.2
in TS 33.122 [5]. In addition, the \"resource owner ID\" and the resource ID
related to the list services are also added in scope. The resource owner ID is
equal to the UE ID in the API invocation message, e.g. GPSI.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
The solution works when the TLS with OAuth token is selected.
This solution assumes that the resource owner is human user.
This solution addresses the requirements Authz-1, Authz-2, Authz-3 and
Authz-4, but does not address the following requirements in KI#2:
\- This solution does not touch authentication of the resource owner or API
invoker by the authorization server, it may be addressed by other solution.
\- This solution does not touch authentication between API invoker and CCF and
authentication between API invoker and AEF, it may be addressed by other
solution.
\- This solution does not touch revocation of authorization, it may be
addressed by other solution.
\- This solution does not touch privacy of the UE\'s external identity against
the third-party, it may be addressed by other solution. This solution does not
address a static token claim issue after token revocation.
NOTE: Clause 6.1.2.3 has provided mapping to the use case defined in TR
23.700-95 [3].
## 6.2 Solution #2: Authentication using OpenID Connect
### 6.2.1 Introduction
Authentication of the UE can be performed by including an OpenID Connect
identity token. In OpenID Connect, the authorization server is usually also
the OpenID provider. This solution separates these roles into the
authorization function (AZF) and the authentication function (ANF).
### 6.2.2 Solution details
Figure 6.2.2-1: OpenID Connect for SNAAPP AFs
The flow follows the authorization code flow of OpenID Connect [6]. All
communication is over TLS secured connections.
1\. Prior to any interaction, AZF should be registered with ANF, giving
information that will be provided to the UE when requesting authentication.
2\. The UE accesses the AZF without identity token.
3\. The AZF shall redirect the UE to the ANF_URI, with the type set to code
(to indicate authorization code flow), scope set to openid (to indicate that
this is an openID request), client_ID set to its own ID, redirect_URI set to
the URL to be used in step 8, and may set state to some state that can be used
by AZF to reduce its internal state. Because sometimes it is necessary to
authenticate the subscriber, and sometimes authentication of user is
sufficient, the ANF shall offer separate endpoints for user and for subscriber
authentication. The AZF shall be aware of which entity shall be authenticated
based on configuration. Which authentication method is then chosen is between
negotiated between UE/user and ANF and is out of scope of this solution.
4\. The UE shall access the ANF at the redirected to ANF_URI, including the
parameters of step 3.
5\. The ANF shall authenticate the UE. This can be done in the usual way the
home network authenticates the user, which may be GBA, AKMA, or using a
proprietary method such as username/password.
6\. The ANF should request authorization to release the required personal
information to the AZF from the user. In this setup, the ANF presents to the
user the information that was made available to the ANF about the AZF in the
enrolment.
7\. The ANF shall redirect the UE back to the AZF at the AZF_URI, including as
code a single use token, which shall be specific to the AF, and as state the
state that was set in step 3.
8.-9. The AZF shall request the identity token from the ANF at its token
endpoint. The ANF shall verify that the identity token is indeed being
requested by the correct AZF, and, if correct, return the identity token to
the AZF.
10\. The AZF shall verify the validity of the identity token according to RFC
6749, especially Sections 4.1.2 and 10.12.
The identity to be used shall be an external identity that the AZF can map to
the resource owner\'s identity (subscriber/UE).
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
This solution can be used to address Authn-1-ResOwner.
## 6.3 Solution #3: UE Originated API invocation using OAuth Client Credential
Grant
### 6.3.1 Introduction
According to KI#1 and the requirement referenced in KI#1, a UE shall be able
to access a northbound API of the 5G system. The API invocation is triggered
by an application, which is not visible to the 5G system.
Therefore, it is assumed that details of the interface between the application
and the API invoker on the UE are out of scope of this solution.
It is proposed to use the OAuth client credential grant (specified in clause
4.4. of [4]) as a basis for the solution.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
The context of the components of the solution is visualized in Figure 6.3.2-1.
It is assumed that the application is deployed on the mobile device consisting
of the UE. For instance, the application might be an app installed on a
smartphone. Note, whether the application is considered being part of the UE
or being collocated with the UE on a mobile device is a matter of
interpretation and not relevant for the solution.
NOTE 1: In this solution the UE specific authorization and token claim is
added on top of the already existing service authorization.
The API Invoker on the UE is taking the role of the OAuth Client. If CAPIF is
applied, the Authorization Server is part the CAPIF Core Function. In this
case the interface between API Invoker and Authorization Function is part of
the CAPIF-1 interface.
CAPIF onboarding for assignment of Client Id and Client secret is not needed,
since Client Id and Client secret can be derived from the 5G key hierarchy as
explained in more detail in step 2 of the message flow below.
Figure 6.3.2-1: Solution components of UE originated API invocation\ using
OAuth client credential grant
A typical message flow executed for UE originated API invocation is depicted
in Figure 6.3.2-2.
Figure 6.3.2-2: Message flow used for UE originated API invocation using\
OAuth client credential grant
The individual steps are described below:
1\. The flow is triggered by the application sending a request to the API
invoker on the UE.
The interface between Application and API invoker including the authorization
of the Application to use this interface is out of the scope of this solution.
It is assumed that this interface can be handled like other internal APIs on a
mobile device, like access to cameras or GPS location.
2\. Based on the received Request the API invoker on the UE (acting as an
OAuth Client) sends an OAuth Token Request to the Authorization Server with
the grant type set to \"client_credentials\".
The Token Request is sent as https request. As part of the session
establishment the API invoker authenticates the Authorization Server by
verifying the Authorization Server\'s server certificate.
The FQDN of the authorization server can be constructed in a way standardized
by 3GPP. The operator can obtain a server certificate from one of the CAs,
which are trusted by the operating system of the UE and whose root certificate
are preinstalled in the operating system of the UE.
The scope parameter is set by the API invoker based on the request of the
application such that it covers the necessary scope of the subsequent API
request in step 5.
In line with the SA1 requirement that the Application itself is invisible to
the 5G system the token request does not contain information related to the
identity of the Application, but the solution introduces a new entity, API
invoker, in the UE, which is visible to the 5G system.
The Token Request includes the authentication of the API Invoker using the API
invoker\'s client credentials. The circumstance that the API invoker is
located and associated with a UE can be exploited for instance by using AKMA
In this context the Authorization Server takes the role of the AKMA AF. The
https protocol is used as Ua* protocol. Depending on whether the Authorization
Server is regarded as trusted the Authorization Server can directly interact
with the AAnF or via NEF. Depending on the choice the SUPI or the GPSI can be
used as OAuth client Id. The AKMA key K~AF~ can be used as client credential.
Thus, the authorization header of the http Token Request sent from the UE to
the authorization server can be used for http Basic authentication with A-KID
and K~AF~ as username and password, respectively. Alternatively, also http
Digest authentication can be used. This can be decided during normative work.
3\. The authorization server is authorizing the request based on the identity
of the API Invoker and the requested scope by applying stored policies and
permissions.
NOTE 2: This solution assumes that policies and permissions are pre-arranged
at the authorization server. Since the application is not visible, the
policies and permissions are in the granularity of UE level, not the
application level.
4\. In case of successful authorization the authorization server returns the
token to the API invoker. The token includes claims, which reflect the granted
scopes and permissions.
One of the claims of the issued token includes the identity of the UE.
NOTE 3: The authorization server knows the identity of the UE from the UE
authentication executed in step 2. Whether GPSI or SUPI is used as UE
identifier can be decided during normative work.
NOTE 4: Fine granular authorization scopes on the level of individual
resources are not in scope of this solution. The solution assumes that it is
sufficient to handle API calls, whose scope is clearly limited to resources
owned by a single UE. That is, operations affecting several resources, like
adding a UE to a LAN group, are not in scope. Hence, only UE identity is
needed.
5\. The API invoker is sending the actual API request to the AEF. The API
request contains the token received in the previous step.
The API Request is sent as https request. As part of the session establishment
the API invoker authenticates the AEF by verifying the Authorization Server\'s
server certificate.
If mutual authentication is needed, AKMA can be used between API invoker and
AEF (e.g. https digest authentication).
6\. The AEF is validating the incoming request. That is, the AEF verifies the
validity of the token, and the AEF verifies that the request is within the
scope described by the claims in the token. The AEF especially ensures that
the scope of API calls is restricted to resources owned the UE, whose identity
is included in the token claims. API calls with a wider scope are rejected by
the AEF.
7\. In case of successful validation the AEF is executing the request by
involving other NFs (not shown in the signalling diagram)
8\. The AEF returns the result of the API call to the API invoker.
9\. The API invoker completes the flow by sending a response to the
application (which is based on and might include results received in the
previous step.
NOTE 5: Authorization from the resource owner (i.e. the user) is not
considered as part of the OAuth procedure using Client Credential Grant type.
### 6.3.3 Evaluation
The presented approach provides a solution for the case that API Invoker is
part of the UE and that this API Invoker can be used by applications on a
mobile device to utilize 5G northbound APIs. The approach is thus
complementary to other solutions which target the case that the API Invoker is
part of the third-party application.
Usage of AKMA guarantees that the client Id of the API Invoker is really bound
to the Id of the UE.
Authentication of the UE is executed using http authentication mechanism, i.e.
as part of the http token request.
CAPIF onboarding for assignment of Client Id and Client secret is not
executed, since Client Id and Client secret can be derived from the 5G key
hierarchy
In this solution the 5G system only authenticates and authorizes the UE. The
5G system does not authenticate or authorize the (invisible) third party
application or a user. That is, the solution assumes that the UE is the
resource owner or requesting party.
In case of one UE accessing resources of another UE, the subscriber of the
second UE is not able to authorize the third-party application used on the
first UE. Such scenarios can be avoided, if API calls are restricted to the
scope of each UE and API invocation crossing UEs is handled on the application
layer.
The main changes required for the solution are related to the deployment of
the API Invoker on the UE and the definition of interface between API Invoker
and the third-party application. However, this interface is out of scope of
this solution and out of scope of SA3.
Changes are also needed with respect to the definition of a new claim in the
access token identifying the UE and the ability of the AEF to restrict the
scope of API calls to the UE identified in the token claims.
This solution cannot authorize the API invoker to access a specific resource
(e.g. location information, UE reachability information) of a specific
resource owner, but fine granular authorization scopes on the level of
individual resources are not in scope of this solution. An API invoker that is
authorized to access the one resource (e.g. location information) of the UE
could also access other resources of the same UE.
In the solution the identity of the UE is not disclosed to a third party.
NOTE: Including of authentication in a http request (like the token request)
is very common practice, i.e. http basic or http digest authentication (see
for example in clause 4.1.3 in RFC 6749 [4] or the definition of AKMA profile
in B.1.2.2 of TS 33.535 [14]).
## 6.4 Solution #4: Authenticate and authorize UE in UE originated API
invocation
### 6.4.1 Introduction
The solution addresses key issue #1. For originated UE API Invocation, the
solution describes how UE (an API Invoker) can be provided with secure access
to APIs (e.g. triggered by an application that is not visible to the 5G
system), by authenticating and authorizing the UE.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
Figure 6.4.2-1: UE originated API Invoker authentication, authorization, and
secure connection establishment process
The steps shown in Figure 6.4.2-1 is described as follows:
Precondition: The UE (i.e. an API invoker) can be registered to the network.
**Steps 1-6 API Invoker Onboarding:**
The UE is provisioned with a CAPIF Core Function (CCF) information such as CCF
address/ID (e.g. after a successful primary authentication in any protected
message). The UE and the network can derive the onboarding enrolment
information such as CAPIF security credentials i.e. a CCF key (based on UE 5G
security context e.g. AKMA key/AUSF key). The UE can derive a CCF key (Kccf)
and key identifier (Kccf ID) which can be used to authenticate and establish a
secure communication (e.g. TLS PSK based on CCF Key) with the CCF during the
onboarding process.
NOTE 1: The 5G security key used to generate CAPIF security key and the input
used are up to the normative work.
1\. The API Invoker can send an Onboarding Service request to the CCF which
can include Onboarding type (i.e. Subscriber Indication or UE service based),
Kccf ID, UE ID (e.g. GPSI).
2\. Based on the received Onboarding type, the CCF determines to fetch
security context related to the UE. The CCF can send a key request to the Core
NF/AF which can include UE ID, and Kccf ID
Further the Core NF/AF provides the SUPI, and Kccf to the CCF in a Key
Response message.
3\. The CCF stores the CCF key, Kccf ID and UE ID.
4\. The API Invoker and the CCF can perform mutual authentication and
establish secure session (e.g. TLS PSK) based on Kccf shared between API
Invoker and CCF.
5\. With a secure session established, the API Invoker sends an Onboard API
Invoker Request message to the CCF which includes the UE ID (SUPI/GPSI).
6\. The CCF generates an API invoker\'s profile and onboard secret as
specified in TS 23.222 [6]. The AEF Key can be used by the API Invoker to
authenticate and establish secure session with the AEF as in TS 33.122 Clause
6.5.2.3 [5]. The AEF key can be derived from Kccf and other input parameters:
API Invoker ID, CCF ID, Target AEF ID(s)/information, and Nonce.
The CCF on a successful authentication and authorization, it can locally store
the API Invoker profile with API Invoker ID, Onboard Secret, AEF key along
with Target AEF information.
The CCF can respond with an Onboard API invoker response message same as TS
33.122 [5] which can include the CAPIF core function assigned API invoker ID,
AEF Authentication, and authorization information, and/or Onboard Secret,
along with other information such as nonce, AEF information (Target AEF ID).
The API Invoker stores information received from step 6 and the API invoker is
onboarded.
API Invoker can perform CAPIF-1 authentication anytime with CCF based on TS
33.122 [5].
**Steps 7-9 Access Token Request/Response:**
7\. The API Invoker sends Oauth 2.0 based access token request as in TS 33.122
Clause 6.5.2.3 [5] (i.e. with grant_type client credentials if the API Invoker
is the Resource Owner.)
If the API Invoker is not a resource owner, for OAuth 2.0 access token request
the grant_type may be Authorization Code Grant as described in RFC 6749 [4].
Similar to TS 33.122 Clause 6.5.2.3 [5], the API invoker may include the CAPIF
core function assigned API invoker ID and the Onboard_Secret in the OAuth
access token request message for the CAPIF core function to validate the
access token request.
8\. The CCF based on the local policy checks if there exists any related
authorization or prior consent information managed in the network related to
allowing the API invoker to consume any service API invocation related to the
UE.
NOTE 2: The collection and management of user consent or authorization
information related to a service exposure is outside the scope of this
solution. It is assumed that the network manages such authorization
information in any storage function outside the scope of this solution.
9\. The CCF generates and sends an Oauth access token (based on OAuth 2.0) to
be used as AEF Access token. The access token claims can include UE ID and CCF
ID along with other claims in TS 33.122 Clause C.2.2 [59.
**Steps 10-15 Service API Invocation:**
10\. The API Invoker derives an AEF Key (Kaef) from CCF Key (Kccf) and
respective input parameters similar to CCF on a successful CAPIF 1
authentication and authorization. The API Invoker can send Authentication
Initiation Request to the AEF, which includes the CCF assigned API invoker ID,
and UE ID.
11\. The AEF can send API Invoker ID, and UE ID to request the security
information from the CCF. The CCF provides the security information related to
the chosen security method (e.g. TLS-PSK: AEFPSK) along with AEF Key, Service
API(s) authorization information (can be a list of Service APIs which can be
invoked by the API Invoker related to the UE ID), and Oauth access token i.e.
AEF Access token (to authorize the API invoker to request the service API
invocation from AEF) to the AEF over CAPIF-3 reference point. The CCF can
provide the remaining validity timer value for the AEF Key (i.e. AEF~PSK~) as
in TS 33.122 Clause 6.5.2.1 [5].
Alternatively, the service information and access token sending can be skipped
as it can be bound to the access token as claims (later received in step 13a)
from the API invoker.
12\. After fetching the relevant AEF Key for the authentication, the AEF can
send Authentication Initiation Response message to API invoker to initiate the
TLS session establishment. The AEF starts the validity timer based on the
value received from the CAPIF core function in step 11.
The API Invoker and the AEF can perform mutual authentication using the AEF
key and establish TLS session.
13a. The API invoker can send Invocation service request to the AEF which can
include Requested Service API(s) information, API Invoker ID, UE ID, and AEF
Access Token (received from CCF).
13b. The AEF can authorize the API invoker\'s service API invocation request
based on authorization information (i.e. validating the claims in the Oauth
based AEF Access Token) obtained from CAPIF core function as specified in
subclause 8.16 of TS 23.222 [12].
14\. On a successful access token validation, the AEF considers Invocation
service request authorization as successful, execute API request and can send
Invocation service response with success indication.
NOTE 3: According to TS 33.122, API provider domain provides Onboarding
enrolment information to the API invoker as a prerequisite to the Onboarding
procedure. Therefore, for the UE originated API Invocation case, the solution
enables provision of onboarding enrolment information based on UE\'s
established security context as described in steps 1.
NOTE 4: The user consent information collection and related management is
outside the scope of this solution.
### 6.4.3 Evaluation
_The solution addresses KI#1 and enables the following for the case where the
API Invoker resides in a UE:_
_A CCF key need to be derived and provided to the CCF by a NF or an AF._
_API Invoker UE and CAPIF Core Function (i.e. Authorization Function) performs
mutual authentication based on a key derived from UE\'s 5G security context
(i.e. AKMA based key or AUSF based Key) and so the AUSF impact applies._
_TLS-PSK based mutual authentication and secure connection establishment
between API Invoker UE and the AEF is enabled._
_OAuth 2.0 token based authorization is used for access to service API._
## 6.5 Solution #5: Resource Owner based authorization for resource access
### 6.5.1 Introduction
The solution addresses Key Issue #2.
The solution describes the method to receive and revoke authorization as
required from an authenticated Resource owner to control access to resource(s)
of a resource owner. Figure 6.5.2-1 shows the resource authorization procedure
to allow access to resources.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
Figure 6.5.2-1: Resource authorization procedure to allow access to resources
The steps shown in Figure 6.5.2-1 is described as follows:
1-2. During the primary authentication procedure, the UDM may also indicate to
the AUSF whether CAPIF keys need to be generated for the UE (i.e., resource
owner). If the CAPIF Indication is included, the UDM may also include GPSI and
CAPIF Function information (i.e. ID/address).
3\. If the AUSF receives the CAPIF indication from the UDM, the AUSF and UE
following a successful primary authentication can generate CAPIF Key and
CAPIF-UE ID (to identify the CAPIF Key for the UE) from the AKMA Key.
NOTE: The inputs used in the CAPIF key and ID generation can be up to the
normative phase.
4a. The AUSF based on CAPIF Function information, sends resource owner
authorization data notification request to the CAPIF function which can
include the UE ID (i.e. GPSI), CAPIF key and the ID.
4b. The CAPIF Function stores the received information and sends a sends
resource owner authorization data notification response to the AUSF.
5\. The AUSF sends the CAPIF Function information and GPSI to the AMF and the
AMF forwards the information to the UE over the NAS transport.
6a. The UE initiates a resource owner registration request with CAPIF-UE ID,
GPSI and a freshness parameter to the CAPIF function.
The CAPIF function verifies if the received CAPIF-UE ID matches with the
resource owner authorization data received in step 4a. If the verification is
successful, the CAPIF function considers the resource owner registration as
successful and it assigns a Resource Owner Identity.
6b. The CAPIF Function can send a resource owner registration response with
nonce. The UE and the CAPIF Function generates a key based on the CAPIF Key,
nonce and GPSI, establish a secure session. The CAPIF Function then sends a
resource owner ID and lifetime (for the resource owner registration) following
a successful resource owner registration.
7a-c. An API Invoker (e.g. an AF originated API Invocation/ another UE
originated API Invocation happens) performs onboarding, mutual authentication
(e.g. as in 33.122 and these aspects are related to KI#1) with the CAPIF
Function and if the service APIs needs additional resource owner
authorization, the authorization code related to the resource owner can be
issued to the API Invoker based on the Authorization Code Flow described in
RFC 6749, where the CAPIF function authenticates the resource owner (i.e. end
user) based on the Resource Owner ID and the associated resource owner key.
The CAPIF function and the UE (resource owner) establishes secure connection
using the resource owner key generated from the CAPIF Key, the freshness
parameter (received in step 7b) and other inputs if required.
7d. The API Invoker requests access token from the CAPIF Function (i.e.
authorization server can be part of the CAPIF Function) related to the
resources with GPSI of the resource owner and the code (if step 7a-7c is
performed).
8\. Alternatively, based on operator implementation, the CAPIF Function can
determine to check the resource owner authorization data (if available in the
UDM/UDR, i.e. query the UDM/UDR to check the authorization data related to the
GPSI for e.g. to check if the resource owner accepts to expose the data
associated to it). The resource owner authorization data fetching, and
handling can be up to operator implementation.
9\. Based on the authorization data fetched, the CAPIF Function provides
access token to the API Invoker. The claims used to generate access token are
up to normative work.
For the case of revocation, the Resource owner can anytime revoke the
authorization data issued earlier by establishing a secure connection with the
CAPIF Function (e.g. steps 7b initiated by UE and step 7c is performed), else
the operator based on implementation can manage the revocation of resource
owner authorization data. If an authorization is revoked, the access token
request and any related data sharing with AEF is rejected by the CAPIF
Function.
### 6.5.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses Key Issue #2 and enables the following:
An application key derived from CAPIF Key related to the Resource Owner is
used to establish secure application session with the CAPIF Function.Access to
resource of resource owner is allowed based on resource owner specific
authorization information (i.e. user consent data) verification by the
network.
The solution assumes the resource owner as the subscriber. The solution has
impacts to AUSF and UDM as it extends AKMA security for resource owner
registration and security establishment. The solution requires access to 5G
key hierarchy and will only work when the UE is authenticated to 5G network.
## 6.6 Solution #6: Authorization before allowing access to resources
### 6.6.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement about authorization by the
resource owner before allowing access to resources of the resource owner,
which is detailed in key issue #2.
It is assumed that authorization information by the resource owner has been
received and stored in the authorization server with a method out of the scope
of this solution.
Also, the consideration whether the resource owner is the subscription user or
the subscription owner is out of scope of this solution.
The MNO learns the authorization information from the subscription user or
from the subscription owner and stores the authorization information, which is
bound to the UE identifier, in the PLMN trusted domain. How the MNO
authenticates the resource owner and learns the authorization information is
out of scope of this solution.
This solution covers the case that the API invoker is the AF accessing to
resources related to a UE or the API invoker is the application in the UE
accessing to resources related to that UE.
How the AF maps the target username in the application layer into the UE
identifier is out of scope of this solution. The authentication and
authorization behind the AF-CAPIF interaction for the triggering UE and user
is out of scope.
This solution assumes that the authorization server is co-located with the
CAPIF Core Function (CCF). This solution does not specify the place where the
authorization information is stored. The CCF may store the authorization
information in an external storage, and in this case it is assumed that there
is a secure channel between the CCF and the external storage.
The storage is used to store dynamic authorization information received, from
the resource owner, using MNO specific methods. This storage can be co-located
with the CCF/authorization server.
This solution works as follow for the use case #1 defined in Annex A of TR
23.700-95 [3]. When the user starts a gaming application, the gaming
application can check whether there is already a permission for the QoS
changes via the gaming server which assumes the API invoker role. If there is
no permission and if the gaming application wants to offer a better quality,
the gaming application may ask permission for QoS changes. If the user wants
to have a better quality, the user can give permission using operator specific
mechanisms which can be a web portal or a mobile application of the operator.
Regarding use case #2 in Annex A of TR 23.700-95 [3], this solution proposes
alternative to the flow defined in [3] addressing the following issues in [3],
namely if the flow in [3] is applied, the MNO will need to authenticate the
mobile application instance running in the UE Y and will also need to ensure
that the end user in the UE Y triggers the location tracking. However, the MNO
cannot ensure the correctness of the information about the end user of UE Y.
Therefore, it seems that the best way to realize this use case is to have the
authorization mechanism in the application layer by the application server,
which is out of 3GPP scope. Following this motivation, the solution proposes
that the UE should only be able to access its own resources. After learning
its own location, UE X can share the location information with UE Y directly
or via the application server. How this sharing is realized is out of 3GPP
scope.
Alternatively, use case #1 can be used to realize use case #2, as follows: The
application server (AF) accesses the location information of UE X on behalf of
UE Y; for this to happen the resource owner of UE X needs to authorize the
application server to access UE X\'s location, and the end user of UE X needs
to give permission in the application layer for sharing the location
information with the user of UE Y.
### 6.6.2 Solution details
Below describes the steps of the procedure for \"authorization before allowing
access to resources\", which is shown in Figure 6.6.2-1.
Figure 6.6.2-1: Authorization before allowing access to resources
How the authentication is executed for the API invoker that runs in the UE is
out of scope of this solution. In general, the solution does not focus on the
authentication of the API invoker.
1) The API invoker and the CCF execute authentication procedures and establish
a secure channel as specified in TS 33.122 [5].
2) The API invoker request OAuth access token as specified in TS 33.122 [5].
3) The CCF verifies the request.
4) Steps 4-6 is executed if resource owner authorization check is needed for
the API invocation.
5) The CCF fetches resource owner authorization information from the storage.
If the storage is co-located with CCF, there is no need to execute steps 4 and
5, or handling them can be left to implementation.
6) The storage sends the resource owner authorization information.
NOTE: The resource owner authorization information stored in the storage can
have expiration time (e.g., usual expiration time of a token)
7) The CCF issues an access token that includes an indication for the resource
owner authorization. The CCF sends the issued token to the API invoker.
8) The API invoker and API exposing function establish a secure channel.
9) The API invoker sends the token to the API Exposing Function.
10) The API Exposing Function verifies the token and checks the resource owner
authorization information before allowing access to the resources related to
the subscription.
11) The API Exposing Function returns the API invocation response to the API
invoker.
For the UE originated API invocation case where the application on the UE
triggers the API invocation by the application in the operating system in the
UE or directly invokes the API, this solution assumes that an authorization in
the granularity of application level is executed by a mechanism, like allowing
users in the mobile phones to control the permission of application to access
resources such as microphone of the mobile phone, provided by the operating
system, which is out of scope of this solution. To give the access control
power to the MNO considering the permission from the user or subscriber, the
MNO needs to retrieve the permission/authorization information from the
subscriber or user and store it in the authorization server/storage with an
out of scope mechanism. This solution applies to the specific case where the
application is accessing to the resources of the UE on which the application
is running. The case of accessing resource of other UEs by the UE is not
covered in this solution.
If near real time authorization is needed for two scenarios (AF originated and
UE originated API invocation), some application layer procedures which are out
of 3GPP scope can be applied. The following gives an example for such
procedures. For the AF originated API invocation, when there is a need for
authorization from the user or subscriber, the AF informs the application
client (e.g., gaming application) on the UE by sending MNO backend server
endpoint information. The application client redirects the user to the MNO
backend server so that the user configures authorization information using the
MNO backend server and then continue to use the application (e.g., gaming
application). The above procedures are executed to invoke the API. For the UE
originated API invocation, if the application knows the MNO backend server
endpoint information, the application can redirect the user to the MNO backend
server system. If there is no such information, the application informs the
user for such an authorization need and the user can use one of the
alternatives to access the MNO backend server, for example, by using the web
portal or mobile application of the MNO.
The following procedure, depicted in Figure 6.6.2-2, shows how revocation of
authorization by the resource owner can be handled.
Figure 6.6.2-2: Revocation of resource owner authorization
1) Resource owner authorization is revoked.
2) The CCF informs the AEF about the revocation by sending the revoked token
identifier. (It is assumed that the AEF has subscribed to the CCF event
exposure service).
3) The API invoker and AEF executes some authentication and establish a secure
channel using TLS.
4) The API invoker sends the access token in the NB API call.
5) The AEF verifies the access token, checks the resource owner authorization.
Since the resource owner authorization has been revoked, the AEF rejects the
request.
6) The AEF sends the rejection response to the API invoker.
### 6.6.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses the following cases:
\- The AF accesses resources related to a UE
\- The application in the UE is accessing the resources related to that UE.
The solution assumes that there is a mechanism in the UE for authorization in
the application-level granularity.
This solution is a future proof solution considering possible extension of the
definition of resource owner to cover the subscribers in addition to the
users.
This solution assumes that the API invoker application in the operating system
of the UE is authenticated and authorized by a method out of scope.
This solution is very similar to the existing mechanism for the AF originated
API invocation case where the AF is outside of the UE. In the existing
mechanism, the CCF has the authorization information that indicates whether
the AF is allowed to consume the service API. The enhancement in this solution
is that the CCF also checks the authorization information that indicates
whether the AF is allowed to access the resources of the UE.
Considering the legacy mechanisms, this solution introduces a new claim in the
token to inform the AEF that the user authorization has been checked by the
CCF.
This solution requires CCF to have storage capability to store resource owner
authorization information. In the existing CAPIF mechanism, CCF has already
storage capability for preconfiguration of authorization information. This
solution proposes to use existing mechanism about storage. How the
authorization information is received from and updated by the MNO backend
system is out of scope of this solution.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Authorizing UE originated API invocation with PKCE flow
### 6.7.1 Introduction
In case the API invocation can be initiated by an application on the UE
without making use of a unique CAPIF client agent per UE, the UE application
might not be able to securely store a client credential. For this case, there
is the Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange defined in RFC
7636 [9].
### 6.7.2 Solution details
The solution uses the PKCE protocol flow with the following mapping: the
client in RFC 7636 [9] is the application on the UE. The authorization server
in RFC 7636 is the authorization function in the network.
The following figure gives an example PKCE flow to help understanding the
concept of the PKCE flow. This flow could look different for a different
authentication mechanism.
Figure 6.7.2-1: Example PKCE flow
Note: The solution description does not detail which parts need to be
specified in stage 2.
### 6.7.3 Evaluation
PKCE flow is a standard IETF flow to allow a resource owner to provide
authorization to a resource consumer. There is user interaction required for
the PKCE flow.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Validation of OAuth Token
### 6.8.1 Introduction
If an OAuth token used for authorization, the API exposing function needs to
verify the validity of the token. In this solution, this is done by token
introspection RFC 7662 [10]. The revocation procedure between authorization
server and resource owner is out of scope of this solution.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
Figure 6.8.2-1: Validation of OAuth 2.0 token
All messages containing a tokens shall be protected using TLS. The API invoker
shall authenticate the API exposing function by verifying the API exposing
function\'s certificate. The API exposing function shall authenticate the
authorization function by validating the authorization function\'s
certificate.
Note: contents of the certificates and which CAs are acceptable are not
defined in this solution. The oAuth access token shall contain:
\- a unique random string,
\- which API the token applies to (the scope),
\- who is the resource owner,
\- the API invoker ID, and
\- expiry time.
Note 1: How that information is encoded in the OAuth access token is for stage
3.
1\. The API call shall contain the OAuth access token.
2\. The API exposing function shall verify that the access token is applicable
to the desired API call and if yes, send the access token to the authorization
function for validation. Otherwise the API call shall fail and a new
authorization may be requested.
3\. The authorization function shall verify the validity of the access token
and return whether the token is valid.
4\. If the access token is valid, the API exposing function shall execute the
API call.
The API exposing function may cache the result of validation. In that case,
the API exposing function shall subscribe to receive a notification in case
the token is revoked. This subscription may be included in step 2, e.g. by
accessing a different endpoint for validate and subscribe than for validate
only.
The authorization function shall offer a notification service to inform the
API exposing function of revocation of a token. Subscription shall be on a per
token basis.
The authorization function may store information about validity of tokens
locally.
Note 2: Whether caching is required is has not been studied in the present
document.
### 6.8.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses Authz-4-Scope and Authz-5-Revoke. This solution
deviates from the existing CAPIF solution in clause 6.5.2.3 in TS 33.122 [5].
It can avoid the impact of signature generation and verification and of
relying on synchronized time and short lived tokens at the expense of backend
communication between AEF and authorization function.
Determining the benefits of token introspection over signature verification
will need to be done in deployment can be revisited at a later time.
## 6.9 Solution #9: OAuth 2.0 based API invocation procedure
### 6.9.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #1 and key issue #2 in terms of API
invoker UE authorization.
\- In this solution, API invoker may request authorization for service API and
resource. And only one access token is provided to the API invoker for service
API and resource authorization. Resource owner can authorize API invoker for
resources via the UE. The resource owner can authorize the API invoker to
access its resources in synchronous and asynchronous manner.
\- CAPIF core function can authorize API invoker for services and service
operations.
### 6.9.2 Solution details
Figure 6.9.2-1: OAuth 2.0 based API invocation.
1.API invoker and UE controlled by the resource owner do the mutual
authentication. Resource owner agent is a part of the UE.
For the case that API invoker is the UE, the mutual authentication can be
realized based on certificates. For the case that API invoker is the AF, the
mutual authentication can be realized based on GBA-based authentication
mechanism, AKMA-based authentication mechanism or certificate-based
authentication mechanism. A secure connection between API invoker and resource
owner is established after the mutual authentication. The secure connection
can be established via TLS.
NOTE 1: To ensure the authorization code is provided to the correct API
invoker, this solution requires the UE and API invoker do mutual
authentication.
2\. The API invoker sends authorization request to the UE controlled by the
resource owner.
In case API invoker has obtain the authorization of service API and service
operation, the request includes the identity (e.g. GPSI, IMPI or application
layer ID) of the API invoker, the identity (e.g. GPSI, IMPI or application
layer ID) of target UE, the target resource (e.g. location of UE, QoS of the
UE).
In case API invoker has not obtain the authorization of service API and
service operation, the request includes the identity (e.g. GPSI, IMPI or
application layer ID) of the API invoker, the identity (e.g. GPSI, IMPI or
application layer ID) of target UE, the target resource (e.g. location of UE,
QoS of the UE), human-readable operations (e.g. update the QoS of the resource
owner). The service identifier/service operation identifier indicates the
service/service operation that can be performed on the target resource.
NOTE 2: In this solution, the API invoker will send the requested human-
readable operations (e.g. update the QoS of the resource owner) to the CAPIF
core function/authorization function via the UE controlled by the resource
owner. Therefore, the CAPIF core function/authorization function can generate
the access token containing 3GPP services/service operations.
3\. CAPIF core function/authorization function and UE controlled by the
resource owner should do the mutual authentication.
For the case of CAPIF core function, resource owner can authenticate CAPIF
core function via certificate. Then CAPIF core function can authenticate
resource owner using GBA-based authentication mechanism, AKMA-based
authentication mechanism or certificate-based authentication mechanism. And
CAPIF core function may generate certificate and OAuth 2.0 token for the
resource owner after the authentication.
For the case of authorization function, resource owner can authenticate
authorization function via certificate. Then authorization function can
authenticate resource owner using TLS-PSK, OAuth token, GBA-based
authentication mechanism, AKMA-based authentication mechanism or certificate-
based authentication mechanism, in which the certificate can be assigned by
the CAPIF core function.
A secure connection between resource owner and CAPIF core
function/authorization function is established after the mutual
authentication. The secure connection can be established via TLS.
CAPIF core function and resource owner should also do the mutual
authentication. Details on the authentication procedure is out of scope of
3GPP.
4\. The resource owner may timely and synchronously grant the authorization
request for the resource via the UE. And the UE controlled by the resource
owner sends the authorization request and grant information to the CAPIF core
function/authorization function to request the authorization code.
The resource owner may asynchronously grant the authorization request for the
resource based on the local pre-generated profile. And the resource owner
sends the authorization request and grant information to the CAPIF core
function/authorization function to request the authorization code.
If the resource owner previously sends the pre-generated profile to the CAPIF
core function/authorization function, the resource owner sends the
authorization request to the CAPIF core function/authorization function to
request the authorization code. CAPIF core function/authorization function can
authorize the authorization request for the resource based on the pre-
generated profile.
The authorization request in step 4 is identical to the one sent by the API
invoker.
If the API invoker has obtained the authorization of service API and service
operation, the CAPIF core function/authorization function generates the
authorization code for the API invoker when API invoker is authorized to
request the resource.
If the API invoker has not obtained the authorization of service API and
service operation, the CAPIF core function/authorization function should
translate the application level human-readable operation in authorization
request to 3GPP level service/service operation identifiers. Then the CAPIF
core function/authorization function checks if API invoker is authorized to
invoke the 3GPP services/service operations based on pre-configured policies.
If the API invoker is authorized to invoke the service API, service operation,
and the resource, the CAPIF core function/authorization function generates
authorization code for the API.
5\. CAPIF core function/authorization server sends the authorization code to
the UE controlled by the resource owner.
6\. The UE controlled by the resource owner sends the authorization code to
the API invoker.
7\. CAPIF core function/authorization function and API invoker should do the
mutual authentication.
For the case of CAPIF core function, API invoker can authenticate CAPIF core
function via certificate. Then CAPIF core function can authenticate API
invoker using GBA-based authentication mechanism, AKMA-based authentication
mechanism or certificate-based authentication mechanism. And CAPIF core
function may generate certificate and OAuth 2.0 token for the API invoker
after the authentication.
For the case of authorization function, API invoker can authenticate
authorization function via certificate. Then authorization function can
authenticate API invoker using TLS-PSK, GBA-based authentication mechanism,
AKMA-based authentication mechanism or certificate-based authentication
mechanism, in which the certificate can be assigned by the CAPIF core
function.
A secure connection between API invoker and CAPIF core function/authorization
function is established after the mutual authentication. The secure connection
can be established via TLS.
8\. The API invoker sends the authorization code to the CAPIF core
function/authorization function.
9\. The CAPIF core function/authorization function sends the refresh
token/access token to the API invoker. The API invoker can send the refresh
token to CAPIF core function/authorization function to obtain access token.
The access token includes CAPIF core function identity (e.g. NF instance ID,
NF ID), authorization function identity (e.g. NF instance ID, NF ID), AEF
identity (e.g. NF instance ID, NF ID), service identifier (optional), 3GPP
service /service operation (optional), API invoker identity (e.g. GPSI, IMSI,
application layer ID), resource owner identity (e.g. GPSI, IMSI), user
resource identifier (e.g. location), expire time.
10\. API Exposing function (AEF) and API invoker should do the mutual
authentication.
API invoker and API Exposing function can do mutual authentication based on
TLS-PSK, OAuth token, GBA-based authentication mechanism, AKMA-based
authentication mechanism, or certificate-based authentication mechanism.
A secure connection between API invoker and API Exposing function is
established after the mutual authentication. The secure connection can be
established via TLS.
11\. The API invoker sends service API invocation request to the AEF. The
request includes the API invoker identity, the resource owner identity, the
service API that needs to be invoked, the user resource identifier that the
API invoker needs to access, and the access token.
12\. The AEF authorize the request based on the token.
13\. The AEF sends response to the API invoker.
### 6.9.3 Evaluation
Benefits:
\- In this solution, authorization code grant type of OAuth 2.0 is employed to
authorize both the request for both the resources (KI#2) and the request for
services/service operations (KI#1).
Impacts:
\- The CAPIF core function/authorization function should be able to generate
tokens containing authorization information with resource owner identity (e.g.
GPSI, IMSI), and user resource identifier (e.g. location).
## 6.10 Solution #10: UE credential based API invocation procedure
### 6.10.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue key issue #1 and #2 in terms of API
invoker UE authorization.
_In this solution, CAPIF core function/authorization function can authorize
API invoker UE to access resources based on the verified UE identity in step
1._
_The API invoker UE credential can be certificate or secrets shared among API
invoker UE and CAPIF core function/authorization function._
_The shared secrets among UE and CAPIF core function can be shared keys
related to AKMA and GBA methods._
_The shared secrets among UE and authorization function can be shared keys
related to AKMA method, GBA method, and CAPIF onboarding procedure._
### 6.10.2 Solution details
It is assumed that the API invoker is an UE in SNA scenarios.
Figure 6.10.2-1: UE credential based API invocation procedure.
1\. The API invoker and authorization function/CAPIF core function do the
mutual authentication.
For the case of CAPIF core function, the API invoker can authenticate CAPIF
core function via a certificate. Then the CAPIF core function can authenticate
the API invoker using GBA-based authentication mechanism, AKMA-based
authentication mechanism or certificate-based authentication mechanism. And
the CAPIF core function may generate a certificate for the API invoker after
the API invoker onboarding procedure.
For the case of authorization function, the API invoker can authenticate the
authorization function via a certificate. Authorization function can
authenticate the API invoker UE based on its credential (e.g. KAF). In
specific, the authorization function can authenticate API invoker using GBA-
based authentication mechanism, AKMA-based authentication mechanism or
certificate-based authentication mechanism, in which the certificate can be
assigned by the CAPIF core function. API invoker and authorization function
may do the mutual authentication based on methods that are defined in clause
6.5.2 of TS 33.122 [5].
A secure connection between the API invoker and authorization function/CAPIF
core function is established after the mutual authentication. The secure
connection can be established via TLS.
2\. The API invoker sends a token request to the CAPIF core
function/authorization function. The request includes the identity (e.g. IMPI,
GPSI) of the API invoker, the identity (e.g. IMPI, GPSI) of the resource
owner, the target resource (e.g. location of UE, QoS of the UE), and the
target service API.
3\. The CAPIF core function/authorization function sends the token to the API
invoker if the verified identity of UE in step 1 is authorized to request the
target resource of the resource owner.
The authorization can be realized based on policies provided by the resource
owner. In some cases, the policies are application level policies.
To authorize the API invoker, the CAPIF core function function/authorization
function may need to translate the application level policies (e.g. human-
readable policies) into 3GPP level service/service operation identifiers.
The type of token can be refresh token or access token. To access the service
API via the API exposing function, the API invoker UE needs to send the
refresh token to the CAPIF core function/authorization function to obtain the
access token when the CAPIF core function/authorization function sends the
refresh token to the API invoker UE. The token shall include the CAPIF core
function/authorization function FQDN (issuer), API invoker identity (subject),
expected service API (Scope), target resource (Scope), identity of resource
owner (Scope), API exposing function FQDN (audience), expiration time
(expiration). Details on token, refresh token, and access token are given in
RFC 6749 [4].
4\. The API invoker and API exposing function do the mutual authentication.
The API invoker can authenticate the authorization function via certificate.
Then the authorization function can authenticate the API invoker using GBA-
based authentication mechanism, AKMA-based authentication mechanism or
certificate-based authentication mechanism, in which the certificate can be
assigned by the CAPIF core function. API invoker and API exposing function may
do the mutual authentication based on methods that are defined in clause 6.5.2
of TS 33.122 [5].
A secure connection between API invoker and API exposing function is
established after the mutual authentication. The secure connection can be
established via TLS.
5\. The API invoker sends a service API request to the API exposing function
along with the access token.
6\. The API exposing function needs to reject the request when the API invoker
sends the service API invocation request without the token. The API exposing
function authorizes the request based on the token. The API exposing function
can verify the integrity of the token using the public key of the CAPIF core
function. The API exposing function can terminate the procedure if the token
is modified. Otherwise, the API exposure can check the service API invocation
request against the token. The API exposing function should reject the service
API request if the request cannot fulfil the requirements of the token. The
procedure goes to step 7 if the request fulfils the requirements of the token.
7\. The API exposing function sends the service API invocation response to the
API invoker.
### 6.10.3 Evaluation
Benefits:
\- This solution can authorize API invoker for both resources (KI#2) and
services/service operations (KI#1).
\- The CAPIF core function/authorization function can authorize the API
invoker based on policies provided by the resource owner.
\- Before offering the token to the API invoker, the identity of the API
invoker is authenticated by the CAPIF core function/authorization function
using the certificate or shared key related to AKMA/GBA/API invoker onboarding
procedure.
Impacts:
\- This solution requires the resource owner to configure policies to the
CAPIF core function/authorization function.
\- To authorize the API invoker, CAPIF core function function/authorization
function may need to translate the application level policies (e.g. human-
readable policies) to 3GPP level service/service operation identifiers.
## 6.11 Solution #11: Providing and Revoking Resource Owner Authorization
using OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code Grant
### 6.11.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #2 \"Checking authorization before allowing
access\".
This solution proposes to use OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code Grant as specified
in clause 4.1 of RFC 6749 [4], in which the resource owner can be
authenticated by the resource owner\'s 3GPP credentials.
UE, API Invoker, and Authorization Function in this solution performs the role
of User-Agent, Client, and Authorization server in RFC 6749 [4], respectively.
### 6.11.2 Solution details
#### 6.11.2.1 Architecture
Figure 6.11.2.1-1: Architecture for CAPIF with SNA enhancement
This solution uses an architecture proposed in solution #2 of TR 23.700-95
[3]. As defined in TR 23.700-95 [3], the Resource owner client is an
application client used by end-user or subscriber of the API provider
domain\'s service provider.
#### 6.11.2.2 Procedure
Pre-requisite:
1\. During the primary authentication, AUSF receives SNAAPPY Indication from
UDM, which indicates that the AUSF and the UE need to generate the following
pre-requisite 2.
2\. After the primary authentication, UE and AUSF generate SNAAPPY Key
Identifier (S-KID) and K~SNAAPPY~ from K~AUSF~ as detailed in 6.11.2.3 and
6.11.2.4 of the present document, respectively. After the S-KID and K~SNAAPPY~
are generated, AUSF sends the K~SNAAPPY~, S-KID, and SUPI to Authorization
Function. The Authorization Function stores this information sent by the AUSF.
If there were K~SNAAPPY~ and S-KID corresponding to the same SUPI, they are
overridden by the new K~SNAAPPY~ and S-KID.
Figure 6.11.2.2-1: Procedure for resource owner authorization based API
invocation
1\. After API Invoker performs onboarding procedure to CAPIF core function as
specified in clause 6.1 of TS 33.122 [5], the API Invoker mutually
authenticates with the CAPIF core function as specified in clause 6.3 of TS
33.122 [5].
2\. API Invoker performs mutual authentication with API exposing function and
gets an authorization to invoke a service API using one of three methods
specified in clause 6.5 of TS 33.122 [5].
3\. For a service API which needs a resource owner\'s authorization, the API
Invoker shall get an authorization from the resource owner in addition to the
authorization that was obtained in step 2.
4\. The API Invoker obtains Authorization Code via OAuth 2.0 Authorization
Code Grant as specified in RFC 6749 [4]. While the API Invoker redirects the
UE to the Authorization Function, the API Invoker includes requested scope
(e.g. modify QoS, location etc.) and the UE sends a challenge_UE, S-KID, and
SNAAPPY indicator, which indicates that the UE supports the resource owner
authentication with K~SNAAPPY~, to the Authorization Function. If the
Authorization Function decides to authenticate the resource owner using
K~SNAAPPY~, the Authorization Function generates authentication material (e.g.
MAC generated using the challenge_UE and K~SNAAPPY~ which the Authorization
Function can find based on the S-KID), and sends a challenge_AF and the
authentication material to the UE. After UE verifies the authentication
material the Authorization Function sent, UE responds with authentication
material (e.g. MAC generated using the challenge_AF and K~SNAAPPY~). The
Authorization Function verifies the authentication material using K~SNAAPPY~.
In addition to the authentication, the Authorization Function obtains
authorization from the resource owner by showing the requested scope that the
API Invoker sent and API Invoker information (e.g. API Invoker identity)
before sending Authorization Code to the API Invoker.
NOTE 1: Although the Authorization Function is illustrated as a separate
entity from CAPIF core function in Figure 6.11.2.2-1, it may be deployed
within the CAPIF core function according to the decision in SA3.
NOTE 2: Other authentication method between the resource owner and the
Authorization Function can be additionally performed before the Authorization
Function obtains authorization from the resource owner.
Note 3: Which entity in the UE executes step 4 is not specified in the present
document.
1\. The Authorization Function generates an OAuth 2.0 token, Token~SNAAPPY~.
The Token~SNAAPPY~ conveys the S-KID or GPSI which is not MSISDN and the
generated time of the Token~SNAAPPY~, in addition to the token claims
specified in Annex C.2.2 of TS 33.122 [5].
2\. The API Invoker requests the Token~SNAAPPY~ from the Authorization
Function by presenting the Authorization Code sent by the Authorization
Function in step 4.
3\. The Authorization Function sends the Token~SNAAPPY~ to the API Invoker.
4\. The API Invoker performs the service API invocation by presenting the
Token~SNAAPPY~.
5\. API exposing function checks whether the API Invoker is authorized to
invoke the service API based on the selected authorization method in step 2.
If the API Invoker requested a service API that needs resource owner\'s
authorization, API exposing function shall check whether the API Invoker
presented a Token~SNAAPPY~. If the API Invoker performed the service API
invocation without Token~SNAAPPY~ in step 8, the API exposing function shall
reject the request. If the verification of the Token~SNAAPPY~ is successful,
API exposing function identifies the UE using the S-KID or GPSI which is
included in the Token~SNAAPPY~, possibly by communicating with the
Authorization Function that stored the S-KID and SUPI.
6\. API Invoker receives the service API invocation response from the API
exposing function.
7\. If the resource owner does not want for the API Invoker to invoke the
service API, the resource owner can revoke the Token~SNAAPPY~ at anytime even
before the validity time of the Token~SNAAPPY~.
8\. The UE requests the API Invoker to revoke the Token~SNAAPPY~ for the
service API. This step is performed when e.g. the resource owner uninstalls
the application on the UE or logouts from the application as described in RFC
7009 [7], or the resource owner clicks a revocation button on the application.
9\. The API Invoker requests the Authorization Function to revoke the
Token~SNAAPPY~ for the service API as specified in RFC 7009 [7].
10\. If the Authorization Function receives a revocation request for
Token~SNAAPPY~,
a) The Authorization Function responds to the revocation request. The response
includes revocation time and the Token~SNAAPPY~ with MAC which the
Authorization Function generates using the Token~SNAAPPY~, revocation time,
and K~SNAAPPY~; and
b) The Authorization Function notifies the API exposing function of the
revocation of the Token~SNAAPPY~, with the revocation time. After the API
exposing function receives the revocation notification of the Token~SNAAPPY~,
the API exposing function shall reject the API invocation from the API Invoker
if the API Invoker invokes the service API with Token~SNAAPPY~ of which the
generated time is prior to the revocation time.
11\. The UE verifies the MAC using K~SNAAPPY~. The UE may inform the resource
owner of the revocation result based on the verification.
#### 6.11.2.3 S-KID
S-KID is in NAI format as specified in clause 2.2 of IETF RFC 7542 [11], i.e.
username\@realm. The username part includes SNAAPPY Temporary UE Identifier
(S-TID), and the realm part includes Home Network Identifier or Authorization
Function Address.
When deriving S-TID from K~AUSF~, the following parameters shall be used to
form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0xXX;
\- P0 = \"S-TID\";
\- L0 = length of \"S-TID\";
\- P1 = SUPI;
\- L1 = length of SUPI.
The input key KEY shall be K~AUSF~.
NOTE: FC value to be determined during normative phase.
#### 6.11.2.4 K~SNAAPPY~ derivation function
When deriving K~SNAAPPY~ from K~AUSF~, the following parameters shall be used
to form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0xYY;
\- P0 = \"Authorization\";
\- L0 = length of \"Authorization\";
The input key KEY shall be the K~AUSF~.
NOTE: FC value to be determined during normative phase.
### 6.11.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses KI#2.
This solution uses OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code Grant model where mutual
authentication between UE and Authorization Function is performed using the
key derived from 3GPP credential after API Invoker redirects the UE to the
Authorization Function.
This solution introduces a new mechanism for the revocation check of OAuth 2.0
token by including the token generation time in the OAuth 2.0 token and
sending the token revocation time from Authorization Function to API exposing
function.
This solution prevents the API Invoker from acting like the token, which the
resource owner requested to revoke, is revoked by sending the revoked token
with MAC, which is generated using K~SNAAPPY~, from Authorization Function to
the UE via API Invoker.
This solution requires access to the 5G key hierarchy and will only work with
a 5G authenticated UE.
Impact on AUSF exists, i.e. AUSF generates a new key (K~SNAAPPY~) with
corresponding identifier (S-KID) and sends them to Authorization Function.
The resource owner cannot enforce a malicious API invoker to actually revoke a
token.
## 6.12 Solution #12: Providing and Revoking Resource Owner Authorization
### 6.12.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #2 \"Checking authorization before allowing
access\".
This solution proposes to use a resource owner\'s 3GPP credentials for UE to
generate a token, which is used to validate an API Invoker accessing the
resource owner\'s resources.
A resource owner in this solution is an end-user who is using the UE.
### 6.12.2 Solution details
#### 6.12.2.1 Architecture
Figure 6.12.2.1-1: Architecture for CAPIF with SNA enhancement
This solution uses an architecture proposed in solution #2 of TR 23.700-95
[3]. As defined in TR 23.700-95 [3], the Resource owner client is an
application client used by end-user or subscriber of the API provider
domain\'s service provider.
#### 6.12.2.2 Procedure
Pre-requisite:
\- During the primary authentication, AUSF receives Routing Indicator for
Authorization Function from UDM.
\- After the primary authentication, UE and AUSF generate S-KID (SNAAPPY Key
Identifier) and K~Auz~ from K~AUSF~ as detailed in clauses 6.12.2.3 and
6.12.2.4 of the present document, respectively. After the key material is
generated, AUSF selects the Authorization Function based on the Routing
Indicator and sends the K~Auz~, S-KID, and SUPI to the Authorization Function.
The Authorization Function stores the latest information sent by the AUSF.
\- Information on Authorization Function (e.g. address, Routing Indicator,
etc.) which holds the K~Auz~ is provisioned to the UE (e.g. during
registration procedure).
\- API Invoker knows which APIs require a resource owner\'s authorization.
Figure 6.12.2.2-1: Procedure for resource owner authorization based API
invocation
1\. If API Invoker does not have Token~Auz~ for service API invocation which
requires the resource owner\'s authorization, API Invoker needs to request
resource owner\'s authorization for the API invocation even if the API
invocation is authorized from API exposing function as defined in TS 33.122
[5].
2\. API Invoker requests resource owner\'s authorization for the API
invocation. The request message includes Service API name (e.g. QoS API,
location API, etc.) and API Invoker Information (e.g. API Invoker identity
which is provided from CAPIF Core Function).
3\. When the resource owner decides to give an authorization on the Service
API name to the API Invoker (e.g. using GUI), UE generates an authorization
token (Token~Auz~). The claims of the Token~Auz~ include service API name,
S-KID (SNAAPPY Key Identifier), API Invoker Information, \"Authorized\",
generated time, and validity time. Token~Auz~ contains the claims (Token~Auz,\
claim~) and the verification information (Token~Auz,\ verify~). Details of
S-KID and the corresponding key K~Auz~ are specified in clauses 6.12.2.3 and
6.12.2.4 of the present document, respectively. Token~Auz,\ verify~ is
generated as detailed in clause 6.12.2.5 by using the claims and the key
K~Auz~.
Note: Which entity in the UE executes step 3 is not addressed in the present
document.
4\. If the resource owner gives the authorization for the API invocation, UE
responds with the Token~Auz~. Upon receiving the response, the API Invoker
stores the Token~Auz~ with UE ID (e.g. application layer ID or GPSI or SUPI).
The API Invoker can use the Token~Auz~ for the API invocation until the
Token~Auz~ is expired by an expiration time or revoked by the resource owner,
even when there is no online connection between the API Invoker and the UE.
5\. API Invoker performs the service API invocation with the Token~Auz~.
6\. API exposing function requests token verification to Authorization
Function, via CAPIF-9 interface.
7\. Authorization Function finds K~Auz~ matched to S-KID which is included in
Token~Auz,\ claim~ and verifies the Token~Auz~ using K~Auz~.
8\. Authorization Function responds with the verification result and UE ID
(SUPI or GPSI).
9\. If the verification result of the Token~Auz~ is successful, API exposing
function stores the Token~Auz~ with UE ID (SUPI or GPSI). Until API exposing
function receives a revocation notification for the service API invocation or
the Token~Auz~ is expired by an expiration time, API exposing function uses
the stored Token~Auz~ for authorizing the API Invoker without performing token
verification request to Authorization Function.
10\. API Invoker receives the service API invocation response.
11\. If the resource owner does not want for the API Invoker to invoke the
service API, the resource owner can revoke the Token~Auz~ anytime before the
validity time of the Token~Auz~ by using resource owner client. When the
resource owner decides to revoke the Token~Auz~ for the service API, UE
generates a revocation token (Token~Rev~). The claims of Token~Rev~ include
service API name, A-KID, API Invoker information, \"Not authorized\",
generated time. Token~Rev~ contains the claims (Token~Rev,\ claim~) and the
verification information (Token~Rev,\ verify~). Token~Rev,\ verify~ is
generated as detailed in clause 6.12.2.5 by using the claims and the key
K~Auz~.
12\. UE and Authorization function perform mutual authentication based on TLS-
PSK as specified in clause 6.5.2.1 in TS 33.122, where PSK can be derived from
K~Auz~. The Token~Rev~ is transmitted to Authorization Function via CAPIF-8
interface with revocation request message.
13\. Authorization Function finds K~Auz~ by using S-KID which is included in
the Token~Rev,\ claim~. Authorization Function verifies the Token~Rev~ using
K~Auz~.
14\. Authorization Function notifies the revocation on the API Invoker\'s
service API invocation. The revocation notification includes the Token~Rev~
and UE ID.
15\. For the same UE ID stored at step 9 and received at step 14, API exposing
function finds the Token~Auz~ which has same service API name and API Invoker
information as the Token~Rev~. If the generated time of the Token~Auz~ is
prior to that of the Token~Rev~, API exposing function revokes the Token~Auz~
and stores the Token~Rev~. After this, if the API Invoker performs service API
invocation using the revoked Token~Auz~, API exposing function shall reject
the API invocation request by noticing that the generation time in the
Token~Auz~ is prior to the generation time in the Token~Rev~.
16\. API exposing function notifies the revocation of the token.
#### 6.12.2.3 S-KID
S-KID is in NAI format as specified in clause 2.2 of IETF RFC 7542 [11], i.e.
username\@realm. The username part includes the Routing Indicator for
Authorization Function and S-TID (SNAAPPY Temporary UE Identifier), and the
realm part includes Home Network Identifier.
When deriving S-TID from K~AUSF~, the following parameters shall be used to
form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0xXX;
\- P0 = \"S-TID\";
\- L0 = length of \"S-TID\";
\- P1 = SUPI;
\- L1 = length of SUPI.
The input key KEY shall be K~AUSF~.
NOTE: FC value to be determined during normative phase.
#### 6.12.2.4 K~Auz~ derivation function
When deriving K~Auz~ from K~AUSF~, the following parameters shall be used to
form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0xYY;
\- P0 = \"Authorization\";
\- L0 = length of \"Authorization\";
The input key KEY shall be the K~AUSF~.
NOTE: FC value to be determined during normative phase.
#### 6.12.2.5 Verification information derivation
When deriving the verification information (Token~Auz,\ verify~ or Token~Rev,\
verify~) from K~Auz~, the following parameters shall be used to form the input
S to the KDF.
\- FC = 0xZZ;
\- P0 = Token~Auz,\ claim~ or Token~Rev,\ claim~;
\- L0 = length of Token~Auz,\ claim~ or Token~Rev,\ claim~;
The input key KEY shall be K~Auz~.
The verification information is identified with the 128 least significant bits
of the output of the KDF.
NOTE: FC value to be determined during normative phase.
### 6.12.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses KI#2.
This solution uses similar mechanism as users of mobile phone giving a
permission to application for access to resources such as phonebook,
microphone, camera, etc. When the resource owner authorizes an API Invoker, UE
uses K~Auz~, which the API Invoker cannot obtain, to generate an authorization
token (Token~Auz~) sends the token to API Invoker. After verifying the token
that API Invoker presented, API exposing function responds to API invocation
request from API Invoker.
This solution does not use OAuth 2.0 procedure.
This solution introduces a new mechanism for the revocation check of a token
by including the token generation time in an authorization token and the token
revocation time in a revocation token.
Impact on AUSF exists, i.e. AUSF generates a new key (K~AUZ~) with
corresponding identifier (S-KID) and sends them to Authorization Function.
The solution requires the UE to be authenticated to a 5G core.
## 6.13 Solution #13: Resource owner policies based authorization mechanism
### 6.13.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #1 and key issue #2 in terms of API
invocation authorization.
_In this solution, authorization mechanisms in TS 33.122 [5] are reused._
_The API invoker can be authorized by the AEF without using the OAuth 2.0
token._
### 6.13.2 Solution details
_The resource owner provisions policies to the CAPIF core
function/authorization function via the UE._
_The authentication and authorization to resource owner (i.e. the human who
uses the UE) is left to implementation._
By reusing the authorization mechanism in clauses 6.5.2.1 and 6.5.2.2 of TS
33.122 [5], the AEF can obtain resource owner related policies from the CAPIF
core function/authorization function and authorize the API invoker to request
resources belonging to the owner.
### 6.13.3 Evaluation
This solution requires no additional specification.
This solution does not detail how the resource owner is authenticated.
This solution does not detail how the resource owner provides authorization.
Authorization needs to be provided in advance of calling the API.
## 6.14 Solution #14: Reusing CAPIF core function initiated revocation
procedure to enable user authorization revocation
### 6.14.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #2 in terms of authorization revocation.
_The CAPIF core function/authorization function reuses clause 8.23.4 of TS
23.222 [12] to complete the revocation procedure._
### 6.14.2 Solution details
It is assumed that the API invoker is an UE/AF in SNA scenarios.
Figure 6.14.2-1: User authorization revocation for API invocation procedure.
0\. The API invoker obtains the service API invocation authorization from the
resource owner. Specifically, the resource indicates the location information,
QoS information, etc. And the API invoker is an UE/AF.
1\. It is assumed that the authorization is revoked.
According to clause 8.23.3 of TS 23.222 [12], the CAPIF core function can run
Revoke_Authorization.
The UE/resource owner client can reuse the Revoke_Authorization API to provide
revocation information to the CAPIF core function/authorization function.
Then the CAPIF core function/Authorization function contains the revocation
information.
The revocation information includes the identity (e.g. GPSI, IMPI) of the API
invoker, the identity (e.g. GPSI, IMPI) of the resource owner, the target
resource identifier (e.g. location, QoS), and the target service API.
2\. The CAPIF core function/authorization function reuses the procedures in
clause 8.23.4 of TS 23.222 [12] to complete the authorization revocation.
The CAPIF core function should send revocation information, which is received
from the resource owner, to the AEF.
The AEF invalidates the authorization based on the revocation information.
### 6.14.3 Evaluation
This solution reuses the authorization revocation mechanism defined in clause
8.23.4 of TS 23.222 [12].
The impacts of the solution are given as follows.
The authorization revocation mechanism defined in clause 8.23.4 of TS 23.222
[12] is reused with the following modifications:
\- The revocation information/polices stored in CAPIF core
function/Authorization function include the identity (e.g. GPSI, IMPI) of the
resource owner and the target resource identifier (e.g. location, QoS).
\- Revocation information/polices received by the AEF include the identity
(e.g. GPSI, IMPI) of the resource owner and the target resource identifier
(e.g. location, QoS).
## 6.15 Solution #15: Authorization revocation to undo API invocation
### 6.15.1 Introduction
The oAuth view of authorization revocation and the user\'s view of
authorization revocation may differ. Revocation of an oAuth token will ensure
no unauthorized calls to an API after the authorization has been revoked.
However, a user may expect that the effects of a previous API call would also
be reverted.
For example: if a user gives permission to a game to upgrade the QoS of the
game\'s bearer (potentially incurring additional cost), the user would expect
that after revocation of the authorization, the game\'s bearer stop incurring
additional cost (and fall back to the regular QoS).
### 6.15.2 Solution details
When an authorization is revoked, the authorization function shall notify the
API exposing function. The API exposing function then shall revert the
resources inside the network according to the content of the notification
(e.g. reverting the QoS).
Figure 6.15.2-1: Resource reversal after token revocation
1\. The API exposing function shall subscribe at the authorization function to
token revocation. This could be for all tokens relating to a particular
authorization, or for specific tokens after they are encountered first.
2\. At some time, the resource owner decides to revoke authorization. The
procedure to do this is out of scope of this solution (and could be left to
implementation).
3\. The authorization function shall notify the subscribed API exposing
function of the token revocation.
4\. The API exposing function shall determine whether resources need to be
reverted, e.g. QoS, subscription to network events, etc.) Subsequently, the
API exposing function shall revert the resources in the network.
### 6.15.3 Evaluation
This solution allows the AEF to ensure that persistent changes can be undone
after authorization revocation. It partly addresses Authz-5-revoke.
## 6.16 Solution #16: Token Revocation using Short-lived Token
### 6.16.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the requirement Authz-5-Revoke in KI#2.
This solution proposes to use a short-lived token for an issued token. The
authorization can be revoked automatically if an API invoker does not refresh
the issued token. There is no impact on the AEF.
### 6.16.2 Solution details
Figure 6.16.2-1: Procedure of Revocation of OAuth Authorization
0\. It is assumed that requirement for revocation is received in CCF.
1\. The API Invoker sends the Token Request to the CCF to retrieve a token to
access the discovered API.
2\. The CCF issues a token with a short expiry time when receiving the
requirement for revocation, e.g. 1 hour.
3\. The CCF sends the Token Response to the API Invoker. The message includes
the issued token. Once revocation is required by the resource owner, e.g. to
log out, the API invoker stops refreshing the token, which will be revoked
within the short expiry time.
### 6.16.3 Evaluation
This solution partially addresses the requirement Authz-5-Revoke in KI#2, i.e.
using a short-lived token instead of revoking explicitly at any time.
The solution has impact on CCF/authorization function.
The authorization is revoked implicitly and has less impact for the network
system, i.e. the solution has no impact on the AEF.
The solution does not detail how to revoke effects of previous API calls.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.0 High level conclusions
This conclusions are for enhancing CAPIF regarding resource owner awareness.
Existing mechanisms without resource owner awareness are still available.
\- Authorization function is part of CCF.
\- https is used as protocol between OAuth client and authorization server on
the CCF.
**_Use case A: AF outside of UE is API invoker_**
\- For mutual authentication of API invoker AF and API exposing function in
this use case, TS 33.122 [5] is reused.
\- For mutual authentication of API invoker AF and CCF in this use case, TS
33.122 [5] is reused.
\- For authorization, the OAuth2.0 Framework is used. The API invoker has the
role of the OAuth client.
\- The SNA token can contain the resource owner identity claim and other
claims. AEF should do the authorization check to the API invocation request
containing the token against the claims including the resource owner identity.
\- Authorization code flow, PKCE flow and client credential flow provide a
different user experience and support different application needs. Thus these
three flows are candidates to be considered as options for normative work.
\- The claim in the token includes resource owner identity, thus there is no
need for additional UE authentication in API invocation.
\- For Authorization Code Flow and PKCE, authentication between CCF/AUF and UE
should be performed after API Invoker redirects the UE to CCF/AUF.
\- Based on the operator\'s policy, mutual authentication between resource
owner and CCF/AUF can be performed.
\- the authentication method is up to operator policy (e.g. an already
deployed mechanism, or AKMA, or GBA) and therefore no additional specification
is foreseen for the authentication method.
**_Use case B: API invoker residing on UE accessing its own resources_**
**_Conclusions applicable to both Subcase B.i) and B.ii) below:_**
_The conclusions for case A also apply to Subcases B.i) and B.ii) with the
following differences:_
\- whether API invoker onboarding needs to be specified is left to the
normative phase
\- whether and howAPI invoker needs to be authenticated is left to the
normative phaseSubcase B.i) API invoker part of third party application (e.g.
single page application)
_Subcase B.ii) API invoker part of UE accessing its own resources_
**General open issues:**
UE A accessing resource of UE B is out of scope of the present document.
**Subscriber vs UE as resource owner:**
\- Regulatory requirements can affect whether UE user or subscriber is
considered resource owner. Therefore, it is left to configuration or
implementation in the authorization function (i.e. CCF) whose authentication
(subscriber or UE) is required for authorizing access to a specific resource.
\- Within the token, GPSI is used as identifier. GPSI needs to be different
from MSISDN, SUPI etc. How to identify the resources is left for stage 3 work.
The token should be able to restrict the API invoker to a specific resource
(e.g., location, QoS, PDN connectivity status).
**_Conclusion for revocation:_**
\- One or multiple revocation mechanisms are required.
\- API Exposing Function needs to be informed about revocation if this is
necessary to ensure correct handling of revocation. Details how to minimize
AEF impacts will be handled in the normative phase.
#