# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The objectives of the present document are to identify key issues, potential
security and privacy requirements and solutions with respect to:
\- Whether and how to identify, authenticate and authorize the Authenticable
Non-3GPP devices behind the Residential Gateway (RG) connecting to the
network.
\- Whether and how to identify, authenticate and authorize the 3GPP devices
(UE or N5CW devices) behind the Residential Gateway (RG) connecting to the
network.
\- Security aspects of supporting slice in 5WWC.
\- Whether and how the security aspects for UE TNAP mobility can be supported
in the 5GS without performing the full authentication.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23700-17 \"Study on the support for 5WWC, Phase 2\".
[3] 3GPP TR 33.316 \"Wireless and wireline convergence access support for the
5G System (5GS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\".
[5] IETF RFC 5448: \" Improved Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for
3rd Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA\')\".
[6] IEEE Std 802.11™-2020 Part 11: \"Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC)
and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System\".
[8] IETF RFC 6696: \"EAP Extensions for the EAP Re-authentication Protocol
(ERP)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1], in
TS 33.501 [4] and in TR 23.700-17 [2] are applied.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], in TS 33.501 [2] and in TR 23.700-17 [2] are applied.
# 4 Assumptions
Figure 4.1-1: Non-roaming architecture for 5G Core Network with mobility
within trusted non-3GPP access
Figure 4.1-1 shows the non roaming architecture for 5G core network for
mobility use case where the target trusted non-3GPP Access Point and source
Trusted Non-3GPP Access Point are connected to the same Trusted Non-3GPP
Gateway Function (TNGF).
In the present document, when UE switches from one TNAP (source) to another
TNAP (destination) within the same TNGF, full authentication is not performed.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Authentication of AUN3 device behind RG and supporting
EAP
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
The AUN3 device is a non-3GPP device that does not support NAS over non-3GPP
access, but it can be identified and/or authenticated by 5GC. For example, an
AUN3 device may support EAP-AKA\', or does not support EAP based
authentication but has a subscription with the 5GC.
This key issue considers AUN3 devices supporting EAP based authentication.
AUN3 devices supporting EAP can be connected to RG via WLAN or wireline. RG is
connected to 5GC via 3GPP access or W-AGF as defined in TS 23.316 [3] clause
4.10. Currently, authentication of these AUN3 devices is not sufficiently
defined in 3GPP. I.e., how AUN3 devices connected with RG over Wi-Fi are
authenticated and how the interface between AUN3 devices and RG is protected.
### 5.1.2 Threats
If authentication of AUN3 device behind RG is not properly defined, an
attacker may be able to impersonate an AUN3.
When AUN3 devices connect to the RG over Wi-Fi, the session between AUN3
devices and the RG is not protected. Due to this, MitM can intercept the AUN3
device\'s communication.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
5GC should be able to authenticate the AUN3 device behind RG.
The 5GS should provide a means for the AUN3 device and RG to get a shared key
that could be used to provide protection of the interface between them.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: Security aspect of slice information exposure of
N3IWF/TNGF to UE
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
The solutions to KI #2 enable the selection of TNGF/N3IWF that support the
S-NSSAI(s) required by the UE, as defined in TR 23700-17 [2]. Many solutions
are presented, and one of the categories is:
\- UE is able to discover the slice of TNGF/N3IWF and select TNGF/N3IWF
accordingly.
Exposing the S-NSSAI information from the network nodes (TNGF/N3IWF) to any UE
will cause privacy issues and should be studied.
### 5.2.2 Threats
If UE and network node exchanges interested slice information without any
protection, then the MitM will be able to intercept what slices/services UE is
interested in. Therefore, it will leak the privacy information of the UE.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G system shall provide means to protect the slice information associated
with the initial UE communication with the N3IWF/TNGF node.
## 5.3 Key issue #3: Security aspect of slice information exposure of
N3IWF/TNGF
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
The solutions to KI #2 enable the selection of TNGF/N3IWF that support the
S-NSSAI(s) required by the UE, as defined in TR 23.700-17 [2]. Many solutions
are presented, and one of the categories is:
\- The UE chooses the default TNGF/N3IWF, and the network selects the
appropriate TNGF/N3IWF based on UE slice requirements and relocates the TNGF.
TR 23.700-17 [2] includes a few solutions, for example, solutions 10 and 11,
include the IKE v2 procedure enhancement to relocate the TNGF/N3IWF. The
security aspects of the solutions in this category should be studied.
### 5.3.2 Threats
In case the TNGF/N3IWF relocation information is sent to the UE without
protection, for example, the target SSID, the information may be tampered
during the transfer. Even though the SSID is publicly known, if the target
SSID is tampered, the UE may continue to connect to an unappropriated
TNGF/N3IWF and the system may be in the loop to relocate the TNGF/N3IWF for
the UE. In this case, the UE will suffer a DoS Attack.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirements
The TNGF/N3IWF relocation information shall be securely sent to the UE.
## 5.4 Key issue #4: Security aspect of TNAP mobility without full
authentication
### 5.4.1 Key issue details
Mobility between two TNAPs within the same trusted Non-3GPP Access Network
Gateway Function(TNGF) is not supported in 3GPP currently. For example, when
UE moves between two nearby or overlapping TNAP1 and TNAP2, the connectivity
will break. Therefore, UE services will be interrupted. The UE needs to
reconnect, go through another authentication procedure to continue the service
even though the second non-3GPP access connects to the same 5GC.
There could be some potential security solutions where UE switches the TNAP1
to TNAP2 without breaking the connectivity. However, the security aspects of
optimizations of inter-TNAP mobility were never studied in SA3.
### 5.4.2 Threats
NA.
### 5.4.3 Potential security requirements
5GS should support a mechanism for communication between the UE and TNAP/TNGF
to establish security with a TNAP without performing full authentication when
the UE switches from another TNAP within the same TNGF.
While switching from one TNAP to another TNAP within the same TNGF, the
interface between UE and the new TNAP shall be confidentiality, integrity, and
replay protected.
## 6.5 KI #5: Authentication of UE connecting to RG using NSWO procedure
### 6.5.1 Key issue details
In clause 7B.4 of TS 33.501, UE behind RG can connect to 5GC via TNGF in
trusted Non-3GPP access or N3IWF in untrusted Non-3GPP access procedures with
the entire wireline access treated as part of the trusted or untrusted
Non-3GPP access.
In TS 23.501 [2] clause 4.2.15, UE is allowed to use 5G credentials based on
NSWO to authenticate to the 5GC to first obtain a local IP address and then to
use untrusted Non-3GPP access to register to the 5GC.
Similarly, when UE is behind RG, the UE should also be able to use NSWO to
first authenticate to 5GC to obtain a local IP address before using the
untrusted Non-3GPP access to register with 5GC.
Even when UE does not use untrusted Non-3GPP access to register, it is still
beneficial for UE behind RG to use 5G credentials to authenticate to 5GC,
since it allows operators to identify UE behind RG and then to offer enhanced
services (e.g. Wi-Fi speed increase) to the UE.
This key issue is to allow UE behind RG to be authenticated by 5GC using NSWO
procedure.
### 6.5.2 Security threats
If the 5GC cannot authenticate UE connecting to RG, the 5GC may provide
service to unauthorized devices behind RG.
### 6.5.3 Potential requirements
5GS shall support authentication of UE behind RG using NSWO procedure.
# 6 Proposed solutions
## 6.0 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 6.0-1: Mapping of solutions to key issues
Solutions **KI#1** **KI#2** **KI#3** **KI#4** **KI#5**
* * *
**Solution #1: EAP_AKA prime based authentication for AUN3 devices** X -  
**Solution #2: EAP base authentication for AUN3 devices behind RG in PLMN** X
-  
**Solution #3: EAP base authentication for AUN3 devices behind RG in SNPN** X
-  
**Solution #4: EAP base authentication for AUN3 devices behind RG in SNPN by
AAA server** X -  
**Solution #5: TNAP mobility solution with rand** \- X  
**Solution #6: TNAP mobility solution with count** X  
**Solution #7: Using Fast BSS Transition for TNAP mobility** X  
**Solution #8: Security Establishment for TNAP Mobility** X  
**Solution #9: AUN3 device supporting 5G Key hierarchy (i.e. N5CW)** X  
**Solution #10: TNAP mobility solution without full authentication** X  
**Solution #11: Security of N3IWF reallocation** X  
**Solution #12: Authentication of UE connecting to RG by NSWO** X **Solution
#13: TNAP mobility using modified ERP** X
## 6.1 Solution #1: EAP_AKA prime based authentication for AUN3 devices
### 6.1.1 Introduction {#introduction-1}
This solution addresses the authentication of AUN3 devices based on the
EAP_AKA prime method.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
#### 6.1.2.1 Procedure
Figure 6.1.2.1-1: EAP-AKA prime based AUN3 authentication
1a. The AUN3 device establishes a WLAN connection with the WLAN Access Network
(AN), using procedures specified in IEEE 802.11.
1b, 1c. L2 connection and EAP identity retrieval are performed. AUN3 device
sends back EAP Response/Identity message. The AUN3 device uses SUCI in NAI
format (i.e., username\@realm format as specified in clause 28.7.3 of TS
23.003) or 5G-GUTI.
2a, 3a, 3b, 3c. If the RG is an FN-RG, the FN-RG sends the EAP
response/Identity including the NAI to the W-AGF. The W-AGF creates a
registration request on behalf of the AUN3 device with a new indication that
the registration is on behalf of an AUN3 device where protection is required
for the interface between the AUN3 device and RG. The W-AGF selects the
AMF/SEAF. The W-AGF sends to the AMF/SEAF a registration request on behalf of
the AUN3 device. The registration request includes the NAI SUCI, wireline
network name if available, and the new indication. The same message content is
forwarded from AMF to AUSF and then from AUSF to UDM.
2b, 3b, 3c. If the RG is a 5G-RG, the 5G-RG sends a NAS Registration Request
message to the AMF, including the received SUCI and the new indicator for
encryption required for AUN3 device.
4\. Authentication procedure for EAP-AKA\' is performed as defined in the
clause 6.1.3.1 of TS 33.501 [4].
5\. Based on the indication in step 3, AMF derives the WAGF key.
6\. The AMF sends NAS Security Mode Command mode and provides the WAGF key
(KWAGF\') to W-AGF.
7\. W-AGF/RG derive the KAUN3 as PMK key from the WAGF key (KWAGF\').
Note: Whether the PMK is derived by RG and W-AGF is out if 3GPP scope.
8\. RG and AUN3 device will derive WLAN keys from PMK.
9\. The AUN3 device performs a 4-way handshake to establish a secure
connection with the WLAN AN.
#### 6.1.2.2 Key derivation
##### 6.1.2.2.1 WAGF key for AUN3 device (not supporting NAS)_
When deriving the keys KWAGF\' for AUN3 device not supporting NAS, from KAMF
then the following parameters should be used input S to the KDF.
\- FC = 0x\
\- P0 = Device distinguisher (shall be set to 0x01 for AUN3 device, others it
will be 0x00)
\- L0 = length of Device distinguisher (i.e. 0x00 0x04)
\- P1 = Access type distinguisher
\- L1 = length of Access type distinguisher (i.e. 0x00 0x01)
The access type distinguisher shall be set to the value for \'non-3GPP (0x02)
when deriving KWAGF\'.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 KAUN3 key
When deriving a KAUN3 key from KWAGF\' the following parameters shall be used
to form the input S to the KDF.
\- FC = 0x\
\- P0 = Usage type distinguisher
\- L0 = length of Usage type distinguisher (i.e. 0x00 0x01)
Usage type distinguisher value is set to 0x01.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
_This solution meets both the requirements mentioned in the KI1 for the AUN3
device that support 5G key hierarchy. i.e._
\- 5GC should be able to authenticate the AUN3 device behind RG.
\- The 5GS should provide a means for the AUN3 device and RG to get a shared
key that could be used to provide protection of the interface between them.
**_Impact on the NFs:_**
_AUSF/UDM: New indication received for AUN3 devices and select authentication
algorithm accordingly._
AMF: generates the keys and provides the same to RG/W-AGF.
_RG/W-AGF: receives new key material from AMF and then derives the PMK._
_UE: derive the new keys._
## 6.2 Solution #2: EAP base authentication for AUN3 devices behind RG in PLMN
### 6.2.1 Introduction {#introduction-2}
An AUN3 device connecting to RG in a PLMN is registered to the 5GC by the
5G-RG or W-AGF and is authenticated by 5GC using EAP-AKA\', as specified in
RFC 5448 [5].
### 6.2.2 Solution details
{width="6.4610389326334206in" height="3.4611111111111112in"}
Figure 6.2.2-1
1\. The AUN3 device attempts to establish a layer 2 connection with the RG
either via Ethernet or Wi-Fi. If the layer 2 connection is based on Ethernet,
steps 13-14 are skipped.
2\. The RG initiates the EAP authentication procedure by sending an EAP
request/Identity to the AUN3 device in a layer frame (e.g. EAPOL).
3\. The AUN3 device sends back an EAP response/Identity including its Network
Access Identifier (NAI) in the form of username\@realm. The username part of
the NAI may be encrypted if the AUN3 device supports SUPI protection
4a-4b. If the RG is an FN-RG, the FN-RG sends the EAP response/Identity
including the NAI to the W-AGF. The W-AGF constructs a SUCI from NAI-based
SUPI using NULL scheme and sends a NAS Registration Request message to the
AMF, including the SUCI and AUN3 device indicator.
4c. If the RG is a 5G-RG, the 5G-RG constructs a SUCI from the NAI-based SUPI
of the AUN3 device, and sends a NAS Registration Request message to the AMF,
including the SUCI and an AUN3 device indicator.
5\. The AMF/SEAF selects the AUSF based on the SUCI in the received
registration request and sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request
message to the AUSF. It contains the SUCI of the AUN3 device, and an AUN3
device indicator.
6\. The AUSF sends a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request to the UDM. It contains
the SUCI of the AUN3 device and the AUN3 device indicator.
7\. The UDM invokes the SIDF to map the SUCI to the SUPI and selects an
authentication method based on the SUPI. When the \"username\" part of the
SUPI is \"anonymous\" or omitted, the UDM may select an authentication method
based on the "realm" part of the SUPI, the AUN3 device indicator, a
combination of the \"realm\" part and the AUN3 device indicator, or the UDM
local policy.
8\. The UDM sends a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response to the AUSF, which
contains the SUPI of the AUN3 device and an indicator of the selected EAP-
AKA\'.
9\. The AUSF and the AUN3 device perform EAP-AKA\'. Storage and procession of
credentials for EAP-AKA\' is described in clause 6 of TS 33.501 [4].
10\. If the EAP authentication between the AUSF and the AUN3 device is
completed successfully, the AUSF sends to the AMF/SEAF an EAP-Success message
along with the SUPI and the MSK in a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate
Response message.
11a-11b. If steps 4a-4b is executed, the AMF/SEAF sends to the W-AGF the EAP-
Success message and the MSK in an Authentication Result message. The W-AGF
sends to the FN-RG the EAP-Success message and the MSK in AAA message.
11c. If step 4c is executed, the AMF/SEAF sends to the 5G-RG the EAP-Success
message and the MSK in an Authentication Result message.
12\. The RG sends to the AUN3 device the EAP-Success message in a layer 2
frame.
13a-13b. The AUN3 device and the RG use the first 256-bit of the MSK as the
PMK, from which the WLAN keys are derived.
14\. The AUN3 and the RG performs four-way handshaking to establish WLAN
secure connection.
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
_This solution meets the requirement that an AUN3 device shall be able to
authenticate to the 5GC._
## 6.3 Solution #3: EAP base authentication for AUN3 devices behind RG in SNPN
### 6.3.1 Introduction {#introduction-3}
This solution defines an authentication procedure for AUN3 devices behind RG
(5G-RG or FN-RG) in SNPN. It differs from Annex O of TS 33.501 [4] in that:
1\. it allows 5G-RG to register AUN3 device to 5GC on its behalf, while in
Annex O, it is always the W-AGF that registers N5GC device to the 5GC.
2\. it allows the AUN3 device to connect to RG via Wi-Fi based on the MSK from
the EAP authentication between the AUN3 device and the AUSF. In Annex O, the
N5GC device connects to the RG via wireline (e.g. Ethernet) and MSK is not
sent back by the AUSF to the RG to facilitate Wi-Fi four-way handshaking.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.4611111111111112in"}
Figure 6.3.2-1
1\. The AUN3 device attempts to establish a layer 2 connection with the RG
either via Ethernet or Wi-Fi. If the layer 2 connection is based on Ethernet,
steps 13-14 are skipped.
2\. The RG initiates the EAP authentication procedure by sending an EAP
request/Identity to the AUN3 device in a layer frame (e.g. EAPOL).
3\. The AUN3 device sends back an EAP response/Identity including its Network
Access Identifier (NAI) in the form of username\@realm. The username part of
the NAI may be encrypted if the AUN3 device supports SUPI protection.
Otherwise, the anonymous NAI can be used if the EAP method supports
subscription identifier privacy
4a-4b. If the RG is an FN-RG, the FN-RG sends the EAP response/Identity
including the NAI to the W-AGF. The W-AGF constructs a SUCI from NAI-based
SUPI using NULL scheme and sends a NAS Registration Request message to the
AMF, including the SUCI and AUN3 device indicator.
4c. If the RG is a 5G-RG, the 5G-RG constructs a SUCI from the NAI-based SUPI
of the AUN3 device, and sends a NAS Registration Request message to the AMF,
including the SUCI and an AUN3 device indicator.
5\. The AMF/SEAF selects the AUSF based on the SUCI in the received
registration request and sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request
message to the AUSF. It contains the SUCI of the AUN3 device, and an AUN3
device indicator.
6\. The AUSF sends a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request to the UDM. It contains
the SUCI of the AUN3 device and the AUN3 device indicator.
7\. The UDM invokes the SIDF to map the SUCI to the SUPI and selects an
authentication method based on the SUPI. When the \"username\" part of the
SUPI is \"anonymous\" or omitted, the UDM may select an authentication method
based on the "realm" part of the SUPI, the AUN3 device indicator, a
combination of the \"realm\" part and the AUN3 device indicator, or the UDM
local policy.
8\. The UDM sends a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response to the AUSF, which
contains the SUPI of the AUN3 device and an indicator of the selected
authentication method. EAP-AKA\' as specified in RFC 5448 [5] or other key
generating EAP method can be selected.
9\. The AUSF and the AUN3 device perform EAP authentication based on the
selected authentication method. Storage and processing of credentials for EAP
authentication method is described in Annex I of TS 33.501 [4].
10\. If the EAP authentication between the AUSF and the AUN3 device is
completed successfully, the AUSF sends to the AMF/SEAF an EAP-Success message
along with the SUPI and the MSK in a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate
Response message.
11a-11b. If steps 4a-4b is executed, the AMF/SEAF sends to the W-AGF the EAP-
Success message and the MSK in an Authentication Result message. The W-AGF
sends to the FN-RG the EAP-Success message and the MSK in AAA message.
11c. If step 4c is executed, the AMF/SEAF sends to the 5G-RG the EAP-Success
message and the MSK in an Authentication Result message.
12\. The RG sends to the AUN3 device the EAP-Success message in a layer 2
frame.
13a-13b. The AUN3 device and the RG use the first 256-bit of the MSK as the
PMK, from which the WLAN keys are derived.
14\. The AUN3 and the RG performs four-way handshaking to establish WLAN
secure connection.
### 6.3.3 Evaluation
_This solution meets the requirement that an AUN3 device connecting to RG
shall be able to authenticate to 5GC._
## 6.4 Solution #4: EAP base authentication for AUN3 devices behind RG in SNPN
by AAA server
### 6.4.1 Introduction {#introduction-4}
This solution addresses KI#1 by authenticating AUN3 devices behind RG (5G-RG
or FN-RG) in SNPN using an AAA server as the credential holder.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.428472222222222in"}
Figure 6.4.2-1
1\. The AUN3 device attempts to establish a layer 2 connection with the RG
either via Ethernet or Wi-Fi. If the layer 2 connection is based on Ethernet,
steps 13-14 are skipped.
2\. The RG initiates the EAP authentication procedure by sending an EAP
request/Identity to the AUN3 device in a layer frame (e.g. EAPOL).
3\. The AUN3 device sends back an EAP response/Identity including its Network
Access Identifier (NAI) in the form of username\@realm. The username part of
the NAI may be encrypted if the AUN3 device supports SUPI protection.
Otherwise, the anonymous NAI can be used if the EAP method supports
subscription identifier privacy.
4a-4b. If the RG is an FN-RG, the FN-RG sends the EAP response/Identity
including the NAI to the W-AGF. The W-AGF constructs a SUCI from NAI-based
SUPI using NULL scheme and sends a NAS Registration Request message to the
AMF, including the SUCI and AUN3 device indicator.
4c. If the RG is a 5G-RG, the 5G-RG constructs a SUCI from the NAI-based SUPI
of the AUN3 device, and sends a NAS Registration Request message to the AMF,
including the SUCI and an AUN3 device indicator.
5\. The AMF/SEAF selects the AUSF based on the SUCI in the received
registration request and sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request
message to the AUSF. It contains the SUCI of the AUN3 device, and an AUN3
device indicator.
6\. The AUSF sends a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request to the UDM. It contains
the SUCI of the AUN3 device and the AUN3 device indicator.
7\. The UDM invokes the SIDF to map the SUCI to the SUPI and selects an
authentication method based on the SUPI. When the \"username\" part of the
SUPI is \"anonymous\" or omitted, the UDM may select an authentication method
based on the "realm" part of the SUPI, the AUN3 device indicator, a
combination of the \"realm\" part and the AUN3 device indicator, or the UDM
local policy.
8\. The UDM sends a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response to the AUSF, which
contains the SUPI of the AUN3 device and an indicator of the selected
authentication method.
9\. Based on the indication from the UDM, the AUSF shall select an NSSAAF as
defined in TS 23.501 [2] and initiate a Nnssaaf_AIWF_Authenticate service
operation towards that NSSAAF as defined in clause 14.4.2.
10\. The NSSAAF shall select AAA Server based on the domain name corresponding
to the realm part of the SUPI. The NSSAAF shall perform related protocol
conversion and relay EAP messages to the AAA Server.
11\. The AAA and the AUN3 device perform EAP authentication based on the
selected authentication method. Storage and processing of credentials for EAP
authentication method is described in Annex I of TS 33.501 [4].
12\. After successful authentication, an EAP Success message, the MSK and the
SUPI (i.e., the AUN3 identifier that is used for the successful EAP
authentication) shall be provided from the AAA Server to the NSSAAF.
13\. The NSSAAF returns the EAP Success message, the MSK and the SUPI to the
AUSF using the Nnssaaf_AIWF_Authenticate service operation response message.
14\. The AUSF sends to the AMF/SEAF the EAP-Success message along with the
SUPI and the MSK in a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message.
15a-15b. If steps 4a-4b is executed, the AMF/SEAF sends to the W-AGF the EAP-
Success message and the MSK in an Authentication Result message. The W-AGF
sends to the FN-RG the EAP-Success message and the MSK in AAA message.
15c. If step 4c is executed, the AMF/SEAF sends to the 5G-RG the EAP-Success
message and the MSK in an Authentication Result message.
16\. The RG sends to the AUN3 device the EAP-Success message in a layer 2
frame.
17a-17b. The AUN3 device and the RG use the first 256-bit of the MSK as the
PMK, from which the WLAN keys are derived.
18\. The AUN3 and the RG performs four-way handshaking to establish WLAN
secure connection.
### 6.4.3 Evaluation
_This solution meets the requirement that an AUN3 device shall be able to
authenticate to 5GC._
## 6.5 Solution #5: TNAP mobility solution with rand
### 6.5.1 Introduction {#introduction-5}
This solution addresses the security solution of TNAP mobility defined in
KI#4.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
#### 6.5.2.1 Procedure
Figure 6.5.2-1: TNAP mobility procedure
UE is connected to TNAP#1 via the procedure defined in TS 33.501 figure
7A.2.1-1. Once authenticated, TNGF sends the reauth Id to UE over the
protected interface. Reauth Id can be a generated as \\
\.
Note 1: TNGF Id could be TNGF address (like fqdn)already defined by SA2.
2, 3. UE decides to move from TNAP#1 to TNAP#2 and creates an L2 connection
with TNAP#2.
4, 5, 6. TNAP#2 sends the L2 EAP-Request for Identity towards the UE and the
UE responds back with an L2 EAP-Response with Identity and a
TNAP_Mobility_Indication flag. The TNAP2 forwards the EAP response with reauth
Id and the TNAP_Mobility_Indication flag towards TNGF.
7,8. Based on the reauth Id, TNFG identifies the UE and retrieves the context
and TNAP_Mobility_Indication, the TNGF checks if the stored context in step 1
is valid and then derives the TNAP\' keys as described in clause 6.5.2.2 of
the present document. The TNGF responds back to TNAP#2 with the generated key
RAND value and MAC for the RAND value. Message Authentication Code (MAC) is
derived by using the TNGF key stored in TNGF. In TNAP#2, the newly received
TNAP key is considered as Pairwise Master Key (PMK).
9, 10,11. The TNAP#2 sends an EAP-notification back to the UE with the RAND
value along with MAC. If MAC validation is successful then based on the RAND
value, UE derives the keys. A 4-way handshake is executed (see IEEE 802.11)
which establishes a security context between the WLAN AP and the UE that is
used to protect unicast and multicast traffic over the air.
Once the procedure is complete, the TNGF sends the new reauth Id to UE over
the secure interface that UE can use for the next interaction.
NOTE 2: If the UE gets the new IP configurations from TNAP2, then the UE
updates the SA address using an IKE informational request
\"UPDATE_SA_ADDRESS\" to TNGF for further communications.
#### 6.5.2.2 Key derivation
Figure 6.5.2.2-1
Derivation of KTNAP\' from KTNGF during mobility use the following input
parameters.
\- FC = 0xWX
\- P1 = RAND,
\- L1 = length of RAND (i.e. 0x00 0x04)
The input key KEY shall be KTNGF.
When KTNAP\' is derived in Mobility, and RAND shall be generated and shared
with UE.
### 6.5.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses KI#4.
UE and TNGF performs mutual authentication during UE TNAP mobility without
performing the full authentication.
Impact on the nodes/UE:
Table 6.5.3-1
+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | Node/UE/NF | solution | +============+========================================================+ | UE | - Derive new TNAP keys | | | | | | - receive reauth Id from TNGF and provide the same as | | | NAI to next TNAP | +------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | TNGF | - Derive new TNAP keys | | | | | | - provide reauth id and RAND to UE after | | | authentication. | | | | | | - need to find a stored UE context based on Reauth-ID | +------------+--------------------------------------------------------+
## 6.6 Solution #6: TNAP mobility solution with count
### 6.6.1 Introduction {#introduction-6}
This solution addresses the security issue due to TNAP mobility defined in
KI#4.
### 6.6.2 Solution details
#### 6.6.2.1 Procedure
Figure 6.6.2-1: TNAP mobility procedure
1) UE is connected to TNAP#1 via the procedure defined in TS 33.501 figure
7A.2.1-1. Once authenticated, TNGF sends the reauth Id to UE over the
protected interface. Reauth Id can be a generated as \\
\.
Note 1: TNGF Id could be TNGF address (like fqdn)already defined by SA2.
2, 3. UE decides to move from TNAP#1 to TNAP#2 and creates an L2 connection
with TNAP#2.
4, 5, 6. TNAP#2 sends the L2 EAP-Request for Identity towards the UE and the
UE responds back with an L2 EAP-Response with Identity and a
TNAP_Mobility_Indication flag. The TNAP2 forwards the EAP response with reauth
Id and the TNAP_Mobility_Indication flag towards TNGF..
7, 8. Based on the reauth Id, TNFG identifies the UE and retrieves the context
and checks if the stored context in step 1 is valid and then derives the
TNAP\' keys as described in clause 6.6.2.2 of the present document. The TNGF
responds back to TNAP#2 with the generated key. In TNAP#2, the newly received
TNAP key is considered as Pairwise Master Key (PMK).
9, 10, 11. The TNAP#2 sends an EAP-notification back to the UE with the update
flag. Based on the flag, UE updates the counter and derives the keys. A 4-way
handshake is executed (see IEEE 802.11) which establishes a security context
between the WLAN AP and the UE that is used to protect unicast and multicast
traffic over the air.
Once the procedure is complete, the TNGF sends the new reauth Id to UE over
the secure interface that UE can use for the next interaction.
NOTE 2: If the UE gets the new IP configurations from TNAP2, then the UE
updates the SA address using IKE informational request \"UPDATE_SA_ADDRESS\"
to TNGF for further communications.
#### 6.6.2.2 Key derivation
Figure 6.6.2.2-1
Derivation of KTNAP\' from KTNGF during mobility use the following input
parameters.
\- FC = 0xWX
\- P1 = COUNT,
\- L1 = length of COUNT (i.e. 0x00 0x04)
The input key KEY shall be KTNGF.
In this case, the COUNT shall be the downlink NAS COUNT of the Non-3GPP
access.
### 6.6.3 Evaluation
TNGF and UE: Generate new keys based on the count value and handle the reauth
Id.
TNAP: use updated keys for the mobility scenario
NOTE: Count desynchronization issue is not addressed in this solution.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Using Fast BSS Transition for TNAP mobility
### 6.7.1 Introduction {#introduction-7}
This solution addresses key issue #4: Security aspect of TNAP mobility.
### 6.7.2 Solution details
#### 6.7.2.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the TNAP mobility using the Fast BSS Transition
protocol [6].
The Fast BSS Transition (FT) key hierarchy is established based on the Master
Session Key (MSK) by the R0 Key Holder (R0KH) that is collocated with the
802.1X authenticator as specified in [aa]. To support the Fast BSS Transition,
the entity that will hold the root key needs to obtain a 256 bit key (K~FT~)
from the TNGF, which is then used as an input key to create the FT key
hierarchy .
The key K~FT~ is derived from K~TNGF~ using fixed inputs similar to the
derivation of K~TNAP~ from K~TNGF~ described in Annex A.22 of TS 33.501 [4]
but using a new Usage type distinguisher, e.g. 0x03.
The key K~FT~ is used to create the FT key hierarchy specified in 802.11 [6].
Specifically, K~FT~ is used as Master PMK (MPMK) that is used as an input key
for R0-Key-Data derivation. With the R0-Key-Data, the FT key hierarchy is
established In effect, K~FT~ links the 5G key hierarchy and FT key hierarchy
as it is derived from a key in the 5G key hierarchy and being used to create
the FT key hierarchy (see Figure 6.7.2-1 for more details).
When UE switches to a new TNAP within the same mobility domain identified by
the Mobility domain identifier (MDID), the UE performs the fast BSS transition
procedure as specified in [6].
The entity that has received K~FT~ from the TNGF takes the role of PMK R0 Key
Holder (R0KH) that holds the key, PMK-R0. The R0KH derives PMK-R1 from PMK-R0
and provides it to the new AP (i.e., TNAP in TNAN) during the FT procedure.
Figure 6.7.2-1 shows how the 5G and FT key hierarchies link together in this
solution.
Figure 6.7.2-1: Link between the 5G and FT key hierarchies
NOTE: The TNGF can send both K~TNAP~ and K~FT~ to the entity that holds the
root key of the FT key hierarchy as an MSK. The TNGF sets the MSK to K~TNAP~
\|\| K~FT~, where MSK is 512 bits and the K~TNAP~ and K~FT~ are 256 bits. The
TNGF sends the MSK using existing mechanisms.
#### 6.7.2.2 Details of FT
This clause contains a brief overview of the FT security procedure with no
attempt to give the complete details (see [6] for those details). None of the
details need to be changed by the proposed solution.
The FT capability is advertised in the Beacon and Probe Response frames by
including the MDIE. The MDIE is advertised in the Beacon and Probe Response
frames to indicate the Mobility Domain ID (MDID), FT capability, and the FT
policy.
The key PMK-R0 and PMK-R1 are identified by PMKR0Name and PMKR1Name
respectively. Each AP gets a different PMK-R1 provided to it to secure the
communications between the UE and AP. Finally, nonces (SNonce from UE and
ANonce from the AP) are used to ensure freshness of the traffic key (PTK)
between the UE and AP.
Figure 6.7.2.2-1 shows a UE attaching to the first AP that results in
establishing the FT key hierarchy.
Figure 6.7.2.2-1: Initial UE association
Step 1: The UE wants to connect to the AP that is advertising FT capability
through inserting the MDE into Beacons and ProbeResponses. The MDE informs
about that the AP is FT capable, the mobility domain ID and the potential
support of FT over DS.
Step 2: The UE and AP exchange 802.11 Authentication Request and Response.
Step 3: The UE sends a (Re)association Request to the AP with a MDE included
indicating that the UE wants to perform FT within the indicated mobility
domain.
Step 4: The AP responds with a (Re)association Response including the MDE and
both R1KH-ID and R0KH-ID, if it agrees with the proposed FT adoption
Steps 5a-c: EAP authentication is run and results in the UE and R0KH both
having PMK-R0 and PMKR0Name. The AP is provided with PMK and the UE calculates
PMK.
Step 6: The 4-way handshake is performed between the UE and AP.
Step 7: The UE and AP start securely exchanging data.
The important takeaway from the initial attachment is that the UE and R0KH
both have PMK-R0 and the PMKR0Name and the UE has the R0KH-ID.
Figure 6.7.2.2-2 shows AP mobility using the over the air procedure.
Figure 6.7.2.2-2: AP mobility
Steps 0: The UE has connected to an AP and established the FT key hierarchy as
shown in Figure 6.7.2.2-1.
Step 1: The UE finds another AP (called target AP) advertising FT capability
and the same mobility domain. The UE sends an 802.11 Authentication Request to
the Target AP including MDE, R0KH-ID, PMKR0Name and SNonce.
Step 2: The target AP queries the R0KH for the required PMK-R1and fetches the
PMK-R1 from the R0KH using R0KH-ID and PMKR0Name.
Step 3: The target AP sends an 802.11 Authentication Response to the UE
including ANonce and R1KH-ID.
Step 4: The UE calculates PMKR1Name and initiates its reassociation to the
target AP continuing the establishment of a PTK for the new association
Step 5: The UE sends a Reassociation Request including PMKR1Name, ANonce,
SNonce and MIC. The target AP checks the MIC and if successful installs the
derived PTK for the subsequent data exchanges.
Step 6: The target AP sends a Reassociation Response including ANonce, SNonce
and MIC. The UE checks the MIC and, if successful, installs likewise the PTK
for the subsequent data exchanges.
Step 7: The UE and AP start securely exchanging data.
### 6.7.3 Evaluation
This solution requires new functionality of deriving a new key from an
existing key in the UE and TNGF. This new key is then used to create the root
key of the FT key hierarchy and hence allow the establishment of security
between the UE and a new TNAP using the existing FT procedures in case of TNAP
mobility. When the UE transitions from one TNAP to a new TNAP, the FT
procedures enable the UE to establish a security association with the new TNAP
using only 2 round trips of messages between the UE and the new TNAP.
The R0KH is part of the TNAN.
The relationship between MDID and TNGF ID will be determined in the normative
phase.
The procedures in the solution are executed when the TNAN supports FT.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Security Establishment for TNAP Mobility
### 6.8.1 Introduction {#introduction-8}
The solutions address Key Issue #4.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
The solution describes to provide UE with TNGF ID and exchange freshness
parameter (such as nonce to facilitate challenge and common security
establishment between UE and Trusted Non-3GPP Access Network i.e., TNGF)
during the Initial registration procedure (i.e., following a successful
authentication for trusted non-3GPP access) as shown in Figure 6.8.2-1.
Further if a UE connected to TNGF via a TNAP (i.e., say TNAP 1) decides to
move to another TNAP (i.e., say TNAP 2), the solution propose to use the
following Security Establishment procedure for TNAP Mobility shown in Figure
6.8.2-2 as described below.
Figure 6.8.2-1: Authentication for trusted non-3GPP access
The actual registration procedure for trusted non-3GPP access steps related to
6.8.2-1 are described in TS 23.502, clause 4.12a.2.2 and the related
authentication steps are shown in TS 33.501, clause 7A.2.1. Therefore, the
necessary enhancements for steps 10b -- 10e are described below.
During EAP-5G procedure (i.e., executed in steps 4-10), the additional access
parameters are exchanged between the UE and the TNGF at step 10: The TNGF
sends TNGF address and TNGF Nonce (TNonce) to UE in step 10b. Further the UE
sends to TNGF, a UE Nonce (UNonce) in step 10c. The UE and the TNGF can derive
a Reauth-ID for the UE from TNGF key using the inputs parameters such as TNGF-
ID, Nonce from TNGF, Nonce from UE.
Figure 6.8.2-2: Security Establishment procedure for TNAP Mobility
The steps shown in Figure 6.8.2-2 is described as follows:
1\. The UE established a layer-2 (L2) connection with TNAP2.
2\. The TNAP2 initiates an EAP session as usually by requesting the UE
identity.
3\. The UE provides a Network Access Identifier (NAI) containing username =
Reauth-ID and realm = nai.5gc.tngf\.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org. The Reauth-ID was derived as
described for figure 6.8.2-1 and the TNGF-ID was received when the UE was
first connected to TNGF, e.g. with an Initial Registration via TNGF. The UE
provides username = Reauth-ID because the UE does not want to initiate NAS
signaling with 5GC, but it wants to reauthenticate with the TNGF.
4\. The TNAP1 selects TNGF based on the TNG1-ID in the received realm and
forwards the NAI to TNGF.
5\. The TNGF finds a stored UE context containing the received Reauth-ID,
thus, it determines that the UE is a known UE which requests reauthentication.
Therefore, it initiates the following steps. If the TNGF cannot find a stored
UE context containing the received Reauth-ID, then the TNGF sends either an
error response to UE, it initiates the signalling procedure related to normal
authentication for trusted non-3GPP access as described in TS 33.501 clause
7A.2.1.
The UE context was created in the TNGF when the UE performed an initial
registration (see Figure 6.8.2-1) via TNGF.
6\. The TNGF sends a 5G-Challenge packet to UE which contains a TNonce value
and a Message Authentication Code1 (MAC1) derived by using the TNGF key stored
in TNGF.
7\. The UE derives an expected MAC1 (XMAC1) using TNGF key stored in UE, and
TNonce and compares XMAC1 with the received MAC1. If they match, the TNGF is
authenticated by the UE.
8\. The UE generates a UNonce and derives a MAC2 using TNGF key stored in UE,
and with UNonce and TNonce.
9\. The UE responds with a 5G-Challenge containing UNonce, TNonce and MAC2.
10\. The TNGF derives an expected MAC2 (XMAC2) using TNGF and with UNonce and
TNonce. Compares XMAC2 with the received MAC2. If they match, the UE is
authenticated by TNGF.
11\. The TNGF derives a fresh Reauth-ID for the UE, e.g. by using TNGF key
stored in TNGF, TNGF-ID, TNonce and UNonce. In addition, the TNGF derives a
new TNAP key by using the TNGF key stored in TNGF, the TNGF-ID, the TNonce and
UNonce values.
12\. The TNGF completes the EAP-5G session by sending an EAP-Success packet to
UE and the new TNAP key to TNAP2.
13\. The UE derives a new Reauth-ID by using the TNGF key stored in UE, TNGF-
ID, TNonce and UNonce. If the UE and the TNGF share the same TNGF key, then
the Reauth-ID derived independently in the UE and in the TNGF will be the
same. In addition, the UE derives also a new TNAP key similarly to the TNGF
(as in step 11).
14\. The new TNAP key is applied to establish over-the-air security between
the UE and TNAP2. If needed, the UE may receive new IP configuration
information (e.g. a new IP address).
15\. The UE resumes communication with TNGF via TNAP2.
### 6.8.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses KI#4 and it enables the following aspects:
UE and TNGF performs mutual authentication during UE TNAP mobility as part of
re-authentication by exchanging nonces and verifying a related MAC.
Further impacts related to the solution includes:
For UE TNAP mobility scenario, the UE and TNGF derives new TNAP key using the
previously established security context (from the initial primary
authentication) i.e., TNGF key and nonce(s) as a freshness parameter. The UE
and TNGF need to derive a Re-auth ID, the details of the inputs is up to the
normative work. UE need to construct NAI using Re-auth ID and TNGF
information. The TNGF need to find a stored UE context based on Reauth-ID.
TNGF: Need to provide Nonce, TNGF ID to UE during initial registration
procedure. Alternatively, an existing TNGF address can be used TNGF ID.
## 6.9 Solution #9: AUN3 device supporting 5G Key hierarchy (i.e. N5CW)
### 6.9.1 Introduction {#introduction-9}
This solution addresses the authentication of AUN3 devices supporting 5G key
hierarchy(i.e. N5CW) based on the EAP_AKA prime method.
### 6.9.2 Solution details
#### 6.9.2.1 Procedure
Figure 6.9.2.1-1: EAP-AKA prime based AUN3 (i.e. N5CW) authentication
1a. The AUN3 device establishes a WLAN connection with the WLAN Access Network
(AN), using procedures specified in IEEE 802.11.
1b, 1c. L2 connection and EAP identity retrieval are performed. AUN3 device
sends back EAP Response/Identity message. The AUN3 device uses SUCI in NAI
format (i.e., username\@realm format as specified in clause 28.7.3 of TS
23.003) or 5G-GUTI.
2a, 3a, 3b, 3c. If the RG is an FN-RG, the FN-RG sends the EAP
response/Identity including the NAI to the W-AGF. The W-AGF creates a
registration request on behalf of the AUN3 device with a new indication that
the registration is on behalf of an AUN3 device where protection is required
for the interface between the AUN3 device and RG. The W-AGF selects the
AMF/SEAF. The W-AGF sends to the AMF/SEAF a registration request on behalf of
the AUN3 device. The registration request includes the NAI SUCI, wireline
network name if available, and the new indication. The same message content is
forwarded from AMF to AUSF and then from AUSF to UDM.
2b, 3b, 3c. If the RG is a 5G-RG, the 5G-RG sends a NAS Registration Request
message to the AMF, including the received SUCI and the new indicator for
encryption required for AUN3 device.
4\. Authentication procedure for EAP-AKA\' is performed as defined in the
clause 6.1.3.1 of TS 33.501 [4].
5\. Based on the indication in step 3, AMF derives the WAGF key.
6\. The AMF sends NAS Security Mode Command mode and provides the WAGF key
(KWAGF\') to W-AGF.
7\. W-AGF/RG derive the KRG as PMK key from the WAGF key (KWAGF\').
8\. RG and AUN3 device will derive WLAN keys from PMK.
9\. The AUN3 device performs a 4-way handshake to establish a secure
connection with the WLAN AN.
#### 6.9.2.2 Key derivation
##### 6.9.2.2.1 WAGF\' key for AUN3 device (i.e. N5CW)
When deriving the keys KWAGF\' for AUN3 from KAMF then the following
parameters should be used input S to the KDF.
\- FC = 0x\
\- P0 = Access type distinguisher
\- L0 = length of Access type distinguisher (i.e. 0x00 0x01)
The access type distinguisher shall be set to the value for \'non-3GPP (0x02)
when deriving KWAGF\'.
##### 6.9.2.2.2 KRG key
When deriving a KRG key from KWAGF\' the following parameters shall be used to
form the input S to the KDF.
\- FC = 0x\
\- P0 = Usage type distinguisher
\- L0 = length of Usage type distinguisher (i.e. 0x00 0x01)
Usage type distinguisher value is set to 0x02.
### 6.9.3 Evaluation
_This solution meets both the requirements mentioned in the KI for the AUN3
device that support 5G key hierarchy. i.e._
\- 5GC should be able to authenticate the AUN3 device behind RG.
\- The 5GS should provide a means for the AUN3 device and RG to get a shared
key that could be used to provide protection of the interface between them.
**_Impact on the entities_**
_AUSF/UDM: New indication received for AUN3 devices and select authentication
algorithm accordingly._
AMF: generates the keys and provides the same to RG/W-AGF.
_RG/W-AGF: receives new key material from AMF and then derives the PMK._
_UE: derive the new keys._
## 6.10 Solution #10: TNAP mobility solution without full authentication
### 6.10.1 Introduction {#introduction-10}
This solution addresses key issue #4: Security aspect of TNAP mobility.
In this solution, the TNAP is the EAP authenticator and the TNGF is the
authentication server. The full authentication means the UE runs an EAP-5G
authentication with the TNGF and run a primary authentication with the AUSF
that is encapsulated in the EAP-5G authentication. Compared to the full
authentication, this procedure does not need to run the primary authentication
with AUSF, thus it is referred to as the non-full(without full) authentication
procedure.
### 6.10.2 Solution details
{width="5.826388888888889in" height="6.269444444444445in"}
Figure 6.10.2-1: TNAP mobility procedure
1-3. UE connected to TNAP#1 by performing the procedure defined in TS33.501
7A.2.1 step1- step19.
4\. The TNGF knows the UE reconnect to the TNGF again, but via TNAP#2 by
receiving the same UE ID in the previous connection. The UE ID is the SUCI or
5G-GUTI used in step1.
5\. TNGF finds the UE security context based on the UE ID, and determines to
perform re-authentication procedure based on UE ID. The TNGF generates
K~TNGF~\' that is equivalent to the EAP 5G reauthentication root key by using
the method in A.22 of TS 33.501 [4] with the usage type distinguisher set to
0x03, with the input key K~TNGF~
Note: Whether the additional key KTNGF is needed is not addressed in this
solution.
6\. TNGF sends EAP-REQ message to start the re-authentication procedure, a,
Nonce-TNGF and the HMAC are carried in this message. HMAC is generated by
using fresh parameter and K~TNGF~\'. TNAP#2 forward this message to UE.
7\. UE finds the K~TNGF~ by using TNGF ID in step 4, and generates K~TNGF~\'
by using the same method in step5, and verifies the HMAC. if the verification
passes, perform next steps.
8\. UE sends EAP-RES message, Nonce-UE and HMAC are carried in AN-Parameters
of this message, HMAC is generated by using Nonce-UE parameter and K~TNGF~\' ,
TNAP#2 forward this message to TNGF.
9\. TNGF verifies the HMAC, if the verification passes, TNGF generates
K~TNAP~\' by using method defined in TS 33.501 clause A.22.
10\. TNGF sends EAP-Success message to TNAP#2, K~TNAP~\' generated in step 9
is carried in this message. TNAP#2 forward EAP-Success message to UE.
11\. After receiving EAP-Success message, UE generates K~TNAP~\' by using the
same method in step 9.
12\. UE and TNAP#2 establish security association by using the newly generated
K~TNAP~\'.
13\. TS 33.501 clause 7A.2.1 step 12- step 19.
### 6.10.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirement of KI #4 by generating a new
K~TNGF~\'.
This solution impacts UE and TNGF without affecting other NFs.
This solution proposes to use the SUCI or 5G-GUTI used in the IDi of IPsec as
the key identifier in the non-full authentication procedure to locate the key
K~TNGF~. In case the UE used SUCI in the primary authentication it need to
store the SUCI and use it when it wants to TNAP mobility.
## 6.11 Solution #11: Security of N3IWF/TNGF reallocation
### 6.11.1 Introduction {#introduction-11}
This solution addresses KI#3 and is built on solution#15 in TR 23.700-17 [2]
V0.3.0, but only includes the N3IWF Relocation case. In this solution, an
IPsec tunnel is setup before initiating the UE policy Association
Establishment procedure and before the AMF sends a Registration Reject
message. Please note that, according to TS 33.501 [4], the NAS message is sent
over IPsec tunnel. Since the conclusion in TR 23.700-17 [2] has concluded that
TNGF Relocation uses the same manner as N3IWF, then the solution in clause
6.11.2 can also be applied to TNGF Reallocation case.
### 6.11.2 Solution details
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="5.790277777777778in"}
Figure 6.11.2-1: N3IWF Relocation procedure
NOTE: The solution can be reused to TNGF relocation case by replacing N3IWF
with TNGF.
1\. UE connects to S-N3IWF and sends the Registration Request message to the
AMF as defined from step 1a to step 6b in clause 7.2.1 of TS 33.501 [4] and as
defined from step 1 to step 6b in clause 7A.2.1 of TS 33.501 [4].
2\. If the Registration Request contains a SUCI, AMF initiates primary
authentication. If the UE contains a 5G-GUTI, and the AMF successfully
verified the integrity protection of the Registration Request message, whether
the AMF initiates primary authentication and NAS SMC procedure the same as
what is defined in TS 33.501 [4].
3\. The AMF determines to use T-N3IWF as described in TR 23.700-17 [2].
4\. The AMF generate a K~NI3WF~, and sends it to the S-N3IWF for setting up
the IPsec as defined from step 12 to step 15 in clause 7.2.1 of TS 33.501 [4]
and as defined from step 10a to step 14 in clause 7A.2.1 of TS 33.501 [4].
5\. The same as step 9 described in solution#15 of TR 23.700-12 [2].
6\. The same as step 10a described in solution#15 of TR 23.700-12 [2]. The UE
and the AMF keep the security context. The AMF includes a new 5G-GUTI in the
Registration Reject message.
7\. After successfully verifying the integrity protection of the message in
steps 5 or 6, the UE re-registered to the AMF using T-N3IWF. The Registration
Request message contains the new 5G-GUTI and is protected by the security
context generated in step 2, or previously generated before step 1.
8\. If no relocation is needed again, the AMF proceeds with the rest of
procedures defined in clause 7.2.1 of TS 33.501 [4] and clause 7A.2.1 of TS
33.501 [4]. Particularly, the AMF generates a new K~NI3WF~ for setting up the
IPsec tunnel.
9\. The AMF sends NAS Registration Accept message to the UE.
### 6.11.3 Evaluation
The solution proposes to establish the IPsec tunnel before sending the
redirection information (e.g. new SSID and associated Requested NSSAI) in the
Registration Reject message. In this way, the security between the UE and the
AMF is established and the redirection information can be protected.
## 6.12 Solution #12: Authentication of UE connecting to RG by NSWO
### 6.12.1 Introduction {#introduction-12}
This solution addresses Key Issue #5 on the authentication of UE connecting to
RG, by using the NSWO procedure.
### 6.12.2 Solution details
A UE connecting to the 5G-RG or FN-RG via WLAN, in the case that the WLAN
supports IEEE 802.1X, can use the NSWO authentication.
### 6.12.3 Evaluation
This solution meets the requirement that 5GS shall support authentication of
UE connecting to RG using 5G credentials.
## 6.13 Solution #13: TNAP mobility using modified ERP
### 6.13.1 Introduction {#introduction-13}
This solution targets key issue #4 Security aspect of TNAP mobility without
full authentication.
In earlier versions of TS 23.502 [7] it was specified that EAP re-
authentication (ERP) may be used for TNAP mobility in trusted access. This
would enable UEs to move from one access point to another without performing a
full primary authentication. This option was removed from Rel-16 and Rel-17
since the use of ERP required this to be supported by AUSF and AMF which had
not been specified in stage 3 specifications.
In short, it was specified that AUSF should generate the key rRK from EMSK and
send it to the TNGF. The TNGF would then derive further keys from rRK, as
specified in RFC 6696 [8] also shown below.
rRK
\|
+--------+--------+
\| \| \|
rIK rMSK1 ...rMSKn
where
**rRK** is the re-authentication Root Key, derived from the EMSK (from the EAP
authentication).
**rIK** is the re-authentication Integrity Key, derived from the rRK. Used for
the integrity protection of all messages between the peer and the ERP server.
**rMSK** is re-authentication MSK, derived from the rRK. There are multiple
keys of this type (rMSK1, ...rMSKn). These keys are derived by the ERP server
and the peer.
### 6.13.2 Solution details
This solution proposes to reuse ERP for reauthentication but modify the method
of how the root key (rRK) is derived. Instead of deriving the key rRK from
EMSK, the rRK is derived from K~TNGF~.
Section 4.2 of RFC 6696 [8] specifying ERP, the properties for rRK are listed:
_The rRK has the following properties. These properties apply to the_
_rRK regardless of the parent key used to derive it._
_o The length of the rRK MUST be equal to the length of the parent_
_key used to derive it._
_o The rRK is to be used only as a root key for re-authentication and_
_never used to directly protect any data._
_o The rRK is only used for the derivation of the rIK and rMSK as_
_specified in this document._
_o The rRK MUST remain on the peer and the server that derived it and_
_MUST NOT be transported to any other entity._
_o The lifetime of the rRK is never greater than that of its parent_
_key. The rRK is expired when the parent key expires and MUST be_
_removed from use at that time._
The above properties do not require that rRK is derived from EMSK, nor does it
require that the rRK is derived by the EAP server.
To fulfil the above properties, it is possible to derive the key rRK from
K~TNGF~ as long as the other keys derived from K~TNGF~ are separated from the
rRK and that the rRK is not used for anything else than further key
derivation. The current key hierarchy for trusted access is displayed in
Figure 6.13.2-1. A proposal for how the key hierarchy can be made to reflect
the needs is provided in Figure 6.13.2-2.
In this solution, the key rRK, is derived from K~TNGF~. The derivation of rRK
is performed according to section 4.1 of RFC 6696 [8] replacing the input key
EMSK with the key K~TNGF~. The lower layer keys (rIK, rMSK1, etc) are derived
from rRK according to RFC 6696 [8].
The difference is that no extra key needs to be transferred from the AMF and
no ERP requests needs to be sent.
Another difference compared to ERP is that in standard ERP, the AUSF would
need to receive an indication to derive rRK during primary authentication.
This is called the bootstrapping steps of ERP. With the proposed modification
however, a similar bootstrapping is not needed since the rRK will be based on
K~TNGF~ that is anyway present in the TNGF. This means that the bootstrapping
is implicit rather than explicit. The rRK can be derived by TNGF once a
mobility request is received or at any time when it is convenient.
Figure 6.13.2-1: Current key hierarchy for trusted non-3GPP access
Figure 6.13.2-2: Proposal for updated key hierarchy for trusted non-3GPP
access to support TNAP mobility
NOTE 1: Initial UE identifier between UE and target TNAP, and its protection
is not addressed by the present document.
NOTE 2: Session correlation at the TNGF when the target TNAP contacts the TNGF
is not addressed by the present document.
### 6.13.3 Evaluation
This solution modifies the key derivation in ERP.
The procedures are based on K~TNGF~ instead of EMSK.
The solution impacts TNGF and UE.
NOTE 1: Initial UE identifier between UE and target TNAP, and its protection
is not addressed by the present document.
NOTE 2: Session correlation at the TNGF when the target TNAP contacts the TNGF
is not addressed by the present document.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Key issue #1: Authentication of AUN3 device behind RG and supporting
EAP
It is concluded that solutions #2, #3, and #4 are used as the basis for
normative specifications for authentication of AUN3 devices behind RG, where
the AUN3 devices do not support 5G key hierarchy. More specifically,
\- Solution #2 is used as the basis for PLMN
\- Solution #3 and #4 are used as the basis for SNPN.
The AUN3 device supporting the 5G key hierarchy is also called the N5CW
device. It is concluded that solution #9 is used as a basis for the normative
specification.
## 7.2 Key issue #2: Security aspect of slice information exposure of
N3IWF/TNGF to UE
_SA2 TR 23700-17 was fully concluded for the KI2, where SA2 preferred UE-
centric solutions. However, the information is delivered to the UE via PCF
policies (ANDSP/WLANSP), which is protected by NAS security._
_KI#2 was proposed on the basis of solution 13 and solution 14 in TR 23.700-17
where unprotected slice information is shared between UE and the network.
However, Solution 13 and Solution 14 have not been chosen for normative work
in TR 23.700-17, hence this key issue does not need any normative work._
## 7.3 Key issue #3: Security aspect of slice information exposure of
N3IWF/TNGF
For both TNGF and N3IWF, solution #11 is the basis for normative work.
However, whether IPSec is needed, or NAS SMC is sufficient is to be decided in
the normative phase.
## 7.4 Key issue #4: Security aspect of TNAP mobility without full
authentication
No Conclusion.
## 7.5 Key issue #5: Authentication of UE connecting to RG using NSWO
It is concluded that solution #12 is used as the basis for normative work.
#