# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need Not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies some Zero Trust Security principles that can be
applied to the 5G System core network. The present document will further
analyse potential threats, study necessary security enhancements, and document
various decisions related to solutions as to be adopted or not adopted after
evaluating the associated risks and the complexity. The present document
specifically covers the following aspects:
\- Analyse the 3GPP 5GS security scenarios related to the 5G core network that
may benefit from a Zero Trust principle and identify the associated threats.
\- Analyse the suitable Zero Trust security mechanisms (i.e. for enabling
trust evaluation and ensuring trust) to address the threats identified where
potential security risk exists.
\- Provide recommendations for support of additional Zero Trust principles in
5GS security architecture with suitable future normative work directions,
where such recommendations may include 3GPP 5G security requirements,
technical enhancements, and procedural enhancements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] NIST Special Publication 800-207: \"Zero Trust Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TR 33.738: \"Study on security aspects of enablers for network
automation for the 5G system phase 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network layer
security\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System(5GS) to support
network data analytics services\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.520: \"5G System; Network Data Analytics Services; Stage 3\".
[8] NIST Special Publication 800-92: \"Guide to Computer Security Log
Management\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
TS 33.501 [4] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and TS 33.501 [4] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Void
# 5 Evaluation of the current security mechanisms
## 5.1 Tenet Evaluation Details
### 5.1.1 Tenet #1: Resources
#### 5.1.1.1 Description
According to Tenet 1 in NIST SP 800-207 [2], it is expected that a zero trust
architecture adheres to the principle that \"all data sources and computing
resources are considered resources\".
Identifying resources, and hence what needs protection in an enterprise would
be one of the most important steps in a zero trust plan. In this regard, Tenet
1 provides a definition for what is to be considered as a resource. In the
context of the 5G Core any NF and their services are resources.
#### 5.1.1.2 Relevant security mechanisms
This tenet provides a definition for what needs protection in an enterprise
network and serves rather as deployment guidance than a technical requirement.
Therefore, this clause is not applicable for this tenet.
#### 5.1.1.3 Evaluation
Any Network Functions and their services in the 5G Core are to be considered
as a resource in the context of a zero trust deployment plan.
Besides that, no additional security requirement related to 5G Core are needed
for Tenet 1.
### 5.1.2 Tenet #2: All communication is secured regardless of network
location
#### 5.1.2.1 Description
According to the NIST tenet 2 in NIST SP 800-207 [2], \'_Network location
alone does not imply trust. Access requests from assets located on enterprise-
owned network infrastructure (e.g. inside a legacy network perimeter) must
meet the same security requirements as access requests and communication from
any other nonenterprise-owned network. In other words, trust should not be
automatically granted based on the device being on enterprise network
infrastructure. All communication should be done in the most secure manner
available, protect confidentiality and integrity, and provide source
authentication._ \'.
The relevant principle for 5GS core network is that all communications should
be done in the most secure manner available, such as with confidentiality,
integrity, and source authentication (as applicable). That implies there is
default trust inside a secure domain. As a result, except supporting secure
communications, other aspects mentioned in the tenet-2 is not applicable to
the telecommunications network.
#### 5.1.2.2 Relevant security mechanisms
All the security mechanisms specified in TS 33.501 [4] pertaining to SBA
communication such as in clause 13.1 as well as non-service based interfaces
involving an entity in the 5G Core network such as clause 9, 12, etc.
#### 5.1.2.3 Evaluation
In general, the tenet is about communication security. From this perspective,
the 5G Core security standards provide two means to protect communication in
and with the 5G Core. On the network layer, there is the NDS/IP framework,
relying on IPsec, specified in TS 33.210 [5]. On the transport layer there is
TLS for which the profile is also captured in TS 33.210 [5]. Both security
protocols provide integrity, confidentiality, and replay protection. NDS/IP is
applicable to all interfaces involving the 5G Core since they are all IP
based. TLS is on the other hand applicable to all service-based ones since
they are HTTP based. IPsec has the advantage of providing topology hiding but
TLS whenever applicable can alleviate the dependency on perimeter security
should the IPsec tunnel be terminated at the perimeter. With TLS the operator
can further push the protection end points deeper within the perimeter.
Based on this analysis, no further actions are needed with respect to this
tenet since the 5G Core standards provide the necessary means to secure the
communication with and within the 5G Core and also independently of the
location of the end points.
Except supporting secure communications, other aspects mentioned in the
tenet-2 is not applicable to the telecommunications network.
### 5.1.3 Tenet #3: Access granularity
#### 5.1.3.1 Description
According to tenet 3 of NIST SP 800-207 [2], a zero-trust architecture has to
adhere to the principle that \"Access to individual enterprise resources is
granted on a per-session basis\". This tenet is about access authorization to
resources.
#### 5.1.3.2 Relevant security mechanisms
All the security mechanisms specified in TS 33.501 [4] related to SBA
security.
#### 5.1.3.3 Evaluation
Authorization is one of the most important mechanisms for protecting
enterprise resources. From this aspect, 5GC indeed provides the necessary
authorization and authentication mechanisms for NF to be deployed in the
operator network.
In the 5GC, one can assimilate the notion of session from NIST SP 800-207 [2]
to the TLS session, considering that TLS is used for the SBI interface
protection as defined in TS 33.501 [4]. In fact, NF consumers and producers
are first required to mutually authenticate during the TLS session
establishment via certificates. Then the NF consumer may be required to
present an OAuth2.0 authorization token to the producer in the service request
within the TLS tunnel. These two mechanisms provide the necessary tools for an
operator to control authorization at almost a service invocation level. In
facts, via the claims in the OAuth tokens, an operator can restrict access to
single instances, to particular services, to particular type of producers, to
indicate the restrictions for different resources in 5GC NFs, etc. In
addition, via the optional \"additional scope\", the operator can further
restrict the allowed resources and the allowed actions. This means that
besides the per-TLS session authorization, 5GC core network provides much
concrete granularity on the authorization based on the OAuth 2.0 mechanism.
However, the usage of such security mechanisms is left to the discretion of
the operator and will depend on the deployment context. Nevertheless, based on
the current standards, the operator of a 5G Core has the means to impose very
granular and tight restrictions for access to resources. Therefore, no further
actions from standard perspective are identified for this tenet.
### 5.1.4 Tenet #4: Resource access
#### 5.1.4.1 Description
According to tenet 4 of NIST SP 800-207 [2], a zero trust architecture has to
adhere to the principle that \"_Access to resources is determined by dynamic
policy-including the observable state of client identity, application/service,
and the requesting asset-and may include other behavioural and environmental
attributes... Environmental attributes may include such factors as requestor
network location, time, reported active attacks, etc._ \".
The tenet in NIST SP 800-207 [2] describes the access to resources by clients
which is related to a user or service, but the user (being part of UE) is not
in the scope of this study. Nevertheless, without fully assimilating NFs to
users, one can evaluate this tenet from the perspective of NFs being clients
when acting as service consumers in the 5G Core.
#### 5.1.4.2 Relevant security mechanisms
The dynamic authorization mechanism based on OAuth2.0 specified in clause 13.4
of TS 33.501 [4].
#### 5.1.4.3 Evaluation
Before accessing services, an NF consumer may be required to obtain and
present an OAuth2.0 token as specified in TS 33.501 [4]. But the existing
Oauth based access control decisions do not consider the factors e.g. related
to behavioural aspects/reported attack. The specified requirements include
detailed provisions for the usage of the claims. In particular, the scope
claims, the optional \"additional scope\", the NF set ID, and slice
information provide the necessary flexibility to the operators to authorize
access at the desired granularity level. For example, the claims can be
changed to restrict the access to single instances, to particular services, to
particular type of producers, or even to restrict the allowed actions
depending on the operator\'s policy. Observe that such restrictions or
expansions of the scopes do not have to be static and can be changed
dynamically even at every service invocation.
NIST SP 800-207 [2] goes to a great extent into describing the use of
\"behavioral attributes\" as input to the access authorization process. On
this particular aspect, the current security standards do not take into
account this so far and do not provide any mechanisms for the definition and
the collection of such attributes for NFs. Nevertheless, should there be any
useful information collected from NFs for access authorization purposes, the
same information would be also equally relevant in a security monitoring
context. This is covered under the evaluation of Tenet 5 in clause 5.1.5.
### 5.1.5 Tenet #5: Maintain the integrity and security posture of all owned
and associated assets
#### 5.1.5.1 Description
According to tenet 5 in NIST SP 800-207 [2], \"The enterprise monitors and
measures the integrity and security posture of all owned and associated
assets\". Further description in NIST SP 800-207 [2] shows that this tenet
majorly covers operational security and evaluation of the asset\'s security
posture during evaluation of resource request. The tenet focuses on the
posture of all resources and devices. In the context of this study, resources
and devices can be assimilated to 5G System consisting of RAN, Core and UEs,
whereas the RAN and UE being out of scope. In general, for 5G System entities
the tenet recommends processes in place in order to ensure that the security
best practices and guidelines are followed as well as a robust security
monitoring and reporting solution in place.
All the associated assets connected to the network infrastructure are
continuously monitored to ensure that they remain configured in a state that
is known to be legitimate and secure. Therefore, the security challenge
\"Trust Nothing and Verify Everything\" is considered.
In the 5G core network, this principle refers to the data that can be
collected from the NFs that can be used to perform threat assessment as part
of continuous security monitoring and trust evaluation.
#### 5.1.5.2 Relevant security mechanism
The mechanisms specified in TS 23.288 [6] pertaining to data collection from
NFs, e.g. clause 6.2.2 and analytics, e.g. clauses 6.3 to 6.7.
There is currently no explicit standardized security monitoring within NWDAF
or in other NF.
The NWDAF defined in TS 29.520 [7] is used to preform network analytics on
data collected from user equipment, network functions, and Operations,
Administration and Maintenance (OAM) systems, etc.
Monitoring of the integrity and security posture of the 5G Core, that also
take into account other factors of the infrastructure, already exists today in
operators\' network infrastructure. These monitoring systems are out of scope
of the 3GPP specifications.
#### 5.1.5.3 Evaluation
In general, the tenet touches upon two aspects. The first one is related to
operation security. In this regard, it is expected that the proper security
practices and guidelines are followed during deployment and operations in
order to detect and mitigate vulnerabilities. This includes as described in
NIST SP 800-207 [2] regular updates, security patches, and mitigation plans
should there be a breach, etc. The enforcement of such practices depends
heavily on the implementation and deployment context, e.g. infrastructure,
enterprise network, etc. Therefore, it does not warrant the development of
standard solutions. Nevertheless, it is worth mentioning that the 3GPP
security standards in general are continuously evolving. In fact,
vulnerabilities in the security mechanisms revealed either by individual 3GPP
members or through one of the established CVD programs are always discussed
and remediated whenever deemed necessary.
The second aspect is related to monitoring. In this regard, TS 23.288 [6]
provides a framework for data collection services that can further enhance
whatever security monitoring solution an operator has. For NF monitoring, the
framework of TS 23.288 [6] includes analytics for performance monitoring in
clause 6.6 and load monitoring in clause 6.5. Such data could be used for
example to evaluate the state of the NF and whether it is behaving normally.
However, the framework in TS 23.288 [6] relies on the NWDAF, a 5G Core NF, to
leverage such services. From a higher-level perspective taking into account
the enterprise as a whole with the 5G Core being one part of it, such relevant
information exposed by the 5G Core NFs (if any) directly or indirectly via the
NWDAF is very likely to be used by an entity outside the 5G Core itself. This
could be the operator security monitoring solution or whatever current
proprietary solutions being used to achieve the same goals. Overall, this does
not warrant standardizing a 5G Core-specific security monitoring procedure.
NWDAF supports data collection and network monitoring for general aspects
related to NF load, performance etc. However, the NWDAF is a Network Function
in the 5G Service-Based Architecture itself. According to NIST SP 800‑92 [8],
sections 2.3.2 and 5.1.3, as well as similar guidance on security logs like,
it is important to separate and isolate security logs, So, a security
monitoring function can be outside the SBA and the security monitoring
function itself would be mostly proprietary.
It is worth noticing that on the one hand, such information could include data
like network traffic or logs that is not accessible at the SBA layer. This
type of data is not specific to the 5G system itself and highly dependent on
the deployment, e.g. platforms and technologies used. Therefore, for data
collection and sharing, care must be taken in order to follow the security
best practices such as the guidelines of NIST SP 800-92 [8] on security logs.
Therefore, based on this analysis, it is worth investigating whether there is
any additional information that could be exposed by the 5G Core NFs for
monitoring purposes. In the event of that this study determines that
strengthening of the external to 3GPP security monitoring is needed, with not
yet specified data collection, this information needs to be well defined and
explicitly specified to allow for interoperability and secure operation of
installed base.
Besides this no further actions are required.
### 5.1.6 Tenet #6: Access security
#### 5.1.6.1 Description
According to tenet 6 of NIST SP 800-207 [2], a zero-trust architecture has to
adhere to the principle that \"All resource authentication and authorization
are dynamic and strictly enforced before access is allowed\". The remaining
description of the tenet in NIST SP 800-207 [2] relates more to user access to
resources and related aspects such as credential management, activity
monitoring, etc. Clause 2.2 provides \"A Zero Trust View of a Network\" in
NIST SP 800-207 [2], which states that every asset must have its security
posture evaluated via a PEP before a request is granted to an enterprise-owned
resource (similar to tenet 6 above for assets as well as subjects). In the 5G
Core context, and without fully assimilating NFs to users, this tenet can be
evaluated from the perspective of NFs consumers. More precisely, how the
access by service consumers to the services of producers is secured.
#### 5.1.6.2 Relevant security mechanisms
All the security mechanisms specified in TS 33.501 [4] related to SBA
security, in particular clauses 13.3 and 13.4 on authentication and
authorization.
#### 5.1.6.3 Evaluation
According to the current security mechanisms, NF consumers and producers may
be first required to mutually authenticate during the TLS session
establishment via certificates. Then the NF consumer may be required to
present an OAuth2.0 authorization token to the producer in the service request
within the TLS tunnel. These two mechanisms provide the necessary tools for an
operator to control access to the service producer resources dynamically at
almost a service invocation level.
The choice of the security mechanisms including the static authorization is
left to the discretion of the operator and will depend on the deployment
context. Nevertheless, based on the current standards, the operator of a 5G
Core has the means to enforce a dynamic access authorization in the sense of
this tenet by the specified OAuth2.0 mechanism.
The currently standardized access control related security mechanisms support
authentication and authorization for network service access based on identity
and credentials. However, they do not consider security monitoring related
information (e.g. threat assessments, security posture etc.,) or any other
aspect that is highly dependent on the deployment. Lack of considering
security monitoring information for access decisions will allow the NFs with
malicious behaviours to remain unidentifiable and continue to access the
services from NF service producers which may lead to lateral movement of the
attacks. From a standardization perspective, at the 3GPP SBA layer one can
investigate whether there is any additional information that could be exposed
for security monitoring purposes and how such information is used for access
control decisions e.g. authorization. This is covered in the evaluation of
Tenet 5 in clause 5.1.5.
### 5.1.7 Tenet #7: Data collection to improve security posture
#### 5.1.7.1 Description
According to tenet 7 titled, \'The enterprise collects as much information as
possible about the current state of assets, network infrastructure and
communications and uses it to improve its security posture\' in NIST SP
800-207 [2], _\"An enterprise are expected to collect data about asset
security posture, network traffic and access requests, process that data, and
use any insight gained to improve policy creation and enforcement. In relation
to this, section 3.3.1 of [2] gives more details on how this data can also be
used to provide context for access requests from subjects (see section
3.3.1).\"_.
Security posture data collected from the network can be used for dynamically
improving zero trust related security policies. These improvements could
include the creation of new policies and enforcement of such policies.
#### 5.1.7.2 Relevant security mechanisms
There are currently no standard procedures for data collection to improve
overall core network security posture.
#### 5.1.7.3 Evaluation
Tenet 7 is an overall directive for operator network to:
\- facilitate data collection related to security posture, control plane
network traffic (i.e. message exchanges between NFs) and access requests;
\- processing of data (based on operator specific implementation); and
\- use any insight gained to improve policy creation and enforcement (based on
operator policies) in the 5GC.
The tenet reuses principles and mechanisms that are covered in detail in other
tenets such as tenet 5 and 6. This tenet provides some additional
clarifications on what kind of data can be collected (i.e. related to tenet
5). Consequently, any provisions for such tenets would constitute the building
blocks for tenet 7. The data collection related to abnormal behaviour from NFs
and related security analysis outcome considerations can help to apply more
fine-grained security policies in 5GC.
## 5.2 Security Mechanism Evaluation summary
Based on the evaluation of the current security mechanisms with respect to the
zero trust security tenets in the context of the 5GC discussed in clause 5.1,
a summary is presented in the following table 5.2-1. Table 5.2-1 contains
excerpts from the evaluation details in clause 5.1. For detail content refer
to clause 5.1.
Table 5.2-1: Overall Tenet Evaluation Summary
+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Tenet No. | Short | Relevant | Evaluation | | | description | security | | | | | mechanism(s) | | +===========+=================+=================+=================+ | 1 | Tenet 1 | This is not | No additional | | | provides a | applicable for | study is needed | | | definition for | Tenet 1 as it | | | | what is to be | is a definition | | | | considered a | for a resource. | | | | resource. In | | | | | the context of | | | | | the 5G Core, | | | | | any NF and | | | | | their services | | | | | are considered | | | | | resources. | | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 2 | Tenet 2 | The 5G Core | No additional | | | describes how | security | study is | | | trust is not | standards | needed. | | | implicit and | provide two | | | | cannot be | means to | | | | granted | protect | | | | automatically | communications | | | | based on | in and with the | | | | location, | 5G Core. On the | | | | therefore in a | network layer, | | | | ZTA all | there is the | | | | communications | NDS/IP | | | | for the 5G Core | framework, | | | | network should | relying on | | | | be done in the | IPsec, | | | | most secure | specified in | | | | manner | T | | | | possible. | S 33.210 [5]. | | | | | On the | | | | | transport layer | | | | | there is TLS | | | | | for which the | | | | | profile is also | | | | | in | | | | | T | | | | | S 33.210 [5]. | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 3 | Tenet 3 is the | In the 5G Core | No additional | | | principle that | context, a | study is | | | resources are | session can be | needed. | | | granted on a | equated to a | | | | per-session | TLS session | | | | basis thus | that uses | | | | authorization | certificates to | | | | and | provide mutual | | | | authentication | authentication. | | | | mechanisms are | In addition, | | | | to be used to | the 5G Core | | | | gain access to | network | | | | resources. | provides | | | | | granularity on | | | | | a per session | | | | | basis via the | | | | | OAuth 2.0 | | | | | mechanism. | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 4 | Tenet 4 is the | The dynamic | Should there be | | | principle that | authorization | any useful | | | access to | mechanism based | information | | | resources is | on OAuth2.0 | collected from | | | determined by | specified in | NFs for access | | | dynamic | clause 13.4 of | authorization | | | p | TS 33.501 | purposes, the | | | olicy-including | [4]. But the | same | | | the observable | existing access | information | | | state of client | control | would be also | | | identity, | decisions do | equally | | | appli | not consider | relevant in a | | | cation/service, | the factors | security | | | and the | e.g. related to | monitoring | | | requesting | behavioural | context. | | | asset-and may | a | | | | include other | spects/reported | The current | | | behavioural and | attack. | security | | | environmental | | standards do | | | attributes. In | | not take into | | | the context of | | account the use | | | the 5GC, one | | of \"behavioral | | | can evaluate | | attributes\" as | | | this tenet from | | input to the | | | the perspective | | access | | | of NFs being | | authorization | | | clients when | | process so far | | | acting as | | and do not | | | service | | provide any | | | consumers. | | mechanisms for | | | | | the definition | | | | | and the | | | | | collection of | | | | | such attributes | | | | | for NFs. | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 5 | Tenet 5 states | The mechanisms | Development of | | | that the | specified in TS | standard | | | enterprise | 23.288 [6] | solutions for | | | monitors and | pertaining to | operational | | | measures the | data collection | security are | | | integrity and | from NFs, e.g. | not needed. | | | security | clause 6.2.2 | | | | posture of all | and analytics, | It is worth | | | owned | e.g. clauses | investigating | | | associated | 6.3 to 6.7. | whether there | | | assets as it | | is any | | | pertains to | There is | additional | | | operational | currently no | information | | | security and | explicit | that could be | | | evaluation of | standardized | exposed by the | | | the asset\'s | security | 5G Core NFs for | | | security | monitoring | monitoring | | | posture during | within NWDAF or | purposes. | | | evaluation of | in other NF. | | | | resource | | In the event | | | request. In the | Operational | that this study | | | 5G Core | security is | determines that | | | network, data | proprietary, | strengthening | | | can be | and it is | of the external | | | collected from | expected proper | to 3GPP | | | NFs and used to | security | security | | | perform threat | practices and | monitoring is | | | assessment as | guidelines are | needed, with | | | part of | followed during | not yet | | | continuous | deployment and | specified data | | | security | operations to | collection, | | | monitoring and | monitor and | this | | | trust | measure | information | | | evaluation. | security | needs to be | | | | posture. | well defined | | | | | and explicitly | | | | | specified to | | | | | allow 5G Core | | | | | NFs to expose | | | | | additional | | | | | information for | | | | | monitoring. | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6 | Tenet 6 states | In the 5G Core | Can investigate | | | resource | context, a TLS | whether there | | | authentication | session can be | is any | | | and resource | used to provide | additional | | | authorization | mutual | information | | | are dynamic and | authentication | that could be | | | strictly | and OAuth2.0 | exposed for | | | enforced before | token can be | security | | | access is | used to provide | monitoring | | | allowed. In the | authorization. | purposes and | | | 5G Core | | how such | | | context, this | The currently | information is | | | can be | standardized | used for access | | | evaluated from | access control | control | | | the perspective | related | decisions e.g. | | | of NF consumer | security | authorization. | | | and therefore | mechanisms | | | | every request | support | | | | and the | authentication | | | | resource must | and | | | | have its | authorization | | | | security | for network | | | | posture | service access | | | | evaluated | based on | | | | before access | identity and | | | | is granted | credentials. | | | | (e.g. in the | | | | | form of a | However, they | | | | PEP/PDP). | do not consider | | | | | security | | | | | monitoring | | | | | related | | | | | information | | | | | (e.g. threat | | | | | assessments, | | | | | security | | | | | posture, etc.) | | | | | or any other | | | | | aspect that is | | | | | highly | | | | | dependent on | | | | | the deployment. | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 7 | Tenet 7 | There are | The tenet | | | provides a | currently no | reuses | | | directive to | standard | principles and | | | the network | procedures for | mechanisms that | | | operators to | data collection | are covered in | | | facilitate | to improve | detail in other | | | s | overall 5G core | tenets such as | | | ecurity-related | network | tenet 5 and 6. | | | data | security | This tenet | | | collection, | posture. | provides some | | | data | | additional | | | processing, and | | clarifications | | | to provide | | on what kind of | | | insights to | | data can be | | | improve the | | collected | | | security | | (i.e. related | | | posture within | | to tenet 5). | | | the 5G Core | | Consequently, | | | network. | | any provisions | | | | | for such tenets | | | | | would | | | | | constitute the | | | | | building blocks | | | | | for tenet 7. | | | | | The data | | | | | collection | | | | | related to | | | | | abnormal | | | | | behaviour from | | | | | NFs and related | | | | | security | | | | | analysis | | | | | outcome | | | | | considerations | | | | | can help to | | | | | apply more | | | | | fine-grained | | | | | security | | | | | policies in | | | | | 5GC. | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
# 6 Key issues
## 6.1 Key Issue #1: Need for continuous security monitoring
### 6.1.1 Key issue details
The 5G system includes heterogeneous and varied Network Functions (NF)
deployments, where the current security mechanisms determine service access
among NFs by authentication (i.e. identifier and credentials based) and
authorization. If any NF runs into errors (e.g. due to configuration issues)
or behaves maliciously (e.g. due to insider threats/privilege misuse or cyber-
attacks), then such NF behaviour information or related threat assessments
will not be considered in the current security mechanisms (e.g. for any
service access). Some of the zero trust tenets [2] (i.e. tenets 5,7) provides
motivation that resource access (i.e. access control to network services) can
be evaluated while also taking into account the dynamic policy(ies) that are
defined and enforced related to security monitoring (i.e. threat assessments)
and continuous trust evaluation, for example., according to NIST SP 800-207
[2] evaluation factor(s) may include observable state of the requestor,
characteristics, behavioural attributes (e.g. subject analytics, measured
deviations from the observed usage patterns), environmental attributes
(location, time, reported attacks), security posture, etc.
The solutions addressing this key issue can aim to identify relevant factors
for data collection that could potentially enhance security monitoring and
mitigate against insider attacks. The solution(s), where relevant, can
consider the work being carried out in 3GPP TR 33.738 [3] (e.g. anomalous NF
behaviour detection, cyber-attack detection, etc.).
NOTE: Considering NIST SP 800-207 [2], Zero trust security models assume that
an attacker may be present in the environment.
### 6.1.2 Security threats
If any NF that has been deployed in the core network, becomes compromised or
starts to behave maliciously, and remain undetected then the NF could be
misused in attacks leading to a service failure, data loss/theft, etc.
### 6.1.3 Potential security requirements
The 5GS is required to support mechanisms to collect necessary data to enable
security monitoring.
NOTE 1: The actual set of data that can be collected to realize any threat
assessments will be addressed during the solution phase.
NOTE 2: The algorithms or logic for trust monitoring and evaluation are
outside the scope of 3GPP.
NOTE 3: The handling of potentially compromised NFs (e.g. based on detection)
with required security aspects (e.g. applying necessary security
patches/fixes) is Operator\'s implementation choice.
NOTE 4: The key issue and related work considers SBA in the Core network and
so, the solutions details should consider the same as the scope of the
solution.
# 7 Solutions
## 7.1 Solution #1: Data Collection to enable security monitoring for the Core
Network
### 7.1.1 Introduction {#introduction-1}
The solution addresses KI#1.
The solution describes how various data can be collected and exposed to an
external function (i.e. operator\'s security evaluation and monitoring entity
which is outside the 3GPP domain e.g. a SIEM). The data that need to be
collected related to NFs for security monitoring can include information on
any violations to the normal behaviour (i.e. 3GPP specified service-based
message exchanges in TS 23.502 [9] clause 5.2) observed in a NF (i.e. an
evaluation target). The collected data such as malicious behaviours/activity
need to go through security evaluation to enable the overall security
monitoring process.
### 7.1.2 Solution details
The malicious behaviour related data can be identified related to various
events such as predefined service operation violations (e.g. malformed
messages), unintended configuration change(s), message requests exceeding
configured limits, and current resource utilization information (if exceeds
resource utilization limits) which can be collected as inference data in the
form of security logs or reports from the evaluation targets indirectly via
the OAM. For malicious behaviour related new data, the solution involves
indirect data collection from the evaluation target(s) via the OAM to limit
the impact (e.g. over the existing event exposure services) by reusing and
leveraging OAM data collection procedure specified in TS 23.288 [6]. The data
collection and exposure to enable security evaluation for monitoring is shown
in figure 7.1.2-1.
Figure 7.1.2-1: Procedure to enable Security Monitoring during normal active
phase of the NF
> Step 1. The NWDAF based on operator local policy can collect the data and
> provide to the external operator function to enable (i.e. assist) security
> evaluation and monitoring.
>
> Step 2a-b. The NWDAF can collect data related to NF load and resource
> utilization by reusing existing data collection procedures specified in TS
> 23.288 [6] clause 6.5.2 related to NF load (i.e. collection from NRF) and NF
> resource usage (i.e. collection from OAM).
>
> Step 2c. The NWDAF can use management service from OAM to additionally
> collect inference data related to various malicious behaviours specific to
> event identifiers for one or more evaluation target NF(s). For OAM based
> data collection, the NWDAF can reuse TS 23.288 [6] clause 6.2.3.2 to collect
> input data specific to the evaluation target NF(s) identification
> information and target event identifier(s). The OAM collects the inference
> data (e.g. as a form of security logs/reports) from the target evaluation
> NFs based on the events indicated and provides the collected inference data
> to the NWDAF.
NOTE 1: How the OAM collects the inference data and what type of additional
security related data (e.g. security logs or events) is collected is for
further study.
> Step 3. The NWDAF acts as proxy and can provide the collected data to an
> external operator managed function (i.e. to enable security evaluation and
> monitoring) via the NEF.
NOTE 2: The external operator function/entity, algorithm(s) or intelligence
used for the evaluation, security analysis is up to the operator\'s
implementation.
NOTE 3: The interface used between NWDAF to NEF and NEF to AF i.e. the
external operator function is up to the normative work (e.g. it can be similar
to the interface between NEF and external AF (or) can be same as N6). For NEF
service exposure to AF, existing NEF services (e.g. TS 23.502 [9] clause
5.2.6.2.2) can be reused as much as possible with the necessary adaptations.
### 7.1.3 Evaluation
The solution has not been evaluated.
# 8 Conclusions
**Key Issue #1 Conclusion:**
Solution#1 illustrates how existing services can be used to collect the
necessary data listed in the solution for security monitoring purposes in line
with the principles of zero trust (Tenet 5). However, no consensus could be
reached on the normative work.
#