# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document investigates and identifies the security and privacy
threats and corresponding security requirements for Uncrewed Aerial Vehicles
(UAVs) and Urban Air Mobility (UAM) that derive from the architecture and
system level enhancements studied in TR 23.700-58 [2]. Furthermore, the
present document considers solutions and analyses these to make
recommendations for possible normative work taking into consideration the
conclusions of TR 23.700-58 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.700-58: \"Study of further architecture enhancements for
uncrewed aerial systems and urban air mobility\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.125: \"Uncrewed Aerial System (UAS) support in 3GPP\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.256: \"Support of Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS) connectivity,
identification and tracking\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.256: \"Security aspects of Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.536: \"Security aspects of 3GPP support for advanced Vehicle-
to-Everything (V2X) services\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.503: \"Security Aspects of Proximity based Services (ProSe) in
the 5G System (5GS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
C2 Command and Control
DAA Detect And Avoid
UAS Uncrewed Aerial System
UAM Urban Air Mobility
UAV Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle
# 4 Overview
_Some requirements for UAS (Uncrewed Aerial System) defined in TS 22.125 [3]
are not addressed in TS 23.256 [4] and TS 33.256 [5], which includes:_
\- Direct C2 communication: the UAV controller and UAV establish a direct C2
link to communicate with each other and both are registered to the 5G network
using the radio resource configured and scheduled provided by the 5G network.
\- Broadcast UAS Remote Identification (Remote ID) services. UAS Remote ID
refers to a UAS in flight provides identification and tracking information
that can be received by regulatory agencies.
\- Collision avoidance: UAV can navigate safely from one place to its goal
without colliding with other UAVs or obstacles.
_The requirements above are studied in TS 23.700-58 [2] for architecture
aspects and this present document for security aspects, which covers:_
\- a mechanism for Command and Control (C2) communications over PC5 interface
in3GPP system;
\- a mechanism to transport Broadcast Remote Identification; and
\- a mechanism to support aviation applications such as Detect And Avoid
(DAA).
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Direct C2 Security
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
In TR 23.700-58 [2], key issue #1 focuses on the transport of C2
communications over PC5 in the 3GPP system, while considering the following
aspects:
\"- how is the C2 communication over PC5 between a UAV and UAV controller
established;
\- how is the UAV authorized for setting up direct C2 communication over PC5
with a UAV controller, both for in-coverage and out of coverage scenarios, and
how is the authorization revoked;
\- whether the UAV needs to discover the UAV controller, or vice versa and if
so, how?\"
### 5.1.2 Security threats
The lack of security for the PC5 unicast link between UAV and UAV-C used for
C2 communication may let the attackers to eavesdrop and control the UAV
operations thereby leading to UAV hijack and misoperations.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
The 3GPP system shall provide means for UAV and UAV-C to establish secure PC5
link used for C2 communication.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: Security of DAA unicast connection
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
Some solutions for transport of DAA traffic discuss using a unicast
connection. In such cases, signalling might be needed to establish the
connection between the appropriate entities and hence would need protection
which could also be applied to the user plane.
### 5.2.2 Security threats
Signalling messages and data sent using a unicast connection for DAA can be
modified or eavesdropped by an attacker.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
The 5GS shall support the ability to confidentiality, integrity and replay
protect any 3GPP signalling traffic used to establish and manage the unicast
connection for DAA and any user plane of such a connection.
## 5.3 Key issue #3: Direct C2 Authorization
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
TS 23.256 [4] and TS 33.256 [5] describe how the UAV pairing with a UAV-C is
authorized by a USS over a PDU Session for C2 communications performed over
Uu.
In TR 23.700-58 [2], key issue #1 focuses on the support for transport of C2
communications over PC5 in the 3GPP system and considering the following
aspects:
\"- _how is the C2 communication over PC5 between a UAV and UAV controller
established;_
_\- how is the UAV authorized for setting up direct C2 communication over PC5
with a UAV controller, both for in-coverage and out of coverage scenarios, and
how is the authorization revoked;_
_\- w_ hether the UAV needs to discover the UAV controller, or vice versa and
if so, how?\"
The following service requirement in TS 22.125 [3] applies to the C2/pairing
authorization, independently of the communication mode used to operate the UAV
i.e., over Uu or direct over PC5:
_[R-5.1-010] The 3GPP system shall enable UTM to inform an MNO of the outcome
of an authorisation to operate._
This is further captured for direct C2 in TR 23.700-58 [2] architectural
assumption:
_\- A UAV shall obtain authorization from 3GPP system and USS to perform
direct C2 communication as defined in TS 22.125 [4]._
The solutions in TR 23.700-58 [2] (e.g., solution#1, #4) propose to support
Direct C2 communication between UAV and UAV-C considering that UAV and UAV-C
may be pre-paired or dynamically paired.
### 5.3.2 Security threats
If pairing authorization of UAV and UAV-C is not performed securely before
establishment of a direct connection between the UAV and UAV-C, an
unauthorized UAV-C may be able to communicate with the UAV and perform an
unauthorized flight which could cause tremendous risks to the security of UAS
and public safety.
If 3GPP system is not capable to handle revocation of the direct connectivity
pairing authorization from USS, then USS might not be able to take appropriate
measures to deal with misbehaving UAVs which might cause accidents or become
attack vectors.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirement
3GPP system shall support enabling authentication and authorization by the USS
of a UAV and UAV-C pairing before enabling a direct data connection over PC5
between the UAV and UAV-C
3GPP system shall provide means for the USS to revoke a UAV and UAV-C pairing
authorization in order to close the direct connection over PC5 between the UAV
and UAV-C.
## 5.4 Key issue #4: UAV/UAV-C Privacy over PC5 link for C2
### 5.4.1 Key issue details
In TR 23.700-58 [2], key issue #1 focuses on the support for transport of C2
communications over PC5 in the 3GPP system and considering the following
aspects:
_\"- how is the C2 communication over PC5 between a UAV and UAV controller
established;_
_\- how is the UAV authorized for setting up direct C2 communication over PC5
with a UAV controller, both for in-coverage and out of coverage scenarios, and
how is the authorization revoked;_
_\- whether the UAV needs to discover the UAV controller, or vice versa and if
so, how?\"_
3GPP system has to be able to protect the privacy of the UE (UAV or UAV-C)
privacy sensitive identities when using PC5 link during direct discovery or
for direct communications over the PC5 unicast link.
NOTE 1: Broadcast Remote ID (BRID) is not considered in this key issue.
### 5.4.2 Security threats
If privacy sensitive identities of the UE (i.e., UAV or UAV-C) are not
protected during direct discovery or direct C2 communication over the PC5
unicast link procedures used for C2, an eavesdropper can perform privacy
attacks on the UE (UAV/UAV-C).
### 5.4.3 Potential security requirement
The 5G System should provide means for mitigating trackability and linkability
attacks on UAV/UAV-C during communications over the PC5 unicast link used for
C2.
The 5G System should provide means for mitigating trackability and linkability
attacks on UAV/UAV-C during discovery over the PC5 link used for C2.
## 5.5 Key issue #5: Privacy protection over PC5 for DAA unicast messages
### 5.5.1 Key issue details
KI#3 in TR 23.700-58 [2] addresses the support of DAA, and solutions such as
#5 and#7 propose the unicast between entities over PC5 for DAA, this may
introduce privacy issues for unicast messages related to long duration unicast
session, e.g. source L2 ID tracking. If the same L2 ID is used by a UE for a
certain period of time, it is possible that other UEs and/or attackers can
track and identify the source of the message based on the PC5 parameters sent
as part of the PC5 transmissions.
### 5.5.2 Security threats
An adversary that is capable of connecting and linking L2 identities to a real
or a long-term Application Layer ID will be able to track and trace the
endpoint in space and time. Such trackability and linkability will be an
attack on U2X endpoint privacy.
### 5.5.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G System shall provide means for mitigating trackability attacks on L2
identities during U2X unicast communications over PC5 for DAA.
The 5G System shall provide means for mitigating linkability attacks on L2
identities during U2X unicast communications over PC5 for DAA.
## 5.6 Key issue #6: Privacy and security aspects of broadcast DAA traffic
### 5.6.1 Key Issue Details
The protection of the broadcast DAA traffic is left out of scope of 3GPP, e.g.
similar to V2X application as the application will be defined outside 3GPP. If
the 3GPP transport of broadcast DAA traffic is not privacy protected, it may
lead to tracking of the UAVs.
### 5.6.2 Security Threats
If the 3GGP identities used in transporting broadcast DAA traffic are not
privacy protected, then it may be possible to track the UAV.
### 5.6.3 Potential Security Requirements
The 3GPP system shall provide a means to mitigate privacy risks of 3GPP
identities used to transport broadcast DAA traffic.
## 5.7 Key issue #7: Privacy and security aspects of Broadcast Remote ID
### 5.7.1 Key Issue Details
The protection of the Broadcast Remote ID depends on national regulation and
hence is better left out of scope of 3GPP, e.g. similar to V2X application.
However for the UAV communication in the 3GPP system, Broadcast Remote ID can
be broadcast by the UAV using 3GPP transport. If the 3GPP transport of
Broadcast Remote ID is not privacy protected, it may lead to tracking of the
UAVs.
### 5.7.2 Security Threats
If the 3GGP identities used in transporting Broadcast Remote ID are not
privacy protected, then it may be possible to track the UAV.
### 5.7.3 Potential Security Requirements
The 3GPP system should provide a means to mitigate privacy risks of 3GPP
identities used to transport the Broadcast Remote ID.
NOTE: The 3GPP system provides means for mitigating privacy risks of 3GPP
identities if Broadcast Remote ID is subject to privacy protection, based on
local regulation.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: Security establishment and link security protection of
unicast PC5 communication
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the direct PC5 communication (unicast) for both the
direct C2 and unicast DAA scenarios as specified in Key Issue #1 and Key Issue
#2, respectively. Generally, unicast security establishment specified in eV2X
TS 33.536 [6] and 5G ProSe TS 33.503 [7] is reused as the baseline.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
The unicast PCF communication establishment starts with a Direct Communication
Request (DCR) message to send the initiating UE's security capabilities and to
trigger the mutual authentication and key establishment. After mutual
authentication and key establishment, the Direct Security Mode Command and the
Direct Security Mode Complete messages are emitted to inform the selected
security protection algorithms for the connection and the initiating UE's user
plane security policies (i.e. user plane confidentiality and integrity
protection policies), respectively. Finally, the receiving UE replies a Direct
Communication Accept (DCA) message to confirm the user plane protection
methods and finish the unicast PC5 communication establishment procedures.
The signalling and user plane security protection are protected based on the
detailed negotiation procedures:
0\. UAS security-related parameter (for unicast secure communication over PC5)
pre-configuration and previsioning, the signalling messages are integrity
protected and the signalling ciphering protection is a configuration option.
NOTE 1: Step 0 is done only in coverage.
1\. UAS discovery procedures may happen for the UAV and UAVC to find each
other in direct C2 scenario.
NOTE 2: Whether or not the UAV needs to discover the UAVC or vice versa will
align with the decision in SA2.
2\. The initiating UE (UAV or UAVC) starts DCR message contains its security
capabilities and signalling security policy. The security capabilities are the
confidentiality and integrity protection algorithms that the initiating UE
accepts for this connection. The security capabilities are reused as specified
in TS 33.536 [6] and TS 33.503 [7]. The direct C2 or unicast DAA service use
the 'REQUIRED' signalling security protection policies if the service needs
security protection.
3\. To generate the PC5 root key to protect the PC5 connection, the receiving
UE may initiate the Direct authentication and key establishment procedures
with the initiating UE.
4\. The receiving UE uses the Chosen_algs to indicate the selected
confidentiality and integrity protection algorithms of this link and contains
the Chosen_algs in the Direct Security Mode Command message. The initiating
UE's security capabilities are sent back to the initiating UE to mitigate the
bidding down attack. The receiving UE integrity protects the Direct Security
Mode Command message before sending it to the initiating UE.
5\. The initiating UE sends its user plane security policy to the receiving UE
by using Direct Security Mode Complete message.
6\. The receiving replies the DCA message to accept the DCR message and the
unicast PC5 communication establishment including the user plane security
indication. The user plane security protection methods (the user plane with or
without confidentiality and/or integrity protection) are explicitly indicated
by using the user plane security indication.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the security requirements of Key Issue #1 and #2. The
solution reuses the PC5 unicast connection establishment so that the
signalling/user plane of PC5 links are integrity and/or confidentiality
protected based on the security policy.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Solution to secure direct C2 and DAA connection
### 6.2.1 Introduction
The solution addresses KI#1, KI#2 and KI#3.
The solution provides an overview of direct U2X connection security which
describes (i) how 5GS can provide means for UAV and UAV-C to establish secure
PC5 link for Command and Control (C2) communication service(s) and (ii) how
5GS can support the ability to confidentiality, integrity and replay protect
any 3GPP signalling traffic used to establish and manage the unicast
connection for Detect and Avoid (DAA) service(s).
Further the solution also describes to enable authentication and authorization
by the USS of the UAV and UAV-C pairing before enabling a direct C2 connection
over PC5 between UAV and UAV-C.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
UAV-to-Everything (U2X) services such as C2 and direct DAA can utilize PC5
link for establishing C2 connection (i.e., between UAV and UAV-C) and for
establishing unicast connection for DAA (between UAVs) respectively as
discussed in TR 23.700-58 [2].
The procedure to establish a secure U2X service direct communication is shown
in the following figure 6.2.2-1.
Figure 6.2.2-1 Secure U2X service direct communication establishment
The steps shown in Figure 6.2.2-1 is described as follows:
1a-b. If the UAV is capable of Uu communication, the UAV performs UUAA
procedure and C2 authorization (if required) as described in TS 23.256 [4] and
TS 33.256 [5]. The UAV obtains UAV-C pairing information (if not configured
already) and U2X security policy for each U2X services (i.e., C2 and DAA)
along with the result of successful C2 authorization. The U2X security policy
includes signalling and user plane security policy per U2X service type (i.e.,
for C2 and DAA, the signalling and user plane confidentiality and integrity
are set as required based on local policy), pairing restrictions list, and
access restriction information (i.e., UAV information which are restricted to
perform DAA).
Similarly, the UAV-C can also perform UUAA procedures and C2 authorization as
described in TS 23.256 [4] and TS 33.256 [5]. The UAV-C obtains UAV pairing
information (if not configured already), U2X security policy for each U2X
services (i.e., C2 and DAA) along with the result of successful C2
authorization. Alternatively, these data may be configured by the USS in UAV-C
which is up to USS.
NOTE 1: UUAA and C2 authorization for UAV-C is not covered in Rel-17.
2\. The UAV if determines to set up C2 communication over PC5, it sends Direct
Communication Request with U2X service type which indicates C2 service, UAV
identifier (i.e., CAA-Level UAV ID), UAV-C identifier, U2X service security
policy specific to the C2 service (i.e., confidentiality and integrity
protection requirements for signalling and user plane protection), security
capability and key establishment information (as described in TS 33.536 [6])
which can be related to security information for C2 security.
3\. The UAV-C on receiving the direct communication request, if the U2X
service type indicates C2 service, the UAV-C verifies the received U2X service
security policy and UAV ID against the locally configured U2X security policy
which includes the Pairing restrictions list and U2X service security policy.
If the received UAV ID is same as any of the UAV ID(s) in the (authorized)
pairing restrictions list and if the U2X service security policy matches with
the locally stored one, then the UAV-C determines to respond with step 4.
If the UAV ID in the direct communication request do not match with any of the
UAV ID(s) in the pairing restrictions list or if the received U2X service
security policy violates the locally configured U2X service security policy
for the C2 service, then the UAV-C determines to reject the direct
communication, where the UAV-C skip steps 4-6a and performs step 6b.
4\. UAV-C performs direct authentication and key establishment (as described
in TS 33.536 [6]) with the UAV.
5a. The UAV-C sends to the UAV, the Direct security mode command which
includes (information as in TS 33.536 [6]) Key_Est_Info, MSB of Key ID (e.g.,
K~NRP~ ID to indicate the C2 security key), security capability, and
additional information such as those received in step 1 (i.e., U2X service
type, U2X service security policy). The session key (i.e., for C2), PC5
signalling and user plane keys (for confidentiality and the integrity) as
required can be derived to protect the C2 service based on the U2X service
security policy.
5b. The UAV checks that the returned security capabilities, U2X service type
and U2X service security policy are the same as those it sent in step 1. The
UAV on receiving the Direct security mode command, if the above check is
successful, based on received Key_Est_Info (as in TS 33.536 [6]) derives the
key and choose LSB of Key ID (e.g., K~NRP~ ID) to uniquely identify the Key
and locally store the key with the identifier. Then the UAV sends to the
UAV-C, the Direct security mode complete message which includes LSB of Key ID,
security capabilities, U2X service type, and U2X service security policy sent
in step 1. The confidentiality key and the integrity key as required can be
derived to protect the C2 service based on the U2X service security policy.
6a. The UAV-C sends Direct Communication Accept over the established link. The
UAV and UAV-C can start C2 communication over PC5.
6b. The UAV-C based sends a direct communication reject message (i.e., if the
U2X security policy is not met, or if authentication and key establishment
fails or if the direct security mode command procedure fails) with respective
cause information.
**Security of DAA unicast connection:**
Direct UAV to UAV communication for the purpose of DAA can use PC5 (e.g.,
C-V2X) as described in TR 23.700‑58 [2] Clause 5.3. To enable confidentiality,
integrity and relay protection for DAA related unicast connection, the
procedure described using Figure 6.2.2-1 can be used with the following DAA
specific adaptations.
1\. For the DAA case, step 1a of Figure 6.2.2-1 is applicable here.
NOTE 2: Step 1b of Figure 6.2.2-1 is not applicable for the DAA case.
2\. If the UAV (e.g., UAV 1) determines to set up DAA connection over PC5, it
sends Direct Communication Request with U2X service type which indicates DAA
service, UAV identifier (i.e., CAA-Level UAV ID), U2X service security policy
specific to the DAA service (i.e., confidentiality and integrity protection
requirements for signalling and user plane protection), security capability
and key establishment information (as described in TS 33.536) which can be
related to security information for DAA security.
3\. The UAV (e.g., UAV 2) on receiving the direct communication request, if
the U2X service type indicates DAA service, the UAV-C verifies the received
U2X service security policy and UAV ID against the locally configured U2X
security policy which includes the access restriction information (i.e., UAV
information which are restricted to perform DAA) and U2X service security
policy. If the received UAV ID not part of access restriction information, and
if the U2X service security policy matches with the locally stored one, then
the UAV determines to respond with step 4.
If the UAV ID in the direct communication request match with any of the UAV
ID(s) in the access restriction information or if the received U2X service
security policy violates the locally configured U2X service security policy
for the DAA service, then the UAV-C determines to reject the direct
communication, where the UAV skip steps 4-6a and performs step 6b.
4\. UAV (e.g., UAV 2) performs direct authentication and key establishment (as
described in TS 33.536 [6]) with the UAV (e.g., UAV 1).
5a. The UAV (e.g., UAV 2) sends to the UAV (e.g., UAV 1), the Direct security
mode command which includes (information as in TS 33.536 [6]) Key_Est_Info,
MSB of Key ID (e.g., K~NRP~ ID to indicate the DAA security key), security
capability, and additional information such as those received in step 1 (i.e.,
U2X service type, U2X service security policy). The session key (i.e., for
DAA), PC5 signalling and user plane keys (for confidentiality and the
integrity) as required can be derived to protect the DAA service based on the
U2X service security policy.
5b. The UAV (e.g., UAV 1) checks that the returned security capabilities, U2X
service type and U2X service security policy are the same as those it sent in
step 1. The UAV on receiving the Direct security mode command, if the above
check is successful, based on received Key_Est_Info (as in TS 33.536 [6])
derives the key and choose LSB of Key ID (e.g., K~NRP~ ID) to uniquely
identify the Key and locally store the key with the identifier. Then the UAV
(e.g., UAV 1) sends to the UAV (e.g., UAV 2), the Direct security mode
complete message which includes LSB of Key ID, security capabilities, U2X
service type, and U2X service security policy sent in step 1. The
confidentiality key and the integrity key as required can be derived to
protect the DAA service based on the U2X service security policy.
6a. The UAV (e.g., UAV 2) sends Direct Communication Accept over the
established link. The UAVs can start DAA communication over PC5.
6b. The UAV (e.g., UAV 2) based sends a direct communication reject message
(i.e., if the U2X security policy is not met, or if authentication and key
establishment fails or if the direct security mode command procedure fails)
with respective cause information.
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
The solution has the following impacts:
\- UE: Need to be provided with U2X security policy which includes service
specific security policy (signalling and user plane security policy per U2X
service type i.e., for C2 and DAA), pairing restrictions list (to allow only
authorized UAV and UAV-C to be paired) and optionally may include access
restriction information (to prevent any misbehaving UAVs to involve in any
direct communication).
\- -Need to indicate U2X service specific security policy (i.e.,
confidentiality and integrity protection requirements for signalling and user
plane protection) in the direct connection request/responses.
Need to indicate U2X service type in the direct communication related requests
and responses to allow only related communication in the direct connection and
to prevent misuse of direct connections (e.g., a UAV that sets up direct
connection for DAA should not attempt C2 message exchange).
## 6.3 Solution #3: C2 and DAA unicast security using V2X unicast solution
### 6.3.1 Introduction
This solution addresses all of key issues #1, #2, #4 and #5. It re-uses the
security procedures for unicast security for V2X (see TS 33.536 [6]).
### 6.3.2 Solution details
TS 33.536 [6] contains a method of establishing security for a unicast
connection for V2X services. This solution proposes to re-use those procedures
for establishing the security of C2 and DAA unicast connections. The relevant
procedures are given in clause 5.3.3 of TS 33.356 [6].
NOTE 1: Whether discovery happens before the start of communication does not
affect the set-up of the security.
NOTE 2: This solution assumes that the credentials used to protect the DAA
traffic are defined outside of 3GPP specification. Hence the Key_Est_Info IE
described in clause 5.3.3.1.3.2 of TS 33.536 [6] is used to transport the
needed authentication signalling to establish PC5 keys. This IE enables
authentication over PC5 using credentials and methods specified outside 3GPP.
NOTE 3: This solution is independent of the pairing method used and of the
method used to establish security material at the UEs (i.e. UAV and UAV-C) to
set up the security.
Figure 6.3.2-1: Message flow for the establishment of unicast security
Figure 6.3.2-1 gives an overview of the flow for (re-)establishing security
for unicast connections (see TS 33.536 [6] for the details). The security
policy relevant to the service (i.e. DAA or C2) will be used when establishing
a connection for that service. C2 and DAA traffic will only be accepted from a
peer authorised to send such traffic and be sent on different connections.
In addition to address the privacy issue of re-using identities, Link
identifier update and Layer-2 release procedures are performed as described in
clauses 5.3.3.2.2.1 and 5.3.3.2.2.2 of TS 33.356 [6].
### 6.3.3 Evaluation
The solution follows the V2X methods of establishing security and hence
requires no new normative work. The solution works with whatever method is
used to authorise the pairing for C2. It also works with all methods of
providing the security material to the UEs (e.g. pre-configuration or delivery
from the UAS).
## 6.4 Solution #4: Direct C2 communication over PC5 security
### 6.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the following key issues: Key issue #1: Direct C2
Security, Key issue #3: Direct C2 Authorization, and Key issue #4: UAV/UAV-C
Privacy over PC5 link for C2.
In this solution, a UAV and a UAV-C establish a secure PC5 unicast link for C2
communication based on procedure described in TS 33.536 [6]. Both UAV and
UAV-C supports PC5, with optional support for Uu connection.
The UAV that uses Uu connection is authenticated and authorized by the USS for
C2 communication prior to establishing C2 communication over PC5, as per
existing Rel-17 procedures. The UAV may receive security information for C2
over PC5 (e.g., key material) through these procedures, in the case of dynamic
pairing with UAV-C. The UAV/UAV-c may also be preconfigured with security
credentials (e.g., long term key) in the case of static pairing (i.e., pairing
is pre-determined).
### 6.4.2 Solution details
Figure 6.4.2-1: PC5 unicast security establishment for C2 communication
between UAV and UAV-C
1\. The UAV performs UUAA procedure as described in TS 33.256 [5], clause
5.2.1. The UAV may obtain a new CAA-Level UAV ID through this procedure. The
UAV uses the new CAA-Level UAV ID or a pre-configured CAA-Level UAV ID in the
following steps.
2\. The UAV performs Pairing Authorization procedure as described TS 33.256
[5], clause 5.4. The UAV may obtain UAV-C identifier and security information
(e.g., key material) during this procedure. The UAV uses the received
information or pre-configured information during the following link
establishment procedure.
3\. The UAV sends Direct Communication Request to initiate the PC5 unicast
link establishment. The DCR includes:
\- Source User Info: the UAV\'s Application Layer ID (e.g., CAA-Level UAV ID
or any other application layer ID assigned for C2 over PC5).
\- Target User Info: if the UAV-C identifier is known (e.g., received in step
2 or pre-configured), the UAV uses it as the target user info. If the UAV-C
identifier is not available, Target User Info is not included in the DCR and
service-oriented link established as described in TS 23.287 [8] clause 6.3.3.1
is performed.
\- C2 Communication Service Identifier: this identifier is equivalent to V2X
Service Type (see TS 23.287 [8]]). It may be preconfigured or derived from the
UAV\'s CAA-Level UAV ID. It is used during the discovery of the C2 peer
(UAV/UAV-C) with service-oriented method (e.g., for dynamic UAV-UAV-C
pairing).
4\. The UAV and UAV-C may perform a mutual authentication before next step as
described in TS 33.536 [6] if the pairing is pre-determined with security
credentials (e.g., long term key) pre-configured. This step is skipped if
UAV/UAV-C have valid key material (e.g., K~NRP~ and K~NRP~ ID pair).
5\. The UAV and UAV-C establishes the security for the PC5 link as described
in TS 33.536 [6]. The UAV and UAV-C establish the security based on the
security information (i.e., key material) received from step 2 or key material
derived from a prior mutual authentication.
6\. The UAV-C sends Direct Communication Accept over the established link.
7\. The UAV and UAV-C engage in C2 communication over the secure PC5 unicast
link.
**Privacy of identities over the PC5 unicast link:**
\- To ensure the privacy of UAV/UAV-C during communication over the PC5
unicast link, the procedures for identity privacy as defined in TS 33.536 [6],
clause 5.3.3.2 are reused.
### 6.4.3 Evaluation
For the security and privacy of Direct C2 communication over PC5 unicast link,
this solution proposes to reuse security establishment and privacy protection
mechanisms as defined in TS 33.536 [6].
This solution proposes that the authorization for Direct C2 communication over
PC5 unicast link is based on C2 authorization procedure defined in TS 33.256
[5]. The UE uses pre-configured information or received from USS (e.g., CAA
Level UAV ID, key material) during the PC5 unicast link establishment.
The solution fully addresses the security requirements of Key issue #1: Direct
C2 Security, Key issue #3: Direct C2 Authorization.
The solution fully addresses first requirement of Key issue #4: UAV/UAV-C
Privacy over PC5 link for C2.
## 6.5 Solution #5: Restricted Discovery for Direct C2
### 6.5.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key issue #4: UAV/UAV-C Privacy over PC5 link for C2
during discovery.
This solution proposes to reuse the security procedure for Restricted 5G ProSe
Direct Discovery as defined in TS 33.503 [7], clause 6.1.3.2 as the baseline
to provide confidentiality protection of the discovery messages to ensure the
privacy of the UAV/UAV-C when dynamic discovery is used between UAV and UAV-C
equipped with a UE.
This solution proposes that the UAS NF may play a role similar (but
simplified) to the ProSe AF on behalf of the USS. It is assumed that the USS
is not expected to support DIAMETER-based protocols, SBA, or ProSe specific
functionality (e.g., ProSe Application Code Suffix) as per existing aviation
community requirements from Rel-17.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
As part of the Direct Discovery procedure, the UAV may act as the Announcing
UE or Monitoring UE (and vice-versa for the UAV-C).
The following steps are between the UE and DDNMF:
\- The Announcing UE sends RPAUID corresponding to an aviation domain
application User ID (e.g., CAA Level UAV ID) and its UE ID (i.e., GPSI) to the
5G DDNMF in its HPLMN and obtains a ProSe Restricted Code to announce and
associated Code-Sending security parameters from the 5G DDNMF. For that, the
5G DDNMF checks for the announce authorization with the UAS NF which may check
with USS and/or from locally stored information. If the UE is a UAV, the UAS
NF verifies that a valid UUAA result is stored for the UE ID.
\- The Monitoring UE sends its RPAUID, a target RPAUID corresponding to an
aviation domain application User ID (e.g., CAA Level UAV ID) and its UE ID
(i.e., GPSI) to the 5G DDNMF in its HPLMN and obtains Discovery Filter and the
Code-Receiving Security Parameters from the 5G DDNMF to be allowed to monitor
for the Restricted ProSe Application User IDs. For that, the 5G DDNMF checks
for the monitoring authorization with the UAS NF which checks with USS if the
RPAUID is allowed to discover/be paired with the target RPAUID. The 5G DDNMF
of Monitoring UE may contact the 5G DDNMF of Announcing UE if they belong to
different PLMNs.
The following steps are over PC5:
\- The Announcing UE protects the announced discovery message using the Code-
Sending security parameters as described in TS 33.503 [7], Figure
6.1.3.2.2.1-1 step 11.
\- The Monitoring UE processes the security of discovery messages security
that satisfies its Discovery Filter using the Code-Receiving Security
Parameters as described in TS 33.503 [7], Figure 6.1.3.2.2.1-1 step 12 and
13-16 (if match reporting required).
### 6.5.3 Evaluation
The solution proposes to use reuse the security procedure for Restricted 5G
ProSe Direct Discovery as defined in TS 33.503 [7], clause 6.1.3.2, as the
baseline, with UAS NF providing abstraction of ProSe specific aspects from USS
(solution assumes that USS will not support ProSe AF like functionality).
The solution addresses 2^nd^ requirement of Key issue #4: UAV/UAV-C Privacy
over PC5 link.
## 6.6 Solution #6: Privacy for 3GPP identifiers used to transport DAA traffic
### 6.6.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the Privacy and security aspects of DAA traffic as
specified in key issue #6.
### 6.6.2 Solution details
The below privacy procedures follow the privacy mechanism defined in TS 33.
536 [6] for V2X which is intended to mitigate against the threat of tracking
the UE by an attacker based on its used 3GPP identities.
The UE changes and randomizes its 3GPP identities, e.g. source Layer-2 ID and
source IP address including IP prefix (if used), when the identities used in
the DAA traffic is changed. The UE can change and randomize these identities
at other times. The UE provides an indication to the UAS application layer
whenever the 3GPP identities are changed.
### 6.6.3 Evaluation
The solution mitigates the privacy issue of the 3GPP identifiers by ensuring
that the 3GPP identities are not used for longer than the identities in the
application.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Privacy for 3GPP identifiers used to transport Broadcast
Remote ID
### 6.7.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the Privacy and security aspects of Broadcast Remote
ID as specified in key issue #7.
### 6.7.2 Solution details
The below privacy procedures follow the privacy mechanism defined in TS 33.
536 [6] for V2X which is intended to mitigate against the threat of tracking
the UE by an attacker based on its used 3GPP identities.
The UE changes and randomizes its 3GPP identities, e.g. source Layer-2 ID and
source IP address including IP prefix (if used), when the identities used in
the Broadcast Remote ID is changed. The UE can change and randomize these
identities at other times. The UE provides an indication to the UAS
application layer whenever the 3GPP identities are changed.
NOTE 1: The change of 3GPP identities is needed if Broadcast Remote ID is
subject to privacy protection, based on local regulation.
### 6.7.3 Evaluation
The solution mitigates the privacy issue of the 3GPP identifiers by ensuring
that the 3GPP identities are not used for longer than the identities in the
application.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Conclusion for Key issue #1
To address 'Key issue #1: Direct C2 Security', following aspects are
recommended for the normative work:
A secure PC5 unicast link for C2 service related communication can be
established by re-using unicast mode security establishment procedures defined
in TS 33.536 [5] as baseline with the following adaptations:
\- C2 service specific security policy is used for the security establishment.
\- Further C2 service specific adaptations (e.g., usage of UAV ID such as CAA-
level UAV ID), or network support for transport of USS provided security
materials, if any, related to unicast security establishment are up to the
normative work.
## 7.2 Conclusion for Key issue #2
To address 'Key issue #2: Security of DAA unicast connection', following
aspects are recommended for the normative work:
A secure mechanism for DAA leveraging U2X (UAV-to-everything) can be enabled,
by re-using unicast mode PC5 connection security establishment procedures
defined in TS 33.536 [5] as baseline with the following adaptations:
\- DAA service specific security policy is used for the security
establishment.
\- Further DAA service specific adaptations (e.g., usage of UAV ID such as
CAA-level UAV ID) if any related to security establishment are up to the
normative work.
## 7.3 Conclusion for Key issue #3
Authorization for Direct C2 communication over PC5 unicast link can reuse C2
authorization procedure defined in TS 33.256 [5] as baseline. The UAV UE can
perform Direct C2 communication authorization based on this procedure before
initiating UAV to UAV-C Direct C2 communication over PC5.
NOTE 1: Additional details on network transport of USS provided authorization
information will be determined during the normative phase.
NOTE 2: Other methods of authorisation are supported (see TR 23.700-58 [2]).
## 7.4 Conclusion for Key issue #4
Privacy of identities used over PC5 unicast link for Direct C2 communication
is based on Link identifier update and Layer-2 release procedures as described
in TS 33.356 [6] i.e., for KI#4 first requirement.
Privacy of identities during discovery between UAV and UAV-C is supported
based on Restricted 5G ProSe Direct Discovery procedure as defined in TS
33.503 [7], clause 6.1.3.2.
NOTE: The second requirement above only applies if ProSe Discovery is
specified for C2. Furthermore in such a case, additional details on the
support for Restricted 5G ProSe Direct Discovery with USS will be determined
during the normative phase.
## 7.5 Conclusion for Key Issue #5
The security of DAA unicast connection over PC5 is recommended for the
normative work based on the PC5 link identifier privacy for PC5 unicast link
procedures as specified in clause 5.3.3.2 of TS 33.536 [6].
## 7.6 Conclusion for Key Issue #6
The privacy aspects of broadcast DAA traffic is recommended for the normative
work based on solution #6.
The integrity and confidentiality aspects of broadcast DAA traffic are left
out of scope of 3GPP.
## 7.7 Conclusion for Key Issue #7
The privacy aspects of broadcast BRID traffic are recommended for the
normative work based on solution #7.
The integrity and confidentiality aspects of broadcast BRID traffic are left
out of scope of 3GPP.
#