# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document analyses mechanisms to ensure the identity of a genuine
application in order to apply the URSP rule accordingly, such that malicious
applications cannot get access towards the operator regulated resources. The
present document identifies key issues and develops solutions for enhancements
that enables a URSP rule to securely identify the application for which the
URSP rule should be applied.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and charging control framework for the 5G System
(5GS); Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Void
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Determination of application identification
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
The application identity within the traffic descriptor component of an URSP
rule is used in the UE to identify the traffic of an application and to map it
to the data connection with specific data connection parameters. Since the
application identity can be set during the development of the application, and
is non-protected, it is not suitable to uniquely identify the traffic of the
application, intended to be managed by the operator. The user may install an
application on the UE with the same application identity in order to transmit
the traffic based on the URSP rule, which was designed to be applied for the
traffic of the genuine application.
The key issue studies mechanisms to help the UE to identify the genuine
application for a correct traffic mapping according to the URSP rule.
### 5.1.2 Threats
Applications may use the identity of the genuine operator managed application
in order to transmit the traffic based on the URSP rule, which was designed to
be applied for the traffic of the genuine application.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
_The UE should have sufficient information to identify the genuine
application._
# 6 Proposed solutions
## 6.0 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 6.0-1: Mapping of solutions to key issues
Solutions **KI#1** **KI#2** **KI#3**
* * *
Provide additional authentication information to enhance URSP policy
enforcement x  
**Solution #2: Solution on enhancing the URSP rule with certificate
fingerprint** X  
Solution on prevention of URSP rule misuse by a non-genuine application using
home network anchor X
## 6.1 Solution #1: Provide additional authentication information to enhance
URSP policy enforcement
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The solution provides a UE platform agnostic method to provide additional
authentication information which can be used to enhance URSP policy
enforcement in the UE.. The solution provides a method to add additional
authentication information to a URSP policy and update the policy in the UE.
The solution reuses existing methods to input the additional authentication
information and update the policy. The content of the additional
authentication information could as an example be token but is out of scope of
the present document. The solution provides a mean for the UE to receive
additional authentication information accompanying the application ID enabling
the UE to enhance the policy enforcement.
NOTE: The additional authentication information is data accompanying the
application ID solely used to improve the authentication of rules bound to
that application ID. The content of the additional authentication information
is out of scope of 3GPP.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="2.0909722222222222in"}
Figure 6.1.2-1
1\. UE application and backend application function negotiates authentication
data. This can be a token, signature etc. The negotiation protocol is out of
scope of the present document. The step can be omitted if data is already pre-
provisioned or negotiation is unnecessary for the proprietary application
verification method.
2\. The AF sends the application authentication information to the NEF to be
included in the URSP rule.
3\. NEF authorizes the AF to update the URSP rule with the additional
authentication information.
4\. NEF provides the application ID together with additional authentication
information. The interaction between NEF and PCF is described in 3GPP TS
23.503 [2], clause 5.3.10.
5\. The PCF includes the application identifier and additional authentication
information in the policy as described in 3GPP TS 23.503 [2], clause 6.2.1.2.
6\. The PCF triggers a policy update using existing methods.
7\. Application provides additional authentication information along
application identifier. The interaction between URSP enforcement point and
application is out of scope of the present document.
8\. The policy enforcement point authenticates the application using the
provided additional authentication information.
EXAMPLE: The content of the additional authentication information could be a
seed for an OTP generator. When the rule is validated, the genuine application
will fetch an OTP from the application function and provide it to the URSP
policy enforcement point along with the application identifier. The seed in
the URSP policy will enable policy enforcement point to verify the OTP from
the application and hereby the application. This is an EXAMPLE of the
potential content of the additional authentication information but not part of
the solution.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
The solution proposes a UE platform independent exchange of additional
authentication information which enables a scalable method which can be used
across platforms. The solution extends the URSP policy with an additional
field containing the additional authentication information and reused already
existing methods to inject information into the policy and update the policy
enforced in the UE. The solution leaves the enforcement of the policy and
hereby the usage of the additional authentication information to the
application function and UE platform.
System impact:
\- Additional field added to the URSP.
\- PCF: Injection of additional authentication data into the field.
\- UE: Parsing and collecting the additional authentication data from the
URSP.
NOTE: Further evaluation is not addressed in the present document.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Solution on enhancing the URSP rule with certificate
fingerprint
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This solution is addressing key issue #1 \"Determination of application
identification\".
Every UE application is signed with a unique digital certificate, which
typically contains a validity period, the publisher of the application, the
public key of the publisher, etc. Before the application is published (e.g. to
a mobile marketplace), it is cryptographically signed by using the private key
of the publisher, which is a unique key only known by the publisher. An
example of an application signing procedure is shown in the figure below. The
generated digital signature and the digital certificate that can be used to
validate the authenticity of the application, both are included in the
application package, which can be published and distributed.
Figure 6.2.1-1: Example of application signing
A non-genuine application with the same application ID as the genuine
application would have a different certificate, since the developer of the
non-genuine application does not have access to the private key of the genuine
application publisher. Therefore the proposal is that the URSP rule is
enhanced to include a fingerprint (hash) of the genuine publisher certificate
so that the UE can easily compare it with the fingerprint of the certificate
of the application which is installed on the UE.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
As a precondition, the UE has installed an application with a specific
application ID and it computed the fingerprint of the embedded certificate of
the publisher of that application.
Figure 6.2.2-1: URSP rule delivery procedure
1\. The PCF is provisioned with the application ID and additionally with the
fingerprint of the certificate of the genuine publisher from an AF.
2\. If the UE should receive the application specific URSP rule, the PCF will
send a URPS rule delivery message with the application ID, certificate
fingerprint and routing information, etc., to the UE.
3\. If the installed application in the UE wants to send data, the UE
determines whether the application ID and the publisher certificate
fingerprint of the installed application matches with the ones included in the
URSP rule. If the match is successful, the UE applies the URSP rule
accordingly.
_Since every application is signed with the certificate that is included in
the application package, the UE will determine whether a certificate is from a
genuine publisher or installed from a different developer, even if the
application IDs are the same. A non-genuine application cannot include the
genuine certificate since the developer of the non-genuine application does
not have the private key of the genuine application to sign it. Thus if the
genuine certificate would be included in the non-genuine application package
and the signature would be computed with another key, the UE would not install
the application because the signature, computed with the public key of the
genuine certificate, does not match the one computed by the non-genuine
application developer._
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
The PCF needs to be provisioned with the fingerprint of the certificate of the
genuine application publisher additionally to the application ID, the URSP
rule needs to be enhanced to carry the certificate fingerprint and the UE
needs to take the certificate fingerprint into account, additionally to the
application ID, when applying a URSP rule. For the same app installed in
different UEs, the same fingerprint is used.
This solution does not mitigate the identified threats if an attacker
compromises the UE and tampers with any stored app certificates or
fingerprints of it.
The mechanism proposed in this solution can also be overcome if the attacker
gets access to the execution environment(s) of the UE where the computation or
comparison of the fingerprints are performed.
NOTE: Further evaluation is not addressed in the present document.
## 6.3 Solution on prevention of URSP rule misuse by a non‑genuine application
using home network anchor
### 6.3.1 Introduction
This solution proposes a method to address key issue #1 \"Determination of
application identification\". The solution can be seen as an extension of
Solutions 1 and 2 above. Solution 1 provisions \"authentication information\"
that can be used to check whether an application is genuine. Solution 1
doesn\'t provide any specific example, while solution 2 is a subset of
solution 1, which uses the fingerprint of application certificate signed by
the application publisher. In both cases, PCF is provisioned with static
materials for each application. The solution proposed below extends the above
solution by providing guarantees that, even when a non-genuine application
copies the \"fingerprint\" or \"authentication information\", UE will not map
the data from the non-genuine application according to the URSP rule.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
#### 6.3.2.1 Overview
The PCF may decide to perform URSP Parameters Update anytime after the UE has
been successfully authenticated and registered to the 5G system. The security
procedure for the URSP rule delivery procedure is described below in figure
6.3.2.1-1.
Figure 6.3.2.1-1: Prevention of URSP rule misuse by non-genuine application
> 1\. The PCF is provisioned with the application ID and the authentication
> information or token or certificate of the genuine publisher from an AF. The
> PCF decides to perform the URSP Parameters Update (URSP).
NOTE 1: The scope of what is being provisioned as authentication material
should be outside the scope of 3GPP. Static authentication information may
include the application\'s certificate or token shared between the application
client and server or any other application-specific information.
> 2-3 The PCF invokes Nausf_URSPProtection service operation message by
> including the \'authentication information or token or certificate to the
> AUSF to get URSPAUTH-MAC-I~AUSF~ and Counter~URSP~.
>
> 4-5 The PCF uses existing methods for URSP delivery procedure, which
> contains URSP Parameters Update Data, URSPAUTH-MAC-I~AUSF~, and
> Counter~URSP.~
>
> 6\. If the installed application in the UE wants to send data, the UE
> calculates the URSPAUTH-MAC-I~AUSF~ in the same way as the AUSF with the
> application id and other authentication material or token or certificate. If
> the match is successful, the UE applies the URSP rule accordingly.
NOTE 2: It is not addressed in the present document whether end-to-end
protection is needed.
#### 6.3.2.2 URSPAUTH-MAC-I~AUSF~ generation function
When deriving a URSPAUTH-MAC-I~AUSF~ from K~AUSF~, the following parameters
shall be used to form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0xPP.
\- P0 = Application ID + Authentication Information.
\- L0 = length of Application ID + Authentication Information.
\- P1 = Counter~URSP~.
\- L1 = length of Counter~URSP~.
Key used: K~AUSF~.
Output: 128 least significant bits of the output of the KDF.
### 6.3.3 Evaluation
The evaluation is not addressed in the present document.
# 7 Conclusions
No agreement could be reached.
#