# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the complete Security Assurance Methodology
(SECAM) evaluation process (evaluation, relation to SECAM Accreditation Body,
roles, etc.) as well as the components of SECAM that are intended to provide
the expected security assurance for virtualized network product. It will thus
describe the general scheme providing an overview of the entire scheme and
explaining how to create and apply the Security Assurance Specifications
(SCASs). It will detail the different evaluation tasks (vendor network product
development and network product lifecycle management process assessment,
Security Compliance Testing, Basic Vulnerability Testing and Enhanced
Vulnerability Analysis) and the different actors involved. Enhanced
Vulnerability Analysis is outside the scope of the present release of SECAM.
The present document will help all involved parties to have a clear
understanding of the overall process and the covered threats.
In another aspect, compared to [2], present document shows specific
methodology to virtualized network product in addition.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 33.916: \"Security Assurance Methodology (SCAS) for 3GPP network
products\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Management concept, architecture and requirements for
mobile networks that include virtualised network functions\".
[4] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 001: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); NFV
Security; Problem Statement\".
[5] 3GPP TR 33.927: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS); threats and
critical assets; in 3GPP virtualized network product classes\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.527: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS); for 3GPP
virtualized network products\".
[7] GSMA FS.16: \"Network Equipment Security Assurance Scheme -- Development
and Lifecycle Security Requirements\".
[8] Void
[9] GSMA FS.14: \"Network Equipment Security Assurance Scheme - Security Test
Laboratory Accreditation\".
[10] GSMA FS.15: \"Network Equipment Security Assurance Scheme - Development
and Lifecycle Assessment Methodology v.2.2\".
[11] GSMA FS.46: \"NESAS Audit Guidelines v.2.0\".
[12] ETSI GS NFV 003: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Terminology
for Main Concepts in NFV\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Introduction {#introduction-1}
### 4.1.1 Considerations on network product class when using NFV technology
The definitions of network product class and network product were documented
in the TR 33.916 [2]. For implementing 3GPP defined functionalities in network
products, some functionalities that relate to the supporting platform (e.g.
hardware components, operating system, etc.) also need to be implemented. The
platform provides execution environment for 3GPP defined functionalities. For
physical network products, the platform and the 3GPP defined functionalities
are tightly coupled, while for virtualized network products, the platform and
the 3GPP defined functionalities are decoupled. The platform of virtualized
network products composes of a hardware layer and a Virtualization layer, and
is common for 3GPP defined functionalities. Concept of 3GPP VNF is defined in
TS 28.500 [3]. According to the concept in [3], a 3GPP VNF is 3GPP network
function(s) that runs on a Network Function Virtualization Infrastructure
(NFVI), which is the platform of virtualized network products described above.
The realistic deployment scenarios are summarized in ETSI NFV-SEC 001 [4],
based on which a 3GPP network operator can deploy 3GPP defined functionalities
in three modes:
\- Mode 1. A network operator purchases 3GPP VNFs from its vendors and deploys
it on a third party NFVI.
\- Mode 2. A network operator purchases 3GPP VNFs and the Virtualization layer
(e.g. hypervisor) from its vendors, and deploys them on a third party hardware
layer.
\- Mode 3. A network operator purchases and deploys 3GPP VNFs, the
Virtualization layer and the hardware layer from its vendors.
Each deployment mode requires the different composition of virtualized network
products purchased and deployed by a network operator, which are subject to
the testing and evaluation in SECAM scheme. Accordingly, the different
composition of virtualized network products maps to three types of virtualized
network product class as depicted in Figure 1:
\- Type 1: implement 3GPP defined functionalities only
\- Type 2: implement 3GPP defined functionalities and Virtualization layer
\- Type 3: implement 3GPP defined functionalities, Virtualization layer, and
hardware layer
{width="4.511111111111111in" height="1.5888888888888888in"}
Figure 4.1.1-1: Three types of virtualized network product class
NOTE: Considering the situation that type 2 and/or type 3 of virtualized
product class are dependent of pre-mature specifications from other standard
organization, only type 1 of virtualized product class are specified in
present document.
### 4.1.2 Considerations on SECAM of the virtualized network products
The security assurance methodology study in TR 33.916 [2] is a general
methodology and already considers virtualized network products in the design
of the methodology. The biggest difference between virtualized network
products and physical network products is that the former may be run on a
common platform, while the latter has a private and exclusive platform. With
the current SECAM as the basis, the present document aims to identify and
address the gaps when applying the current SECAM to 3GPP virtualized network
products as defined in clause 4.1.1.
Editor\'s note: The text maybe revisited after update of TR33.916[2].
## 4.2 Scope of a SECAM SCAS for 3GPP virtualized network products
As with 3GPP physical network products, the targets of the security attack
analysis need to be identified before identifying the potential attack vectors
which could be used. This is different from using 3GPP physical network
product class composed of hardware, software, and interfaces as the analysis
target for attack vectors. The security threat analysis and related security
requirements of virtualized network product classes will be described in TR
33.927 [5] and TS 33.527 [6] respectively.
The Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for a given 3GPP virtualized
network product class provides a description of the security requirements and
associated test cases. The SCAS for a given 3GPP virtualized network product
class is described below:
\- For type 1 (implementing 3GPP defined functionalities only): the SCAS
provides a description of the security requirements and associated test cases
pertaining to 3GPP VNF.
Same as SECAM for 3GPP physical network products documented in TR 33.916 [2],
evaluations performed in the past remain valid. The environmental assumptions
which are contained in SCAS of 3GPP virtualized network products will be
validated during product deployment and it is not part of SECAM.
## 4.3 Scope of SECAM evaluation for 3GPP virtualized network products
The product lifecycle process of a physical network product consists of a
number of processes, e.g. first commercial introduction, update, minor
release, major release and end of life. The vendor network product development
and lifecycle processes in these stages should comply with security
requirements such as security by design, version control system, change
tracking, source code review and security testing as specified in [7]. This
generic product lifecycle process and the related security requirements apply
to a type 1 virtualized network product.
## 4.4 Scope of SECAM Accreditation for 3GPP virtualized network products
According to the definitions of accreditation and SECAM Accreditation Body in
TR 33.916 [2], it is a general way to ensure the accuracy and recognition of
the evaluation results for the network products through the accreditation and
SECAM Accreditation Body. So, it is applicable to all of the network products,
regardless of whether the network product is physical network product or
virtualized network product. It means, like for physical network products, the
actors who perform the SECAM tasks for type 1 of 3GPP virtualized network
products should also be accredited by the SECAM Accreditation Body.
Table 4.4-1: Mapping between SECAM phases and involved party
SECAM tasks Accredited actor
* * *
Vendor Network Product Development and virtualized network product lifecycle
management process Auditor appointed by SECAM Accreditation Body Compliance
declaration with the accredited generic vendor development and lifecycle
process requirements Accredited vendor Virtualized network product evaluation
which includes Security compliance testing and Basic Vulnerability Testing
Accredited vendor or accredited third-party test laboratory
Consequently, according to table 4.4-1, SECAM can take different forms,
depending on who performs security compliance testing and who performs Basic
Vulnerability Testing.
SECAM is intended to enable self-evaluation where the vendors evaluate their
network products if they have the proper accreditation for that.
The responsibility for writing and managing the accreditation and monitoring
rules is taken by a SECAM Accreditation Body. The SECAM Accreditation Body\'s
role also includes the handling of the dispute resolution process.
The decision on who takes the role of SECAM Accreditation Body should be made
in cooperation with other SDOs such as GSMA, etc. It is recommended to leave
accreditation responsibility to GSMA.
Even if it describes the complete process, including evaluation by accredited
actors under SECAM Accreditation Body control and Security Assurance
Specifications (SCAS) writing, SECAM does not preclude 3GPP SCAS security
requirements and tests cases being used directly by mutual consent between
vendors and operators without the accreditation process in place if it so
desires. This ensures that the 3GPP SECAM work is not held up by delays in
deliverables under the responsibility of external bodies, or by conflicting
requirements in different countries (e.g. relating to accreditation).
The presence of a SECAM Accreditation Body as defined above is highly
desirable in order to ensure a wide recognition of evaluation results and to
have a working dispute resolution process available. Having a SECAM
Accreditation Body also avoids the need for each operator to set up a one to
one trust relationship with every vendor regarding their testing methods and
skills.
Validity of accreditation is defined by the SECAM Accreditation Body.
## 4.5 Ultimate Output of SECAM Evaluation for 3GPP virtualized network
products
The ultimate output of the SECAM evaluation for type 1 of 3GPP virtualized
network products is:
\- An evaluation report demonstrating compliance of the network product with
the 3GPP security assurance specifications.
\- Evidence to demonstrate to the test laboratory that the accredited vendor
product and development lifecycle processes have been complied with for the
network product.
\- Evidence that the actors performing the evaluation tasks are accredited by
the SECAM Accreditation Body. Such evidence is not required if there is
consent between operator and vendor to not use the accreditation process.
Like for physical network products, the evaluation report of a type 1 of
virtualized network product is examined by the operator and the evidence that
the actors performing the evaluation tasks are accredited by the SECAM
Accreditation Body.
## 4.6 3GPP virtualized network products evaluation process
The security assurance process defined in clause 4.5 of TR 33.916 [2] includes
evaluating network products, outputting the evaluation report, operator\'s
acceptance decision. A vendor also performs certification activities for
network products in addition to self-declaration after outputting evaluation
report. This process is a general process and applies to 3GPP virtualized
network products.
The security assurance process of type 1 of virtualized network products
describes how the operator gets assurance regarding the security of the
virtualized network product.
## 4.7 Roles in SECAM for 3GPP virtualized network products
The roles involved in SECAM evaluation and accreditation described in TR
33.916 [2] also apply to type 1 of 3GPP virtualized network products, i.e.
vendor, test laboratory, operator, 3GPP and SECAM Accreditation Body. The
clause 4.6.1 of TR 33.916 [2] also applies to GVNP.
This example below of complete self-evaluation is similar to the SECAM defined
Security assurance process in the figure 4.7-1 except that the vendor conducts
all the phases of evaluation.
{width="4.139583333333333in" height="2.095138888888889in"}
Figure 4.7-1: Complete self-evaluation of a 3GPP virtualized network product\
(e.g. vAMF (AMF VNF) from vendor X)
Evaluation results are checked by operators and dispute on evaluation results
is resolved by the SECAM Accreditation Body.
## 4.8 Operator security acceptance decision for 3GPP virtualized network
products
In clause 4.7 of TR 33.916 [2], it was proposed that for the evaluation result
of the network products, the operator decides the security acceptance through
examining the network product, the security compliance testing, the basic
vulnerability testing analysis reports, the self-declaration as well as the
optional evidence of accreditation from the SECAM Accreditation Body. In
addition, operator security acceptance decision in clause 4.7 of TR 33.916 [2]
is general process. So, operator security acceptance decision for type 1 of
3GPP virtualized network products is the same as those for 3GPP physical
network products, i.e. operator examines the ultimate outputs of the
evaluation, the self-declaration and decides if the results are sufficient
according to its internal policies, etc.
## 4.9 SECAM Assurance level for 3GPP virtualized network products
SECAM assurance level for 3GPP physical network products was analysed in
clause 4.8 of TR 33.916 [2]. This analysis about SECAM assurance level is
general and applicable to all of the network products, regardless of whether
the network product is physical network product or virtualized network
product. In addition, per network product class being considered only one
SECAM assurance level could reduce the complexity of the network product
evaluation. So, SECAM of the virtualized network products also considers only
one assurance level for type 1 of virtualized network product class.
## 4.10 Security baseline for 3GPP virtualized network products
The analysis about security baseline for network products in clause 4.9 of TR
33.916 [2] is general and is applicable for all of the network products,
regardless of whether the network product is physical network product or
virtualized network product. So, SECAM considers only one security baseline
for type 1 of virtualized network product class, which is built on the entire
set of security requirements, operational environment assumptions and attacker
model.
# 5 Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) Creation
## 5.1 Introduction {#introduction-2}
The steps of a SCAS document (i.e. describing and modelling the network
product class, defining the security problem, identifying the security
requirements and test cases, verifying the security requirements) in clause
5.1 of TR 33.916 [2] is high level and general. So, these steps apply to the
process of writing SCAS documents for a given virtualized network product
class. According to the description of 3GPP virtualized network product class
in clause 4.1, there are three types of the virtualized network product
classes, when describing and modelling a given virtualized network product
class, the type of the given virtualized network product class should be
considered.
NOTE: Considering the situation that type 2 and/or type 3 of virtualized
product class are dependent of pre-mature specifications from other standard
organization, only type 1 of virtualized product class are specified in
present document.
## 5.2 SCAS documents structure and content
### 5.2.1 General
According to clause 5.1, the SCAS documents contain three parts, i.e.
Virtualized Network Product Class Description, Security Problem Definition and
Security Requirements (including the test cases) for any specific Network
Product Class, to counteract the risks outlined by the threat analysis.
Consequently SCAS documents for virtualized network products contain the
following parts:
**_\- Network Product Class Description for Virtualized network products
(NPCDV):_** This clause includes the description of the virtualized network
product class defined in clause 4.1.x, e.g. the physical and logical
interfaces that the product class supports to interact with external entities
and the major functionalities of the VNPC. This material will be contained in
a 3GPP Technical Report of the 900-series.
**_\- Security Problem Definition (SPD):_** This clause defines the security
problem that is to be addressed and the security objectives of the virtualized
network product class. This material will be contained in a 3GPP Technical
Reports of the 900-series.
**_\- Security Requirements (SR):_** This clause defines the security
requirements, which may include hardening requirements, selected according to
the Security Problem Definition and the requirements strictly related to the
3GPP security features implemented by the virtualized network product class,
as well as the security requirements of Virtualization aspect defined in 3GPP
and other standard organization like ETSI NFV, etc. Requirements and test
cases will be contained in one or more 3GPP Technical Specifications.
In the following clauses, detailed descriptions of SCAS parts SPD and SR for
virtualized network products are provided.
### 5.2.2 Security Problem Definition (SPD)
Clause 5.2.2 of TR 33.916 [2] describes the steps to be accomplished for the
SPD part of the SCAS writing phase, principles and structures for threats and
security objectives. These are general guidelines and can also be applied to
SPD analysis of 3GPP virtualized network products.
### 5.2.3 Security Requirements
#### 5.2.3.1 Introduction {#introduction-3}
According to the scope of a SECAM SCAS in clause 4.2, a SCAS contains security
requirements and associated test cases, and may contain environmental
assumptions which will be validated during product deployment. So, like GNP in
TR 33.916 [2], the countermeasures deemed relevant to threat mitigation will
also take the form of either:
\- security requirements on the network product with associated test cases; or
\- operational environment security assumptions for a given product class.
For GVNP, the operational environment security assumptions among different
product classes vary greatly, for example some sensitive 3GPP functions may
need to be run from special security domain or may need to implement hardware
(See clause 4.9 in TR 33.916 [2]) with special security requirement that make
it difficult. It may also be necessary to consider such assumptions during
testing so that stringent security requirements can be met. Any such
consideration should be well-documented as part of both the testing
environment so that the validation during product deployment can be carried
out and duplicated.
The Security Requirements clauses within the pertinent TS contain the security
requirements identified according to the threats (see figure 5.2.3.1-1).
{width="4.235416666666667in" height="3.3340277777777776in"}
Figure 5.2.3.1-1: Process for deriving security requirements in a SCAS
document
The security requirements include security functional requirements and
hardening requirements. Since SECAM tasks include Basic Vulnerability Testing,
basic vulnerability testing requirements are also included in security
requirements of a SCAS. The types of the security requirements are same as in
TR 33.916 [2].
The three types of the levels of detail for security requirements in clause
5.2.3.1.1 of TR 33.916 [2] and the relationship between these levels are
generic and are also applicable to describe the level of detail of security
requirements for a GVNP.
#### 5.2.3.2 Incorporation of security requirements from existing 3GPP and
ETSI specifications in current releases
According to GVNP model and threat analysis, the categories of potential
security functional requirements can also include the following category
extension to the three categories in clause 5.2.3.2 of TR 33.916 [2]:
\- Security functional requirements related to virtualization layer, hardware
and resource isolation, among others, which may be identified in ETSI
specifications etc..
The security functional requirements in this category are within scope of SCAS
and related test cases will be proposed.
#### 5.2.3.3 Handling of security requirements
A SECAM Catalogue of General Security Assurance Requirements and associated
test cases is proposed in clause 5.2.3.3 of TR 33.916 [2] to prevent from
writing the same security requirements from scratch several times in different
network product class SCAS. This generic way is also applied to SECAM of
virtualized network product class.
Since SECAM and SCAS of physical network product class are bases for SECAM and
SCAS of virtualized network product class, the security requirements of a
virtualized network product class will refer to the security requirements
already available in the current SECAM catalogue if possible otherwise select
the new ones from the agreed sources and update the Catalogue. The template
for a security requirement description of virtualized network product also
uses the template in current SECAM which is described in TR 33.916 [2].
#### 5.2.3.4 Guidelines for writing test cases
Some general guidelines for writing test cases (e.g. describing test case,
verifiability and repeatability of test case etc.) are described in clause
5.2.3.4 of TR 33.916 [2]. These general guidelines are also used to guide
writing test case of virtualized network product class.
NOTE: All the test cases in the present document do not apply to the scenarios
where the tested interfaces are not standard compliant, e.g. when the VNF and
VNFM are provided by the same vendor who has proprietary implementation on the
interface between them.
## 5.3 Improvement of SCAS and new potential security requirements
Vendors, operators or other bodies can propose new potential security
requirements for addition to 3GPP SCASs for GVNPs if a new threat or
vulnerability has been identified. This gives 3GPP the flexibility to
continuously review and improve their SCASs for GVNPs.
## 5.4 Basic vulnerability testing requirements for generic virtualized
network product
The basic vulnerability testing activities such as Port Scanning,
Vulnerability Scanner by the use of vulnerability scanners are the generic
mechanisms to detect the exposures and vulnerabilities of both for the
physical network products and the virtualized network products. Currently, the
security testing tools already support vulnerability and port scanning for the
virtualized network products. So, the existing general requirements of port
scanning and vulnerability scanning apply to all types of GVNP.
The target of robustness and fuzz testing are the protocol stacks (e.g. http
stack) rather than the applications. The protocol stacks supported by the NF
are the same for both of virtualized and physical network products. So, the
existing general requirements of robustness and fuzz testing apply to GVNPs.
# 6 Vendor development and product lifecycle processes and test laboratory
accreditation
## 6.1 Overview
According to the description from clause 4.4, the scope of SECAM accreditation
described in TR 33.916 [2] is applicable to all of the network products,
regardless of whether the network product is physical network product or
virtualized network product. GSMA FS.14, FS.15 and FS.16, FS.46 [9], [10] [11]
and [7] described test laboratory accreditation, vendor development and
product lifecycle processes and security requirements respectively. These are
generic accreditation and processes. So, the processes of vendor development
and product lifecycle processes and test laboratory accreditation in clause 6
of TR 33.916 [2], which provide the overview of the processes and
accreditation in GSMA NESASG are apply to type 1 of virtualized network
products as well.
Editor\'s note: The product development and lifecycle processes as well as
test laboratory accreditation procedure described in the present document
needs to be revisited once GSMA NESASG publishes new methodology
specifications on NESAS.
NOTE: GSMA NESASG is ultimately responsible for defining the entire vendor
development, product lifecycle processes, and test laboratory accreditation,
including dispute resolution process. Therefore, it is the responsibility of
GSMA NESASG to confirm if the current process defined in GSMA is sufficient to
cover type 1 of virtualized network products.
The final choices and rules for the accreditation and monitoring rules are
under the responsibility of the SECAM Accreditation Body. It is recommended to
leave accreditation responsibility to GSMA. This clause outlines what is in
scope of the SECAM Accreditation Body.
## 6.2 Audit and accreditation of Vendor network product development and
network product lifecycle management processes
Since the scope of SECAM accreditation described in TR 33.916 [2] is
applicable to all of the network products, the evaluation of the security
relevant part of the Vendor virtualized network product development and
virtualized network product lifecycle management processes is also done as
part of the vendor accreditation process by the SECAM Accreditation Body.
Vendor virtualized network product development and virtualized network product
lifecycle management processes assurance requirements as well as related
evaluation activities generic to all network product classes are defined by
the SECAM Accreditation Body. The vendor will define their own processes and
describe them in written format. During an audit, the processes will be
evaluated and their application on development activities in practice will be
verified. An accreditation will be awarded, if the requirements are met.
As described in clause 6.2 of TR 33.916 [2], lifecycle management of
virtualized network products also consists of establishing discipline and
control in the updates of virtualized network product during its development
and maintenance. Lifecycle management controls are important during normal
improvement of virtualized network product as well as for
vulnerability/security flaw remediation (documentation used to track
vulnerability/security flaw, remediation procedure with relation to corrective
actions for each identified vulnerability/security flaw...). The vendor
accreditation for virtualized network product development and virtualized
network product life cycle management processes will provide assurance for
these aspects in SECAM.
In addition, for type 1 of virtualized network products, a VNF is instantiated
through a series of operations, such as parsing VNF package files, parsing
VNFD, instantiating VMs, etc, after a type 1 of virtualized network products
(i.e. a VNF package and related softwares, etc.) to a operator delivered by a
vendor. The VNF instance can be updated, migrated and deleted, scaled-in,
scale-down etc., by VNFM. These processes is called VNF life cycle management
defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [12], it is different from the lifecycle management
process of virtualized network products. Its audit and accreditation are out
of scope in 3GPP.
The Vendor virtualized network product development and virtualized network
product lifecycle management processes assessment does not necessarily apply
only to a single virtualized network product. Vendors can submit their generic
virtualized network product development and virtualized network product
lifecycle management processes or a subset of them for auditing and
accreditation. Generic virtualized network product development and virtualized
network product lifecycle management processes are usually used during
development of all or some products of the same vendor. As different
virtualized network product development and virtualized network product
lifecycle management processes could be utilized within the organization of
one vendor, e.g. due to mergers or acquisitions, vendors could obtain and hold
accreditation for different generic virtualized network product development
and virtualized network product lifecycle management processes.
Once the vendor obtains accreditation and as long as the accreditation has not
expired, vendors are allowed to produce development process compliance
declarations for the \"virtualized network product development and virtualized
network product lifecycle management processes compliance validation\" task on
their own.
At the beginning of a SECAM evaluation of a product, the Vendor will have to
provide a development process compliance declaration to the compliance tester
containing a rationale showing that the generic accredited process was
effectively applied in the virtualized network product development and
virtualized network product lifecycle management of the virtualized network
product under evaluation.
Requirements and accreditation procedures for vendor development lifecycle
process and product lifecycle maintenance process accreditation are specified
in [10].
## 6.3 Audit and accreditation of test laboratories
The process for audit and accreditation of test laboratories in clause 6.3 of
TR 33.916 [2] are generic and apply to all types of GVNPs.
For type 1 of virtualized network products, to assure the GVNP security during
testing process, in addition to assessing the skills of the vendors or third-
party test laboratories, the compliance to Test methodology, the SECAM
Accreditation Body also needs to accredit the security declaration for NFVI
supporting environment (i.e. NFVI for GVNP for type 1) of vendor\'s or third-
party test laboratories.
## 6.4 Monitoring
All text from TR 33.916 [2], clause 6.4 applied to type 1 of GVNPs.
> Note: To assure the GVNP security during testing process and after
> deployment, NFVI for type 1 of GVNP, which is not provided by the vendor who
> implements the 3GPP virtual network functions, can be assumed to comply with
> the monitor process in clause 6.4 of TR 33.916 [2].
## 6.5 Dispute resolution
All text from TR 33.916 [2], clause 6.5 applied to type 1 of GVNPs.
Note: To assure the GVNP security during testing process and after deployment,
NFVI of type 1 for GVNP, which is not provided by the vendor who implements
the 3GPP virtual network functions, can be assumed to comply with the dispute
resolution process in clause 6.5 of TR 33.916 [2].
# 7 Evaluation and SCAS instantiation
## 7.1 Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) instantiation documents
creation
As described in clause 4.3, the scope of SECAM evaluation for 3GPP physical
network products applies to SECAM evaluation of 3GPP virtualized network
products. The SCAS instantiation of the virtualized network product also
consists of a set of documents provided by the vendor to give test
laboratories and operators the relevant information to understand **the
critical parts of the network product to be evaluated.**
**The content of the SCAS instantiation of type 1 for GVNP is defined and it
contains details on:**
\- Virtualized Network Product description (e.g. software version,
documentation version).
\- Scope of evaluation.
\- Mapping of SCAS security requirements to the virtualized network product
and assets in the virtualized network product.
\- References to the applicable document versions containing operational
guidance in the documentation of the virtualized network product.
\- Information needed to start the Security Compliance Testing, including
Basic Vulnerability Testing. For GVNPs of type 1, the requirements for a NFVI
supporting environment should be included in the information.
\- Details of licenses that are required for the product to operate in the
scope of evaluation (if relevant).
The above document set is updated by the vendor until the testers (Security
Compliance Testing, Basic Vulnerability Testing) consider they have enough and
correct information to execute the required tests. Details on the content of
these documents and of the update process are provided in clause 7.2.1.
## 7.2 Evaluation and evaluation report
### 7.2.1 Network product development process and network product lifecycle
management
According to the descriptions in clause 4.3 and clause 4.5, the tasks and
ultimate output of the GVNP evaluation is same with the physical network
product evaluation. So, all text from TR 33.916, clause 7.2 basically applies
to the GVNP of type 1. The following clauses will focus on the difference from
clause 7.2 in TR 33.916 [2].
The description about network product development process and network product
lifecycle management in clause 7.2.1 of TR 33.916 [2] applies to type 1 of
virtualized network products. In addition, the Vendor Virtualized Network
Product Development and virtualized network product lifecycle management
process self-evaluation report for the type 1 of virtualized network product
under evaluation, which is provided by the vendor, can also contain the
security declaration for NFVI supporting environment (i.e. NFVI for GVNP for
type 1).
### 7.2.2 SCAS instantiation evaluation
#### 7.2.2.1 Overview
Like the physical network product, SCAS instantiation evaluation of the
virtualized network product is to check whether a SCAS instantiation written
by a vendor is a correct instantiation of the SCAS of the network product
class and whether it is a good basis for evaluating the network product.
The accredited evaluator (vendor or third-party evaluator) for security
compliance testing is responsible for SCAS instantiation evaluation before it
is used to evaluate virtualized network product. The evaluator confirms at
least that the SCAS being instantiated for a given type 1 of 3GPP virtualized
network product and the virtualized network product for evaluation are
consistent. According to the clauses 4.3, 4.5 and 4.6, the content and the
process of SECAM evaluation from TR 33.916 [2] apply to GVNP of type 1.
#### 7.2.2.2 Content
The content of the SCAS instantiation evaluation from TR 33.916 [2], in clause
7.2.2.2 is generic and applies to type 1 of virtualized network products.
In addition, what the network product description provides is described from
TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.2.2.2.1, a compatibility description (such as which
types of virtualization platforms VNF can be deployed on) can also be included
in the type 1 of virtualized network product description, to facilitate the
preparation of the NFVI supporting environment in the test phase.
#### 7.2.2.3 Process
The process from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.2.2.3 applies to type 1 of
virtualized network products.
### 7.2.3 Security Compliance testing
The security compliance testing in clause 7.2.3 of TR 33.916 [2] is a generic
process, the inputs, outputs and activities from TR 33.916 [2], in clause
7.2.3 apply to virtualized network products. In addition, the accredited test
laboratory should prepare supporting environment, i.e. NFVI for GVNP for type
1.
### 7.2.4 Basic Vulnerability Testing
The process of BVT from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.2.3 is generic and applies
to the virtualized network products. In addition, the test tools of BVT should
support to detect the vulnerabilities in GVNP of type 1.
## 7.3 Self-declaration
Like self-declaration of a physical network products, after the evaluation
process is finished, the vendors review all the evaluation results of the type
1 for virtualized network products and give a declaration of their product.
All text from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.3 is generic and applies to the
virtualized network products.
## 7.4 Partial compliance and use of SECAM requirements in network product
development cycle
The basic principles for partial compliance and use of SECAM requirements in
network product development cycle is described in clause 7.4 of [2]. It also
applies to the evaluation of type 1 for virtualized network products.
## 7.5 Comparison between two SECAM evaluations
All text from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.5 applies to the virtualized network
products.
## 7.6 The evaluation of a new version
All text from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.6 applies to virtualized network
products.
#