# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio interface
(Reference point Um for GSM and Reference point Uu for UMTS as defined in TS
24.002) for normal operation, invocation, registration and interrogation of
the enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption Service (eMLPP)
supplementary service. Provision and withdrawal of supplementary services is
an administrative matter between the mobile subscriber and the service
provider and cause no signalling on the radio interface.
In TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in TS 22.004
and TS 22.08x and22.09x -series. TS 22.067 is related specially to eMLPP.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in TS 23.011 and
TS 23.08x and 23.09x -series.
TS 23.067 is related specially to eMLPP.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management at the layer 3 radio
interface are defined in TS 24.007 and TS 24.008.
The procedure for Radio Resource management at layer 3 radio interface is
defined in 3GPP TS 44.018 and TS 25.331.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.067: \" enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption service
(eMLPP) ‑ Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"; Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.083: \" Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.084: \" MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"; Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.086: \" Advice of Charge (AoC) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage
1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.088: \" Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.090: \" Stage 1 description of Unstructured Supplementary
Service Data (USSD)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.092: \" Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.011: \" Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.067: \" enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption
service (eMLPP) ‑ Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 43.068: \"Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) ‑ Stage 2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 43.069: \"Voice Broadcast Service (VBS) ‑ Stage 2\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.081: \" Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.082: \" Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.083: \" Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.084: \" MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.085: \" Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 23.089: \" Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[23] 3GPP TS 23.088: \" Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[24] 3GPP TS 23.090: \" Unstructured supplementary services operation ‑ Stage
2\".
[25] 3GPP TS 23.091: \" Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) supplementary service ‑
Stage 2\".
[26] 3GPP TS 24.002: \" GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access reference
configuration\".
[27] 3GPP TS 24.007: \" Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[28] 3GPP TS 24.008: \" Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[29] 3GPP TS 24.010: \" Mobile radio interface layer 3 Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[30] 3GPP TS 24.080: \" Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification Formats and coding\".
[31] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"3G Vocabulary\"
[32] 3GPP TS 25.331: \" Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; RRC
Protocol Specification\"
[33] 3GPP TS 44.018: \" Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio Resource Control Protocol
\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Definitions used in the present document are defined in 3GPP TS 22.067 and
3GPP TS 23.067.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in GSM 01.04 and 3GPP TS
21.905.
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
eMLPP enhanced MLPP
MLPP Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
VBS Voice Broadcast Service
VGCS Voice Group Call Service
# 4 enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP)
## 4.1 Normal operation
NOTE: In the call related messages only the additional information for the
eMLPP supplementary service is shown in the figures.
### 4.1.1 Mobile originated calls
The mobile station can indicate the priority of each call initiated. If no
priority is indicated by the user or a non-compatible mobile station is used
then the default priority level shall be applied which is stored in the VLR.
The selection of priority shall be an MMI function.
For mobile originated calls in GSM mode in GSM mode, the corresponding message
flows are shown in figure 1.1.
MS Network
IMM_ASS
\
UA (CM_SERV_REQ (PriorityLevel))
\
CIPH_MOD_CMD
\
SETUP
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->
CALL_PROCEEDING (PriorityLevel)
\
CM_SERV_REQ (PriorityLevel))
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
AUTH_REQ
\
SECURITY_MODE_COMMAND
\
SETUP
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->
CALL_PROCEEDING (PriorityLevel)
\
UA (SERV_REQ (PriorityLevel))
\
CIPH_MOD_CMD
\
SETUP
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->
CONNECT (GroupCallReference (PriorityLevel))
\
Facility (Invoke = RegisterSS (eMLPP, DefaultPriorityLevel))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (eMLPP))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\ New Version Subject/Comment Apr 1999 GSM
04.67 6.0.0 Transferred to 3GPP CN1 CN#03 24.067 3.0.0 Approved at CN#03 CN#10
24.067 3.0.0 001r1 R99 3.1.0 eMLPP correction for GSM/UMTS use CN#10 24.067
3.0.0 002r3 R99 3.1.0 The accepted priority in the call proceeding message for
GSM and UMTS CN#11 24.067 3.1.0 Rel-4 4.0.0 Release 4 after CN#11 CN#12 24.067
4.0.0 005 Rel-4 4.1.0 Remove the statement when MS receives no priority
granted CN#16 24.067 4.1.0 Rel-5 5.0.0 Release 5 after CN#16 CN#26 24.067
5.0.0 Rel-6 6.0.0 Release 6 after CN#26 CT#36 24.067 6.0.0 Rel-7 7.0.0
Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6 CT#42 24.067 7.0.0 Rel-8 8.0.0 Upgraded
unchanged from Rel-7