# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and
interrogation of charging supplementary services within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 0 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio interface
(reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal operation,
registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and interrogation
of charging supplementary services. The provision and withdrawal of
supplementary services is an administrative matter between the mobile
subscriber and the service provider and causes no signalling on the radio
interface.
In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.024 and 02.86
are related to the charging supplementary services.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS 23.011
and 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 23.086 is related to the
charging supplementary services.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary services belong to the charging supplementary
services and are described in the present document:
\- Advice of Charge (Information) (AoCI) (clause 1);
\- Advice of Charge (Charging) (AoCC) (clause 2).
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.024: \"Description of Charge Advice Information (CAI)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services - Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services - Stage
1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services - Stage
1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Services Data (USSD) \-
Stage 1\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services - Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services - Stage
2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services - Stage 2\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services - Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services \- Stage
2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services - Stage
2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services - Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation - Stage
2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) Access
Reference Configuration\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[24] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[25] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[26] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 1 Advice of Charge (Information) (AoCI)
## 1.1 Normal operation with successful outcome
On every successful request for an applicable telecommunications service, the
served Mobile Station (MS) will be provided with charging information.
The network sends the Charge Advice Information (CAI) to the MS according to
3GPP TS 22.024, 3GPP TS 22.086 and 3GPP TS 23.086. With this information the
MS is able to calculate the units associated with the requested service in
real time. In the case where the served mobile is to be charged for multi
party calls, separate processes within the MS are used to calculate units
appropriate to each call. For unit calculation, each call is treated in the
same way as a normal \"two-party\" call. Any change in the charging rate
during a call may be indicated to the MS.
### 1.1.1 Call re-establishment
When the MS detects a radio link failure, the Chargeable Duration (CDUR) shall
be suspended.
If a call re-establishment procedure is attempted, the MS shall resume the
CDUR when:
\- an MM connection has been successfully completed; and
\- a TCH has been successfully seized in the appropriate mode.
### 1.1.2 MS originated call
For an MS originated call, charging information is transferred to the MS as
shown in figure 1.1. The charging information is acknowledged in a FACILITY
message only if the MS supports the AoCI functionality specified in 3GPP TS
22.024 and 3GPP TS 22.086. AoCI refers to the Advice of Charge (Information)
service.
MS Network
SETUP
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
etc.
CONNECT/FACILITY
\
Facility (Return result)
Figure 1.1: Notification to the served mobile subscriber of the charging
information\ in case of an originated call set up
### 1.1.3 MS terminated call
For an MS terminated call, where required, charging information is transferred
to the MS as shown in figure 1.2. The charging information is acknowledged
only if the MS supports the AoCI functionality specified in 3GPP TS 22.024 and
3GPP TS 22.086.
MS Network
CONNECT
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
FACILITY
\
Facility (Return result)
Figure 1.2: Notification to the served mobile subscriber of the charging
information\ in case of a terminated call set-up
### 1.1.4 Change of charging information
To inform the MS of a change in charging information the procedure of figure
1.3 is performed. The charging information is acknowledged only if the MS
supports the AoCI functionality specified in 3GPP TS 22.024 and 3GPP TS
22.086.
MS Network
FACILITY
\
Facility (Return result)
Figure 1.3: Notification to the served mobile subscriber of a change in the
charging information
## 1.2 Normal operation with unsuccessful outcome
No signalling is performed by the network if a MS fails to acknowledge receipt
of charging Information.
## 1.3 Activation, deactivation and invocation
Activation, deactivation and invocation of the Advice of Charge (Information)
supplementary service are not applicable.
## 1.4 Interrogation, registration and erasure
Interrogation, registration and erasure of the Advice of Charge (Information)
supplementary service are not applicable.
# 2 Advice of Charge (Charging) (AoCC)
## 2.1 Normal operation with successful outcome
On every successful request for an applicable telecommunications service, the
served MS will be provided with charging information.
The network sends the Charge Advice Information (CAI) to the MS according to
3GPP TS 22.024, 3GPP TS 22.086 and 3GPP TS 23.086. With this information the
MS is able to calculate the units associated with the requested service in
real time. In the case where the served mobile is to be charged for multi
party calls, separate processes within the MS are used to calculate units
appropriate to each call. For unit calculation, each call is treated in the
same way as a normal \"two-party\" call. Any change in the charging rate
during a call may be indicated to the MS.
### 2.1.1 Call re-establishment
When the MS detects a radio link failure, the Chargeable Duration (CDUR) shall
be suspended.
If a call re-establishment procedure is attempted, the MS shall resume the
CDUR when:
\- an MM connection has been successfully completed; and
\- a TCH has been successfully seized in the appropriate mode.
### 2.1.2 MS originated call
For an MS originated call, charging information is transferred to the MS as
shown in figure 2.1. The charging information is acknowledged in a FACILITY
message only if the MS supports the AoCC functionality specified in 3GPP TS
22.024 and 3GPP TS 22.086. AoCC refers to the Advice of Charge (Charging)
service.
MS Network
SETUP
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
etc.
CONNECT/FACILITY
\
Facility (Return result)
Figure 2.1: Notification to the served mobile subscriber of the charging
information\ in case of an originated call set up
### 2.1.3 MS terminated call
For an MS terminated call, where required, charging information is transferred
to the MS as shown in figure 2.2. The charging information is acknowledged
only if the MS supports the AoCC functionality specified in 3GPP TS 22.024 and
3GPP TS 22.086.
MS Network
CONNECT
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
FACILITY
\
Facility (Return result)
Figure 2.2: Notification to the served mobile subscriber of the charging
information\ in case of a terminated call set up
### 2.1.4 Change of charging information
To inform the MS of a change in charging information the procedure of figure
2.3 is performed. The charging information is acknowledged only if the MS
supports the AoCC functionality specified in 3GPP TS 22.024 and 3GPP TS
22.086.
MS Network
FACILITY
\
Facility (Return result)
Figure 2.3: Notification to the served mobile subscriber of a change in the
charging information
## 2.2 Normal operation with unsuccessful outcome
If timer T(AoC) (see 3GPP TS 23.086) expires before the Charge Advice
Information is acknowledged, the network shall release the call. The MS and
network shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008 network initiated call
clearing procedures (see figure 2.4).
MS Network
DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE
\
....Cause #68 (ACM equal to or greater than ACMmax)....
Figure 2.5: Mobile station releases the call due to ACM being equal to or
greater than ACMmax
## 2.4 Activation, deactivation and invocation
Activation, deactivation and invocation of the Advice of Charge (Charging)
supplementary service are not applicable.
## 2.5 Interrogation, registration and erasure
Interrogation, registration and erasure of the Advice of Charge (Charging)
supplementary service are not applicable.
#