# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document gives the stage 3 description of the Multicall (MC)
supplementary service within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives the stage 3 description of the Multicall (MC)
supplementary service. The present document specifies the procedures used by
the radio interface for normal operation, registration and interrogation of
the Multicall supplementary service. Provision, withdrawal, erasure,
activation and deactivation of supplementary services is an administrative
matter between the mobile subscriber and the service provider and causes no
signalling on the radio interface.
3GPP TS 24.010 describes the general aspects of the specification of
supplementary services at the layer 3 radio interface.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004, 3GPP TS 22.072, 3GPP TS 22.08x, 3GPP TS 22.09x-series and 3GPP TS
22.135. 3GPP TS 22.135 is related specifically to the Multicall supplementary
service.
The technical realisation of supplementary services are described in 3GPP TS
23.011, 3GPP TS 23.072, 3GPP TS 23.08x, 23.09x-series and 3GPP TS 23.135. 3GPP
TS 23.135 is related specifically to the Multicall supplementary service.
The procedures for Call Control and Mobility Management at the layer 3 radio
interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and 3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary services are described in the present document:
\- Multicall (MC) (see clause 4).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3GPP Vocabulary\".
  1. 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
  2. 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station (MS)\".
  3. 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall Stage1\".
  4. 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
  5. 3GPP TS 23.135: \"Multicall supplementary service -- stage 2\".
  6. 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3 General aspects\".
  7. 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification Core Network Protocol -- Stage 3\".
  8. 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 Supplementary services specification General aspects\".
  9. 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 Supplementary services specification Formats and coding\".
  10. 3GPP TS 24.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary services ‑ Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 22.135 apply.
Further related abbreviations are given in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 4 Multicall (MC)
## 4.1 Normal operation
All of the radio signalling specific to Multicall is at the served mobile
subscriber side. The radio signalling on the other side uses basic call
signalling procedures only.
The mobile subscriber supporting Multicall shall include the stream identifier
(SI) information element. The purpose of the stream identifier (SI)
information element is to associate a particular call with a Radio Access
Bearer (RAB), and to identify whether a new traffic channel is requested for
the call. Refer to TS 24.008 for the rules on allocating stream identifiers.
### 4.1.1 Mobile originating call (request a new traffic channel)
If the served mobile subscriber initiates an outgoing call (A-B), the mobile
subscriber shall include the stream identifier (SI) information element in the
SETUP message. When there are no other ongoing calls, the following rules
apply:
\- The stream identifier value shall be equal to 1.
\- CC capabilities that indicate N**~br~** _UE shall be included in the SETUP
message.
\- NW CC capabilities that indicate the network supports Multicall shall be
included in the CALL PROCEEDING message.
\- If the NW CC capabilities is not sent from the network, the mobile station
shall assume that the network does not support Multicall, and shall not
initiate an additional mobile originating call via a new bearer.
\- If the network receives the SETUP message with a stream identifier
including an invalid content (SI value indicates other than 1 for the first
call), the network shall initiate call clearing with cause #95 \"semantically
incorrect message\".
**MS Network**
SETUP (TI(A-B), SI=1, CC capabilities)
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->
CALL PROCEEDING (TI(A-B), NW CC capabilities)
\
CALL PROCEEDING (TI(B-C))
\
HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE (TI(A-B))
\
CALL PROCEEDING (TI(B-C))
\
ALERTING (TI(A-B))
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
DISCONNECT ((TI(A-B)), Cause #95)
\
ALERTING (TI(B-C))
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
CONNECT (TI(B-C))
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
DISCONNECT (TI(B-C), Cause #44)
\
ALERTING (TI(B-C))
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
CONNECT (TI(B-C), SI(B-C))
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
DISCONNECT (TI(B-C), Cause #44)
\
HOLD (TI(A-B))
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE (TI(A-B))
\
DISCONNECT (TI(B-C), Cause #44)
\
ALERTING (TI(A-B))
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
SETUP (TI(B-C))
\
Figure 8: The mobile terminating call in the unsuccessful case of simultaneous
Call in Setup
## 4.2 Registration
The following information has to be registered in the network:
\- The maximum number of bearers chosen by the user, N**~br~** _User.
### 4.2.1 Registration by the served mobile subscriber
A Multicall registration request from a mobile user shall include the SS-Code
of Multicall. The request applies to all basic services.
If the registration is successful, the Multicall service will be registered.
The network will then send a return result indicating acceptance of the
request including the value of N**~br~** _User.
If the MS does not send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request then
the network shall send an SS‑Status in the result.
If the MS does send an SS Version Indicator in the invocation request then the
inclusion of SS‑Status in the result is optional. If the SS‑Status is included
the network shall set it to reflect the state of the service. The MS shall
ignore the contents of the SS‑Status parameter if one is received. See figure
9.
If the system cannot accept a registration request, a corresponding error
indication is returned to the served mobile subscriber that Multicall
registration was not successful. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.
**MS Network**
REGISTER
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
Facility (Invoke = RegisterSS (Multicall, N**~br~** _User))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (Multicall))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\ New Version Subject/Comment CN#07 24.135
1.0.0 R99 3.0.0 Approved in TSGN#07 CN#08 24.135 3.0.0 001r2 R99 3.1.0
Clarifications of the Multicall procedures CN#11 24.135 3.1.0 Rel-4 4.0.0
Approved at CN#11 CN#14 24.135 4.0.0 003r1 Rel-4 4.1.0 Clarification on SI
value for Mobile terminating call (reuse an existing traffic channel) CN#16
24.135 4.1.0 Rel-4 4.1.1 References updated CN#16 24.135 4.1.1 Rel-5 5.0.0
Rel-5 created after CN#16 CN#26 24.135 5.0.0 Rel-6 6.0.0 Rel-6 created after
CN#26 CT#36 24.135 6.0.0 Rel-7 7.0.0 Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6 CT#42
24.135 7.0.0 Rel-8 8.0.0 Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7