# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies a mobile device Selective Disabling of 3GPP UE
Capabilities (SDoUE) Management Object (MO) and the rules and corresponding
behaviour of the UE with regard to the selective disabling of 3GPP UE
capabilities, for example, when services or functions are disabled/enabled.
The SDoUE MO is compatible with the OMA Device Management (DM) protocol
specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined using the OMA DM
Device Description Framework (DDF) as described in the Enabler Release
Definition OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2 [8].
The SDoUE MO consists of the relevant parameters that can be managed for
selective disabling of 3GPP UE capabilities.
The SDoUE MO defines a repository of data into the ME.
The service requirements for selective disabling of 3GPP UE capabilities are
defined in 3GPP TS 22.011 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[2A] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.011: \"Point-to-Point (PP) Short Message Service (SMS) support
on mobile radio interface\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.030: \"Location Services (LCS); Supplementary service
operations; Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on SIP and
SDP; Stage 3\".
[7A] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
[8] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device
Management\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation E.212: \"The international identification plan for
mobile terminals and mobile users\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
ACL Access Control List
CS Circuit Switched
DDF Device Description Framework
DM Device Management
EPS Evolved Packet System
ESM EPS Session Management
IMS IP Multimedia core network Subsystem
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MCC Mobile Country Code
MNC Mobile Network Code
ME Mobile Equipment
MO Management Object
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
PDP Packet Data Protocol
PS Packet Switched
SDoUE Selective Disabling of 3GPP UE Capabilities
SM Session Management
UE User Equipment
# 4 Selective Disabling of 3GPP UE Capabilities Management Object
The Selective Disabling of 3GPP UE Capabilities (SDoUE) Management Object (MO)
is used to manage settings of the UE for remotely disabling selected UE
capabilities.
The Management Object Identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-sdoue:1.0.
The OMA DM Access Control List (ACL) property mechanism as standardized (see
Enabler Release Definition OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2 [8]) may be used to grant or deny
access rights to OMA DM servers in order to modify nodes and leaf objects of
the SDoUE MO.
The following nodes and leaf objects are possible under the SDoUE node:
Figure 1: The SDoUE Management Object
# 5 Management Object parameters
## 5.1 General
This clause describes the parameters for the SDoUE Management Object (MO).
## 5.2 Node: \
This interior node acts as a placeholder for zero or one accounts for a fixed
node.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
## 5.3 /_\ _/Name
The Name leaf is a name for the SDoUE MO settings.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
## 5.4 /_\ _/CS_Calls
The CS_Calls leaf indicates an operator's preference to enable or disable
mobile-originated Call Control (CC) procedures except for emergency calls.
The CC procedures are specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [3].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that mobile-originated CS calls are enabled.
1 -- Indicates that mobile-originated CS calls are disabled.
When the CS_Calls leaf value is set to \"1\", the UE shall initiate the
signalling procedure for release of all calls except for emergency calls (see
3GPP TS 24.008 [3]). Furthermore, the UE shall not use mobile-originated call
control procedures except for emergency calls and customer care service
number(s) until the CS_Calls leaf value is set to \"0\".
NOTE: Customer care service number(s) is(are) provided by the
CustomerCareNumbers leaf (see sub-clauses 5.15, 5.16 and 5.17).
## 5.5 /_\ _/ CS_EmergencyCalls
The CS_EmergencyCalls interior node indicates an operator's preference to
enable or disable emergency call control procedures.
NOTE 1: Disabling of emergency call control procedures is subject to regional
regulatory requirements. Therefore, emergency call control procedures cannot
be disabled in regions where support of them is required (see 3GPP TS 22.011
[2]).
The emergency call control procedures are specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [3].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that CS emergency calls are enabled.
1 -- Indicates that CS emergency calls are disabled.
When the CS_EmergencyCalls node value is set to \"1\" and the UE detects being
under coverage of a PLMN (identified by Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile
Network Code (MNC)) as indicated by any of the stored Country and Network
pairs of nodes (see sub-clauses 5.5A, 5.5B and 5.5C), then the UE shall
initiate the signalling procedure for release of all emergency calls that use
call control procedures. Furthermore, the UE shall not use call control
procedures to establish emergency calls until the CS_EmergencyCalls node value
is set to \"0\" or the UE detects a change of Mobile Country Code (MCC) and
Mobile Network Code (MNC) that does not match any of the stored Country and
Network pairs of nodes.
NOTE 2: As described by the definition and structure of the SDoUE MO the
Country and Network nodes, if exist, constitute a pair of nodes. However, it
is possible to indicate only a country/region by means of only setting the
value of the Country node.
## 5.5A /_\ _/CS_EmergencyCalls/\
This run-time node acts as a placeholder for one or more Country nodes.
Furthermore, this node provides a means for the operator to indicate where
emergency call control procedures are disabled (i.e. The CS_EmergencyCalls
value is set to \"1\").
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
## 5.5B /_\ _/CS_EmergencyCalls/\/Country
The Country interior node represents one Mobile Country Code (MCC). This node
provides a means for including information that can be used to indicate in
which MCC the emergency call control procedures are disabled (i.e. The
CS_EmergencyCalls value is set to \"1\").
The Country node value shall be a Mobile Country Code (MCC) as specified by
_ITU-T_  _E.212_ [10].
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The UE shall only use the information stored in the Country node when
emergency call control procedures are disabled (i.e. The CS_EmergencyCalls
value is set to \"1\").
## 5.5C /_\ _/CS_EmergencyCalls/\/Country/Network
The Network leaf represents one Mobile Network Code (MNC). This leaf provides
a means, together with the Country leaf, for including information that can be
used to indicate in which MCC and MNC the emergency calls procedures are
disabled.
The Network leaf value shall be a Mobile Network Code (MNC) as specified by
_ITU-T_  _E.212_ [10].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The UE shall only use the information stored in the Network leaf when
emergency call control procedures are disabled (i.e. The CS_EmergencyCalls
value is set to \"1\"). Furthermore, the UE shall interpret the information
stored in the Network leaf, if exists, in conjunction with the corresponding
Country node.
## 5.6 /_\ _/SupplementaryServices
The SupplementaryServices leaf indicates an operator's preference to enable or
disable mobile-originated Supplementary services operations.
The Supplementary service operations are specified in 3GPP TS 24.010 [4].
NOTE: The functionality indicated by the SupplementaryServices leaf does not
include the Location Service (LCS) supplementary service operations.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that mobile-originated Supplementary service operations are
enabled.
1 -- Indicates that mobile-originated Supplementary service operations are
disabled.
When the SupplementaryServices leaf value is set to \"1\", the UE shall
initiate the signalling procedure for release of all ongoing supplementary
service operations (transactions). Furthermore, the UE shall not invoke
mobile-originated supplementary service operation procedures until the
SupplementaryServices leaf value is set to \"0\".
## 5.7 /_\ _/CS_SMS
The CS_SMS leaf indicates an operator's preference to enable or disable
mobile-originated Short Message Service (SMS) via CS.
The SMS procedures are specified in 3GPP TS 24.011 [5].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that mobile-originated SMS via CS are enabled.
1 -- Indicates that mobile-originated SMS via CS are disabled.
If the CS_SMS leaf value is \"1\", the UE shall not use the CS domain for
mobile-originated SMS transfer until the CS_SMS leaf value is set to \"0\".
The UE may use the PS domain instead of the CS domain for mobile-originated
SMS transfer when the CS_SMS leaf value is \"1\".
## 5.8 /_\ _/PS_SMS
The PS_SMS leaf indicates an operator's preference to enable or disable
mobile-originated Short Message Service (SMS) via PS.
The SMS procedures are specified in 3GPP TS 24.011 [5].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that mobile-originated SMS via PS are enabled.
1 -- Indicates that mobile-originated SMS via PS are disabled.
If the PS_SMS leaf value is \"1\", the UE shall not use the PS domain for
mobile-originated SMS transfer until the PS_SMS leaf value is set to \"0\".
The UE may use the CS domain instead of the PS domain for mobile-originated
SMS transfer when the PS_SMS leaf value is \"1\".
## 5.9 /_\ _/CS_LCS
The CS_LCS leaf indicates an operator's preference to enable or disable
mobile-originated Location Service (LCS) operations via CS.
The LCS Supplementary service operations are specified in 3GPP TS 24.030 [6].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that mobile-originated LCS via CS enabled.
1 -- Indicates that mobile-originated LCS via CS disabled.
If the CS_LCS leaf value is \"1\", the UE shall not use the CS domain for
mobile-originated LCS service operations until the CS_LCS leaf value is set to
\"0\". The UE may use the PS domain instead of the CS domain for mobile-
originated LCS service operations when the CS_LCS leaf value is \"1\".
## 5.10 /_\ _/PS_LCS
The PS_LCS leaf indicates an operator's preference to enable or disable
mobile-originated Location Service (LCS) operations via PS.
The LCS Supplementary service operations are specified in 3GPP TS 24.030 [6].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that mobile-originated LCS via PS are enabled.
1 -- Indicates that mobile-originated LCS via PS are disabled.
If the PS_LCS leaf value is \"1\", the UE shall not use the PS domain for
mobile-originated LCS service operations until the PS_LCS leaf value is set to
\"0\". The UE may use the CS domain instead of the PS domain for mobile-
originated LCS service operations when the PS_LCS leaf value is \"1\".
## 5.11 /_\ _/GPRS_SM_PDP
The GPRS_SM_PDP leaf indicates an operator's preference to enable or disable
mobile-originated GPRS Session Management (SM) procedures for PDP contexts,
e.g. PDP context activation, deactivation and modification.
The GPRS SM procedures for PDP contexts are specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [3].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that mobile-originated GPRS SM procedures for PDP contexts are
enabled.
1 -- Indicates that mobile-originated GPRS SM procedures for PDP contexts are
disabled.
When the GPRS_SM_PDP leaf value is set to \"1\", the UE shall initiate the
signalling procedure for PDP context deactivation of all PDP contexts (see
3GPP TS 24.008 [3]). Additionally, the UE shall not use mobile-originated GPRS
SM procedures for PDP contexts until the GPRS_SM_PDP leaf value is set to
\"0\". The UE is however allowed to use mobile-originated GPRS SM procedure
for PDP context activation in the following cases:
\- upon receipt of an OMA DM notification message indicating that the UE shall
initiate an OMA DM session to the OMA DM server that either had set the
disable value of the GPRS_SM_PDP leaf or is the one stored in the
AlertServerID leaf;
\- when the mobile-originated PDP context activation procedure is necessary in
order to either establish an emergency call over IMS (if the
IMS_EmergencyCalls value is set to \"0\") or send an OMA DM generic alert
message according to the sub-clause 5.17A.
## 5.12 /_\ _/GPRS_SM_MBMS
The GPRS_SM_MBMS leaf indicates an operator's preference to enable or disable
GPRS Session Management (SM) procedures for MBMS contexts, i.e. MBMS context
activation and deactivation.
The GPRS SM procedures for MBMS contexts are specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [3].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that GPRS SM procedures for MBMS contexts are enabled.
1 -- Indicates that GPRS SM procedures for MBMS contexts are disabled.
When the GPRS_SM_MBMS leaf value is set to \"1\", the UE shall locally release
all resources allocated for MBMS contexts and it shall erase the MBMS context
data. Furthermore, the UE shall not use GPRS SM procedures for MBMS contexts
until the GPRS_SM_MBMS leaf value is set to \"0\".
## 5.12A /_\ _/EPS_SM_EPS
The EPS_SM_EPS interior node indicates an operator's preference to enable or
disable mobile-requested EPS Session Management (SM) procedures for EPS
contexts, e.g. UE requested PDN connectivity, UE requested bearer resource
modification, UE requested PDN disconnect, as well as provide restriction to
EPS services.
The EPS SM procedures for EPS contexts are specified in 3GPP TS 24.301 [7A].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that mobile-requested EPS SM procedures for EPS contexts are
enabled and no restriction to EPS services applies.
1 -- Indicates that mobile-requested EPS SM procedures for EPS contexts are
disabled and restriction to EPS services applies.
When the EPS_SM_EPS leaf value is set to \"1\", the UE shall proceed as
follows:
The UE shall initiate a UE requested PDN connectivity procedure (see 3GPP TS
24.301 [7A]). If the APN leaf exists, the UE shall use the value stored in the
APN leaf as the APN in the PDN CONNECTIVITY REQUEST message. Otherwise, the UE
shall not include any APN in the PDN CONNECTIVITY REQUEST message.
After successful completion of the UE requested PDN connectivity procedure, if
the TrafficMappingInfo interior node exists, the UE shall locally use the
information provided by the TrafficMappingInfo (i.e. packet filters) in order
to determine the traffic mapping to the EPS context established by the UE
requested PDN connectivity procedure. Furthermore, this information shall be
used by the UE until the EPS_SM_EPS leaf value is set to \"0\". The UE is
however allowed to temporarily stop to use the traffic mapping information in
the following cases:
\- upon receipt of an OMA DM notification message indicating that the UE shall
initiate an OMA DM session to the OMA DM server that either had set the
disable value of the EPS_SM_EPS leaf or is the one stored in the AlertServerID
leaf;
\- when the UE wishes to either establish an emergency call over IMS (if the
IMS_EmergencyCalls value is set to \"0\") or send an OMA DM generic alert
message according to the sub-clause 5.17A.
Later, the UE shall initiate the signalling procedure for UE requested PDN
disconnection (see 3GPP TS 24.301 [7A]) of all PDNs but the one which was
established by the successful completion of the UE requested PDN connectivity
procedure.
Finally, the UE shall not use mobile-requested EPS SM procedures for EPS
contexts until the EPS_SM_EPS leaf value is set to \"0\".
## 5.12B /_\ _/APN
The APN leaf provides the information of an access point name.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the APN is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [2A] in clause 9.
EXAMPLE: mycompany.mnc012.mcc340.gprs
## 5.12C /_\ _/TrafficMappingInfo
The TrafficMappingInfo interior node is used to allow configuring the minimum
acceptable traffic flow template parameters (packet filters) for EPS context
according operator's preference.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
NOTE: The information provided by means of the TrafficMappingInfo interior
node is only used by the UE when the EPS_SM_EPS leaf value is set to \"1\".
## 5.12D /_\ _/NumberOfPacketFilters
The APN leaf indicates the number of traffic filters contained in the
PacketFilterList leaf.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The NumberOfPacketFilters is an unsigned 8 bit integer and the value range is
defined as the number of packet filters parameter in the traffic flow template
information element (see subclause 10.5.6.12 in 3GPP TS 24.008 [3]).
EXAMPLE: 3 (packet filters)
## 5.12E /_\ _/PacketFilterList
The PacketFilterList leaf provides the information of a variable number of
traffic filters.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The PacketFilterList is an unsigned 64 bit integer. The bit pattern shall be
encoded as the packet filter list parameter in the traffic flow template
information element (see subclause 10.5.6.12 in 3GPP TS 24.008 [3]) with the
least significant bit in the rightmost position of the integer. Example: If
the parameter is encoded into bit 6, 7 & 8 in 3GPP TS 24.008 [3], then it must
be encoded into bit 1, 2 & 3 in this leaf.
## 5.13 /_\ _/IMS
The IMS leaf indicates an operator's preference to enable or disable IMS
procedures for sending IMS registration request over an IP-CAN bearer
established or to be established by GPRS, EPS, I-WLAN, via the cdma2000^®^
HRPD to access EPC, via WLAN to access EPC or fixed broadband (see 3GPP TS
24.229 [7]). Enabling and disabling of IMS procedures for sending IMS
registration request in other access technologies is out of scope of this
document.
The IMS procedures for sending IMS registration request are specified in 3GPP
TS 24.229 [7].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that IMS procedures for sending IMS registration request are
enabled.
1 -- Indicates that IMS procedures for sending IMS registration request are
disabled.
If the IMS leaf value is set to \"1\", the following applies for an IP-CAN
bearer of GPRS, EPS, I-WLAN, cdma2000^®^ HRPD to access EPC, WLAN to access
EPC or fixed broadband:
1) if the UE has already registered a contact address with the IM CN
subsystem, containing the IP address of the bearer, then the UE shall initiate
the user-initiated deregistration procedure for the contact address;
2) the UE shall not send IMS registration requests for a contact address
containing the IP address of the bearer; and
3) the UE shall not attempt to establish the bearer to be used only for IMS
with exception if:
a) emergency call procedures over IMS are enabled (see subclause 5.18) and the
bearer is to be used for IMS emergency registration or IMS emergency session
establishment; or
b) required to be established due to the EPS_SM_EPS leaf set to \"1\" (see
subclause 5.12A).
## 5.14 /_\ _/Text
The Text leaf provides a means for including information that will be
displayed by the ME. The information contained in the text leaf should be in
the ME selected language, via the OMA DM standard procedure. The information
should contain information in order to assist in determining the cause of non-
availability of specific services and what to do for example, a text string
indicating the disabled service(s) and customer service number(s). An example
of possible information to be displayed: \"The GPRS service of the handset is
currently disabled. For further information, please contact TelServices Help
Centre by calling 111 from your handset or +44 7777 111 111 whilst abroad.
Alternatively, you may wish to get in touch with us by email at
help\@telservices.net\".
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
When the OMA DM server updates the value of this leaf, the OMA DM server must
be configured to ensure that the information provided in the
CustomerCareNumbers, described in the sub-clauses 5.15, 5.16 and 5.17, is
updated accordingly, i.e. the same customer care service number(s) is(are)
provided by the CustomerCareNumbers.
The ME should use and display all the information provided by the Text leaf to
inform the end-user about the non-availability of services and/or customer
care service number(s). The possible interactions with the end-user are
implementation specific.
## 5.15 /_\ _/CustomerCareNumbers/
The CustomerCareNumbers interior node is used to allow a reference to a list
of customer care service numbers.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
When the OMA DM server updates the values of the CustomerCareNumbers sub-
nodes, the OMA DM server must be configured to ensure that the information
provided in the Text leaf, described in the sub-clause 5.14, is updated
accordingly, i.e. the same customer care service number(s) is(are) provided by
the Text leaf.
## 5.16 /_\ _/CustomerCareNumbers/_\ _
This run-time node acts as a placeholder for one or more customer care service
numbers.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
## 5.17 /_\ _/CustomerCareNumbers/\/CustomerCareNumber
The CustomerCareNumber leaf represents one customer care service number. This
leaf provides a means for including information about customer care service
number which can be used, by the end-user, in determining the cause of non-
availability of specific services.
The CustomerCareNumber leaf value shall be either a telephone number according
to the E.164 scheme (see ITU-T Rec. E.164 [9]) or nationally-specific operator
number, e.g. 191, 150.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
## 5.17A /_\ _/AlertServerID
The AlertServerID leaf indicates the server identifier for an OMA DM server.
This leaf provides a means for informing about the fact that the SDoUE MO has
been modified.
The AlertServerID leaf value is used by the UE to send an OMA DM generic alert
message (see Enabler Release Definition OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2 [8]) any time the
SDoUE MO is modified by an OMA DM server different than the one indicated by
the AlertServerID leaf value.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The UE shall send an OMA DM generic alert message immediately after the SDoUE
MO has been modified by an OMA DM server different than the one identified by
the AlertServerID leaf value. The Type element of the OMA DM generic alert
message shall be set to \"Reserved-Domain-Name:
org.3gpp.SDoUE.changesperformedalert\".
## 5.18 /_\ _/ IMS_EmergencyCalls
The IMS_EmergencyCalls interior node indicates an operator's preference to
enable or disable emergency call procedures over IMS.
NOTE 1: Disabling of emergency call control procedures over IMS is subject to
regional regulatory requirements. Therefore, emergency call control procedures
over IMS cannot be disabled in regions where support of them is required (see
3GPP TS 22.011 [2]).
The emergency call procedures over IMS are specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [7].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that emergency calls over IMS are enabled.
1 -- Indicates that emergency calls over IMS are disabled.
When the IMS_EmergencyCalls node value is set to \"1\" and the UE detects
being under coverage of a PLMN (identified by Mobile Country Code (MCC) and
Mobile Network Code (MNC)) as indicated by any of the stored Country and
Network pairs of nodes (see sub-clauses 5.19, 5.20 and 5.21), then the UE
shall initiate the signalling procedure for release of all emergency calls
over IMS. Furthermore, the UE shall not use IMS procedures to establish
emergency calls until the IMS_EmergencyCalls node value is set to \"0\" or the
UE detects a change of Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile Network Code (MNC)
that does not match any of the stored Country and Network pairs of nodes.
NOTE 2: As described by the definition and structure of the SDoUE MO the
Country and Network nodes, if exist, constitute a pair of nodes. However, it
is possible to indicate only a country/region by means of only setting the
value of the Country node.
## 5.19 /_\ _/IMS_EmergencyCalls/\
This run-time node acts as a placeholder for one or more Country nodes.
Furthermore, this node provides a means for the operator to indicate where
emergency call procedures over IMS are disabled (i.e. The IMS_EmergencyCalls
value is set to \"1\").
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
## 5.20 /_\ _/IMS_EmergencyCalls/\/Country
The Country interior node represents one Mobile Country Code (MCC). This node
provides a means for including information that can be used to indicate in
which MCC the emergency call procedures over IMS are disabled (i.e. The
IMS_EmergencyCalls value is set to \"1\").
The Country node value shall be a Mobile Country Code (MCC) as specified by
_ITU-T_  _E.212_ [10].
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The UE shall only use the information stored in the Country node when
emergency call control procedures are disabled (i.e. The IMS_EmergencyCalls
value is set to \"1\").
## 5.21 /_\ _/IMS_EmergencyCalls/\/Country/Network
The Network leaf represents one Mobile Network Code (MNC). This leaf provides
a means, together with the Country leaf, for including information that can be
used to indicate in which MCC and MNC the emergency call procedures over IMS
are disabled.
The Network leaf value shall be a Mobile Network Code (MNC) as specified by
_ITU-T_  _E.212_ [10].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The UE shall only use the information stored in the Network leaf when
emergency call procedures over IMS are disabled (i.e. The IMS_EmergencyCalls
value is set to \"1\"). Furthermore, the UE shall interpret the information
stored in the Network leaf, if exists, in conjunction with the corresponding
Country node.
## 5.22 /_\ _/Ext
The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information about
the SDoUE MO is being placed (vendor meaning application vendor, device vendor
etc.). Usually the vendor extension is identified by vendor specific name
under the ext node. The tree structure under the vendor identified is not
defined and can therefore include one or more un-standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
###### ## Annex A (informative): Management Object DDF
This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define it's own DDF for
the complete device. This DDF can include more features than this minimal
standardized version.
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ 1.2\**
**\ \--The device manufacturer--\**
**\ \--The device model--\**
**\ **
**\ **x\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ SDoUE settings\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ The SDoUE Management Object.\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Name\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ User displayable name for the node.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ CS_Calls\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether mobile-originated CS calls are
enabled.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\  CS_EmergencyCalls\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether CS emergency call procedures are
enabled.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\Country\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
**\ A country or region identified by an Mobile Country Code
(MCC).\**
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\Network\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
**\ A network code identified by an Mobile Network Code
(MNC).\**
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
**\ **
**\ **
**\ SupplementaryServices\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether mobile-originated Supplementary service
operations are enabled.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ CS_SMS\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether mobile-originated SMS via CS is
enable.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ PS_SMS\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether mobile-originated SMS via PS is
enable.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ CS_LCS\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether mobile-originated LCS via CS is
enable.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ PS_LCS\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether mobile-originated LCS via PS is
enable.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ GPRS_SM_PDP\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether mobile-originated GPRS SM procedures for
PDP contexts are enabled.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
\
\
**\ GPRS_SM_MBMS\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether mobile-originated GPRS SM procedures for
MBMS contexts are enabled.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ EPS_SM_EPS\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether mobile-originated EPS SM procedures for EPS
contexts are enabled** and restriction to EPS services applies**.\
**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ APN\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ An access point name.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ TrafficMappingInfo\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Traffic mapping information.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ NumerOfPacketFilters.\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Number of packet filters.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ PacketFilterList\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Packet filter list.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
\
**\ **
**\ IMS\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether IMS procedures for sending IMS registration
request are enabled.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Text\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Information to be displayed by the handset.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ CustomerCareNumbers\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ The customer care service numbers.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\CustomerServiceNumber\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
**\ A customer care service number.\**
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
**\ **
**\ AlertServerID\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ An OMA DM server identifier for alerting.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
\
**\ **
**\  IMS_EmergencyCalls\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Indication of whether emergency call procedures over IMS are
enabled.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\Country\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
**\ A country or region identified by an Mobile Country Code
(MCC).\**
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\Network\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
**\ A network code identified by an Mobile Network Code
(MNC).\**
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Ext\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ A collection of all Extension objects.\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
\
#