# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document specifies the signalling procedures for handling the mobility of
a UE between 3GPP Wireless Local Area Network Interworking (I-WLAN) and GPRS
systems.
The present document is applicable to the User Equipment (UE) and the network
nodes supporting mobility between 3GPP I-WLAN and GPRS systems.
In addition, the present document specifies the procedures used between the UE
and the network nodes for the attach and the detach cases. It also specifies
how the UE performs handover when moving from 3GPP I-WLAN to GPRS systems and
vice-versa.
This document is based on DSMIPv6 procedures specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3]
and will specify additional details specific to the 3GPP I-WLAN and GPRS
systems in the context of mobility.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.327: \"Mobility between 3GPP-Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Interworking and 3GPP Systems\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.303: \"Mobility management based on Dual-Stack Mobile IPv6\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.234: \"3GPP system to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking; WLAN User Equipment (WLAN UE) to network protocols\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.161: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services with Wireless Local Area Network
(WLAN) Access and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[8] IETF RFC 4877 (April 2007): \"Mobile IPv6 Operation with IKEv2 and the
Revised IPsec Architecture\".
[9] IETF RFC 5996 (September 2010): \"Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2
(IKEv2)\".
[10] IETF RFC 5555 (June 2009): \"Mobile IPv6 Support for Dual Stack Hosts and
Routers _\"._
[11] IETF RFC 3776 (June 2004): \"Using IPsec to Protect Mobile IPv6 Signaling
Between Mobile Nodes and Home Agents\".
[12] IETF RFC 6275 (July 2011): \"Mobility Support in IPv6\".
[13] Void.
[14] 3GPP TS 33.402: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
aspects of non-3GPP accesses\".
[15] Void.
[16] 3GPP TS 29.282: \"Mobile IPv6 vendor specific option format and usage
within 3GPP\".
[17] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via
non-3GPP access networks; Stage 3\".
[18] IETF RFC 5026 (October 2007): \"Mobile IPv6 Bootstrapping in Split
Scenario\".
[19] 3GPP TS 33.234: \"3G Security; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking security\".
[20] IETF RFC 5648 (October 2009): \"Multiple Care-of Addresses
Registration\".
[21] IETF RFC 6089 (January 2011): \"Flow Bindings in Mobile IPv6 and Nemo
Basic Support\".
[22] IETF RFC 6088 (January 2011): \"Traffic Selectors for Flow Bindings\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.312: \"Access Network Discovery and Selection Function (ANDSF)
Management Object (MO)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.
**Home Agent:** The HA functionality consists in the DSMIPv6 anchor point
functionality described in IETF RFC 5555 [10] and IETF RFC 4877 [8]. Based on
3GPP TS 23.327 [2] the HA functionality may be implemented as a stand-alone
entity, or collocated with the GGSN or the PDG.
**H1:** This is the reference point for signalling and user data transfer
between UE and HA.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3] apply:
**Home Network Prefix**
**IFOM capable UE**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ANDSF Access Network Discovery and Selection Function
BID Binding Identifier
DSMIPv6 Dual-Stack MIPv6
ESP Encapsulating Security Payload
FID Flow Identifier
HA Home Agent
HNP Home Network Prefix
IKEv2 Internet Key Exchange version 2
IPsec IP security
PDG Packet Data Gateway
# 4 General
## 4.1 Overview
This specification defines the solution to handle the mobility between 3GPP
I-WLAN and GPRS systems. Such solution relies on DSMIPv6 protocol which is
specified in IETF RFC 5555 [10] and IETF RFC 6275 [12] and is used to model
the H1 reference point between the UE and the HA function. The H1 reference
point enables the UE to handover from 3GPP I-WLAN towards GPRS systems, and
vice-versa, and granting session continuity by means of a DSMIPv6 signalling
and an IP tunnel between UE and HA functions. This specification specifies
only the additional procedures which are specific to I-WLAN mobility scenarios
and relies on 3GPP TS 24.303 [3] for DSMIPv6 procedures and 3GPP TS 24.234 [5]
for I-WLAN network selection and tunnel establishment. In this specification,
DSMIPv6 signalling is secured as specified in IETF RFC 4877 [8]: IKEv2
exchange is performed by the UE with the HA before tunnel establishment. The
details of the security aspects are specified in 3GPP TS 33.402 [14]. The UE
can interact with ANDSF, as described in 3GPP TS 24.302 [17], and receive
information useful for performing access network discovery and selection. The
information is described in 3GPP TS 24.312 [23].
## 4.2 Identities
As identification towards the HA, the UE shall use the same identities as
described in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3]. To identify the desired HA, the UE shall use
the HA-APN as specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
The UE shall use the same identities as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4] to
access GPRS systems.
The UE shall use the same identities as specified in 3GPP TS 24.234 [5] to
access 3GPP I-WLAN.
# 5 I-WLAN mobility procedures
## 5.1 Initial attach
### 5.1.1 General
The attach procedure is performed by the UE when connecting to GPRS systems or
to 3GPP I-WLAN. After completion of the attach procedure, H1 PDN attach may be
performed. Through H1 PDN attach, the UE receives all the required parameters
and information enabling the continuity of the session. The information is
retrieved through the following procedures:
**\- Discovery of the home agent address:** the UE needs to discover the IPv6
address and eventually the IPv4 address of the HA.
**\- Security association establishment:** if not on its home link, the UE
needs to establish IPsec security associations with the HA in order to secure
the DSMIPv6 signalling as specified in 3GPP TS 33.402 [14]. IKEv2, defined in
IETF RFC 4877 [8], is used to establish IPsec security association.
**\- IPv6 home network prefix assignment and home link detection:** the UE
needs to be assigned an IPv6 Network Prefix of its home network in order to
configure a global unicast home address to be used in DSMIPv6 and to perform
the home link detection.
**-** **IPv4 home address assignment:** optionally, a dual-stack UE can also
request to be assigned an IPv4 home address to be used for example for
IPv4-only applications.
**\- Initial binding registration:** unless the home link detection procedure
indicates the UE is at home, the UE sends a Binding Update message to perform
its initial registration with the HA.
If the UE is an IFOM capable UE, the DSMIPv6 H1 PDN attach includes also the
IFOM capability discovery.
### 5.1.2 UE procedures
#### 5.1.2.1 General
When connecting to GPRS systems, the UE shall perform the GPRS attach
procedure and establish a PDP context as described in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4].
During the PDP context activation procedure, the UE may request the HA IP
address(es) and the Home Network Prefix. If the home network prefix is pre-
configured or obtained from the GGSN, the UE shall perform the home link
detection procedure as described in subclause 5.1.2.4. If the UE is on its
home link, the UE shall not perform the H1 PDN attach. If the UE is not on the
home link or does not have a HNP yet, the UE shall discover the HA address as
described in subclause 5.1.2.2 if the UE does not have the HA address, and
then shall perform the H1 PDN attach procedure.
When connecting to the 3GPP I-WLAN, the UE shall perform the I-WLAN automatic
network selection procedure as described in 3GPP TS 24.234 [5]. During the
tunnel setup to the PDG, the UE may request a HA IP address or a HNP, or both,
as described in annex B. If the home network prefix is pre-configured in the
UE or obtained from the PDG as described in annex B, the UE shall perform the
home link detection procedure as described in subclause 5.1.2.4. If the UE is
on its home link, the UE shall not perform the H1 PDN attach. If the UE is not
on the home link or does not have a HNP yet, the UE shall discover the HA
address as described in subclause 5.1.2.2 if the UE does not already have the
HA address, and then perform the H1 PDN attach procedure.
The H1 PDN attach procedure involves the following tasks:
\- IPsec security associations\' establishment and IPv6 home network prefix
assignment;
\- home link detection, if this procedure was not performed during the
attachment; and
\- initial binding registration if the UE is not at its home link.
#### 5.1.2.2 Discovery of the Home Agent address
The first procedure the UE needs to perform for DSMIPv6 initial attach is the
discovery of the node acting as the HA.
The UE discovers the IPv6 address and optionally the IPv4 address of the HA in
one of the three following ways:
\- via DNS as defined in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3];
\- during the PDP context activation procedure in GERAN or UTRAN accesses via
the Protocol Configuration Options as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4] if the HA
IP address is available in the GGSN; or
\- via IKEv2 during tunnel setup with PDG for 3GPP I-WLAN as defined in annex
B if the HA IP address is available in the PDG.
If the HA IP address(es) are available in the GGSN, the GGSN shall return the
HA IP address(es) in the Protocol Configuration Options during the PDP context
activation procedure when attaching to the GERAN or UTRAN accesses. If the HA
IP address(es) are not available in the GGSN, the UE shall discover the HA IP
address(es) by DNS if the UE wants to perform the handover to 3GPP I-WLAN.
If the UE requests the HA IP address(es) during the IPsec tunnel setup to PDG
in 3GPP I-WLAN connection and if the HA IP address(es) are available in the
PDG, the PDG shall return the HA IP address(es) in IKEv2 configuration payload
attributes as defined in annex B. If the HA IP address(es) are not available
in the PDG, the UE shall discover the HA IP address(es) by DNS before
performing the H1 PDN attach.
The UE shall support the HA discovery based on DNS and on Protocol
Configuration Options. The UE may support the HA discovery based on IKEv2.
The HA IP address(es) may also be pre-configured in the UE.
#### 5.1.2.2a IFOM capability discovery
An IFOM capable UE shall perform HA IFOM capability discovery, i.e. an IFOM
capable UE shall discover whether the HA supports IFOM or not. The procedures
for IFOM capability discovery are the same as those defined in 3GPP TS 24.303
[3].
#### 5.1.2.3 Security association establishment and IPv6 home network prefix
assignment
The UE shall perform the security association establishment with the HA as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3]. For this procedure the UE shall support IKEv2
protocol and EAP over IKEv2 as described in IETF RFC 5996 [9]. The detailed
procedure and supported extensions for this step are specified in 3GPP TS
24.303 [3]. The UE may use either EAP-SIM or EAP-AKA for authentication
purposes.
During the IKEv2 exchange, the UE shall request an IPv6 home network prefix as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3]. The UE shall then auto-configure an IPv6 home
address from the received prefix and create child SA as specified in 3GPP TS
24.303 [3].
In the IKEv2 signalling the UE should indicate the APN the UE wants to connect
to in the IDr payload as specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
The UE shall use the PDN Identifier notify payload as described in 3GPP TS
24.303 [3].
#### 5.1.2.4 Home link detection
The DSMIPv6 home link detection function is used by the UE to detect if, for a
specific PDN, an access interface is on the home link from DSMIPv6
perspective. The home link detection function for a specific PDN connection
shall be performed whenever the UE receives a new IPv6 prefix, either at
initial attach or after a handover.
The UE is informed of the IPv6 prefix associated with a specific access
interface. If the UE is connected to GPRS systems, the UE knows the IPv6
prefix via the IPv6 address autoconfiguration as described in 3GPP TS 29.061
[6]. If UE is connected to the 3GPP I-WLAN, it knows the IPv6 prefix via IPv6
address autoconfiguration as described in 3GPP TS 29.161 [7].
In the scenarios considered in this specification, the Home Network Prefix
associated to the PDN connection can be assigned:
  * via Protocol Configuration Options from the GGSN in GPRS systems as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4];
  * via IPsec security associations bootstrap with the PDG in I-WLAN as specified in annex B;
  * via the establishment of IPsec security associations with the HA as specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3] subclause 5.1.2.2; or
  * the HNP may also be pre-configured in the UE.
NOTE: If a pre-configured HNP is available, the UE can use it for home link
detection. However the UE cannot use it for the IPv6 address
autoconfiguration.
The home link detection procedure performed by the UE is specified in 3GPP TS
24.303 [3].
If the UE detects it is in the home link for this specific PDN over the access
interface, the UE shall not perform the H1 PDN attach. If the UE detects it is
not on the home link, the UE shall perform IKEv2 procedure for security
associations setup and IPv6 prefix and optionally IPv4 HA assignment if the UE
does not have a valid security association with the HA, and then the UE shall
send a Binding Update as specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
If the IFOM capable UE performs the Home Network Prefix discovery via Protocol
Configuration Option, the IFOM capable UE shall perform in the ACTIVATE PDP
CONTEXT REQUEST message both Home Network Prefix discovery and the IFOM
capability discovery.
#### 5.1.2.5 Initial binding registration and IPv4 home address assignment
After establishing the security association and obtaining the IPv6 home
network prefix and after performing the home link detection, if not on the
home link, the UE shall send a Binding Update message as specified in 3GPP TS
24.303 [3] to register its IPv6 home address with its care-of address.
The UE may also request in the Binding Update an IPv4 home address based on
the procedure specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
The initial binding registration procedure for IFOM capable UE configured for
IFOM is described in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
### 5.1.3 Network procedures
#### 5.1.3.1 GPRS systems aspects
During the PDP context activation procedure in GERAN or UTRAN accesses, if the
HA IP address(es) and the HNP are available in the GGSN, the GGSN shall
provide them to the UE via the Protocol Configuration Options as defined in
3GPP TS 24.008 [4]. If the HA is IFOM capable and the UE performed HA IFOM
capability discovery within the Protocol Configuration Options information
element, the GGSN shall provide the IFOM capability indicator to the UE via
the Protocol Configuration Options as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4].
#### 5.1.3.2 3GPP I-WLAN aspects
During the IPsec tunnel establishment, if the UE requests the HA IP
address(es) or the HNP, or both, and if they are available in the PDG, the PDG
shall provide them to the UE via the dedicated IKEv2 attributes as defined in
annex B. The HA IP address(es) are referred to the W-APN for which the IPsec
tunnel is set-up and which was inserted in the \"IDr\" payload of the IKE_AUTH
request message to the PDG.
#### 5.1.3.3 HA procedures
##### 5.1.3.3.1 Security association establishment and IPv6 home network
prefix assignment
The HA shall support the IKEv2 protocol and EAP over IKEv2 as described in
IETF RFC 5996 [9]. If the HA is IFOM capable, the HA shall perform IFOM
capability discovery as part of security association procedure. The HA
procedures for security association establishment, IPv6 home network prefix
assignment and IFOM capability discovery are specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
##### 5.1.3.3.2 Initial binding registration and IPv4 home address assignment
The HA procedures for initial binding registration and IPv4 home address
assignment are specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
In addition, if the HA has the GGSN APN information, the HA shall send the APN
to the UE in the Binding Acknowledgement message using the 3GPP Vendor-
Specific Access Point Name as specified in annex A.
## 5.2 Handover
### 5.2.1 General
The handover procedure is performed by the UE when it is moving from GERAN or
UTRAN accesses to 3GPP I-WLAN and vice-versa.
### 5.2.2 Handover from GPRS systems to 3GPP I-WLAN
#### 5.2.2.1 UE procedures
When the UE is connected to the GPRS systems and wants to move to 3GPP I-WLAN,
the UE if it has not already selected a PLMN via I-WLAN shall perform:
1) WLAN UE I-WLAN Selection procedure as described in subclause 5.2.1 in 3GPP
TS 24.234 [5];
2) automatic PLMN selection as described in subclause 5.2.4 in 3GPP TS 24.234
[5].
The UE shall then:
a) initiate the tunnel establishment procedure towards the PDG as described in
3GPP TS 24.234 [5] if it has not already done so, and
b) perform the home link detection as described in subclause 5.1.2.4:
\- If the UE is not on the home link and does not know the HA IP address, it
shall perform the HA discovery procedure as specified in subclause 5.1.2.2 and
then perform the H1 PDN attach procedure with the HA. If the UE already knows
the HA IP address but has not established security associations with the HA,
the UE shall perform the H1 PDN attach with the HA after the attachment to the
3GPP I-WLAN. If the UE has already a valid binding at the HA, the UE shall
send a Binding Update message to inform the HA of its new Care-of-Address, as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3]. During the handover, the UE keeps using the
GERAN or UTRAN accesses.
\- If the UE is on the home link, the UE shall send a Binding Update with
lifetime set to 0 to remove the binding at the HA as specified in 3GPP TS
24.303 [3].
Once the handover is completed, the UE should deactivate the PDP context and
may initiated a detach procedure in the GPRS system.
The additional procedures to be performed in case of handover to 3GPP I-WLAN
for IFOM capable UE configured for IFOM are described in the handover
subclause of 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
#### 5.2.2.2 Network procedures
##### 5.2.2.2.1 3GPP I-WLAN aspects
Once the UE is connected to the 3GPP I-WLAN and if the UE is on the home link
for the PDN connection, the 3GPP I-WLAN shall ensure that the UE obtains the
IP address, which is the same as the Home Address, during the establishment of
the IPsec tunnel with the PDG.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 HA aspects
Upon receiving of the Binding Update message from the UE, the HA shall behave
as described in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
### 5.2.3 Handover from 3GPP I-WLAN to GPRS systems
#### 5.2.3.1 UE procedures
When the UE is connected to the 3GPP I-WLAN and wants to move to GPRS systems,
the UE shall perform the attach and PDP context activation procedures as
described in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4]. The APN provided by the UE in the PDP context
activation procedure is used by the SGSN to allocate the GGSN. When the HA and
the GGSN are collocated, the UE shall be connected to the GGSN that contains
the HA function allocated in 3GPP I-WLAN. For that purpose, the UE shall use
the received APN in the Binding Acknowledgement message during H1 PDN attach
for performing the PDP context activation procedure. If no APN is received in
the Binding Acknowledgement message during H1 PDN attach, the UE shall use the
pre-configured APN, if available, for performing the PDP context activation
procedure.
Once the UE is attached to the GPRS system and after performing the PDP
context activation procedure, it will receive a new PDP address as a Care-of-
Address. The UE shall then perform the home link detection procedure as
specified in subclause 5.1.2.4:
\- If the UE is not in the home link and does not know the HA address, the UE
shall perform the HA address discovery procedure as specified in subclause
5.1.2.2 and then perform the H1 PDN attach procedure with the HA. If the UE
already knows the HA address but does not have a valid binding at the HA, the
UE shall perform the H1 PDN attach procedure with the HA after the attachment
to the GPRS system. If the UE has already a valid binding at the HA, the UE
shall send a Binding Update message as specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
\- If the UE is on the home link, the UE shall send a Binding Update with
lifetime set to 0 to remove the binding at the HA as specified in 3GPP TS
24.303 [3].
Once the handover is completed, the UE should initiate tunnel disconnection
from the 3GPP I-WLAN.
The additional procedures to be performed in case of handover to GPRS systems
for IFOM capable UE configured for IFOM are described in the handover
subclause of 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
#### 5.2.3.2 Network procedures
##### 5.2.3.2.1 GPRS systems aspects
Once the UE is connected to the GPRS system and if it is on the home link for
a PDN connection, the GPRS system shall ensure that the UE keeps the same Home
Address during the PDP context activation procedure.
##### 5.2.3.2.2 HA aspects
Upon receiving of the Binding Update message from the UE, the HA shall behave
as described in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
## 5.3 Detach
### 5.3.1 General
The DSMIPv6 detach is performed by the UE to tear down the IP tunnel between
the UE and the HA and the respective IKEv2 session or by the network to inform
the UE that it does not have access to a specific PDN through DSMIPv6 any
longer. After the detach procedure, the UE still has IP connectivity provided
by the access network.
### 5.3.2 UE procedures
#### 5.3.2.1 Network-initiated detach
The network-initiated detach is based on the usage of the Binding Revocation
Indication (BRI) message. When the UE receives a BRI, it shall proceed as
described in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
#### 5.3.2.2 UE-initiated detach
To detach from a specific PDN to which it is connected through a DSMIPv6
session, the UE shall de-register the DSMIPv6 binding and tear down the IPsec
security association as specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
### 5.3.3 Network procedures
#### 5.3.3.1 GPRS systems aspects
Network detachment of the UE connected to GPRS systems is performed as
described in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4]. This procedure is independent from H1
reference point procedures.
#### 5.3.3.2 3GPP I-WLAN aspects
Network detachment of the UE connected to a 3GPP I-WLAN is performed as
described in 3GPP TS 24.324 [5]. This procedure is independent from H1
reference point procedures.
#### 5.3.3.3 HA aspects
Once the HA receives a trigger for network-initiated detach procedure or a
Binding Update with lifetime field set to 0, the HA shall proceed as described
in the Dual-Stack Mobile IPv6 detach procedure in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
## 5.4 Protection of DSMIPv6 tunnel traffic
### 5.4.1 General
UE and HA may create a child security association using the IKEv2 session
established as described in subclause 5.1.2.3. This child security association
is used to cipher or integrity protect, or both, all data traffic exchanged
within the DSMIPv6 tunnel. The profiles for tunnel mode IPsec ESP are defined
in 3GPP TS 33.234 [19]. The procedure is initiated by the HA and may be
initiated at any time after the security association between UE and HA has
been set up. The support of this procedure is optional for both the HA and the
UE.
### 5.4.2 UE procedures
When the UE receives a CREATE_CHILD_SA request from the HA with selectors
indicating the DSMIPv6 tunnel traffic, the UE should reply with a
CREATE_CHILD_SA response selecting the preferred transform proposed by the HA
as specified in IETF RFC 5996 [9].
If the child SA is created successfully, the UE shall start ciphering or
integrity protecting, or both, all the uplink packets in the DSMIPv6 tunnel as
negotiated with the HA during the CREATE_CHILD_SA procedure.
The UE may stop ciphering or integrity protecting, or both, the DSMIPv6 tunnel
traffic. In order to do that, the UE shall delete the respective child
security association by sending an INFORMATIONAL request message including the
DELETE payload as specified in IETF RFC 5996 [9]. The protocol ID shall be set
to 3 in order to indicate that only the ESP SA shall be removed.
### 5.4.3 HA procedures
After establishing the IPsec security association with the UE as described in
subclause 5.1.3.3, the HA may optionally trigger the creation of a child
security association to protect the traffic send via the DSMIPv6 tunnel.
In order to activate the protection of DSMIPv6 tunnel traffic, the HA shall
initiate the creation of a child security association sending a
CREATE_CHILD_SA request message to the UE. In the CREATE_CHILD_SA message the
HA shall request for an ESP security association; the HA shall also set the SA
payload depending if integrity protection or ciphering, or both, are needed as
described in IETF RFC 5996 [9]. The traffic selectors shall be set as
described in subclause 5.2.4 of IETF RFC 3776 [11].
If the child security association is created successfully, the HA shall start
ciphering or integrity protecting, or both, all the downlink packets in the
DSMIPv6 tunnel as negotiated with the UE during the CREATE_CHILD_SA procedure.
At any time the HA may stop ciphering or integrity protecting, or both, the
DSMIPv6 tunnel traffic. In order to do that, the HA shall delete the
respective child security association by sending an INFORMATIONAL request
message including the DELETE payload as specified in IETF RFC 5996 [9]. The
protocol ID shall be set to 3 in order to indicate that only the ESP SA shall
be removed.
## 5.5 Attach to an additional system
### 5.5.1 General
The operations defined within this subclause apply to IFOM capable UE
configured for IFOM and to HA supporting IFOM.
The attach to an additional system procedure is performed by a UE that has
already established an active PDN connection through a system.
There are three possible scenarios:
\- The existing system is a home link and the added one is a foreign link;
\- The existing system is a foreign link and the added one is a home link; or
\- The existing system is a foreign link and the added one is a foreign link.
The following can be performed during the attach to an additional system
procedure:
\- system specific procedure in order to connect and to configure an IP
address for the added system. It consists of the UE performing the GPRS attach
procedure and establishing a PDP context as described in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4] or
the UE performing the I-WLAN automatic network selection procedure as
described in 3GPP TS 24.234 [5];
\- discovery of the Home Agent address, if the HA IP address was not obtained
upon the attachment to the first system or when performing the system specific
procedure;
\- security associati on establishment between the UE and the HA, if there was
no security association established upon the attachment to the first system;
\- home link detection; and
\- exchange of the Binding Update and the Binding Acknowledge messages between
the UE and the HA including the BID mobility option(s) and the FID mobility
option(s).
### 5.5.2 UE procedures
#### 5.5.2.1 General
When attaching to an additional system, the UE is already attached to either a
home link or a foreign link and discovers a new system. The UE requests the
discovery of the HA IP address, as described in subclause 5.1.2.2 in case the
UE does not already have it. The UE then initiates the home link detection as
specified in subclause 5.1.2.4 to determine if the new system is a foreign
link or a home link. If it is a home link, the UE performs the procedure
described in subclause 5.5.2.2. If it is a foreign link, the UE performs the
procedure described in subclause 5.5.2.3.
#### 5.5.2.2 Attach to an additional system acting as a home link
The procedures for attach to an additional system acting as a home link are
the same as the UE procedures for attach to an additional access acting as a
home link described in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
#### 5.5.2.3 Attach to an additional system acting as a foreign link
When the UE detects that the additional system acts as a foreign link, if the
initial system where the UE is already attached acts as a home link, the UE
procedures are the same as the UE procedures for attach to an additional
access acting as a foreign link specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
If the initial system where the UE is already attached acts as a foreign link,
the UE procedures are the same as the procedures described in subclause
5.1.2.5 with the following exceptions:
a) the O (Overwrite) flag shall be set to \"0\";
b) the UE may insert a flow summary mobility option (as described in IETF RFC
6089 [21]).
\- If the UE wants to keep some routing rules previously registered
unmodified, i.e. no flow handover, the UE lists the values of the FIDs
identifying the routing rules that the UE wants to keep unmodified in the flow
summary mobility option; and
\- If the UE wants to remove one or more previously registered routing rules,
the UE does not include in the flow summary mobility option the FIDs
identifying the routing rules that the UE wants to remove; and
c) the UE may modify one or more routing rules with the HA. For each routing
rule that the UE wants to modify, the UE shall include a FID mobility option
as specified in IETF RFC 6089 [21].
\- the UE shall set the FID field to the value identifying the routing filter
the UE wants to handover;
\- the UE shall set the FID-PRI field to assign the priority to the BID as
indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [21]; and
\- the UE shall include a Binding Reference suboption as indicated in IETF RFC
6089 [21]. The value assigned to the BID identifies the routing address that
the UE wants to use to exchange the packets matching the routing filters.
When the UE receives the Binding Acknowledgment from the HA, the UE shall
process the Binding Acknowledgment as specified in subclause 5.1.2.5.
### 5.5.3 HA procedures
#### 5.5.3.1 General
The following subclauses describe the HA procedures for the case when a UE is
attaching to an additional system.
#### 5.5.3.2 Attach to an additional system acting as a home link
The HA procedures for attach to an additional system acting as a home link are
the same as the HA procedures for attach to an additional access acting as a
home link described in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
#### 5.5.3.3 Attach to an additional system acting as a foreign link
The HA procedures for attach to an additional system acting as a foreign link
depends whether the first system where the UE is connected, acts as a home
link or foreign link:
\- if the initial system where the UE is already attached acts as a home link,
the HA procedures are the same as the HA procedures for attach to an
additional access acting as a foreign link specified in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3];
and
\- if the initial system where the UE is already attached acts as a foreign
link, the HA process the received Binding Update message as specified in IETF
RFC 5648 [20], IETF RFC 6089 [21] and IETF RFC 6088 [22].
## 5.6 Inter-system flow mobility
### 5.6.1 General
The operations defined within this subclause apply to IFOM capable UE
configured for IFOM and to HA supporting IFOM.
The inter-system flow mobility is performed when the UE has already
established a PDN connection through multiple systems. The UE has previously
registered one or more routing rules with the HA in order to route the packets
exhcanged through the access systems.
This procedure enables the UE to update one or more routing rules with the HA,
e.g. by changing the system through which some routing filters were previously
routed. This procedure consists on exchanging a Binding Update and a Binding
Acknowledge messages with a BID and a FID options between the UE and the HA
including the updated routing rules.
### 5.6.2 UE procedures
The UE procedures for the inter-system flow mobility are the same as the UE
procedures for inter-access flow mobility defined in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
### 5.6.3 HA procedures
The HA procedures for the inter-system flow mobility are the same as the HA
procedures for inter-access flow mobility defined in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
## 5.7 UE-initiated removal of a system from a PDN connection
### 5.7.1 General
The operations defined within this subclause apply to IFOM capable UE
configured for IFOM and to HA supporting IFOM.
The UE-initiated removal of a system from a PDN connection procedure is
performed by a UE which has a PDN connection through multiple systems and
which wants to stop using one system for this PDN connection. This procedure
consists on exchanging a Binding Update and a Binding Acknowledge messages
between the UE and the HA.
Three scenarios are possible:
\- The removed system is a home link and the maintained one is a foreign link;
\- The removed system is a foreign link and the maintained one is a foreign
link, or
\- The removed sytem is a foreign link and the maintained one is a home link.
### 5.7.2 UE procedures
#### 5.7.2.1 General
The removal of a system from a PDN connection is performed by a UE attached to
multiple systems. The UE sends a Binding Update message in order to update the
HA binding cache removing the entry corresponding to the removed system.
If the removed system is a home link, the UE follows the procedure as
specified in subclause 5.7.2.2. If the removed system is a foreign link, the
UE follows the procedure as specified in subclause 5.7.2.3.
#### 5.7.2.2 Removal of a system acting as a home link
The procedures for removal of a system acting as a home link are the same as
the UE procedures for UE-initiated removal of a home link access from a PDN
connection described in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
#### 5.7.2.3 Removal of a system acting as a foreign link
If the UE removes a system acting as a foreign link from a specific PDN
connection and maintains the connection to the PDN through the foreign link,
the UE shall perform one of the following operations:
(a) the UE sends a Binding Update message with the Lifetime field set to 0 as
specified in IETF RFC 5555 [10] and IETF RFC 6275 [12] and with a BID mobility
option. The UE populates the BID mobility option as follows (see IETF RFC 5648
[20]):
\- the BID field is set to the BID corresponding to the system the UE wants to
remove;
\- the H flag is set to 0; and
\- the Care-of Address field is in the BID mobility options omitted;
or:
(b) the UE sends a Binding Update message as indicated in subclause 5.1.2.5
with the following additions:
\- the Binding Update message shall be exchanged through the maintained
system;
\- the BID field is set to the value identifying the maintained system; and
\- the Care-of Address field in the BID mobility options is omitted.
NOTE: The choice of the operation to follow is up to UE implementation.
If the UE removes a system acting as a foreign link from a specific PDN
connection and maintains the connection to the PDN through the home link, the
UE shall send a Binding Update message with the lifetime field set to 0 as
specified in subclause 5.3.2.2. If the UE decides to close the security
association set up with the HA, the UE shall send the INFORMATIONAL request
message including a DELETE payload as specified in subclause 5.3.2.2.
### 5.7.3 HA procedures
#### 5.7.3.1 General
The following subclauses describe the HA procedures for the case when the UE
initiates the removal of a system from a PDN connection.
#### 5.7.3.2 Removal of a system acting as a home link
In case of removal of asystem acting as a home link from a PDN connection
executed by the UE, the HA shall perform the following operations:
\- If the lifetime field of the received Binding Update is set to 0, the HA
processes the received Binding Update message as described in IETF RFC 5555
[10] and IETF RFC 6275 [12] and IETF RFC 5648 [20]; and
\- If the lifetime field of the received Binding Update is not set to 0, the
HA shall only keep the entry corresponding to the remaining binding in its
binding cache. In addition, the HA shall process the Binding Update message
and populate the Binding Acknowledge message as specified in the 3GPP TS
24.303 [3].
#### 5.7.3.3 Removal of a system acting as a foreign link
In case of removal of a system acting as a foreign link from a PDN connection
executed by the UE, the HA shall perform the following operations:
\- if the lifetime field of the received Binding Update is set to 0, the HA
shall delete any existing entry for the home address in the binding cache and
shall send a Binding Acknowledge message to the UE as specified in the IETF
RFC 5555 [10] and IETF RFC 5648 [20]. In addition, if the received Binding
Update message contains a BID mobility option, the HA shall validate and
process the Binding Update message as described in IETF RFC 5648 [20]; and
\- if the lifetime field of the received Binding Update is not set to 0, the
HA performs the same procedures described in subclause 5.1.3.3.2.
## 5.8 Network-initiated removal of a system from a PDN connection
### 5.8.1 General
The operations defined within this subclause apply to IFOM capable UE
configured for IFOM and to HA supporting IFOM.
The following subclauses describe the procedures performed by the UE and the
HA in order to remove one system from a PDN connection initiated by the HA.
Three scenarios are possible:
\- the removed system is a foreign link and the maintained system is a home
link;
\- the removed system is a foreign link and the maintained system is a foreign
link; or
\- the removed system is a home link and the maintained system is a foreign
link.
### 5.8.2 UE procedures
When receiving the BRI message without a BID mobility option from the HA, the
UE shall process it and send a BRA message to the HA as described in subclause
5.3.2.1.
When receiving the BRI message with a BID mobility option from the HA, the UE
shall process it and send a BRA message to the HA as described in the 3GPP TS
24.303 [3]. The UE shall remove the entry corresponding to the BID mobility
option included in the BRI from its binding update list.
### 5.8.3 HA procedures
In order to remove a foreign link access and maintain the home link access
from a PDN connection triggered by the network, or to remove the home link and
maintain the foreign link from a PDN connection triggered by the network, the
HA shall send a Binding Revocation indication message to the UE as described
in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
In addition, in order to remove a foreign link and maintain another foreign
link from a PDN connection, the HA shall include a BID mobility option of the
removed foreign link access in the BRI message sent to the UE as described in
IETF RFC 5648 [20].
###### ## Annex A (normative): Message details
# A.1 General
The DSMIPv6 messages described in annex A of 3GPP TS 24.303 [3] are applicable
to this specification. Additional mobility option(s) and message(s) are
described in this section which is also applicable for the mobility between
3GPP I-WLAN and GPRS systems.
# A.2 I-WLAN Mobility Specific DSMIPv6 Information Elements
## A.2.1 General
This specification requires the encoding of additional I-WLAN Mobility
Specific Information Elements for DSMIPv6 with the 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option, as
defined by 3GPP TS 29.282 [16]. The I-WLAN Mobility Specific Information
Elements defined by this specification are listed in the table A.2.1-1.
Table A.2.1-1: I-WLAN Mobility Specific DSMIPv6 Information Elements
* * *
I-WLAN Mobility Specific DSMIPv6 Information Elements I-WLAN Mobility Specific
DSMIPv6 Information Elements description I-WLAN Mobility Access Point Name
(APN) Subclause A.2.2
* * *
The subtype for an I-WLAN Mobility Specific DSMIPv6 Information Element shall
be reserved in 3GPP TS 29.282 [16]. The data format of the I-WLAN Mobility
Specific DSMIPv6 Information Element shall be defined in this specification.
If the data format is defined by another specification, that specification
shall be referenced in the table above.
## A.2.2 I-WLAN Mobility Access Point Name (APN)
The purpose of the I-WLAN Mobility APN Information Element is to carry an APN
if the HA is collocated with the GGSN. The APN is used by the UE when handover
is performed from 3GPP I-WLAN to GPRS.
The 3GPP Vendor-Specific Vendor Specific Access Point Name IE is described in
figure A.2.1-1 below:
* * *
Bits  
Octets 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1\~n Access Point Name (APN)
* * *
Figure A.2.1-1: 3GPP Vendor-Specific Access Point Name (APN)
###### ## Annex B (normative): IKEv2 Configuration Payload attributes
# B.1 General
When connecting to 3GPP I-WLAN, the UE may request the Home Agent IP
address(es) or the Home Network Prefix, or both, by including the
corresponding attributes in an IKE_AUTH request message Configuration Payload
of type CFG_REQUEST as described below.
Upon receipt of an IKE_AUTH request message containing a request for HA IP
address(es) or HNP, or both, and after authorization and authentication with
the 3GPP AAA server as described in 3GPP TS 24.234 [5], and if available in
the PDG, the PDG shall provide to the UE at least one of:
\- the HA IPv6 address and optionally the HA IPv4 address in the IKE_AUTH
response CFG_REPLY Configuration Payload as specified in 3GPP TS 24.302 [17];
or
\- the IPv6 HNP as described in the HNP attribute is defined as
MIP6_HOME_PREFIX attribute as described in IETF RFC 5026 [18].
When the UE wants to have other PDN connections through the same PDG, the UE
may discover the HA IP address(es) using DNS as defined in 3GPP TS 24.303 [3].
###### ## Annex C (informative): Deployment cases for a system acting as home
link for a UE
# C.1 General
3GPP TS 23.327 [2] describes how to handle the mobility between 3GPP I-WLAN
and GPRS systems based on DSMIPv6 protocol. Each system, GPRS or I-WLAN, can
be the UE\'s home link or foreign link depending on the IP prefix associated
to the systems.
The GPRS can be the UE\'s home link if the HNP is assigned in the router
advertisement to the UE after PDP context establishment. Otherwise, the GPRS
system will be considered as a foreign link.
The I-WLAN can be the UE\'s home link if the HNP is assigned to the UE by PDG
with an INTERNAL_IP6_SUBNET attribute. Otherwise, the I-WLAN will be
considered as a foreign link.
In both cases, the HA function is the anchor point of the UE mobility between
3GPP I-WLAN and GPRS systems.
This annex describes possible deployment cases where one of the two systems
acts as the home link.
# C.2 System acting as Home link in collocated case
In order to act as home link, the system can have the HA function collocated.
For instance, the GPRS system can be the UE home link if the GGSN function and
the HA function are logically collocated. The UE receives HNP when attaching
to GPRS. In this case, the interface between GGSN and HA function becomes an
internal interface.
When the GGSN (or PDG) and the HA function are collocated, it is assumed that
some information (e.g. UE binding information) and the network resource (e.g.
IP address pool) are shared. Some kind of signalling between the two functions
is necessary. How the information and resource are shared between the two
functions is an implementation issue, which is out of the scope of this TS.
# C.3 System acting as Home link in non-collocated case
When the GGSN (or PDG) and the HA function are not collocated, it is still
possible to make a system act as home link. This is possible only if the HA
and the system are sharing the UE binding information and the UE IP address
pool.The interactions for the HNP allocation is an implementation issue, which
is out of the scope of this TS. For example, this can be achieved by using
static HNP assignment, or dynmamic HNP assignment using RADIUS or DHCP
procedures.
If static IP address assignment is used, the UE\'s HNP is statically
configured in the HSS. The GGSN or PDG receives the static HNP from HSS or
3GPP AAA server during the authentication procedure, and assigns it to the UE.
If DHCP is used for dynamic HNP address assignment, the support of DHCPv6
prefix delegation option by the HA and the system acting as home link is
required.
As an example for dynamic HNP allocation procedure at GGSN using RADIUS, the
RADIUS procedure can be triggered by a pre-configured APN at GPRS attachment
procedure. The GGSN can be configured to request and release a HNP for the
given UE and given APN from an external server by using the Radius interface.
The GGSN can receive the UE\'s HNP from the RADIUS server during
authentication of the UE. There are at least two deployment options for how to
coordinate the UE\'s HNP assignment between GGSN and the RADIUS server:
\- One alternative is that the HA acts as a RADIUS proxy or server. In this
case, based on the received IMSI and APN, the HA will retrieve the assigned
HNP and return it back to the GGSN as part of the accept message.
\- Another alternative is that there is an external RADIUS server to which the
GGSN communicates with directly. The HA requests HNP of the UE from the same
RADIUS external server at DSMIP bootstrapping procedures. The RADIUS external
server needs to allocate the same HNP to the UE based on the IMSI and APN when
the request is received from different network nodes.
#