# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 007 [14].
It was transferred to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in January
2008.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage three (protocol description) of the
Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) supplementary service and the
Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) supplementary services, based on
stage one and two of the ISDN CLIP [4] and CLIR [5] supplementary service. It
provides the protocol details in the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN)
subsystem based on the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the Session
Description Protocol (SDP).
NOTE: It can be noted that the behaviour described in this the present
document does not take into account other behaviours that is specified in
other applications and care needs to be taken when designing the filters etc.
when two or more applications are involved in a session.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP multimedia subsystem; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on SIP and
SDP\".
[4] ETSI EN 300 089 V3.1.1: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN);
Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP) supplementary service; Service
description\".
[5] ETSI EN 300 090 V1.2.1: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN);
Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR) supplementary service; Service
description\".
[6] IETF RFC 3323: \"A Privacy Mechanism for the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)\".
[7] IETF RFC 3325: \"Private Extensions to the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) for Network Asserted Identity within Trusted Networks\".
[8] IETF RFC 2396: \"Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[9] IETF RFC 3966: \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\".
[10] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[11] Void
[12] ITU-T Recommendation I.210: \"Principles of telecommunication services
supported by an ISDN and the means to describe them \".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access
Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating Supplementary
Services\".
[14] ETSI TS 183 007 V1.3.0: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN simulation
services; Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) and Originating
Identification Restriction (OIR); Protocol specification\"
[15] 3GPP TS 24.238: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) based user
configuration; stage 3\"
[16] IETF RFC 4825: \"The Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration
Access Protocol (XCAP)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Call Session Control Function (CSCF): See** 3GPP TS 23.002 [1].
**dialog:** See IETF RFC 3261 [10].
**header:** See IETF RFC 3261 [10].
**header field:** See IETF RFC 3261 [10].
**identity information:** all the information identifying a user, including
trusted (network generated) and/or untrusted (user generated) addresses
NOTE: Identity information takes the form of either a SIP URI **(see** IETF
**RFC 2396 [** 8**]) or a \"tel\" URI\ (see** IETF **RFC 3966 [** 9**]) .**
**incoming initial request:** all requests intended to initiate either a
dialog or a standalone transaction terminated by the served user
**Interconnection Border Control Function (IBCF): See** 3GPP TS 23.228 [2].
**Media Gateway Control Function (MGCF): See** 3GPP TS 23.002 [1].
**originating UE:** sender of a SIP request intended to initiate either a
dialog (e.g. INVITE, SUBSCRIBE), or a standalone transaction
EXAMPLE: OPTIONS, MESSAGE.
**outgoing (communication):** communication outgoing from the user side of the
interface
**outgoing initial request:** all requests intended to initiate either a
dialog or a standalone transaction received from the served user
**private information:** information that according to IETF RFC 3323 [6] and
IETF RFC 3325 [7] is not permitted to be delivered to the remote end.
**proxy:** See IETF RFC 3261 [10].
**Proxy‑CSCF (P‑CSCF): See** 3GPP TS 23.228 [2].
**public user identity: See** 3GPP TS 23.228 [2].
**request:** See IETF RFC 3261 [10].
**response:** See IETF RFC 3261 [10].
**Serving‑CSCF (S‑CSCF): See** 3GPP TS 23.228 [2].
**session:** See IETF RFC 3261 [10].
**standalone transaction:** SIP transaction that is not part of a dialog and
does not initiate a dialog
NOTE: An OPTIONS or a MESSAGE request sent outside of a SIP dialog would be
considered to be part of a standalone transaction.
**supplementary service:** See ITU‑T Recommendation I.210 [12], clause 2.4.
**tag:** See IETF RFC 3261 [10].
**terminating UE:** recipient of a SIP request intended either to initiate a
dialog or to initiate either a dialog or a standalone transaction
**trusted identity information:** network generated user public identity
information
**(SIP) transaction:** See IETF RFC 3261 [10].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
**AS** Application Server
CCBS Completion of Communication to Busy Subscriber
CDIV **Communication DIVersion**
CLIP **Calling Line Identification Presentation**
CLIR **Calling Line Identification Restriction**
**CSCF** Call Session Control Function
CW Communication Waiting
HOLD communication Hold
**IBCF** Interconnection Border Control Function
ICB Incoming Communication Barring
**IFC** Initial Filter Criteria
IM IP Multimedia
IMS **IP Multimedia Subsystem**
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN **Integrated Service Data Network**
MCID Malicious Communication IDentification
**MGCF** Media Gateway Control Function
NGN Next Generation Network
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
**P‑CSCF** Proxy-CSCF
**PSTN** Public Switched Telephone Network
**S‑CSCF** Serving-CSCF
**SDP** Session Description Protocol
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
**UE** User Equipment
**URI** Universal Resource Identifier
# 4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) and Originating
Identification Restriction (OIR)
## 4.1 Introduction
The **Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)** service provides the
terminating user with the possibility of receiving identity information in
order to identify the originating user.
The **Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)** service enables the
originating user to prevent presentation of its identity information to the
terminating user.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
The OIP service provides the terminating user with the possibility of
receiving trusted (i.e. network‑provided) identity information in order to
identify the originating user.
In addition to the trusted identity information, the identity information from
the originating user can include identity information generated by the
originating user and in general transparently transported by the network. In
the particular case where the \"no screening\" special arrangement does not
apply, the originating network shall verify the content of this user generated
identity information. The terminating network cannot be responsible for the
content of this user generated identity information.
The OIR service is a service offered to the originating user. It restricts
presentation of the originating user\'s identity information to the
terminating user.
When the OIR service is applicable and activated, the originating network
provides the destination network with the indication that the originating
user\'s identity information is not allowed to be presented to the terminating
user. In this case, no originating user\'s identity information shall be
included in the requests sent to the terminating user. The presentation
restriction function shall not influence the forwarding of the originating
user\'s identity information within the network as part of the supplementary
service procedures.
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
#### 4.3.1.1 OIP Provision/withdrawal
The OIP service may be provided after prior arrangement with the service
provider or be generally available.
The OIP service shall be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
As a general operator policy a special arrangement may exist on a per
subscriber basis or on a general behaviour basis whereby the originating
user\'s identity information intended to be transparently transported by the
network is not screened by the network.
#### 4.3.1.2 OIR Provision/withdrawal
The OIR service, temporary mode, may be provided on a subscription basis or
may be generally available.
The OIR service, permanent mode, shall be provided on a subscription basis.
As a network option, the OIR service can be offered with several subscription
options. A network providing the OIR service shall support temporary mode at a
minimum. Subscription options are summarized in table 1.
Table 1: OIR Subscription options
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Subscription option values | Values | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Mode | ‑ permanent mode (active for all | | | requests) | | | | | | ‑ temporary mode (specified by the UE | | | per the initial outgoing request) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Temporary mode default | ‑ presentation restricted | | | | | | ‑ presentation not restricted | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Restriction | ‑ restrict the asserted identity | | | | | | ‑ restrict all private information | | | appearing in headers | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
### 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side
As part of the basic communication procedures specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3],
the following requirements apply at the originating network side in support of
the OIP service and the OIR service. Unless noted otherwise, these
requirements are meant to apply to all requests meant to initiate either a
dialog or a standalone transaction. These procedures apply regardless of
whether the originating or terminating parties subscribe to the OIP service or
the OIR service:
1 The originating UE can insert two forms of identity information that
correspond to the following two purposes:
As a suggestion to the network as to what public user identity the network
should be included in the request as network asserted identity information.
As a UE‑provided identity to be transparently transported by the network.
2 In the case where no identity information is provided by the originating UE
for the purpose of suggesting a network‑provided identity, the network shall
include identity information based on the default public user identity
associated with the originating UE.
3 In the case where identity information is provided by the originating UE for
the purpose of suggesting a network-provided identity, the network shall
attempt to match the information provided with the set of registered public
identities of the originating UE. If a match is found, the network shall
include an identity based on the information provided by the originating UE.
As a network option, if the \"no screening\" special arrangement does not
exist with the originating UE, the network may attempt to match the
UE‑provided identity information with the set of registered public identities
of the originating user. If a match is not found, the network shall replace
the UE‑provided identity with one that includes the default public user
identity.
The UE can include an indication that it wishes to have the presentation of
its identity information to be restricted. The following cases exist:
\- If the originating user has subscribed to the OIR service in the permanent
mode, then the network shall invoke the OIR service for each outgoing request.
\- If the originating user has subscribed to the OIR service in the temporary
mode with default value \"presentation restricted\", then the network shall
invoke the OIR service for each outgoing request unless the default value is
overridden by subscriber request at the time of outgoing request.
\- If the originating user has subscribed to the OIR service in the temporary
mode with default value \"presentation not restricted\", then the network
shall only invoke the OIR service if requested by the subscriber at the time
of outgoing initial request.
\- If the OIR service is not invoked, the network‑provided identity shall be
considered to be presentation allowed.
NOTE 1A: For the network to invoke the service, the S-CSCF will forward an
initial request towards the AS that hosts the OIR service. This requires an
initial filter criterion to be setup for the user who is subscribed to the
service. Annex B provides an example of an initial filter criterion that can
be applied for the OIR service.
As an originating network option, if the originating user invokes the OIR
service for a particular request, the originating network may prevent any
UE‑provided identification information (in addition to the trusted identity
information) from being displayed to the terminating user.
NOTE 1: As an informative description, for OIP/OIR this means the following
procedures are expected to be provided by the P‑CSCF regardless of whether the
originating user does or does not subscribe to the OIP service or OIR service.
When the P‑CSCF receives an initial request for a dialog or a request for a
standalone transaction, and the request contains a P‑Preferred‑Identity header
field that matches one of the registered public user identities, the P‑CSCF is
expected to identify the initiator of the request by that public user
identity. In particular, the P‑CSCF is expected to include a
P‑Asserted‑Identity header field set to that public user identity. When the
P‑CSCF receives an initial request for a dialog or a request for a standalone
transaction, and the request contains as P‑Preferred‑Identity header field
that does not match one of the registered public user identities, or does not
contain a P‑Preferred‑Identity header field, the P‑CSCF is expected to
identify the initiator of the request by a default public user identity. In
particular, the P‑CSCF is expected to include a P‑Asserted‑Identity header
field set to the default public user identity. If there is more then one
default public user identity available, the P‑CSCF is expected to randomly
select one of them.
NOTE 2: In the case where the S‑CSCF has knowledge of an associated tel‑URI
for a SIP URI contained in the P‑Asserted‑Identity header field received in
the request, the S‑CSCF adds a second P‑Asserted‑Identity header field
containing this tel‑URI.
NOTE 3: For the S‑CSCF to forward an initial request towards the AS that hosts
the OIR service, an initial filter criterion is to be setup for the user who
is subscribed to the service. Annex B provides an example of an initial filter
criterion that that can be applied for the OIR service.
NOTE 4: It is assumed that the IBCF is responsible for stripping the
P‑Asserted‑Identity from the SIP header when interworking with untrusted
networks.
### 4.3.3 Requirements on the terminating network side
For terminating users that subscribe to the OIP service, and if network
provided identity information about the originator is available, and if
presentation is allowed, the network shall include that information in the
requests sent to the UE.
If the presentation of the public user identity is restricted, then the
terminating UE shall receive an indication that the public user identity was
not sent because of restriction.
If the public user identity is not available at the terminating network (for
reasons such as interworking), then the network shall indicate to the
terminating user that the public user identity was not included for reasons
other than that the originating user invoked the OIR service.
For terminating users that do not subscribe to the OIP service, the network
shall not send the network provided identity information about the originator
in the requests sent to the UE, even if that information is available, and if
presentation is allowed. Additionally, the network may prevent the
transmission of any UE‑provided identity information.
NOTE 1: The priv-value \"id\" in the Privacy header is not expected be removed
when removing any P-Asserted-Identity header as described in 3GPP TS 24.229
[3] subclauses 4.2.2 and 5.4.3.3.
NOTE 2: When removing the P‑Asserted‑identity any following service in the
chain could be affected. Therefore service based on the originating identity
(such as ICB and ACR), are expected to precede the OIP service in the chain.
NOTE 3: It is assumed that the IBCF is responsible for stripping the
P‑Asserted‑Identity from the SIP header when interworking with untrusted
networks.
## 4.4 Syntax requirements
The syntax for the relevant header fields in the SIP requests are normatively
described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]. The relevant headers are:
\- The P‑Preferred‑Identity header field, which shall conform to the
specifications in IETF RFC 3325 [7] and IETF RFC 3966 [9].
\- The P‑Asserted‑Identity header field, which shall conform to the
specifications in IETF RFC 3325 [7] and IETF RFC 3966 [9].
\- The Privacy header field, which shall conform to the specifications in IETF
RFC 3323 [6] and IETF RFC 3325 [7].
\- The From header field, which shall conform to the specifications in IETF
RFC 3261 [10] and IETF RFC 3966 [9].
## 4.5 Signalling procedures
### 4.5.0 General
Configuration of supplementary services by the user should:
\- take place over the Ut interface using XCAP as enabling protocol as
described in 3GPP TS 24.623 [13]; or
\- use SIP based user configuration as described in 3GPP TS 24.238 [15];
NOTE: Other possibilities for user configuration, such as web-based
provisioning or pre-provisioning by the operator are outside the scope of the
present document, but are not precluded.
The enhancements to the XML schema for use over the Ut interface are described
in subclause 4.10.
### 4.5.1 Activation/deactivation
The OIP service is activated at provisioning and deactivated at withdrawal.
The OIR service is activated at provisioning and deactivated at withdrawal.
### 4.5.1A Registration/erasure
The OIP service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.
The OIR service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.
### 4.5.1B Interrogation
For interrogation of OIP and OIR, the mechanisms specified in subclause 4.5.0
should be used.
### 4.5.2 Invocation and operation
#### 4.5.2.1 Actions at the originating UE
As part of basic communication, the originating UE may insert a
P‑Preferred‑Identity header field in any initial SIP request for a dialog or
in any SIP request for a standalone transaction as a hint for creation of a
public user identity as described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3].
NOTE 1: According 3GPP TS 24.229 [3], the UE can include any of the following
in the P‑Preferred‑Identity header field:
a public user identity which has been registered by the user;
a public user identity returned in a registration‑state event package of a
NOTIFY request as a result of an implicit registration that was not
subsequently deregistered or has expired; or
any other public user identity which the user has assumed by mechanisms
outside the scope of 3GPP TS 24.229 [3] to have a current registration.
If the originating user wishes to override the default setting of
\"presentation not restricted\" of the OIR service in temporary mode:
\- The originating UE shall include an \"anonymous\" From header field. The
convention for configuring an anonymous From header field described in IETF
RFC 3323 [6] should be followed; i.e. From: \"Anonymous\"
\;tag= xxxxxxx.
\- If only the P‑Asserted‑Identity needs to be restricted the originating UE
shall include a Privacy header field [6] set to \"id\" in accordance with IETF
RFC 3325 [7].
\- If all headers containing private, that the UE cannot anonymize itself,
information need to be restricted the originating UE shall include a Privacy
header field set to \"header\" in accordance with IETF RFC 3323 [6].
NOTE 2: The P-Asserted-Identity header field is removed by the Privacy header
field value \"header\". The From header field is not anonymized by the Privacy
header field value \"header\".
If the originating user wishes to override the default setting of
\"presentation restricted\" of the OIR service in temporary mode:
\- The originating UE shall include a Privacy header field of privacy type
\"none\" in accordance with\ 3GPP TS 24.229 [3] (IETF RFC 3323 [6]).
#### 4.5.2.2 Void
#### 4.5.2.3 Void
#### 4.5.2.4 Actions at the AS serving the originating UE
For an originating user that subscribes to the OIR service in \"permanent
mode\", the AS shall insert a Privacy header field set to:
\- \"id\" if only the P-Asserted-Identity header field needs to be restricted
as described in RFC 3325 [7]; or
\- \"header\" if all the header fields, containing private information that
the UE cannot anonymize need to be restricted as described in RFC 3323 [6].
This choice is based on the subscription option.
NOTE 1: The P-Asserted-Identity header field is removed by the Privacy header
field value \"header\". The From header field is not anonymized by the Privacy
header field value \"header\".
If the request includes a Privacy header field that is set to \"none\", the AS
shall remove the \"none\" value from the Privacy header field.
Additionally, based on operator policy, the AS shall either modify the From
header field to remove the identification information, or add a Privacy header
field set to \"user\".
For an originating user that subscribes to the OIR service in \"temporary
mode\" with default \"restricted\", if the request does not include a Privacy
header field, or the request includes a Privacy header field that is not set
to \"none\", the AS shall insert a Privacy header field set to:
\- \"id\" if only the P-Asserted-Identity header field needs to be restricted
as described in RFC 3325 [7]; or
\- \"header\" if all the header fields, containing private information that
the UE cannot anonymize need to be restricted as described in RFC 3323 [6].
This choice is based on the subscription option.
NOTE 2: The P-Asserted-Identity header field is removed by the Privacy header
field value \"header\". The From header field is not anonymized by the Privacy
header field value \"header\". .
Additionally based on operator policy, the AS shall either modify the From
header field to remove the identification information, or add a Privacy header
field set to \"user\".
NOTE 3: When the OIR service is used, the originating UE is supposed to
already have removed identity information from the From header field. However
because this UE is not trusted, this is also done by the AS to ensure that
this information is removed.
For an originating user that subscribes to the OIR service in \"temporary
mode\" with default \"not restricted\", if the request includes a Privacy
header field is set to \"id\" or \"header\", based on operator policy, the AS
shall either modify the From header field to remove the identification
information or add a Privacy header field set to \"user\". As an originating
network option, if the \"no screening\" special arrangement does not exist
with the originating user, the AS may attempt to match the information in the
From header with the set of registered public identities of the originating
user. If a match is not found, the AS may set the From header to the SIP URI
that includes the default public user identity.
#### 4.5.2.5 Void
#### 4.5.2.6 Void
#### 4.5.2.7 Void
#### 4.5.2.8 Void
#### 4.5.2.9 Actions at the AS serving the terminating UE
If OIP service of the terminating user is not activated, then the AS shall
remove any P‑Asserted‑Identity or Privacy header fields included in the
request. Additionally, the Application Server may as a network option
anonymize the contents of the From header by setting it to a default non
significant value. As a network option, if the terminating user has an
override category, the AS shall send the P‑Asserted‑Identity headers and
remove the Privacy header fields.
When the Privacy header field is set to \"id\", with the exception of the
cases listed above, the AS should not remove this Privacy header entry.
NOTE 1: The priv-value \"id\" in the Privacy header will be used by the
terminating UE to distinguish the request of OIR by the originating user.
If the request includes the Privacy header field set to \"header\" the AS
shall:
a) anonymize the contents of all header fields containing private information
that are not \"user configurable\" in accordance with IETF RFC 3323 [6]; and
b) add a Privacy header field with the priv-value set to \"id\" if not already
present in the request.
NOTE 2: The P-Asserted-Identity header field is removed by the Privacy header
field value \"header\". The From header field is not anonymized.
If the request includes the Privacy header field set to \"user\" the AS shall
remove or anonymize the contents of all \"user configurable\" headers (e.g.
the From header field) in accordance with IETF RFC 3323 [6]. In the latter
case, the AS may need to act as transparent back‑to‑back user agent as
described in IETF RFC 3323 [6].
#### 4.5.2.10 Void
#### 4.5.2.11 Void
#### 4.5.2.12 Actions at the terminating UE
A terminating UE shall support the receipt of one or more P‑Asserted‑Identity
header fields in SIP requests initiating a dialog or standalone transactions,
each one containing a public user identity of the originating user. The UE may
present the information to the user.
NOTE 1: If no P‑Asserted‑Identity header fields are present, but a Privacy
header field was present, then the one or more identities can have been
withheld due to presentation restriction.
NOTE 2: If neither P‑Asserted‑Identity header fields nor a Privacy header
field are present, then the network‑provided identities can lack availability
(due to, for example, interworking with other networks), or the user can be
without a subscription to the OIP service.
NOTE 3: A user‑provided identity can also be available, within the From header
field of the request
## 4.6 Interaction with other services
### 4.6.1 Communication Hold (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.2 Terminating Identity Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identity Restriction (TIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.4 Originating Identity Presentation (OIP)
The OIR service shall normally take precedence over the OIP service.
The OIP service can take precedence over the OIR service when the destination
subscriber has an override category. This is a national matter, and is outside
the scope of the present document.
### 4.6.5 Originating Identity Restriction (OIR)
The OIR service shall normally take precedence over the OIP service.
The OIP service can take precedence over the OIR service when the destination
user has an override category. This is a national matter, and is outside the
scope of the present document.
### 4.6.6 Conference calling (CONF)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.7 Communication diversion services (CDIV)
When a request has been diverted and the diverted‑to user has been provided
with the OIP service, the diverted‑to UE shall receive the identity
information of the original originating user. When the OIR service has been
invoked, the originating user\'s identity information shall not be presented
to the diverted‑to user unless the diverted‑to user has an override category.
### 4.6.8 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
NOTE: When the MCID service is invoked, the identity of an incoming
communication is registered in the network whether or not the originating user
has activated the OIR service.
### 4.6.9 Incoming Communication Barring (ICB)
Within the network execution of ICB and ACR services shall precede the OIP
service.
### 4.6.10 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
## 4.7 Interactions with other networks
### 4.7.1 Void
### 4.7.2 Void
### 4.7.3 Void
## 4.8 Signalling flows
No OIP or OIR service specific signalling flow is necessary in addition to the
basic communication control according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3].
## 4.9 Parameter values (timers)
No specific timers are required.
## 4.10 Service configuration
### 4.10.0 General
Originating Identity documents are sub‑trees of the _simservs_ XML document
specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 [13]. As such, Originating Identity documents use
the XCAP application usage in 3GPP TS 24.623 [13].
**Data semantics:** The semantics of the Originating Identity XML
configuration document is specified in subclause 4.10.1.
**XML schema:** Implementations in compliance with the present document shall
implement the XML schema that minimally includes the XML Schema defined in
subclause 4.10.2 and the _simservs_ XML schema specified in subclause 6.3 of
3GPP TS 24.623 [13].
An instance of an Originating Identity document is shown:
\
\
\
\
\presentation-restricted\
\
\
### 4.10.1 Data semantics
The OIP service can be activated/deactivated using the active attribute of the
\ service element.
The OIR service can be activated/deactivated using the active attribute of the
\ service element. Activating
the OIR service this way activates the temporary mode OIR service. When
deactivated and not overruled by operator settings, basic communication
procedures apply.
The behaviour of the temporary mode OIR is configured with the optional
\ element. There are two values that this element can take:
**\- Presentation‑restricted** : This configures the service to behave as
specified in subclause 4.5.2.4 for the case OIR service in \"temporary mode\"
with default \"restricted\".
**\- Presentation‑not‑restricted** : This configures the service to behave as
specified in subclause 4.5.2.4 for the case OIR service in \"temporary mode\"
with default \"not restricted\".
Manipulation of the active attribute of the
\ service element and of the
\ service element is subject to
authorization via local policy. Unauthorized manipulation attempts are
rejected with an HTTP 409 (Conflict) response as defined in IETF RFC 4825
[16].
### 4.10.2 XML schema
\
\
\
\
\Originating Identity presentation Restriction
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Originating Identity Presentation
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling flows
No signalling flows are provided.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria
This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to\ Initial Filter Criteria (IFC) evaluation.
# B.1 Originating filter criteria for OIR service
All outgoing SIP requests are forwarded to an Application Server providing the
OIR service under the following conditions:
\- the user is subscribed to the OIR service in permanent mode; or
\- the request does not include a Privacy header field.
# B.2 Terminating filter criteria for OIP service
All incoming SIP requests are forwarded to an Application Server providing the
OIP service.
#