# Foreword {#foreword .TT}
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the result of the study on the impacts on
signalling between the UE and core network when energy saving measures are
applied to network entities.
The study aims, within the defined CT1 work areas, at:
> \- analysing UE idle mode procedures and signalling between the UE and core
> network resulting from switch on/off of radio equipment in all types of 3GPP
> accesses, including home cell deployment and I-WLAN, as well as power
> adaptation of radio equipment (where applicable);
>
> \- performing a corresponding analysis for connected mode UEs;
>
> \- analysing similar impacts from activation status of non-3GPP access
> networks;
>
> \- documenting limitations, weaknesses and inefficiencies in these
> procedures, with emphasis on mass effects in the signalling between the UE
> and core network; and
\- studying potential optimizations and enhancements to these procedures.
The study also evaluates potential enhancements to 3GPP specifications under
CT1 responsibility.
This study takes into account decisions made by other 3GPP working groups in
their related work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 32.826: \"Study on Energy Savings Management (ESM)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.234: \"3GPP system to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking; System description\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.234: \"3GPP System to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking; WLAN User Equipment (WLAN UE) to network protocols\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.234: \"3G security; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking security\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.551: \"Energy Saving Management (ESM); Concepts and
requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via
non-3GPP access networks\".
[8] 3GPP TR 23.888: \"System Improvements for Machine-Type Communications\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.118: \"Mobility Management Entity (MME) -- Visitor Location
Register (VLR) SGs interface specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.167: \"3GPP IMS Management Object (MO); Stage 3\".
[11] 3GPP TS 24.216: \"Communication Continuity Management Object\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.237: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity; Stage
3\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.251: \"Network Sharing; Architecture and functional
description\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"GPRS enhancements for E-UTRAN access\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.261: \"IP flow mobility and seamless Wireless Local Area
Network (WLAN) offload; Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 24.303: \"Mobility management based on Dual-Stack Mobile IPv6;
Stage 3\".
[19] 3GPP TR 36.927: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Potential solutions for energy saving for E-UTRAN\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.368: \"Non-Access Stratum (NAS) configuration Management
Object (MO)\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Macro cell:** generic term used for all cell types under operator's control
(in contrast to \"home cells\" or \"femto cells\"); in this sense it includes
also so-called \"micro\" and \"pico\" cells (used in the context of
hierarchical cell structures).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Overview
One main energy saving mechanism in the context of this Technical Report is
realized by switch-off of radio equipment on the network side. As a
consequence, a UE currently being served by the radio equipment subject to
switch-off will have to find an alternative, either in the same RAT (if
possible by coverage, this would naturally be preferred), or in another RAT.
We call these cases \"intra-RAT energy saving\" and \"inter-RAT energy
saving\", respectively. The fundamental assumption is that, due to overlapping
radio coverages, in all practically relevant cases an alternative radio access
can indeed be found.
In figure 4-1 two base coverage scenarios allowing energy saving by switch-off
are illustrated (only one representative UE shown).
On the left hand side an overlay structure of one and the same RAT is shown;
apart from capacity considerations every UE in coverage area 2 can also be
served by the radio equipment in coverage area 1; thus radio equipment for
coverage area 2 may be switched off (during suitable times) for energy saving
purposes. This is an intra-RAT energy saving case. A variant for the non-
overlaid intra-RAT configuration is described in subclause 5.1.3 and subclause
5.5.
On the right hand side, in contrast, coverage area 4 is not fully overlaid by
coverage area 3, and they belong to different RATs. Consequently, radio
equipment for coverage area 4 could only be switched off if still other
coverage areas exist (not shown, but indicated by dots), or all UEs are
located in the overlapping area. This case realizes inter-RAT energy saving.
More details on such energy saving scenarios are found in 3GPP TR 32.826 [2]
and 3GPP TR 36.927 [19].
Figure 4-1: Two base coverage scenarios for energy saving by switch-off of
radio equipment
In table 4-1 we use the terms \"source radio\" and \"target radio\" with the
intended meaning that the considered UE transitions from on to the other radio
access due to switch-off; we list all combinations in a matrix, for a UE
attached for PS services. Regarding the UE behaviour following a loss of
(source) radio access, depending on the availability of RATs as target radio
access, we find either fully standardized and optimized behaviour within 3GPP
RATs (GERAN, UTRAN, E-UTRAN), or non- or only partially standardized and
optimized behaviour (if either source or target radio access is not a 3GPP
access).
Table 4-1: Combinations of source and target radio for energy saving (for UE
attached for PS services) and possible procedures after switch-off of source
radio
The main diagonal of this matrix describes intra-RAT energy saving, and the
non-diagonal elements constitute inter-RAT energy saving. A characteristic
difference between the two directions of switching, i.e. between switching off
and switching on an access network, is that with the latter the UE in case of
non-optimized handover is not immediately forced to act, because it ends up in
having more choices for access networks than before.
CS only mode encompasses solely GERAN and UTRAN radio access; however, RAN3
has defined enhancements for intra-RAT energy saving only for E-UTRAN. Aspects
of CS/PS mode of operation are discussed in subclauses 5.1.8 and to some
extent in subclause 5.1.6. Aspects of domain selection and relationship to
applications are discussed in subclause 5.1.6.
# 5 Analysis of signalling procedures between the UE and core network for
energy saving scenarios
## 5.1 Switch-off/on of 3GPP macro cells
### 5.1.1 General description
The following main characteristics of 3GPP RATs GERAN, UTRAN and E-UTRAN need
to be taken into account in the study of energy saving:
\- clear definition of idle and active mode;
\- definition of registration areas (LAs, RAs, TAs);
\- fully optimized handovers; and
\- fully (operator) planned deployment.
General descriptions and more technical details are found in other sources
(e.g. 3GPP TR 32.826 [2] and specifically for E-UTRAN in 3GPP TR 36.927 [19]).
Here the goal is to complete the enumeration of cases and also consider more
the aspects relevant to this study (i.e. signalling between the UE and core
network).
### 5.1.2 Overlaid intra-RAT
A capacity enhancing cell, subject to switch-off for energy saving, is placed
into the (full) coverage realized by other cells (see figure 5.1.2-1). Such a
cell can be either totally within the range of one cell or it can intersect
with multiple cells of the base coverage. The relative position of a capacity-
enhancing cell, regarding registration area boundaries, determines whether
signalling between the UE and core network is to be expected as a result of
switching the cell off/on.
NOTE: In 3GPP TR 36.927 [19] this is called \"inter-eNB scenario 1\"
Figure 5.1.2-1: Coverage and registration areas for overlaid intra-RAT energy
saving with 3GPP macro cells
### 5.1.3 Non-overlaid intra-RAT
The cell that is subject to switch-off has no alternative coverage, thus some
cell adaption has to take place, in order not to disrupt service for the UEs
due to a coverage \"hole\" of this RAT (and e.g. with no capability for an
alternative RAT). As shown in figure 5.1.3-1, registration area boundaries
will be distorted with switch-off.
NOTE: In 3GPP TR 36.927 [19] this is called \"inter-eNB scenario 2\"
Figure 5.1.3-1: Coverage and registration areas for non-overlaid intra-RAT
energy saving with 3GPP macro cells
### 5.1.4 Inter-RAT
This case is illustrated in figure 5.1.4-1.
Figure 5.1.4-1: Coverage and registration areas for inter-RAT energy saving
with 3GPP macro cells
### 5.1.5 Key issue: Registration signalling resulting from switch-off/on of
macro cells
#### 5.1.5.1 Overlaid intra-RAT case (E-UTRAN)
The situation is shown in figure 5.1.5-1 derived from the use case given in
the annex B of 3GPP TS 32.551 [6] (it can be similarly applied to the other
3GPP RATs). Only idle mode UEs are considered here, as UEs in connected mode
can be handled by the network via timely handovers to cells remaining
permanently active.
Cell 5 is used for providing the peak capacity and is overlaid on cells 1 to 4
(it is called here a \"capacity enhancing cell\"). Incidentally, also a
tracking area (TA) boundary is passing through, and cell 5 is (arbitrarily)
allocated to TA1.
NOTE 1: The assumption that a capacity enhancing cell is never located on the
border of a TA cannot be made, as it would be too restrictive.
Figure 5.1.5-1: Capacity enhancing cell being switched off (overlaid intra-RAT
case)
When switching off cell 5, all UEs camping on it have to re-select other
cells. For those within coverage of cells 1 and 2 the cell re-selection
affects only the UE internal state. In contrast, UEs within coverage of cells
3 and 4, after selecting these for camping, the corresponding UEs have to
perform a TAU. In total, depending on the number of cells being switched off
(nearly) at the same time and the actual TA configuration, there is a danger
of overload on MME(s).
The situation after switch-on of a previously switched off capacity enhancing
cell is shown in figure 5.1.5-2. The re-selection of cells occurs only
gradually, due to the fact that some threshold in the difference of radio
levels must be measured.
Figure 5.1.5-2: Example of a capacity enhancing cell being switched on again
A problem or at least an inefficiency can occur, if many UEs in idle mode
start with their transmission of data (by issuing service requests) still in
the source cells; this could have the effect that many handovers (into the
target cell) are necessary. Depending on the TA configuration, additionally
TAUs could be necessary (before the active mode is entered). The scenario is
likely e.g. in the morning, when formerly sleeping users are waking up and
start checking their mails, browsing internet in a synchronized manner, e.g.
just before or after their favourite morning news broadcast. It would be
advantageous if idle mode UEs re-select target cells more quickly after they
have been switched on, before they become active.
NOTE 2: A switch-off can also be performed by a decrease of power over time.
This case is described in subclause 5.5 \"Power adaptation for 3GPP macro
cells\".
#### 5.1.5.2 Inter-RAT case (E-UTRAN target for switch-off)
For this subclause it is assumed that GERAN/UTRAN provides the overall
coverage and is used as fallback after E-UTRAN has been switched off.
At this time a similar issue as described in subclause 5.1.5.1 arises more
massively (independent of a cell location on a registration area boundary),
because all idle mode UEs with ISR not activated have to perform RAU
signalling, after selection of GERAN/UTRAN.
UEs in idle mode with ISR activated benefit from the double registration.
After selecting GERAN/UTRAN no immediate registration signalling is necessary.
Their behavior regarding ISR deactivation timer is specified in 3GPP TS 24.301
[12] (subclause 5.1.3) and shown in figure 5.1.5.2-1.
Figure 5.1.5.2-1: Behaviour of UEs with ISR activated when E-UTRAN is switched
off
1) E-UTRAN is switched off for energy saving. UEs will subsequently fall into
state EMM-REGISTERED.NO-CELL-AVAILABLE.
2) Affected UEs (those in the coverage area and currently registered with
E-UTRAN), with ISR deactivated, have to perform RAU signalling, after
selecting GERAN/UTRAN. This can lead to a massive peak in signalling,
depending on synchronization of switch-off of eNBs (corresponding to the
number of UEs affected).
3) Affected UEs with ISR activated have their periodic TAU timer running
(unsynchronized, and in general with varying, individual durations). Only
those are considered in the subsequent steps.
4) After expiry of the periodic TAU timer, affected UEs cannot perform the
periodic TAU and start their individual timer for deactivation of ISR (T3423).
5) T3423 timers expire and UEs deactivate ISR.
6) E-UTRAN is switched on again.
7) UEs realize that E-UTRAN is again available and can re-select it. At this
point they need to initiate TAU, which potentially leads to the re-activation
of ISR.
### 5.1.6 Key issue: Cross layer aspects
In the current 3GPP system various control features exist which govern the
selection of domains for delivery of services (e.g. voice, SMS). As an
example, it may be an operator\'s preference to handle voice communication via
IMS/PS only; if no HSPA is rolled out then effectively only E-UTRAN would
remain for voice. This constitutes a cross layer coupling (IMS voice layer
effectively requires a particular radio access), and there are related
administrative settings (per UE) in NAS related specifications. The situation
is illustrated for one UE in figure 5.1.6-1.
Figure 5.1.6-1: Cross layer dependency and relationship to inter-RAT energy
saving options
The effect of switching off/on radio equipment for inter-RAT energy saving
potentially counteracts above described domain selection principles. A hard
setting for only one domain (i.e. no other domain admissible) could mean that
inter-RAT energy saving is effectively not possible for certain cells, if and
as long as such UE(s) need to be accommodated (under the assumption that
service needs to be guaranteed for them).
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how the alignment between administrative settings
per UE and inter-RAT energy saving procedures is achieved/maintained, and on
which scale of dynamicity.
NOTE: A similar issue arises for UEs with support of only one particular RAT
(e.g. LTE only UEs).
### 5.1.7 Key issue: Idle mode **UEs with emergency bearer services**
UEs in idle mode with emergency bearer services possibly await a callback from
e.g. an emergency answering point or need to establish an outgoing emergency
call; both can be deemed critical and in some cases life-saving.
The switch-off of cells for energy saving could result in a UE becoming
temporarily unavailable for a callback, e.g. until the UE has successfully
completed a location registration if the switched off cell is located near the
boundary of a location registration area. (Of course this can also occur if
the UE itself moves into a new location registrations area.)
Editor\'s note: it is FFS whether this needs to be considered, e.g. by
exempting all cells potentially serving idle mode UEs with emergency bearer
services from switch-off for energy saving.
Editor\'s note: it is FFS how the signalling between UE and core network can
be optimized with respect to this issue.
### 5.1.8 Key issue: Impact of inter-RAT energy saving on signalling over SGs
For a UE configured to use CS fallback, according to figure 4.2.2.1 in 3GPP TS
29.118 [9] the SGs state has to be moved to SGs-NULL if a Location Update
Request is received at VLR via A, Iu or Gs interface. That is the case some
time after E-UTRAN radio access has been turned off, as the UE has no means to
perform combined tracking area updates.
In the opposite direction, after E-UTRAN is switched on again, the SGs
associations will be re-established by registration signalling of all affected
UEs. There are two parts: EPS-NAS signalling and SGs signalling.
If any synchronization effect and consequently increased load for EPS-NAS
signalling is found relevant (this is described as a key issue in subclause
5.1.5.2), it also applies over SGs for UEs configured to use CS fallback.
## 5.2 Switch-off/on of 3GPP home cells
### 5.2.1 General description
Switch-off of radio equipment in the home cell deployment scenario seems to be
an attractive target case for energy saving, due to the expected mass of
equipment (seen in total, i.e. for the whole population). Key characteristics
of this scenario are:
\- in many cases the overlay by the macro network exists (except in the case
where home cells are deployed for reasons of coverage extension);
\- the users are aware of (or even configure) the switch-off/on times; and
\- the number of UEs potentially affected by the switch-off of one single home
cell is very small, compared to a macro cell.
For the enterprise scenario, the second and third bullets may not apply.
### 5.2.2 Key issue: Incidental synchronization of H(e)NB switch-off/switch-on
For marketing reasons and potentially also due to stronger legal requirements
for energy saving, the support of the simplest energy saving feature, namely
switch-off during periods of expected inactivity (e.g. according to a daily or
weekly schedule), may become a standard feature. In this case configuration
settings for the switch-off and switch-on times need to be provided.
Potentially there could be sources of incidental, unwanted synchronization,
e.g.:
\- factory pre-settings for the energy saving mode, e.g. 24:00 for switch-off
and 06:00 for switch-on, which may not be changed by a majority of users;
\- even if configuration settings are changed by users, there may be habits to
set them to almost identical times. As an example, many people know that they
go to sleep immediately after their favourite TV broadcast and may set the
switch-off time accordingly; or
\- another problematic case would be if an implementation allowed
configuration settings to be selected only from a few predefined times (e.g.
only half-hourly).
In all the above cases mass events regarding re-selection of cells and,
depending on the structure of tracking areas, NAS signalling may result.
## 5.3 Switch-off/on of WLAN access networks in 3GPP I-WLAN
### 5.3.1 General description
Switching off a WLAN access network has the consequence that it will no longer
be detected in active or passive scanning (see subclause 4.3.1 in 3GPP TS
24.234 [4]), therefore it would drop out as a candidate for 3GPP I-WLAN
initial procedures. On the other hand, if switch-off for energy saving is
foreseen at all, detecting an active SSID in scanning does not guarantee that
it will remain in operation. If a SSID is deactivated while the UE is
connected to it, this produces for the UE essentially the same effect as if
the UE lost coverage by movement; however, in the network the difference is
that WLAN actions, e.g. the WLAN initiated disconnection procedure as defined
in subclause 7.5 of 3GPP TS 23.234 [3], can no longer be performed. If I-WLAN
coverage for the UE remains (i.e. it is an intra-RAT energy saving case),
according to 3GPP TS 24.234 [4] both the WLAN UE 3GPP I-WLAN re-selection
procedure and the WLAN UE PLMN re-selection procedures have to be performed.
For access network selection with 3GPP I-WLAN some configuration data in the
UE are foreseen (see subclause 5.1 of 3GPP TS 24.234 [4]): \"User Controlled
WLAN Specific Identifier list\" and \"Operator Controlled WLAN Specific
Identifier list\", both including a priority for selection. These lists have
currently a static character.
NOTE: the analysis of activation status of WLAN access networks inter-
connected to EPC via ePDG is covered in subclause 5.4.
### 5.3.2 Key issue: Latency associated with WLAN access network re-selection
after switch-off (WLAN 3GPP IP access)
A compact view of what happens (for one UE) when a WLAN access network is
switched-off is illustrated in figure 5.3.2-1 (non-roaming case; for
simplicity WAG is not shown, and it is assumed that the same PDG can be
reached).
Figure 5.3.2-1: Compact view of procedures after switch-off of WLAN access
network in 3GPP I-WLAN
Taking into account the number of signalling steps (e.g. counted from figure 4
and figure 7A in 3GPP TS 33.234 [5]) it becomes apparent that current
procedures are not optimal for switch-off of a WLAN access network; the
latency associated with the dashed box in figure 5.3.2-1 likely degrades the
user experience.
### 5.3.3 Key issue: Mass effect resulting from WLAN access network re-
selection after switch-off
WLANs can be considered a means to enhance capacity for mobile users in
hotspots. If their switch-off is foreseen, the resulting mass effect has to be
analysed; this can also be derived from figure 5.3.2-1, differentiating
between procedures local to every UE and procedural parts running on the same
network elements for the affected mass of UEs.
As an example case, the closing of a WLAN hot spot can be imagined: I-WLAN
connectivity for e.g. \~100 users was provided via a WLAN access network 1, it
is turned off and users have to be accomodated by alternative WLAN(s).
Analysing figure 5.3.2-1 regarding mass events in the network, the following
is noticed:
Procedure A: local action per UE, therefore no mass event;
Procedure B: mass event on PDG, 3GPP AAA server / HSS;
Procedure C: mass event in WLAN access network 2;
Procedure D: mass event in WLAN access network 2 and 3GPP AAA server / HSS;
and
Procedure E: mass event in WLAN access network 2, 3GPP AAA server / HSS and
PDG.
NOTE: for an estimation of the scale of the mass effect it has to be taken
into account that procedure D is optional and procedure E is only performed
for WLAN 3GPP IP access.
Every mass event effectively consists of a peak in signalling. Further
observations and assumptions can be made:
\- (over)load in one network entity may lead to the broadening of the
signalling peak in other nodes due to delay and queing; e.g. for procedure D,
(over)load in the WLAN access network 2 leads to broadening of the signalling
peak in 3GPP AAA server / HSS and PDG;
\- load resulting from procedure B and procedure D adds up in 3GPP server /
HSS, load resulting from procedure B and procedure E adds up in PDG;
\- if there is a multiplicity of alternative WLANs or PDGs, the load problem
is reduced by this factor for them. But as a consequence, the above mentioned
broadening of peak signalling may be reduced, or may not happen at all, for
the other nodes; and
\- even if all load can be accomodated easily by the WLAN access network(s),
there is one danger: if e.g. due to identical closing times of hotspot venues
the switch-off of many WLAN access networks happens at approximately the same
time, this is a drastic stress scenario for the backend 3GPP I-WLAN related
infrastructure (3GPP AAA server / HSS and PDG).
## 5.4 Switch-off/on of non-3GPP access networks
### 5.4.1 General description
The switch-off of a non-3GPP radio access can occur on a varying scale, from a
single access point to a whole metro area network or a country-wide set of
hotspots. As indicated in table 4.1, with current 3GPP specifications it can
be handled as a (non-optimized) handover on IP layer. Handover procedures in
3GPP TS 23.402 [16] do not specify details of the trigger for handover
initiation, but discovery of the availability of a target radio access is the
prerequisite. Two cases exist:
1\. If the non-availability of a non-3GPP radio access (due to switch-off) can
be known sufficiently well in advance, then this can be used as a trigger and
timely handovers are possible.
2\. Another case is constituted when the UE is not aware of the imminent
switch-off and just looses radio coverage of its currently selected RAT and
access network. With current 3GPP specifications the UE behaviour is left
implementation specific (only network selection and re-selection upon switch-
on of the UE and recovery from lack of coverage, but not upon detection of
lack of coverage is specified). This affects only the initial step of the
handover procedure (trigger function, containing access network selection),
the rest remains unchanged. Still, the likely result is added latency and thus
a less seamless handover.
### 5.4.2 Key issue: Degradation of service due to switch-off of non-3GPP
access networks
NOTE: the terms \"planned\" / \"unplanned\" handover are not formally defined
in 3GPP and used here for the sake of concise description.
Non-3GPP accesses have been integrated into EPS with the aim to provide
service continuity across accesses (currently by virtue of non-optimized, IP
based handovers) and as seamless as possible. In figure 5.4.2-1 the general
sequence of such a handover from non-3GPP access to E-UTRAN access is
sketched, as deduced from clause 8 of 3GPP TS 23.402 [16]. The assumption of a
\"planned\" handover is taken, i.e. that the procedure for establishing
connectivity via the 3GPP access can essentially be run in parallel to the
established connection via the non-3GPP access.
Figure 5.4.2-1: Compact view of procedures in (planned) handover from non-3GPP
access to 3GPP access
When a switch-off of a non-3GPP access occurs, then without any further means
for mitigation, the handover procedure can only be initiated after the UE has
detected the loss of the non-3GPP access and becomes therefore unplanned.
Figure 5.4.2-2: Compact view of procedures in (unplanned) handover from
non-3GPP to 3GPP access
As a consequence, the issue of service degradation will always occur, even for
UEs which would support the planned handover. The gap in connectivity may
become even larger in case of multiple PDN connectivity.
## 5.5 Power adaptation for 3GPP macro cells
### 5.5.1 General description
NOTE: This subclause is intended as illustration and baseline for CT1's
analysis. It does not mandate anything for RAN groups' work; in case of
conflict between this and RAN workgroups' description the latter takes
precedence.
Power adaptation of capacity enhancing cells can be utilized for energy saving
in the case of overlaid cell coverage, as shown in figure 5.5.1-1. Here a case
is shown where the target cell remains in operation, but with reduced power,
thus reduced coverage; another case could be if the power for the target cell
is reduced to a minimum, so that subsequently it can be switched off without
any further impact on UEs (as they then will have re-selected other cells).
Obviously the process can be performed slowly enough not to create a similar
issue as described in subclause 5.1.5.
Figure 5.5.1-1: Power adaption for capacity enhancing cells in 3GPP macro
network, due to energy saving (left: normal mode, right: energy saving mode)
Power adaptation of cells allows an overall power saving even in the case of
non-overlaid cell coverage. This use case is described in more detail in annex
A of 3GPP TS 32.551 [6], and the adaptation process is depicted in figure
5.5.1-2.
Figure 5.5.1-2: Power adaption for non-overlaid cells in 3GPP macro network,
due to energy saving of one cell (left: normal mode, right: energy saving
mode)
Again, target cells for energy saving decrease their power until their
coverage has become sufficiently small, so that subsequently they can be
switched off. Neighbouring cells correspondingly increase their power and
coverage and thus fill the area.
### 5.5.2 Key issue: Coverage boundaries
NOTE 1: This subclause does not mandate anything for RAN groups' work; in case
of conflict between this and RAN workgroups' description the latter takes
precedence.
Although the principle of power adaptation of macro cells as described in
subclause 5.5.1 avoids coverage holes in the (overall, outdoor) macro cell
coverage itself, there is no co-operation with non-3GPP accesses. It thus
seems unlikely that it can avoid additional dynamics of the coverage
boundaries on the smaller scale e.g. towards indoor areas. Especially for
these areas alternatives, e.g. non-3GPP accesses, are foreseen.
Editor\'s note: details of coverage dynamics with power adaptation are out of
scope here and should be characterized by RAN groups.
If the movement of macro cell coverage boundary, due to power adaptation of a
macro cell for energy saving purpose, is such that it reduces the overlap with
the indoor radio access, it potentially forces some/more UEs to use the
alternative radio access (by inter-RAT handovers). Figure 5.5.2-1 illustrates
the principle of this possible change in coverage boundaries due to power
adaptation. (Note that in the worst case, if the coverage overlap is totally
eliminated, it could lead to lack of service for UEs; this could happen if the
non-3GPP access dimensioning is done for the macro cell configuration without
energy saving.)
Figure 5.5.2-1: Illustration of coverage boundaries between macro and indoor
coverage with and without power adaptation of macro cells
NOTE 2: For some UEs a reduced overlap of coverage can also have a positive
side-effect (reduced toggling between accesses).
The above described effect from UE to network signalling per single power
adaptation action is expected to be small, due to the limited amount of
affected UEs and spreading out over time. However, if aggregation occurs over
a larger area of the network within a short time, the issue like described in
subclause 5.6.1 \"Key issue: Increased ANDSF load\" will arise.
Additionally (independent of aggregation), for I-WLAN as the chosen
alternative access, an analogous effect as described in subclause 5.3.2 \"Key
issue: Latency associated with WLAN access network re-selection after switch-
off (WLAN 3GPP IP access)\" will apply for affected UEs.
NOTE 3: The combination of switch off of macro cell and subsequent (forced)
WLAN access network selection has not been captured as a separate scenario,
due to the assumption that any energy saving mechanism in 3GPP access will
avoid coverage holes.
## 5.6 Common issues
### 5.6.1 Key issue: Increased ANDSF load
ANDSF can be interrogated by a UE for delivery of access network discovery
information for non-3GPP accesses at any time after a secure connection has
been set up between these two entities. The triggers for such queries are not
specified.
There are potential relations between switch-off of RATs and UE-ANDSF
communication, which could act as triggers for ANDSF interrogation:
1) Update of location information due to switch-off of radio equipment for
inter-RAT energy saving:
> If a RAT is no longer visible to a UE due to switch-off (e.g. E-UTRAN
> switched off), any previously delivered location information associated with
> this RAT parameter delivered to the ANDSF is no longer useful. Consequently,
> the UE would most likely try to update ANDSF; although this is
> implementation specific behaviour, it is a reasonable and plausible one. For
> switch-on of a RAT a similar argument holds.
2) Refresh of ANDSF information, due to UE\'s pull policy:
> The UE could always want to have best options for its decision about usage
> of access networks; if a RAT is switched off and was before deemed a
> suitable candidate (e.g. for a particular type of applications), the UE is
> left with fewer alternatives and could want to have reconsidered this fact
> by ANDSF (again, this is implementation specific, but likely). If a RAT,
> previously switched off and thus not visible to the UE, is switched on and
> the UE detects it newly in radio scanning, the UE could expect that
> previously delivered access network discovery information is outdated and
> could equally try to refresh this data.
NOTE 1: How the UE infers that a RAT is switched off is implementation
dependent.
NOTE 2: As stated in 3GPP TS 24.302 [7], mechanisms to limit the frequency of
queries transmission from the UE to the ANDSF are implementation dependant.
Both cases listed above seem uncritical for switch-off/on of single cells, but
can become critical if many cells are switched off/on nearly at the same time.
Due to the centralized nature of ANDSF this mass effect can aggregate over
large areas.
### 5.6.2 Key issue: Signalling overload for multi-access and flow mobility
A UE can initiate, via the maintained access network, the removal of an access
network from a PDN connection, after it has detected the loss of the
associated radio coverage (see figure 5.5-1 of 3GPP TS 23.261 [17]). This
procedure is started by a DSMIPv6 Binding Update message sent from the UE to
the PDN GW/Home Agent and leads to subsequent further steps (Binding
Acknowledgement, release of resources including security association).
If the switch-off, i.e. loss of an access network, happens in a large area at
the same time, there is the danger that many UEs perform the DSMIPv6 update
signalling within a short time. This can potentially lead to overload and
delay in the control plane functionality of the PDN GW/Home Agent.
NOTE: When a radio access is switched off, IP packets in the user plane being
routed via the corresponding interface will likely be lost.
In the opposite direction of switching (radio access is switched on again),
the issue also exists in principle but seems less critical, because in this
case UEs likely will show larger variance with respect to the latency
regarding flow redistribution .The difference stems from the fact that UEs are
not forced to act immediately in order to receive continuous service for all
IP flows.
## 5.7 Additional analysis
### 5.7.1 Potential interaction between machine type communication and energy
saving
Some type of machine type communication, e.g. reading out meter/sensor values
or stock lists, is flexible with regards to the transaction time and is
therefore thought to be suitable for handling in off-peak, especially night,
hours. But this is also exactly the target time window for energy saving;
therefore potential interactions between these two features need to be
considered. In case of competing targets this needs to be resolved by
intelligent configuration and use of the corresponding mechanisms.
Especially for support of machine type communication (but not limited to it)
some extensions to NAS signalling procedures are defined in 3GPP TS 24.008
[21] and 3GPP TS 24.301 [12], as well as NAS protocol related configuration
parameters defined in 3GPP TS 24.368 [20]. They can influence UE to core
network signalling in a way relevant to energy saving, e.g.
\- use of MM and SM backoff timers; and
\- increase of periodic registration (LAU/RAU/TAU) timers.
Table 5.7.1-1 collects and analyzes potential interactions on NAS signalling
level between these features in more detail.
Table 5.7.1-1: Potential interactions between (a) extensions to NAS signalling
procedures and NAS protocol configuration parameters and (b) energy saving
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Mechanism | Description | NAS signalling | Comment | | (reference) | | aspect | | | | | relevant for | | | | | this study | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MM and SM | Under high | 1) An attach | Only relevant | | backoff timers | load | to the | for devices | | (see | conditions, | remaining | with multiple | | 3GPP TR | some MM and SM | active RAT | radio | | 23.888 [8], | requests | (due to | interfaces. | | s | (Attach, | inter-RAT | | | ubclause 6.22) | PDP/PDN | energy saving) | | | | Activation, | could fall | | | | Service | into this | | | | Request, ...) | handling and | | | | might be | experience | | | | rejected, in | delay. | | | | which case the | | | | | request is | | | | | repeated at a | | | | | later time. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 2) Peaks in | Relevant if | | | | NAS signalling | signalling | | | | become spread | peaks are | | | | out over time; | scheduled | | | | as a | close to the | | | | consequence, | intended | | | | the net time | target time | | | | window for | for energy | | | | energy saving | saving. | | | | could become | | | | | smaller. | It is assumed | | | | | that the time | | | | | window for | | | | | energy saving | | | | | is determined | | | | | (also) based | | | | | on signalling | | | | | traffic. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Optimized | Possibility of | 1) Long | Can allow a | | periodic | longer | enough | peaceful | | registration | periodic | periodic | coexistence of | | timer (see | registration | registration | both features, | | 3GPP TR | timers | timer values, | but requires | | 23.888 [8], | (defined | and their | careful, | | s | locally at | reset close | coordinated | | ubclause 6.20) | MME/SGSN or by | enough to | configuration. | | | subscription), | start of | | | | so that the | energy saving | | | | amount of | time window | | | | registration | could avoid | | | | update | signalling | | | | signalling is | traffic within | | | | minimized. | this time. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 2) Location | | | | | registrations | | | | | induced by | | | | | energy saving | | | | | counteract the | | | | | original | | | | | optimization | | | | | principle. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
An additional aspect to be considered is that a wide range of devices for the
use cases described above is expected to be very price sensitive, thus they
will likely support only one radio interface; this reduces the options for
energy saving (no inter-RAT energy saving possible).
# 6 Potential optimizations and enhancements in procedures
## 6.1 Solution \"Optimized configuration of tracking areas and TAI lists\"
### 6.1.1 Description
This solution addresses key issues \"Tracking Area Update signalling resulting
from switch-off/on of macro cells\" described in subclause 5.1.5 and \"Idle
mode UEs with emergency bearer services\" as described in subclause 5.1.7.
The solution consists in overall configuration
1) of TAs in the network; or
2) TAI lists to be assigned to UEs,
in such a way that cells targeted for switch off are preferably avoided on
boundaries of TAs or boundaries of the areas defined by TAI lists,
respectively. The first variant means static configuration, while the second
one allows for more dynamic handling (by MME).
NOTE 1: Solution variant 1) can be extrapolated in a straightforward manner to
LA and RA configurations. Solution variant 2) can be applied only to
TAs/E-UTRAN.
NOTE 2: Even if the TA/TAI list configuration fulfills the above criterion
only partially, this reduces the severity of the related issues
proportionally.
### 6.1.2 Benefits
No standardization effort is required for this solution.
### 6.1.3 Limitations
No full flexibility is possible, e.g. for deployment of capacity enhancing
cells under changing conditions.
The effort for guaranteeing the optimized configuration increases with the
number of affected cells and thus can become large if energy saving is applied
massively (e.g. network wide).
### 6.1.4 Impacts on 3GPP Specifications
None.
## 6.2 Solution \"Adding time dependence to configuration settings in MOs\"
### 6.2.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue \"Cross layer aspects" as described in
subsection 5.1.6, in particular for inter-RAT energy saving.
The solution consists in adding time parameters to the following configuration
parameters in OMA DM MOs, related to voice calls and multimedia sessions and
defined in 3GPP TS 24.167 [10] and 3GPP TS 24.216 [11]:
3GPP TS 24.167: Voice_Domain_Preference_E_UTRAN,
Voice_Domain_Preference_UTRAN.
3GPP TS 24.216: Preferred_domain
The time information is to be taken into account by UEs when initiating
communication, in order to avoid the need for (possibly synchronized) domain
transfer at the switch-off time of a RAT. As an example, if E-UTRAN is to be
switched off at 24:00 h, the voice domain preference could be set to \"CS
Voice only\" for a time window which starts sufficiently long before the
target time for switch-off, e.g. to 23:40 h. The safety margin (here 20
minutes) should be chosen based on average call/session durations, so that
most of the calls/sessions can be expected to end before the target switch-off
time. This is illustrated in figure 6.2.1-1.
NOTE: Introducing time dependence to MOs does not imply that MO data has to be
updated more often than before or close to points in time where the settings
change.
Figure 6.2.1-1: Example behaviour of UEs with/without time dependent operator
preferences for voice domain selection
Some configuration settings currently do not differentiate between RATs, but
only between CS and PS domains, and so the control per RAT is not directly
possible. However, a preference for CS implicitly excludes E-UTRAN.
Additionally, these configuration settings could be made fully RAT specific.
### 6.2.2 Benefits
The solution reduces the amount of signalling for domain transfer (which is
also time critical) both for the network and affected UEs, if these need to
originate communication just before a RAT is switched off for the purpose of
inter-RAT energy saving. Also, a potential but unnecessary deterioration of
service experience can be avoided in a majority of cases.
### 6.2.3 Limitations
These operator preferences are specific for selected services (voice calls and
multimedia sessions). These settings are currently not per PLMN; thus either a
differentiation per PLMN has to be introduced, or the described time
dependence is to be limited to the HPLMN.
This solutions requires changes in UEs, and therefore the benefits do not
apply for legacy UEs.
No full traffic steering is achievable with preferences only.
A certain fraction of calls with longer duration than the time margin
configured before switch-off of the RAT will occur; for these the above
mentioned benefit does not apply.
### 6.2.4 Impacts on 3GPP Specifications
Additions in 3GPP TS 24.167 [10] and 3GPP TS 24.216 [11], and enhancements in
specifications of corresponding procedures (3GPP TS 24.301 [12] and 3GPP TS
24.237 [13]).
## 6.3 Solution \"Dynamic radio access network sharing\"
### 6.3.1 Description
This solution addresses all key issues listed in subclause 5.1.
Network Sharing with a Multi-Operator Core Network (MOCN), as defined in 3GPP
TS 23.251 [14], is an established means to leverage reduced operator\'s
expense for radio access infrastructure. Even though currently it is assumed
to be firmly and permanently configured, it can also be used in a more
dynamical form, i.e. the radio access can be shared between two or several
operators only during off-peak hours for the purpose of energy saving. To this
end, no normative modifications are required in 3GPP specifications. In
particular, no impacts on UE functionality are foreseen, but it needs to be
recognized that the solution works more efficiently for network sharing
supporting UEs (see below).
The solution scheme is shown in figure 6.3.1-1 for the example of two
operators switching off their RANs and also sharing them on alternate days.
Consequently they gain alternately the complete saving of energy of radio
nodes for the switch off period. In more detail, in a period when the RAN of
PLMN A is switched off, the configuration of PLMN B is changed to enable RAN
sharing with PLMN A; after the RAN of PLMN A has been switched on again, the
configuration of .PLMN B is changed back to normal, to avoid the RAN sharing.
As the switch-off of the RAN and the configuration change cannot be assumed to
be perfectly synchronized, a small time safety margin needs to be applied.
Figure 6.3.1-1: Dynamic network sharing scheme for energy saving (two
operators)
According to TS 23.251 [14], during the time of sharing, radio nodes broadcast
PLMN information for both PLMNs. Subsequently the behaviour differs for
supporting and non-supporting UEs:
\- supporting UEs (see subclause 7.1.3 in 3GPP TS 23.251 [14]): they are able
to decode the multiple PLMN information in the system broadcast information
and select the PLMN on their own. The RPLMN should again be broadcast in the
shared state, so no additional PLMN selection is triggered.
\- non-supporting UEs (see subclause 7.1.4 in 3GPP TS 23.251 [14]): these are
not able to decode the multiple PLMN information and consequently cannot
control network selection. Instead, the RAN and core network perform this task
by initial routing and potential re-direction. The impact on NAS signalling is
that for these UEs additional registration updates and Identity
Request/Response and Authentication dialogues can result.
### 6.3.2 Benefits
This solution allows to save the energy consumption of the RAN of at least one
operator completely during off-peak time.
### 6.3.3 Limitations
This solution requires tight coordination between participating operators.
National roaming (at least for non-supporting UEs during sharing period) must
be allowed, and scheduling of network sharing for one PLMN must always match
correctly the switch off times of the other PLMN(s).
The additional NAS signalling for non-supporting UEs has to be taken into
account properly; e.g. it could be necessary to spread out the switch-off time
sufficiently over time and areas.
The dynamic change of network configuration related to RAN sharing could
require enhancements of current OAM procedures and data.
NOTE: the OAM aspects need to be considered by SA5 WG.
### 6.3.4 Impacts on 3GPP Specifications
No impacts of normative character are needed. It could be worth to include
clarifications for this use case, e.g. in 3GPP TS 23.401 [15].
## 6.4 Solution \"Network based handling for multi-access and flow mobility\"
### 6.4.1 Description
This solution addresses the key issue \"Signalling overload for multi access
and flow mobility\" as described in subclause 5.6.2.
In this solution the Home Agent functionality in the PDN GW is enhanced by
some knowledge about availability of access networks. The already existing
procedure \"network initiated removal of an access network from a PDN
connection\" as specified in subclause 5.9 of 3GPP TS 24.303 [18] is used to
redistribute the IP flows via the access networks remaining operational, in a
smooth manner and early enough. To this end, the Binding Revocation Indication
(BRI) messages sent to all affected UEs could be spread out over time, while
still allowing completion of the process before the access network is switched
off. This is illustrated in figure 6.4.1-1.
Figure 6.4.1-1: Overall scheme of signalling with network based handling for
multi access and flow mobility
In the upper part of figure 6.4.1-1 the principal sequence of steps in
signalling between the UE and Home Agent is shown for one UE. In the lower
part the aggregated behavior, including desired safety margin before switch-
off and expectable latency after switch-on is sketched. Because the
redistribution of IP flows after switch-on is purely UE dependent, the
signalling will be more irregular.
No further assumptions can be made regarding how the Home Agent acquires its
knowledge about the scheduled downtimes of access networks, as this is out of
scope of this study.
### 6.4.2 Benefits
Potential overload on PDN GW/Home Agent can be avoided. IP flows can be moved
from access networks subject to switch-off to access networks remaining
operational; this reduces packet loss and thus improves user experience.
### 6.4.3 Limitations
How the HA acquires knowledge about downtime of access networks is left
unspecified. Although static provisioning of data seems possible for small
scale deployments, a fully standardized solution for this part would require
additional specification effort (in CT4\'s or SA5\'s domain of work).
### 6.4.4 Impacts on 3GPP Specifications
No normative impacts foreseen; however, it could be worthwhile to document
this use case in an informative manner.
## 6.5 Solution \"Activation times in ANDSF data\"
### 6.5.1 Description
#### 6.5.1.1 Variant 1
This variant of the solution consists in enhancing access network discovery
information data, stored and provided by ANDSF for non-3GPP access networks,
with activation status information (activation time windows). If lacking
(default) it means that these access networks are assumed to be always active.
The information on activation time can be taken into account for UEs decisions
on:
\- access network (re-)selection: it can be avoided that the UE tries to
select an access network which actually is not switched on. Although the UE
would detect this situation by access specific means (e.g. probing or
scanning) it is more efficient to know it in advance;
\- (non-optimized) handover: if the UE is using an access network known to be
switched off soon, it can initiate the handover early enough, so that the
whole procedure can be completed before the current radio is lost;
\- flow re-distribution: if the UE is using an access network known to be
switched off soon, it can initiate the flow-redistribution early enough, so
that the whole procedure can be completed before the current radio is lost;
and
\- ANDSF interrogation: the UE, when probing or scanning for a radio access,
will not detect a mismatch with ANDSF data. Therefore a potential cause for
ANDSF interrogation is avoided.
#### 6.5.1.2 Variant 2
In this variant the activation times of access networks are considered
implicitly with all relevant ISMP and ISRP rules. Evaluating these enhanced
policy rules will result in optimized UE behavior equivalent to the one
described above for variant 1.
### 6.5.2 Benefits
This solution helps to solve the key issue \"Increased ANDSF load\" described
in subclause 5.6.1. The additionally provided information avoids that the UE,
due to finding a persistent mismatch between data received from ANDSF and the
real availability of access networks, would deem the data being outdated and
try to refresh it from ANDSF.
This solution can also mitigate key issues \"Latency associated with WLAN
access network re-selection after switch-off (WLAN 3GPP IP access)\" described
in subclause 5.3.2 and \"Mass effect resulting from WLAN access network re-
selection after switch-off \" described in subclause 5.3.3, as it allows UEs
to re-select WLAN access network pro-actively.
This solution alleviates key issue \"Degradation of service due to switch-off
of non-3GPP access networks\" described in subclause 5.4.2, due to the fact
that handovers can be initiated timely enough.
This solution mitigates key issue \"Signalling overload for multi-access and
flow mobility\" as described in subclause 5.6.2, because flow-redistribution
can be done timely enough (similar to the solution described in subclause 6.4,
but initiated by the UE instead of the Home Agent).
### 6.5.3 Limitations
There can be no guarantee that the activation times announced explicitly or
considered implicitly in policy rules by ANDSF match perfectly the reality;
e.g. it could happen that a radio access is still switched off, despite being
announced as active, and vice versa.
Announcing activation times could lead advanced users to wait and start
requesting their services immediately after the switch-on of a particular
radio access; this behavior should be considered by including sufficient
margins with activation times.
Dynamic handling e.g. for taking into account current load cannot be achieved
by this solution.
### 6.5.4 Impacts on 3GPP Specifications
For variant 1, the following 3GPP specifications require enhancements for this
solution:
\- 3GPP TS 23.402 and potentially 3GPP TS 23.261: enhancement in functional
description (stage 2);
\- 3GPP TS 24.312: additional information elements defining the activation
time windows of e.g. GERAN_CI, UTRAN_CI, EUTRA_CI, Sector-ID, BS-ID, HESSID,
SSID, BSSID; and
\- 3GPP TS 24.302: reflect the usage of additional information (activation
time windows) in procedural descriptions.
For variant 2 there is no impact on 3GPP specifications.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 General overview of key issues and solutions
Table 7.1-1 lists the key issues and how they are covered by documented
solutions.
Table 7.1-1: Key issues and solutions
* * *
Sub-clause Energy saving scenario / Key issue Solution (sub-clause) Comment
**5.1** **Switch-off/on of Macro cells**  
5.1.5 Registration signalling resulting from switch-off/on of macro cells 6.1,
6.3  
5.1.6 Cross layer aspects 6.1, 6.2, 6.3  
5.1.7 Idle mode **UEs with emergency bearer services** 6.3  
5.1.8 impact of inter-RAT energy saving on signalling over SGs 6.3  
**5.2** **Switch-off/on of home cells**  
5.2.2 Incidental synchronization of H(e)NB switch-off/switch-on Solution(s)
potentially by other WGs or vendors **5.3** **Switch-off/on of I-WLAN**  
5.3.2 Latency associated with WLAN access network re-selection after switch-
off (WLAN 3GPP IP access) 6.5  
5.3.3 Mass effect resulting from WLAN access network re-selection after
switch-off 6.5  
**5.4** **Switch-off/on of non-3GPP accesses**  
5.4.2 Degradation of service due to switch-off of non-3GPP access networks 6.5  
**5.5** **Power adaptation for 3GPP macro cells**  
5.5.2 Coverage boundaries Dependence on more details from RAN WGs **5.6**
**Common issues**  
5.6.1 Increased ANDSF load 6.5  
5.6.2 Impacts for multi-access and flow mobility 6.4, 6.5
* * *
## 7.2 Detailed conclusions
The following conclusions are drawn:
\- Several key issues (in particular those in subclauses 5.1.5, 5.1.8, 5.2.2,
5.3.3, 5.6.1 and 5.6.2) are related to potential widescale synchronized UE
behaviour. As a general strategy, and independent of individual solutions,
these issues can be mitigated by spreading out switching (on/off) times
sufficiently.
\- Several possible solutions have been defined which do not have any impact
on the 3GPP specifications (those described in subclause 6.1, 6.3, 6.4 and
partially 6.5 [variant 2]), and as an implementation option they could be
exploited as of today.
\- For energy saving in 3GPP access, subclauses 6.1 and 6.3 provide some
proposed solutions which relate also to functionalities in the RAN. Taking
into account the fact that the solution described in subclause 6.1 is an
intra-operator one, an operator can consider this solution for deployment in
the first place. In addition, if an operator has to meet high targets for
energy saving and tight coordination including network sharing with other
operator(s) is feasible, s/he could consider the solution described in
subclause 6.3.
\- For energy saving in non-3GPP access, the solution described in subclause
6.5 solves several key issues. However as variant 1 would introduce new
normative requirements onto 3GPP entities while variant 2 does not, it seems
logical to propose, in the initial phase of implementing an energy saving
strategy, variant 2 as a way forward.
#