# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics of E-UTRA,
UTRA and GSM/EDGE Multi-Standard Radio (MSR) Base Station (BS). Requirements
for multi-RAT and single-RAT operation of MSR BS are covered in the present
document. The requirements in the present document for E-UTRA and UTRA single-
RAT operation of MSR BS are also applicable to E-UTRA and UTRA multi-carrier
capable single-RAT BS. Requirements for GSM BS that are only single-RAT
capable in all supported operating bands are not covered.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.104, Technical Specification, "3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; Base Station (BS)
radio transmission and reception (FDD)"
[3] 3GPP TS 25.105. Technical Specification, "3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; Base Station (BS)
radio transmission and reception (TDD)"
[4] 3GPP TS 36.104, Technical Specification, "3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception"
[5] 3GPP TS 45.005, Technical Specification, "3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network; Radio
transmission and reception"
[6] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329-10, "Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain".
[7] 3GPP TR 25.942, "Technical Report 3rd Generation Partnership Project;
Technical Specification Group Radio Access Networks; Radio Frequency (RF)
system scenarios"
[8] "Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)", Federal
Communications Commission.
[9] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
[10] 3GPP TS 37.141, Technical Specification, "3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; E-UTRA, UTRA and
GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR) Base Station (BS) conformance testing"
[11] IEC 60721-3-3: \"Classification of environmental conditions - Part 3-3:
Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Stationary use at weather protected locations\".
[12] IEC 60721-3-4: \"Classification of environmental conditions - Part 3:
Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
[13] ETSI EN 300 019-1-3, _European Standard (Telecommunications series)_ ,
"Environmental Engineering (EE); Environmental conditions and environmental
tests for telecommunications equipment; Part 1-3: Classification of
environmental conditions; Stationary use at weather protected locations"
[14] ETSI EN 300 019-1-4, _European Standard (Telecommunications series)_ ,
"Environmental Engineering (EE); Environmental conditions and environmental
tests for telecommunications equipment; Part 1-4: Classification of
environmental conditions; Stationary use at non-weather protected locations".
> [15] CEPT ECC Decision (13)03, \"The harmonised use of the frequency band
> 1452-1492 MHz for Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks Supplemental Downlink
> (MFCN SDL)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Band category:** group of operating bands for which the same MSR scenarios
apply
**Base Station RF Bandwidth:** bandwidth in which a base station transmits
and/or receives single or multiple carrier(s) and/or RATs simultaneously
within a supported operating band
NOTE: In single carrier operation, the Base Station RF Bandwidth is equal to
the channel bandwidth.
**Base Station RF Bandwidth edge:** frequency of one of the edges of the Base
Station RF Bandwidth
**Carrier: modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE physical
channels**
**Carrier aggregation: aggregation of two or more E-UTRA component carriers in
order to support wider transmission bandwidths**
**Carrier aggregation band:** set of one or more operating bands across which
multiple E-UTRA carriers are aggregated with a specific set of technical
requirements.
NOTE: Carrier aggregation band(s) for an E-UTRA BS is declared by the
manufacturer according to the designations in Tables 5.5-2 to 5.5-4 of TS
36.104 [4]
**Channel bandwidth:** RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA, UTRA or
GSM/EDGE RF carrier with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink
or downlink of a cell.
NOTE: The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Contiguous carriers:** set of two or more carriers configured in a spectrum
block where there are no RF requirements based on co-existence for un-
coordinated operation within the spectrum block.
**Carrier power:** power at the antenna connector in the channel bandwidth of
the carrier averaged over at least one subframe for E-UTRA, at least one slot
for UTRA and the useful part of the burst for GSM/EDGE.
**Configured carrier power:** target maximum power for a specific carrier for
the operating mode set in the base station
**Contiguous spectrum:** spectrum consisting of a contiguous block of spectrum
with no sub-block gap(s).
**Downlink operating band:** part of the operating band designated for
downlink.
**Highest Carrier:** carrier with the highest carrier centre frequency
transmitted/received in the specified operating band(s).
**Inter RF Bandwidth gap** : frequency gap between two consecutive Base
Station RF Bandwidths that are placed within two supported operating bands.
**Inter-band carrier aggregation: carrier aggregation of E-UTRA component
carriers in different operating bands.**
NOTE: Carriers aggregated in each band can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
**Inter-band gap:** The frequency gap between two supported consecutive
operating bands.
**Intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation:** contiguous E-UTRA carriers
aggregated in the same operating band.
**Intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation:** non-contiguous E-UTRA
carriers aggregated in the same operating band.
**Lowest Carrier:** carrier with the lowest carrier centre frequency
transmitted/received in the specified operating band(s).
**Lower Base Station RF Bandwidth edge:** frequency of the lower edge of the
Base Station RF bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter
and receiver requirements**.**
**Lower sub-block edge:** frequency at the lower edge of one sub-block.
NOTE: It is used as a frequency reference point for both transmitter and
receiver requirements.
**Maximum Base Station RF Bandwidth:** maximum RF bandwidth supported by a BS
within each supported operating band.
NOTE: The maximum Base Station RF Bandwidth for BS configured for contiguous
and non-contiguous operation within each supported operating band is declared
separately.
**Maximum carrier output power:** carrier power **available at the antenna
connector for a specified reference condition.**
**Maximum RAT output power:** sum of the power of all carriers of the same RAT
**available at the antenna connector for a specified reference condition.**
**Maximum throughput: maximum achievable throughput for a reference
measurement channel.**
**Maximum total output power:** sum of the power of all carriers **available
at the antenna connector for a specified reference condition.**
**MB-MSR Base Station: MSR Base Station characterized by the ability of its
transmitter and/or receiver to process two or more carriers in common active
RF components simultaneously, where at least one carrier is configured at a
different** non-overlapping **operating band than the other carrier(s).**
**Measurement bandwidth** : RF bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**MSR Base station:** base station characterized by the ability of its
receiver and transmitter to process two or more carriers in common active RF
components simultaneously in a declared Base Station RF Bandwidth, where at
least one carrier is of a different RAT than the other carrier(s).
**Multi-band transmitter** : transmitter characterized by the ability to
process two or more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously,
where at least one carrier is configured at a different non-overlapping
operating band than the other carrier(s).
**Multi-band receiver** : receiver characterized by the ability to process two
or more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously, where at least
one carrier is configured at a different non-overlapping operating band than
the other carrier(s).
**Non-contiguous spectrum:** spectrum consisting of two or more sub-blocks
separated by sub-block gap(s).
**Occupied bandwidth:** width of a frequency band such that, below the lower
and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each equal
to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean power of a given emission.
**Operating band:** frequency range in which E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE operates
(paired or unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of technical
requirements**.**
NOTE: The operating band(s) for a BS is declared by the manufacturer.
**Radio Bandwidth:** **frequency difference between the upper edge of the
highest used carrier and the lower edge of the lowest used carrier.**
**Rated total output power:** The total power level that the manufacturer has
declared to be available at the antenna connector.
**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power of a UTRA carrier as measured
through a root raised cosine filter with roll-off factor α and a bandwidth
equal to the chip rate of the radio access mode.
NOTE: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated UTRA signal is
0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal
**Single-RAT operation:** operation of a base station in an operating band
with only one RAT configured in that operating band.
**Sub-block:** one contiguous allocated block of spectrum for use by the same
base station.
NOTE: There may be multiple instances of sub-blocks within a Base Station RF
Bandwidth.
**Sub-block bandwidth:** RF bandwidth of one sub-block.
**Sub-block gap:** frequency gap between two consecutive sub-blocks within a
Base Station RF Bandwidth, where the RF requirements in the gap are based on
co-existence for un-coordinated operation.
**Synchronized operation: operation of TDD in two different systems, where no
simultaneous uplink and downlink occur.**
**Throughput: number of payload bits successfully received per second for a
reference measurement channel in a specified reference condition.**
**Transmission bandwidth:** RF bandwidth of an instantaneous E-UTRA
transmission from a UE or BS, measured in resource block units.
**Transmitter ON period: time period during which the BS transmitter is
transmitting data and/or reference symbols**
**Transmitter OFF period: time period during which the BS transmitter is not
allowed to transmit**
**Transmitter transient period: time period during which the transmitter is
changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa**
**Unsynchronized operation:** operation of TDD in two different systems, where
the conditions for synchronized operation are not met.
**Uplink operating band:** part of the operating band designated for uplink.
**Upper Base Station RF Bandwidth edge:** frequency of the upper edge of the
Base Station RF Bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter
and receiver requirements
**Upper sub-block edge:** frequency at the upper edge of one sub-block.
NOTE: It is used as a frequency reference point for both transmitter and
receiver requirements.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
β Percentage of the mean transmitted power emitted outside the occupied
bandwidth on the assigned channel
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth (for E-UTRA)
BW~Config~ Transmission bandwidth configuration (for E-UTRA), expressed in
MHz, where BW~Config~ = _N_ ~RB~ x 180 kHz in the uplink and BW~Config~ = 15
kHz + _N_ ~RB~ x 180 kHz in the downlink.
BW~RF~ Base Station RF Bandwidth, where BW~RF~ = F~BW\ RF,high~ -- F~BW\
RF,low~
BW~RF,max~ Maximum Base Station RF Bandwidth
DwPTS Downlink part of the special subframe (for E-UTRA TDD operation)
f Frequency
∆f Separation between the Base Station RF Bandwidth edge frequency and the
nominal -3dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
∆f~max~ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
F~C~ Carrier centre frequency
F~filter~ Filter centre frequency
f_offset Separation between the Base Station RF Bandwidth edge frequency and
the centre of the measuring filter
f_offset~max~ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the requirement
F~block,high~ Upper sub-block edge, where F~block,high~ = F~C,block,high~ +
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~block,low~ Lower sub-block edge, where F~block,low~ = F~C,block,low~ -
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~BW\ RF,high~ Upper Base Station RF Bandwidth edge, where F~BW\ RF,high~ =
F~C,high~ + F~offset,\ RAT~
F~BW\ RF,low~ Lower Base Station RF Bandwidth edge, where F~BW\ RF,low~ =
F~C,low~ - F~offset,\ RAT~
F~C\ band,\ high~ Center frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier
in a band.
F~C\ band,\ low~ Center frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier
in a band.
F~C,block,\ high~ Centre frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier
in a sub-block.
F~C,block,\ low~ Centre frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier
in a sub-block.
F~C,high~ Centre frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier.
F~C,low~ Centre frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier.
F~offset,\ RAT~ Frequency offset from the centre frequency of the _highest_
transmitted/received carrier to the _upper_ Base Station RF Bandwidth edge,
sub-block edge or Inter-RF Bandwidth edge, or from the centre frequency of the
_lowest_ transmitted/received to the _lower_ Base Station RF Bandwidth edge,
sub-block edge or Inter-RF Bandwidth edge for a specific RAT.
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
P~EM,N~ Declared emission level for channel N
P~EM,B32,ind~ Declared emission level in Band 32, ind=a, b, c, d, e
P~max~ Maximum total output power
P~max,RAT~ Maximum RAT output power
P~max,c~ Maximum carrier output power
P~Rated,c~ Rated carrier output power
P~REFSENS~ Reference Sensitivity power level
W~gap~ Sub-block gap or Inter RF Bandwidth gap size
Figure 3.2-1: Illustration of Base Station RF Bandwidth related symbols and
definitions for Multi-standard Radio.
Figure 3.2-2: Illustration of Base Station RF Bandwidth related symbols and
definitions for non-contiguous Multi-standard Radio.
Figure 3.2-3: Illustration of Radio Bandwidth related symbols and definitions
for Multi-band Multi-standard Radio
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
ARFCN Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BC Band Category
BER Bit Error Ratio
BS Base Station
BTS Base Transceiver Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
CACLR Cumulative Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
CP Cyclic prefix
CW Continuous Wave
DB-DC-HSDPA Dual Band Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSDPA Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSUPA Dual Cell HSUPA
DTT Digital Terrestrial Television
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GP Guard Period (for E-UTRA TDD operation)
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the ITU
LA Local Area
LNA Low Noise Amplifier
MB-MSR Multi-Band Multi-Standard Radio
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MR Medium Range
MS Mobile Station
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
PA Power Amplifier
PHS Personal Handyphone System
QPSK Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying
RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Resource Block (for E-UTRA)
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RS Reference Symbol
RX Receiver
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Transmitter
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UE User Equipment
UEM operating band Unwanted Emissions Mask
WA Wide Area
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relation between the MSR specification and the single-RAT
specifications
The requirements for MSR are in most parts specified in the present document,
while many requirements are also specified through normative references to the
respective single-RAT specifications in [2], [3], [4] and [5]. The resulting
set of requirements for an MSR BS can be divided into three types, depending
on their relation to the single-RAT specifications:
1\. **Generic MSR requirement:** A common generic requirement is specified in
the present document that applies for all RATs and for BS configured for both
multi-RAT and single-RAT operation. In some cases, there are additional
requirement(s) that apply only in some Band Category. There are no references
to the single-RAT specifications.
2\. **Generic MSR requirement, with additional single-RAT requirements:** A
common generic requirement is specified in the present document which applies
as in point 1. In addition some single RAT requirement(s) apply, included by
normative reference(s) to the single-RAT specification(s).
3\. **Single-RAT only requirements:** In this case, no common generic
requirement is defined. The existing single-RAT requirement applies for each
RAT, included by normative reference(s) to the single-RAT specification(s).
The applicability of each requirement is described in clause 5.
## 4.2 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification TS 37.141 [10] defines Test
Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each test.
The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in this
specification to create Test Requirements. For some requirements, including
regulatory requirements, the test tolerance is set to zero.
For MSR single-RAT requirements, the principle used to define the test
requirement remains from the existing specifications.
For both MSR single-RAT and multi-RAT requirements, the measurement results
returned by the Test System are compared - without any modification - against
the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk principle. The Shared Risk
principle is defined in ITU-R M.1545 [9].
## 4.3 Base station classes
The requirements in this specification apply to Wide Area Base Stations,
Medium Range Base Stations and Local Area Base Stations unless otherwise
stated.
Wide Area Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from Macro
Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equal to 70 dB. The Wide
Area Base Station class has the same requirements as the base station for
General Purpose application in Release 9 and 10.
Medium Range Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from
Micro Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 53 dB.
Local Area Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from Pico
Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equal to 45 dB.
For GSM/EDGE operation of an MSR BS, the requirements according to the
applicable multicarrier BTS class apply. The Wide Area BS, Medium Range BS and
Local Area BS in the present specification correspond to the Wide Area
multicarrier BTS, Medium Range multicarrier BTS and Local Area multicarrier
BTS respectively in the GSM/EDGE specifications. MSR requirements for multi-
RAT operation only apply for the highest GSM/EDGE static power step.
## 4.4 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements, or set by local and regional regulation as
mandatory requirements. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances that the requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
Table 4.4-1 lists all requirements in the present specification that may be
applied differently in different regions. There are additional single-RAT
regional requirements that may apply. These are referenced from the present
specification, but listed in the specification for the RATs concerned
[2][3][4][5].
Table 4.4-1: List of regional requirements
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments 4.5 Operating bands and Band Categories
Some bands may be applied regionally. 6.2.2 Base station output power These
requirements apply in Japan for an E-UTRA BS operating in band 34 and Band 41.
6.6.1.1 Mandatory requirements (spurious emissions) Category A limits are
mandatory for regions where Category A limits for spurious emissions, as
defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply. Category B limits are
mandatory for regions where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as
defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply. 6.6.1.3 Additional spurious
emissions requirements These requirements may be applied for the protection of
system operating in frequency ranges other than the MSR BS operating band.
6.6.1.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements In addition to the
requirements in subclauses 6.6.1.1, 6.6.1.2 and 6.6.1.3, the BS may have to
comply with the applicable emission limits established by FCC Title 47 [8],
when deployed in regions where those limits are applied, and under the
conditions declared by the manufacturer. 6.6.1.4 Co-location (spurious
emissions) These requirements may be applied for the protection of other BS
receivers when a BS operating in another frequency band is co-located with an
MSR BS. 6.6.2.4.1 Additional requirement (Operating band unwanted emissions)
In addition to the requirements in subclauses 6.6.2.1 and 6.6.2.2, the BS may
have to comply with the applicable emission limits established by FCC Title 47
[8], when deployed in regions where those limits are applied and under the
conditions declared by the manufacturer. 6.6.2.4.2 Unsynchronized operation
for BC3 (Operating band unwanted emissions) The requirements for
unsynchronized TDD co-existence may apply regionally. 6.6.2.4.3 Protection of
DTT (Operating band unwanted emissions) The requirements for protection of DTT
may apply regionally. 6.6.2.4.4 Co-existence with services in adjacent
frequency bands (Operating band unwanted emissions) This regional requirement
may be applied for the protection of systems operating in frequency bands
adjacent to band 1 as defined in clause 4.5, in geographic areas in which both
an adjacent band service and UTRA and/or E‑UTRA are deployed. 6.6.2.4.6
Additional requirements for band 41 (Operating band unwanted emissions) These
requirements may apply in certain regions as additional Operating band
unwanted emission limits. 6.6.2.4.7 Additional band 32 unwanted emissions
These requirements may apply in certain regions 6.6.3 Occupied bandwidth The
requirement may be applied regionally. There may also be regional requirements
to declare the Occupied bandwidth according to the definition. 6.7.4
Additional requirements These requirements may apply in certain regions. 7.5.2
Co-location requirement (blocking) These requirements may be applied for the
protection of the BS receiver when a BS operating in another frequency band is
co-located with an MSR BS.
* * *
## 4.5 Operating bands and Band Categories
MSR requirements are applicable for band definitions and band numbering as
defined in the specifications TS 45.005 [5], TS25.104 [2], TS 25.105 [3] and
TS 36.104 [4]. For the purpose of defining the BS requirements, the operating
bands are divided into three band categories as follows:
\- Band Category 1 (BC1): Bands for E-UTRA FDD and UTRA FDD operation
\- Band Category 2 (BC2): Bands for E-UTRA FDD, UTRA FDD and GSM/EDGE
operation
\- Band Category 3 (BC3): Bands for E-UTRA TDD and UTRA TDD operation
NOTE: For UTRA TDD, requirements in the present document cover the 1.28 Mcps
UTRA TDD option.
The paired and unpaired bands for the three Band Categories are shown in Table
4.5-1 and 4.5-2, together with the corresponding E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE
band designations. In the present specification, the operating band of an MSR
Base Stations is designated using the E-UTRA band number according to the
tables.
Table 4.5-1: Paired bands in E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE.
MSR and E‑UTRA Band number | UTRA  
Band number | GSM/EDGE Band designation | Uplink (UL) BS receive  
UE transmit | Downlink (DL) BS transmit  
UE receive | Band category |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | I | - | 1920 MHz | – | 1980 MHz | 2110 MHz | – | 2170 MHz | 1  
2 | II | PCS 1900 | 1850 MHz | – | 1910 MHz | 1930 MHz | – | 1990 MHz | 2  
3 | III | DCS 1800 | 1710 MHz | – | 1785 MHz | 1805 MHz | – | 1880 MHz | 2  
4 | IV | - | 1710 MHz | – | 1755 MHz | 2110 MHz | – | 2155 MHz | 1  
5 | V | GSM 850 | 824 MHz | – | 849 MHz | 869 MHz | – | 894MHz | 2  
6 (NOTE 1) | VI | - | 830 MHz | – | 840 MHz | 875 MHz | – | 885 MHz | 1 (NOTE 1)  
7 | VII | - | 2500 MHz | – | 2570 MHz | 2620 MHz | – | 2690 MHz | 1  
8 | VIII | E-GSM | 880 MHz | – | 915 MHz | 925 MHz | – | 960 MHz | 2  
9 | IX | - | 1749.9 MHz | – | 1784.9 MHz | 1844.9 MHz | – | 1879.9 MHz | 1  
10 | X | - | 1710 MHz | – | 1770 MHz | 2110 MHz | – | 2170 MHz | 1  
11 | XI | - | 1427.9 MHz | – | 1447.9 MHz | 1475.9 MHz | – | 1495.9 MHz | 1  
12 | XII | - | 699 MHz | – | 716 MHz | 729 MHz | – | 746 MHz | 1  
13 | XIII | - | 777 MHz | – | 787 MHz | 746 MHz | – | 756 MHz | 1  
14 | XIV | - | 788 MHz | – | 798 MHz | 758 MHz | – | 768 MHz | 1  
15 | XV | - | Reserved |  |  | Reserved |  |  |   
16 | XVI | - | Reserved |  |  | Reserved |  |  |   
17 | - | - | 704 MHz | – | 716 MHz | 734 MHz | – | 746 MHz | 1 (NOTE 2)  
18 | - | - | 815 MHz | – | 830 MHz | 860 MHz | – | 875 MHz | 1 (NOTE 2)  
19 | XIX | - | 830 MHz | – | 845 MHz | 875 MHz | – | 890 MHz | 1  
20 | XX | - | 832 MHz | – | 862 MHz | 791 MHz | – | 821 MHz | 1  
21 | XXI | - | 1447.9 MHz | – | 1462.9 MHz | 1495.9 MHz | – | 1510.9 MHz | 1  
22 | XXII | - | 3410 MHz | – | 3490 MHz | 3510 MHz | – | 3590 MHz | 1  
23 | - | - | 2000 MHz | – | 2020 MHz | 2180 MHz | – | 2200 MHz | 1 (NOTE 2)  
24 (NOTE 10) | - | - | 1626.5 MHz | – | 1660.5 MHz | 1525 MHz | – | 1559 MHz | 1 (NOTE 2)  
25 | XXV | - | 1850 MHz | – | 1915 MHz | 1930 MHz | – | 1995 MHz | 1  
26 | XXVI | - | 814 MHz | – | 849 MHz | 859 MHz | – | 894 MHz | 1  
27 | - | - | 807 MHz | – | 824 MHz | 852 MHz | – | 869 MHz | 1 (NOTE 2)  
28 | - | - | 703 MHz | – | 748 MHz | 758 MHz | – | 803 MHz | 1 (NOTE 2)  
29 | - | - | N/A | 717 MHz | – | 728 MHz | 1 (NOTE 2, NOTE 3) |  |   
30 | - | - | 2305 MHz | – | 2315 MHz | 2350 MHz | – | 2360 MHz | 1 (NOTE 2)  
31 | - | - | 452.5 MHz | – | 457.5 MHz | 462.5 MHz | – | 467.5 MHz | 1 (NOTE 2)  
32 (NOTE 3) | XXXII (NOTE 4) | - |  | N/A |  | 1452 MHz | – | 1496 MHz | 1  
NOTE 1: The band is for UTRA only. NOTE 2: The band is for E-UTRA only. NOTE 3: Restricted to E-UTRA operation when carrier aggregation is configured. The downlink operating band is paired with the uplink operating band (external) of the carrier aggregation configuration that is supporting the configured Pcell. NOTE 4: Restricted to UTRA operation when dual band is configured (e.g., DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA). The down link frequenc(ies) of this band are paired with the uplink frequenc(ies) of the other FDD band (external) of the dual band configuration. NOTE 5: Void NOTE 6: Void NOTE 7: Void NOTE 8: Void NOTE 9: Void NOTE 10: DL operation is restricted to 1526-1536 MHz frequency range. UL operation is restricted to 1627.5 – 1637.5 MHz and 1646.5 – 1656.5 MHz per FCC Order DA 20-48. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
UTRA FDD can operate with DB-DC-HSDPA for the band configurations listed in
subclause 5.2 c) of TS 25.104 [2].
NOTE: For BS capable of multi-band operation, the supported operating bands
may belong to different Band Categories.
Table 4.5-2: Unpaired bands in E-UTRA and UTRA.
* * *
MSR and E‑UTRA Band number UTRA Band number Uplink (UL) BS receive\ Downlink
(DL) BS transmit\ Band category  
UE transmit UE receive
33 a) 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz 3
34 a) 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz 3
35 b) 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 3
36 b) 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz 3
37 c) 1910 MHz -- 1930 MHz 1910 MHz -- 1930 MHz 3
38 d) 2570 MHz -- 2620 MHz 2570 MHz -- 2620 MHz 3
39 f) 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 3
40 e) 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz 3
41 - 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz 3
42 - 3400 MHz -- 3600 MHz 3400 MHz -- 3600 MHz 3
43 - 3600 MHz -- 3800 MHz 3600 MHz -- 3800 MHz 3
44 - 703 MHz -- 803 MHz 703 MHz -- 803 MHz 3
* * *
E-UTRA is designed to operate for the carrier aggregation bands defined in
Tables 5.5-2, 5.5-3 and 5.5.4 of TS 36.104 [4]. The E-UTRA channel bandwidth
BW~Channel~ for a single carrier and the Aggregated Channel Bandwidth
BW~Channel_CA~ for E-UTRA carrier aggregation are specified in Section 5.6 of
TS 36.104 [4].
### 4.5.1 Band category 1 aspects (BC1)
For each BC1 band, BC1 requirements for receiver and transmitter shall apply
with a frequency offset **F~offset,\ RAT~** from the Lowest and Highest
Carriers to the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges and sub-block edges (if any)
as defined in Table 4.5.1-1.
Table 4.5.1-1: F~offset,\ RAT~ for Band Category 1
* * *
RAT F~offset,\ RAT~ 1.4, 3 MHz E-UTRA BW~Channel~/2 + 200 kHz 5, 10, 15, 20
MHz E-UTRA BW~Channel~/2 UTRA FDD 2.5 MHz
* * *
### 4.5.2 Band category 2 aspects (BC2)
For each BC2 band, BC2 requirements for receiver and transmitter shall apply
with a frequency offset **F~offset,\ RAT\ ~** from the Lowest and Highest
Carriers to the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges and sub-block edges (if any)
as defined in Table 4.5.2-1.
Table 4.5.2-1: F~offset,\ RAT~ for Band Category 2
* * *
RAT F~offset,\ RAT~ E-UTRA BW~Channel~/2 UTRA FDD 2.5 MHz GSM/EDGE 200 kHz
* * *
### 4.5.3 Band category 3 aspects (BC3)
For each BC3 band, BC3 requirements for receiver and transmitter shall apply
with a frequency offset **F~offset,\ RAT~** from the Lowest and Highest
Carriers to the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges and sub-block edges (if any)
as defined in Table 4.5.3-1.
Table 4.5.3-1: F~offset,\ RAT~ for Band Category 3
* * *
RAT F~offset,\ RAT~ 1.4, 3 MHz E-UTRA BW~Channel~ /2 + 200 kHz 5, 10, 15, 20
MHz E-UTRA BW~Channel~ /2 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD 1 MHz
* * *
## 4.6 Channel arrangement
### 4.6.1 Channel spacing
The GSM/EDGE carrier spacing is 200 kHz [5].
The nominal UTRA FDD channel spacing is 5 MHz. The nominal channel spacing is
1.6MHz for the 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD Option. These can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario [2,3].
In E-UTRA the spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario,
the size of the frequency block available and the channel bandwidths. The
nominal channel spacing between two adjacent E-UTRA carriers is defined as
following:
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted to optimize
performance in a particular deployment scenario [4].
### 4.6.1A CA Channel spacing
For contiguously aggregated carriers the channel spacing between adjacent
component carriers shall be multiple of 300 kHz.
The nominal channel spacing between two adjacent aggregated E-UTRA carriers is
defined as follows:
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA component carriers according to Table 5.6-1 with values in
MHz. The channel spacing for intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation can be
adjusted to any multiple of 300 kHz less than the nominal channel spacing to
optimize performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 4.6.2 Channel raster
The GSM/EDGE channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands [5].
The UTRA FDD and TDD channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands, which means that
the centre frequency must be an integer multiple of 200 kHz. In addition a
number of additional centre frequencies are specified for UTRA FDD according
to [2], which means that the centre frequencies for UTRA FDD channels are
shifted 100 kHz relative to the general raster.
The E-UTRA channel raster is 100 kHz for all bands, which means that the
carrier centre frequency must be an integer multiple of 100 kHz [4].
### 4.6.3 Carrier frequencies and numbering
The carrier frequencies and corresponding numbering is defined for each RAT in
the respective specifications TS 36.104 [4] TS25.104 [2], TS 25.105 [3] and TS
45.005 [5]. In the context of MSR, the frequency numbering scheme for each RAT
will remain.
\- The E-UTRA carrier frequency numbering (EARFCN) is defined in subclause 5.7
of TS 36.104 [4].
\- The UTRA FDD carrier frequency numbering (UARFCN) is defined in subclause
5.4 of TS 25.104 [2].
\- The UTRA TDD carrier frequency numbering (UARFCN) is defined in subclause
5.4 of TS 25.105 [3].
\- The GSM/EDGE carrier frequency numbering (ARFCN) is defined subclause 2 of
TS 45.005 [5].
NOTE: The numbering schemes for UTRA FDD and TDD are not coordinated, while
both are called UARFCN.
## 4.7 Requirements for contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum
A spectrum allocation where an MSR BS operates can either be contiguous or
non-contiguous. Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in the present
specification apply for BS configured for both contiguous spectrum operation
and non-contiguous spectrum operation.
For MSR BS operation in non-contiguous spectrum, some requirements apply both
at the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges and inside the sub-block gaps. For each
such requirement, it is stated how the limits apply relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges and the sub-block edges respectively.
## 4.8 Requirements for BS capable of multi-band operation
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the RF requirements in clause 6 and 7
apply for each supported operating band unless otherwise stated. For some
requirements it is explicitly stated that specific additions or exclusions to
the requirement apply for BS capable of multi-band operation. In the case of
multiband operation of a BS, single-RAT operation and the corresponding
applicability of the requirements for each operating band is determined based
on the RAT configuration within only that operating band, unless otherwise
stated.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, various structures in terms of
combinations of different transmitter and receiver implementations (multi-band
or single band) with mapping of transceivers to one or more antenna port(s) in
different ways are possible. In the case where multiple bands are mapped on
separate antenna connectors, the following applies:
\- Single-band transmitter spurious emissions, operating band unwanted
emissions, ACLR, transmitter intermodulation and receiver spurious emissions
requirements apply to each antenna connector.
\- If the BS is configured for single-band operation, single-band requirements
shall apply to the antenna connector configured for single-band operation and
no exclusions or provisions for multi-band capable BS are applicable. Single-
band requirements are tested separately at the antenna connector configured
for single-band operation, with all other antenna connectors terminated.
For a BS capable of multi-band operation supporting BC3 bands for TDD, the RF
requirements in the present specification assume synchronized operation, where
no simultaneous uplink and downlink occur between the bands.
The RF requirements in the present specification are FFS for multi-band
operation supporting bands for both FDD and TDD.
# 5 Applicability of requirements
## 5.1 Band category 1
For all BS operating in bands belonging to Band Category 1, the RF
requirements listed in Table 5.1-1 apply for each supported operating band.
Requirements apply according to the RAT configuration of the Base Station, as
listed in the heading of the table. Some requirements listed in the table may
not be mandatory or they may apply only regionally. This is further specified
in the clause of each requirement and in Table 4.4-1. For multiband operation,
the applicability of the requirements for each operating band is determined
based on the RAT configuration within only that operating band, unless
otherwise stated.
Table 5.1-1: Applicability of requirements for MSR BS operation in Band
Category 1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RF requirement | BS configured | BS configured | BS configured | | | for multi-RAT | for single-RAT | for single-RAT | | | operation in | E‑UTRA FDD | UTRA FDD | | | the band | operation in | operation in | | | | the band | the band | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Base station | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | output power | | | | | | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | 6.2.4 | | | | | | | | 6.2.4 | | 6.2.4A | | | | | | | | 6.2.4A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Output power | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.2 | | dynamics | | | | | | 6.3.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitted | | | | | signal quality | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modulation | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.2 | | quality | | | | | | 6.5.1.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.2 | | error | | | | | | 6.5.2.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Time alignment | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.2 | | error | | | | | | 6.5.3.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Unwanted | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitter | 6.6.1 (except | 6.6.1 (except | 6.6.1 (except | | spurious | for 6.6.1.1.3) | for 6.6.1.1.3) | for 6.6.1.1.3) | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Operating band | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | | unwanted | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | | | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Occupied | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | | bandwidth | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ACLR | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.2 | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cumulative | 6.6.4.4 (NOTE | 6.6.4.4 (NOTE | 6.6.4.4 (NOTE | | ACLR | 3) | 3) | 3) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitter | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | 6.7.2 (NOTE 2) | 6.7.2 (NOTE 2) | 6.7.2 (NOTE 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reference | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.2 | | sensitivity | | | | | level | 7.2.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Dynamic range | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.2 | | | | | | | | 7.3.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | In-band | | | | | selectivity | | | | | and blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Blocking | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Narrowband | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | | blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Out-of-band | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Receiver | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | | spurious | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Receiver | | | | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Narrowband | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | In-channel | 7.8 | 7.8 | - | | selectivity | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Performance | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.2 | | requirements | | | | | | 8.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | some | | | | | requirements | | | | | in BS | | | | | configured for | | | | | multi-RAT | | | | | operation, | | | | | there is no | | | | | general MSR | | | | | multi-RAT | | | | | requirement. | | | | | Instead, the | | | | | requirement is | | | | | defined by the | | | | | respective | | | | | single-RAT | | | | | requirement | | | | | for each RAT | | | | | supported by | | | | | the BS as | | | | | referenced in | | | | | the table. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | requirement in | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 6.7.2 is only | | | | | applied for BS | | | | | operating in | | | | | non-contiguous | | | | | spectrum. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | requirement in | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 6.6.4.4 is | | | | | only applied | | | | | for BS | | | | | operating in | | | | | non-contiguous | | | | | spectrum. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 5.2 Band category 2
For all BS operating in bands belonging to Band Category 2, the RF
requirements listed in Table 5.2-1 apply for each supported operating band.
Requirements apply according to the RAT configuration of the Base Station, as
listed in the heading of the table. Some requirements listed in the table may
not be mandatory or they may apply only regionally. This is further specified
in the clause of each requirement and in Table 4.4-1. For multiband operation,
the applicability of the requirements for each operating band is determined
based on the RAT configuration within only that operating band, unless
otherwise stated.
Table 5.2-1: Applicability of requirements for MSR BS operation in Band
Category 2
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | RF | BS | BS | BS | BS | BS\ | | req | co | co | co | co | co | | uirement | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | | | for | for | for | for | for | | | m | m | si | si | si | | | ulti-RAT | ulti-RAT | ngle-RAT | ngle-RAT | ngle-RAT | | | o | o | E‑UTRA | UTRA FDD | GSM/EDGE | | | peration | peration | FDD | o | o | | | not | i | o | peration | peration | | | i | ncluding | peration | in the | in the | | | ncluding | GSM/EDGE | in the | band | band | | | GSM/EDGE | in the | band | | | | | in the | band | | | | | | band | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Base | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | station | | | | | | | output | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | 6.2.4 | | | power | | | | | | | | 6.2.4 | 6.2.4 | | 6.2.4A | | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.4A | 6.2.4A | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Output | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.2 | 6.3.4 | | power | | | | | | | dynamics | 6.3.2 | 6.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.3.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Transmit | - | - | - | - | - | | ON/OFF | | | | | | | power | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Mo | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.2 | 6.5.1.4 | | dulation | | | | | | | quality | 6.5.1.2 | 6.5.1.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.1.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | F | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.2 | 6.5.2.4 | | requency | | | | | | | error | 6.5.2.2 | 6.5.2.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.2.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Time | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.2 | - | | a | | | | | | | lignment | 6.5.3.2 | 6.5.3.2 | | | | | error | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Unwanted | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | | nsmitter | (except | | (except | (except | | | spurious | for | (NOTE 3) | for | for | (NOTE 3) | | e | 6. | | 6. | 6. | | | missions | 6.1.1.3) | | 6.1.1.3) | 6.1.1.3) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | 6.6.2.2\ | 6.6.2.2\ | 6.6.2.2\ | 6.6.2.2\ | 6.6.2.3 | | perating | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | | | band | | | | | 6.6.2.4 | | unwanted | | | | | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Occupied | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | - | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ACLR | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.2 | - | | | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.2 | 6.6.4.2 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Cu | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | - | | mulative | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | | | ACLR | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.2 | | nsmitter | | | | | | | intermo | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | R | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.2 | 7.2.4 | | eference | | | | | | | sen | 7.2.2 | 7.2.2 | | | | | sitivity | | | | | | | level | | 7.2.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Dynamic | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.2 | 7.3.4 | | range | | | | | | | | 7.3.2 | 7.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | In-band | | | | | | | sel | | | | | | | ectivity | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Blocking | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Na | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | | rrowband | | | | | | | blocking | | 7.4.3 | | | 7.4.3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.4.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Out | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | -of-band | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Receiver | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | | spurious | | | | | | | e | | 7.6.2 | | | 7.6.2 | | missions | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | | | (NOTE 3) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Receiver | | | | | | | intermo | | | | | | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Intermo | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Na | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | | rrowband | | | | | | | intermo | | 7.7.3 | | | 7.7.3 | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | In | 7.8 | 7.8 | 7.8 | - | - | | -channel | | | | | | | sel | | | | | | | ectivity | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Per | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.2 | 8.4 | | formance | | | | | | | requ | 8.2 | 8.2 | | | | | irements | | | | | | | | | 8.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | For some | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | in BS | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulti-RAT | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | eration, | | | | | | | there is | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | general | | | | | | | MSR | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulti-RAT | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irement. | | | | | | | Instead, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | spective | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | ngle-RAT | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | for each | | | | | | | RAT | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | upported | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | BS as | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | ferenced | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | table. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 6.6.4.4 | | | | | | | is only | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | for BS | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | non-co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pectrum. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | | capable | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | mu | | | | | | | lti-band | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | eration, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | limits | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | clause 6 | | | | | | | .6.1.1.3 | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | nd 7.6.2 | | | | | | | are only | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | when all | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | upported | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | belong | | | | | | | to BC2 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | in all | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | bands. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 5.3 Band category 3
For all BS operating in bands belonging to Band Category 3, the RF
requirements listed in Table 5.3-1 apply for each supported operating band.
Requirements apply according to the RAT configuration of the Base Station, as
listed in the heading of the table. Some requirements listed in the table may
not be mandatory or they may apply only regionally. This is further specified
in the clause of each requirement and in Table 4.4-1.
Table 5.3-1: Applicability of requirements for MSR BS operation in Band
Category 3
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RF requirement | BS configured | BS configured | BS configured | | | for multi-RAT | for single-RAT | for single-RAT | | | operation | E‑UTRA TDD | UTRA TDD | | | | operation | operation | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Base station | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | output power | | | | | | 6.2.2 | 6.2.2 | 6.2.5 | | | | | | | | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | | | | | | | | | 6.2.5 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Output power | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.3 | | dynamics | | | | | | 6.3.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmit | 6.4 | 6.4 | 6.4 | | ON/OFF power | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitted | | | | | signal quality | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modulation | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.3 | | quality | | | | | | 6.5.1.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.3 | | error | | | | | | 6.5.2.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Time alignment | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.3 | | error | | | | | | 6.5.3.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Unwanted | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitter | 6.6.1 (except | 6.6.1 (except | 6.6.1 (except | | spurious | for 6.6.1.1.3 | for 6.6.1.1.3 | for 6.6.1.1.3 | | emissions | and 6.6.1.2) | and 6.6.1.2) | and 6.6.1.2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Operating band | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | | unwanted | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | | | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Occupied | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | | bandwidth | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ACLR | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.3 | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cumulative | 6.6.4.4 (NOTE | 6.6.4.4 (NOTE | 6.6.4.4 (NOTE | | ACLR | 2) | 2) | 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitter | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | 6.7.3 | 6.7.3 | 6.7.3 | | | | | | | | | 6.7.4 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reference | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.3 | | sensitivity | | | | | level | 7.2.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Dynamic range | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.3 | | | | | | | | 7.3.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | In-band | | | | | selectivity | | | | | and blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Blocking | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | | | | | | | | 7.4.5 | 7.4.5 | 7.4.5 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Narrowband | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | | blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Out-of-band | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Receiver | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | | spurious | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Receiver | | | | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Narrowband | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | In-channel | 7.8 | 7.8 | - | | selectivity | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Performance | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.3 | | requirements | | | | | | 8.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: For | | | | | some | | | | | requirements | | | | | in BS | | | | | configured for | | | | | multi-RAT | | | | | operation, | | | | | there is no | | | | | general MSR | | | | | multi-RAT | | | | | requirement. | | | | | Instead, the | | | | | requirement is | | | | | defined by the | | | | | respective | | | | | single-RAT | | | | | requirement | | | | | for each RAT | | | | | supported by | | | | | the BS as | | | | | referenced in | | | | | the table. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | requirement in | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 6.6.4.4 is | | | | | only applied | | | | | for BS | | | | | operating in | | | | | non-contiguous | | | | | spectrum. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 5.4 Inclusion of requirements by reference
Many requirements in the present specification are not explicitly stated in
the clauses listed in Tables 5.1-1, 5.2-1 and 5.3-1, but are instead included
by reference to the respective single-RAT specifications. Each reference is
normative and identifies the clause where the requirement is specified.
In some cases, the referenced clause may contain requirements that for
different reasons do not apply for an MSR base station. It is in those cases
stated that "applicable parts of" the referenced clause apply. What parts are
applicable is determined by the scope of the MSR specification. For example:
\- In a referenced clause including requirements for multiple operating bands,
only requirements for bands listed in the present document apply.
\- In a referenced clause that includes requirements for different types of
base stations, only requirements for the BS classes specified for each RAT
apply, see subclause 4.3.
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in clause 6 are expressed for a
single transmitter antenna connector. In case of multi-carrier transmission
with multiple transmitter antenna connectors, transmit diversity, DB-DC-HSDPA
or MIMO transmission, the requirements apply for each transmitter antenna
connector.
A BS supporting DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA transmits two UTRA FDD cells
simultaneously. A BS supporting DC-HSDPA transmits two UTRA FDD cells
simultaneously on adjacent carrier frequencies.
Unless otherwise stated, the transmitter characteristics are specified at the
BS antenna connector (test port A) with a full complement of transceivers for
the configuration in normal operating conditions. If any external apparatus
such as a TX amplifier, a filter or the combination of such devices is used,
requirements apply at the far end antenna connector (test port B).
Unless otherwise stated the requirements in subclause 6 applies at all times,
i.e. during the Transmitter ON period, the Transmitter OFF period and the
Transmitter transient period.
{width="6.114583333333333in" height="1.75in"}
Figure 6.1-1: Transmitter test ports
Values for **F~offset,\ RAT~** to meet transmitter requirements are specific
for each RAT in each Band Category as specified in subclause 4.5.1 for Band
Category 1, subclause 4.5.2 for Band Category 2 and subclause 4.5.3 for Band
Category 3.
## 6.2 Base station output power
Output power of the base station is the mean power delivered to a load with
resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the transmitter.
The configured carrier power is the target maximum power for a specific
carrier for the operating mode set in the BS within the limits given by the
manufacturer's declaration.
The maximum total output power, P~max~, of the base station is the mean power
level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period in a
specified reference condition.
The maximum RAT output power, P~max,RAT~, of the base station is the mean
power level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period
for a specific RAT in a specified reference condition.
The maximum carrier output power, P~max,c~ of the base station is the mean
power level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period
for a specific carrier in a specified reference condition.
The rated carrier output power, P~Rated,c~, of the base station is the mean
power level for a specific carrier that the manufacturer has declared to be
available at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period.
The rated carrier output power of the BS shall be as specified in Table 6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1 Base Station rated carrier output power
* * *
BS class P~Rated,c~ Wide Area BS (note) Medium Range BS ≤+ 38 dBm Local Area
BS ≤+ 24 dBm NOTE: There is no upper limit for the rated carrier output power
of the Wide Area Base Station.
* * *
### 6.2.1 Minimum requirement
In normal conditions, the maximum carrier output power shall remain within +2
dB and -2 dB of the configured carrier power declared by the manufacturer.
In extreme conditions, maximum carrier output power shall remain within +2.5
dB and -2.5 dB of the configured carrier power declared by the manufacturer.
The definition of the output power parameters declared by the manufacturer can
be found in TS 37.141 [10].
In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal conditions may apply
also for some conditions outside the range of conditions defined as normal.
### 6.2.2 Additional requirement (regional)
For Band 34 operation in Japan, the rated E-UTRA output power declared by the
manufacturer shall be less than or equal to the values specified in Table
6.2.2-1.
Table 6.2.2-1: Regional requirements for Band 34 for rated output power
declared by the manufacturer.
* * *
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4 3 5 10 15 20 Maximum output power [W]
N/A N/A 20 40 60 N/A
* * *
For Band 41 operation in Japan, the rated output power per BS declared by the
manufacturer shall be less than or equal to the values specified in Table
6.2.2-2.
Table 6.2.2-2: Regional requirements for Band 41 for rated output power
declared by the manufacturer.
* * *
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4 3 5 10 15 20 Maximum output power [W]
N/A N/A N/A 20 N/A 40
* * *
### 6.2.3 E-UTRA minimum requirement for DL RS power
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for DL RS power is specified in TS 36.104
[4], subclause 6.5.4.
### 6.2.4 UTRA FDD minimum requirement for primary CPICH power
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for primary CPICH power is specified in
TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.4.4.
### 6.2.4A UTRA FDD minimum requirement for secondary CPICH power
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for secondary CPICH power is specified
in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.4.4A.
### 6.2.5 UTRA TDD minimum requirement for primary CCPCH power
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirements for Primary CCPCH power and
Differential accuracy of primary CCPCH power specified in TS 25.105 [3],
subclause 6.4.5 and 6.4.6 respectively.
## 6.3 Output power dynamics
Output power dynamics is defined by the BS transmitter's ability to operate at
varying output power levels.
### 6.3.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 6.3.
### 6.3.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified
in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.4.
### 6.3.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified
in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 6.4.
### 6.3.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified
in TS 45.005[5], subclause 4.1.2-c. The minimum requirement for output level
dynamic operation is specified in TS 45.005[5], subclause 4.5.1.
## 6.4 Transmit ON/OFF power
The requirements in subclause 6.4 are only applied for BC3 BS.
### 6.4.1 Transmitter OFF power
Transmitter OFF power is defined as the mean power measured over 70 μs
filtered with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the Base Station RF
Bandwidth(s) of the BS centred on the central frequency of the Base Station RF
Bandwidth(s) during the transmitter OFF period.
#### 6.4.1.1 Minimum Requirement
The transmitter OFF power spectral density shall be less than -85 dBm/MHz.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement is only applicable
during the transmitter OFF period in all supported operating bands.
### 6.4.2 Transmitter transient period
The transmitter transient period is the time period during which the
transmitter is changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa.
The transmitter transient period is illustrated in Figure 6.4.2-1.
Figure 6.4.2-1: Illustration of the relations of transmitter ON period,
transmitter OFF period and transmitter transient period.
#### 6.4.2.1 Minimum requirements
The transmitter transient period shall be shorter than the values listed in
Table 6.4.2.1-1.
Table 6.4.2.1-1: Minimum requirements for the transmitter transient period
* * *
Transition Transient period length [μs] OFF to ON 6.25 ON to OFF 17
* * *
## 6.5 Transmitted signal quality
### 6.5.1 Modulation quality
Modulation quality is defined by the difference between the measured carrier
signal and a reference signal. Modulation quality can e.g. be expressed as
Error Vector Magnitude (EVM), Peak Code domain Error (PCDE) or Relative Code
domain Error (RCDE).
#### 6.5.1.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for modulation quality, EVM, is specified
in TS 36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.2.
#### 6.5.1.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for modulation quality, EVM, PCDE and
RCDE, are specified in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.8.2, 6.8.3 and 6.8.5
respectively. The UTRA transmit pulse shape filter is defined in subclause
6.8.1.
#### 6.5.1.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirements for modulation quality, EVM, PCDE and
RCDE, are specified in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 6.8.2, 6.8.3 and 6.8.4
respectively.
#### 6.5.1.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirements for modulation accuracy are specified
in TS 45.005 [5], subclause 4.6 .
### 6.5.2 Frequency error
Frequency error is a measure of the difference between the actual BS transmit
frequency and the assigned frequency. The same source shall be used for RF
frequency and data clock generation.
#### 6.5.2.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.1.
#### 6.5.2.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
25.104 [2], subclause 6.3.1.
#### 6.5.2.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
25.105 [3], subclause 6.3.1.
#### 6.5.2.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
45.005 [5], subclause 4.4 .
### 6.5.3 Time alignment error
This requirement applies to frame timing in:
\- UTRA single/multi-carrier transmissions, and their combinations with MIMO
or TX diversity.
\- E-UTRA single/multi-carrier transmissions, and their combinations with MIMO
or TX diversity.
\- E-UTRA Carrier Aggregation, with or without MIMO or TX diversity.
Frames of the WCDMA/LTE signals present at the BS transmitter antenna
connector(s) are not perfectly aligned in time. In relation to each other, the
RF signals present at the BS transmitter antenna connector (s) experience
certain timing differences.
For a specific set of signals/transmitter configuration/transmission mode, the
Time Alignment Error (TAE) is defined as the largest timing difference between
any two signals.
#### 6.5.3.1 E-UTRA minimum Requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for time alignment is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.3.
#### 6.5.3.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for time alignment is specified in TS
25.104 [2], subclause 6.8.4.
#### 6.5.3.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for time alignment is specified in TS
25.105 [3], subclause 6.8.5.
## 6.6 Unwanted emissions
Unwanted emissions consist of out-of-band emissions and spurious emissions
[6]. Out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the
channel bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non-linearity in
the transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. Spurious emissions are
emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter effects such as harmonics
emission, parasitic emission, intermodulation products and frequency
conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions.
The out-of-band emissions requirement for the BS transmitter is specified in
terms of an Operating band unwanted emissions requirement that defines limits
for emissions in each supported downlink operating band plus the frequency
ranges 10 MHz above and 10 MHz below each band. Emissions outside of this
frequency range are limited by a spurious emissions requirement.
There is in addition a requirement for occupied bandwidth and an ACLR
requirement applicable for some RATs.
### 6.6.1 Transmitter spurious emissions
The transmitter spurious emission limits apply from 9 kHz to 12.75 GHz,
excluding the frequency range from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the
downlink operating band up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the
downlink operating band. For BS capable of multi-band operation where multiple
bands are mapped on the same antenna connector, this exclusion applies for
each supported operating band. For BS capable of multi-band operation where
multiple bands are mapped on separate antenna connectors, the single-band
requirements apply and the multi-band exclusions and provisions are not
applicable.
Exceptions are the requirements in Table 6.6.1.3.1-2 and specifically stated
exceptions in Table 6.6.1.3.1-1 that apply also closer than 10 MHz from the
downlink operating band. For some operating bands the upper frequency limit is
higher than 12.75 GHz.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered. It
applies for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer\'s
specification. Unless otherwise stated, all requirements are measured as mean
power (RMS).
#### 6.6.1.1 Mandatory Requirements
The requirements of either subclause 6.6.1.1.1 (Category A limits) or
subclause 6.6.1.1.2 (Category B limits) shall apply. In addition for a BS
operating in Band Category 2, the requirements of 6.6.1.1.3 shall apply in
case of Category B limits when GSM/EDGE is configured.
##### 6.6.1.1.1 Minimum requirement (Category A)
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.1.1.1-1
Table 6.6.1.1.1-1: BS Spurious emission limits, Category A
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Maximum level | Measurement | Note | | range | | Bandwidth | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9kHz ‑ 150kHz | -13 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 150kHz ‑ 30MHz | | 10 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 30MHz ‑ 1GHz | | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1GHz ‑ 12.75 | | 1 MHz | Note 2 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz -- | | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 3 | | 5^th^ harmonic | | | | | of the upper | | | | | frequency edge | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | in GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s4.1. Upper | | | | | frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s2.5 table 1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Bands 22, | | | | | 42 and 43. | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 6.6.1.1.2 Minimum requirement (Category B)
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.1.1.2-1
Table 6.6.1.1.2-1: BS Spurious emissions limits, Category B
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Maximum Level | Measurement | Note | | range | | Bandwidth | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 kHz ↔ 150 | -36 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | | kHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 150 kHz ↔ 30 | -36 dBm | 10 kHz | Note 1 | | MHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 30 MHz ↔ 1 GHz | -36 dBm | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 GHz ↔ 12.75 | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz ↔ | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 3 | | 5^th^ harmonic | | | | | of the upper | | | | | frequency edge | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | in GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s4.1. Upper | | | | | frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s2.5 table 1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Bands 22, | | | | | 42 and 43. | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 6.6.1.1.3 Additional minimum requirement for BC2 (Category B)
For a BS operating in Band Category 2 when GSM/EDGE is configured, the power
of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table 6.6.1.1.3-1.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the limits in Table 6.6.1.1.3-1 are
only applicable when all supported operating bands belong to BC2 and GSM/EDGE
is configured in all bands.
Table 6.6.1.1.3-1: Additional BS Spurious emissions limits for BC2, Category B
* * *
Frequency range Frequency offset from downlink operating band edge (Note1)
Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth 500 MHz ↔ 1 GHz 10 -- 20 MHz -36 dBm 300
kHz 20 -- 30 MHz -36 dBm 1 MHz ≥ 30 MHz -36 dBm 3 MHz 1 GHz ↔ 12.75 GHz ≥ 30
MHz -30 dBm 3 MHz NOTE 1: For BS capable of multi-band operation, the
frequency offset is relative to the closest operating band.
* * *
#### 6.6.1.2 Protection of the BS receiver of own or different BS
This requirement shall be applied for FDD operation in order to prevent the
receivers of Base Stations being desensitised by emissions from the BS
transmitter. It is measured at the transmit antenna port for any type of BS
which has common or separate Tx/Rx antenna ports.
##### 6.6.1.2.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.1.2.1-1 depending on the declared Base Station class and Band Category.
Table 6.6.1.2.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for protection of the BS
receiver
* * *
BS-class Band category Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth
Note Wide Area BS BC1 F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ -96 dBm 100 kHz  
Wide Area BS BC2 F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ -98 dBm 100 kHz  
Medium Range BS BC1,BC2 F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ -91 dBm 100 kHz  
Local Area BS BC1,BC2 F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ -88 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
#### 6.6.1.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements
These requirements may be applied for the protection of system operating in
frequency ranges other than the BS downlink operating band. The limits may
apply as an optional protection of such systems that are deployed in the same
geographical area as the BS, or they may be set by local or regional
regulation as a mandatory requirement for an operating band. It is in some
cases not stated in the present document whether a requirement is mandatory or
under what exact circumstances that a limit applies, since this is set by
local or regional regulation. An overview of regional requirements in the
present document is given in subclause 4.4.
Some requirements may apply for the protection of specific equipment (UE, MS
and/or BS) or equipment operating in specific systems (GSM/EDGE, CDMA, UTRA,
E-UTRA, etc.) as listed below.
##### 6.6.1.3.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of Table
6.6.1.3.1-1 for a BS where requirements for co-existence with the system
listed in the first column apply. For BS capable of multi-band operation, the
exclusions and conditions in the Note column of Table 6.6.1.3.1-1 apply for
each supported operating band. For BS capable of multi-band operation where
multiple bands are mapped on separate antenna connectors, the exclusions and
conditions in the Note column of Table 6.6.1.3.1-1 apply for the operating
band supported at that antenna connector.
Table 6.6.1.3.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with systems
operating in other frequency bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | System type | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | to co-exist | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | with | c | | | | | | o-existence | | | | | | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GSM900 | 921 ‑ 960 | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 876 - 915 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | For the | | | MHz | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 880-915 | | | | | | MHz, this | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DCS1800\ | 1805 ‑ 1880 | -47 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | (Note 3) | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1785 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PCS1900 | 1930 ‑ 1990 | -47 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | 25 or band | | | | | | 36. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 ‑ 1910 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or 25, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 35. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GSM850 or | 869 - 894 | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | CDMA850 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | | | | | | or 26. This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 27 | | | | | | for the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 879-894 | | | | | | MHz. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 824 ‑ 849 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | | | | | | or 26, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 27, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | 3 MHz below | | | | | | the Band 27 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 - 2170 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band I or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 1 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1, | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1920 - 1980 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 - 1990 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band II or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 2 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or 25. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 - 1910 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or 25, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1805 - 1880 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band III or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 3\ | | | | operating | | (Note 3) | | | | in band 3 | | | | | | or 9. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1785 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 9, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for | | | | | | 1710 MHz to | | | | | | 1749.9 MHz | | | | | | and 1784.9 | | | | | | MHz to 1785 | | | | | | MHz, while | | | | | | the rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 - 2155 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band IV or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 4 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4 | | | | | | or 10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1755 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4 | | | | | | or 10, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 869 - 894 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band V or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 5 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | | | | | | or 26. This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 27 | | | | | | for the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 879-894 | | | | | | MHz. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 824 - 849 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | | | | | | or 26, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 27, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | 3 MHz below | | | | | | the Band 27 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 860 - 890 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VI, | MHz | | | requirement | | XIX or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 6, 18, 19 | | | | in band 6, | | | | | | 18, 19 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 815 - 830 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 18 | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 830 - 845 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 6, | | | | | | 19, since | | | | | | it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2620 - 2690 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VII or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 7 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2500 - 2570 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 925 - 960 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 8 | | | | in band 8. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 880 - 915 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1844.9 - | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band IX or | 1879.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 9 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3 | | | | | | or 9. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1749.9 - | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1784.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3 | | | | | | or 9, since | | | | | | it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 - 2170 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band X or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 10 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4 | | | | | | or 10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1770 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 10, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 4, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for | | | | | | 1755 MHz to | | | | | | 1770 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1475.9 - | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XI or | 1510.9 MHz | | | requirement | | XXI or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 11 or 21 | | | | in band 11, | | | | | | 21 or 32 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1427.9 - | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1447.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 32, | | | | | | this | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | within | | | | | | 1475.9MHz | | | | | | and | | | | | | 1495.9MHz. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1447.9 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1462.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 21, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 32, | | | | | | this | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | within | | | | | | 1475.9MHz | | | | | | and | | | | | | 1495.9MHz. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 729 - 746 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XII or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 12 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 699 - 716 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 29, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | 1 MHz below | | | | | | the Band 29 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band (Note | | | | | | 7) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 746 - 756 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 13 | | | | in band 13. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 777 - 787 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 758 - 768 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XIV or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 14 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 14. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 788 - 798 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 14, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 734 - 746 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 17 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 17. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 704 - 716 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 17, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 29, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | 1 MHz below | | | | | | the Band 29 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band (Note | | | | | | 7) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 791 - 821 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XX or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 20 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 20 | | | | | | or 28. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 832 - 862 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 20, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 3510 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XXII | 3590 MHz | | | requirement | | or E-UTRA | | | | does not | | Band 22 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 22 | | | | | | or 42. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 3410 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 3490 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 22, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | Band 42. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2180 ‑ 2200 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 23 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 23. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2000 - 2020 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 23, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Bands 2 | | | | | | or 25, | | | | | | where the | | | | | | limits are | | | | | | defined | | | | | | separately. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2000 - 2010 | **-30** dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | only | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2 | | | | | | or Band 25. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies | | | | | | starting 5 | | | | | | MHz above | | | | | | the Band 25 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. (Note | | | | | | 5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2010 - 2020 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1525 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 24 | 1559 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 24. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1626.5 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1660.5 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 24, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 - 1995 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XXV or | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 25 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or 25. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 - 1915 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 25, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for | | | | | | 1910 MHz to | | | | | | 1915 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 859 - 894 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XXVI | MHz | | | requirement | | or E-UTRA | | | | does not | | Band 26 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | | | | | | or 26. This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 27 | | | | | | for the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 879-894 | | | | | | MHz. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 814 - 849 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 26, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 5, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for 814 MHz | | | | | | to 824 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 27, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | 3 MHz below | | | | | | the Band 27 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 852 -- 869 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 27 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in bands 5, | | | | | | 26 or 27. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 807 -- 824 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 27, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 26, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for 807 MHz | | | | | | to 814 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | also | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 28, | | | | | | starting | | | | | | 4 MHz above | | | | | | the Band 28 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band (Note | | | | | | 6). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 758 - 803 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 28 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 20, | | | | | | 28 or 44. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 703 - 748 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 28, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 44. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 717 -- 728 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 29 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 29 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2350 - 2360 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 30 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 30 | | | | | | or 40. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2305 - 2315 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 30, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 40. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 462.5 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 31 | 467.5 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 31. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 452.5 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 457.5 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 31, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1452 - 1496 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XXXII | MHz | | | requirement | | or E-UTRA | | | | does not | | Band 32 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11, | | | | | | 21 or 32. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1900 - 1920 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band a) or | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 33 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 33 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2010 - 2025 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band a) or | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 34 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 34 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1850 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band b) or | 1910 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 35 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 35 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1930 - 1990 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band b) or | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 36 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2, | | | | | | 25 or 36 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1910 - 1930 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | Band c) or | MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 37 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 37. | | | | | | This | | | | | | unpaired | | | | | | band is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | M.1036, but | | | | | | is pending | | | | | | any future | | | | | | deployment. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2570 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band d) or | 2620 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 38 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 38. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1880 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | Band f) or | 1920MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 39 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 39 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2300 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | Band e) or | 2400MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 40 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 30 | | | | | | or 40 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2496 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | 41 | 2690MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 41 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3400 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | 42 | 3600 MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 22, | | | | | | 42 or 43 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3600 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | 43 | 3800 MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 42 | | | | | | or 43 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 703 - 803 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | 44 | MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 28 | | | | | | or 44 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 5: | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to a | | | | | | Band 2 BS | | | | | | of an | | | | | | earlier | | | | | | release. In | | | | | | addition, | | | | | | it does not | | | | | | apply to an | | | | | | Band 2 BS | | | | | | from an | | | | | | earlier | | | | | | release | | | | | | m | | | | | | anufactured | | | | | | before 31 | | | | | | December, | | | | | | 2012, which | | | | | | is upgraded | | | | | | to support | | | | | | Rel-10 | | | | | | features, | | | | | | where the | | | | | | upgrade | | | | | | does not | | | | | | affect | | | | | | existing RF | | | | | | parts of | | | | | | the radio | | | | | | unit | | | | | | related to | | | | | | this | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirement. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this subclause,
except for the cases where the noted requirements apply to a BS operating in
Band 25, Band 27, Band 28 or Band 29, the co-existence requirements in Table
6.6.1.3.1-1 do not apply for the 10 MHz frequency range immediately outside
the downlink operating band (see Tables 4.5-1 and 4.5-2). Emission limits for
this excluded frequency range may be covered by local or regional
requirements.
NOTE 2: Table 6.6.1.3.1-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the
frequency ranges in Table 4.5-1 or Table 4.5-2 would be overlapping, are not
deployed in the same geographical area. For such a case of operation with
overlapping frequency arrangements in the same geographical area, special co-
existence requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP
specifications.
NOTE 3: For the protection of DCS1800, UTRA Band III or E-UTRA Band 3 in
China, the frequency ranges of the downlink and uplink protection requirements
are 1805 -- 1850 MHz and 1710 -- 1755 MHz respectively.
NOTE 4: TDD base stations deployed in the same geographical area, that are
synchronized and use the same or adjacent operating bands can transmit without
additional co-existence requirements. For unsynchronized base stations,
special co-existence requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP
specifications.
NOTE 6: For Band 28 BS, specific solutions may be required to fulfil the
spurious emissions limits for BS for co-existence with Band 27 UL operating
band.
NOTE 7: For Band 29 BS, specific solutions may be required to fulfil the
spurious emissions limits for BS for co-existence with UTRA Band XII or E-UTRA
Band 12 UL operating band or E-UTRA Band 17 UL operating band.
The following requirement may be applied for the protection of PHS. This
requirement is also applicable at specified frequencies falling between 10 MHz
below the lowest BS transmitter frequency of the downlink operating band and
10 MHz above the highest BS transmitter frequency of the downlink operating
band.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 6.6.1.3.1-2: BS Spurious emissions limits for BS for co-existence with
PHS
* * *
Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1884.5 ‑ 1915.7 MHz
-41 dBm 300 kHz Applicable for co-existence with PHS system operating in
1884.5-1915.7MHz NOTE: The requirement is not applicable in China.
* * *
The following requirement may apply to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 41 in
certain regions. This requirement is also applicable at the frequency range
from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the BS downlink operating band up to
10 MHz above the highest frequency of the BS downlink operating band.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 6.6.1.3.1-3: Additional BS Spurious emissions limits for Band 41
* * *
Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 2505MHz -- 2535MHz
-42dBm 1 MHz  
2535MHz -- 2655MHz -22dBm 1 MHz Applicable at offsets ≥ 250% of channel
bandwidth from carrier frequency
NOTE: This requirement applies for 10 or 20 MHz E-UTRA carriers allocated
within 2545-2575MHz or 2595-2645MHz.
* * *
The following requirement may apply to BS operating in Band 30 in certain
regions. This requirement is also applicable at the frequency range from 10
MHz below the lowest frequency of the BS downlink operating band up to 10 MHz
above the highest frequency of the BS downlink operating band.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 6.6.1.3.1-4: Additional BS Spurious emissions limits for Band 30
* * *
Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 2200MHz -- 2345MHz
-45dBm 1 MHz  
2362.5MHz -- 2365MHz -25dBm 1 MHz  
2365MHz -- 2367.5MHz -40dBm 1 MHz  
2367.5MHz -- 2370MHz -42dBm 1 MHz  
2370MHz -- 2**395** MHz -45dBm 1 MHz
* * *
In addition to the requirements in subclauses 6.6.1.1, 6.6.1.2 and above in
the present subclause, the BS may have to comply with the applicable emission
limits established by FCC Title 47 [8], when deployed in regions where those
limits are applied, and under the conditions declared by the manufacturer.
#### 6.6.1.4 Co-location with other base stations
These requirements may be applied for the protection of other BS receivers
when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850, CDMA850, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or
E-UTRA BS are co-located with a BS.
The requirements assume a 30 dB coupling loss between transmitter and receiver
and are based on co-location with base stations of the same class.
NOTE: For co-location with UTRA, the requirements are based on co-location
with UTRA FDD or TDD base stations.
##### 6.6.1.4.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of Table
6.6.1.4.1-1 for a BS where requirements for co-location with a BS type listed
in the first column apply, depending on the declared Base Station class. For
BS capable of multi-band operation, the exclusions and conditions in the Note
column of Table 6.6.1.4.1-1 apply for each supported operating band. For BS
capable of multi-band operation where multiple bands are mapped on separate
antenna connectors, the exclusions and conditions in the Note column of Table
6.6.1.4.1-1 apply for the operating band supported at that antenna connector.
Table 6.6.1.4.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for BS co-located with another
BS
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Type of | Fr | Maximum | Maximum | Maximum | Meas | Note | | co- | equency | Level | Level | Level | urement | | | located | range | | | | Ba | | | BS | for | (WA-BS) | (MR-BS) | (LA-BS) | ndwidth | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GSM900 | 876-915 | -98 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | DCS1800 | 1710 - | -98 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | | 1785 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PCS1900 | 1850 - | -98 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | | 1910 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GSM850 | 824 - | -98 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | or | 849 MHz | | | | | | | CDMA850 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1920 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1980 | | | | | | | Band I | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 1 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1850 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1910 | | | | | | | Band II | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 2 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1710 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1785 | | | | | | | Band | MHz | | | | | | | III or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 3 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1710 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1755 | | | | | | | Band IV | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 4 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 824 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 849 MHz | | | | | | | Band V | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 5 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 830 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 845 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | VI, XIX | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 6, | | | | | | | | 19 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2500 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 2570 | | | | | | | Band | MHz | | | | | | | VII or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 7 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 880 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 915 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | VIII or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1749.9 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | - | | | | | | | Band IX | 1784.9 | | | | | | | or | MHz | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 9 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1710 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1770 | | | | | | | Band X | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 10 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1427.9 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | - | | | | | | | Band XI | 1447.9 | | | | | | | or | MHz | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 11 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 699 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 716 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | XII or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 12 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 777 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 787 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | XIII or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 13 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 788 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 798 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | XIV or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 14 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 704 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 17 | 716 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 815 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 18 | 830 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 832 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 862 MHz | | | | | | | Band XX | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 20 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1447.9 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | -- | | | | | | | Band | 1462.9 | | | | | | | XXI or | MHz | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 21 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 3410 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | FDD | 3490 | | | | | not | | Band | MHz | | | | | app | | XXII or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to BS | | Band 22 | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 42 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2000 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 23 | 2020 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1626.5 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 24 | -- | | | | | | | | 1660.5 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1850 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1915 | | | | | | | Band | MHz | | | | | | | XXV or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 25 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 814 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 849 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | XXVI or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 26 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 807 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 27 | 824 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 703 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 28 | 748 MHz | | | | | not | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 44 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2305 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 30 | 2315 | | | | | not | | | MHz | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 40 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 452.5 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 31 | -- | | | | | | | | 457.5 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1900 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 1920 | | | | | not | | Band a) | MHz | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to BS | | Band 33 | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 33 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2010 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 2025 | | | | | not | | Band a) | MHz | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to BS | | Band 34 | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 34 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1850 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 1910 | | | | | not | | Band b) | MHz | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to BS | | Band 35 | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 35 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1930 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 1990 | | | | | not | | Band b) | MHz | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to BS | | Band 36 | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 2 and | | | | | | | | 36 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1910 - | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 1930 | | | | | not | | Band c) | MHz | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to BS | | Band 37 | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | npaired | | | | | | | | band is | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | | | M.1036, | | | | | | | | but is | | | | | | | | pending | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | future | | | | | | | | depl | | | | | | | | oyment. | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2570 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 2620 | | | | | not | | Band d) | MHz | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to BS | | Band 38 | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 38. | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1880 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 1920MHz | | | | | not | | Band f) | | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to BS | | Band 39 | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 33 and | | | | | | | | 39 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2300 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 2400MHz | | | | | not | | Band e) | | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to BS | | Band 40 | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 30 or | | | | | | | | 40 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2496 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 41 | 2690MHz | | | | | not | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 41 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3400 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 42 | 3 | | | | | not | | | 600 MHz | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 22, 42 | | | | | | | | or 43 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3600 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 43 | 3 | | | | | not | | | 800 MHz | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 42 or | | | | | | | | 43 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 703 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 44 | 803 MHz | | | | | not | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 28 or | | | | | | | | 44 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this subclause, the
co-location requirements in Table 6.6.1.4.1-1 do not apply for the 10 MHz
frequency range immediately outside the BS transmit frequency range of a
downlink operating band (see Tables 4.5-1 and 4.5-2). The current state-of-
the-art technology does not allow a single generic solution for co-location
with other system on adjacent frequencies for 30 dB BS-BS minimum coupling
loss. However, there are certain site-engineering solutions that can be used.
These techniques are addressed in TR 25.942 [7].
NOTE 2: Table 6.6.1.4.1-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the
corresponding BS transmit and receive frequency ranges in Table 4.5-1 or Table
4.5-2 would be overlapping, are not deployed in the same geographical area.
For such a case of operation with overlapping frequency arrangements in the
same geographical area, special co-location requirements may apply that are
not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
NOTE 3: Co-located TDD base stations that are synchronized and using the same
or adjacent operating band can transmit without special co-locations
requirements. For unsynchronized base stations, special co-location
requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
### 6.6.2 Operating band unwanted emissions
Unless otherwise stated, the Operating band unwanted emission limits are
defined from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of each supported downlink
operating band to the lower Base Station RF Bandwidth edge located at F~BW\
RF,low~ and from the upper Base Station RF Bandwidth edge located at F~BW\
RF,high~ up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of each supported downlink
operating band.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered and
for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer\'s specification,
except for any operating band with GSM/EDGE single RAT operation. The
requirements in TS 45.005 [5] as defined in subclause 6.6.2.3 apply to an MSR
Base Station for any operating band with GSM/EDGE single RAT operation in Band
Category 2.
For BS capable of multi-band operation where multiple bands are mapped on
separate antenna connectors, the single-band requirements apply and the
cumulative evaluation of the emission limit in the Inter-RF Bandwidth gap are
not applicable.
#### 6.6.2.1 General minimum requirement for Band Categories 1 and 3
For a Wide Area BS operating in Band Category 1 or Band Category 3 the
requirement applies outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges. In addition,
for a Wide Area BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, it applies inside any
sub-block gap. In addition, for a Wide Area BS operating in multiple bands,
the requirements apply inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
For a Medium Range BS operating in Band Category 1 the requirement applies
outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges. In addition, for a Medium Range
BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, it applies inside any sub-block gap.
In addition, for a Medium Range BS operating in multiple bands, the
requirements apply inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
For a Local Area BS operating in Band Category 1 the requirement applies
outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges. In addition, for a Local Area BS
operating in non-contiguous spectrum, it applies inside any sub-block gap. In
addition, for a Local Area BS operating in multiple bands, the requirements
apply inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
Outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges, emissions shall not exceed the
maximum levels specified in Tables 6.6.2.1-1 to 6.6.2.1-4 below, where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the Base Station RF Bandwidth edge frequency
and the nominal -3 dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier
frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the Base Station RF Bandwidth edge
frequency and the centre of the measuring filter.
\- f_offset~max~ is the offset to the frequency 10 MHz outside the downlink
operating band.
\- ∆f~max~ is equal to f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measuring filter.
For a BS operating in multiple bands, inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gaps with
Wgap \ abs(800) kHz for CW interferer NOTE: Interfering signal
positions that are partially or completely outside of any downlink operating
band of the base station are excluded from the requirement.
* * *
### 6.7.3 Additional minimum requirement (BC3)
The transmitter intermodulation level shall not exceed the unwanted emission
limits in subclause 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 6.6.4 in the presence of a wanted signal and
an interfering signal according to Table 6.7.3-1 for BS operation in BC3.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies relative to
the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges of each operating band. In case the Inter
RF Bandwidth gap is less than 3.2 MHz, the requirement in the gap applies only
for interfering signal offsets where the interfering signal falls completely
within the Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
Table 6.7.3-1: Interfering signals for the Transmitter intermodulation
requirement (BC3)
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal type | 1.28Mcps UTRA TDD signal of | | | channel bandwidth 1.6MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal level | Rated total output power in the | | | operating band -- 30dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal centre | ±0.8 MHz | | frequency offset from Base | | | Station RF Bandwidth edge or | ±1.6 MHz | | sub-block edge inside a gap | | | | ±2.4 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: Interfering signal | | | positions that are partially or | | | completely outside of any | | | downlink operating band of the | | | base station are excluded from | | | the requirement. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 6.7.4 Additional requirements
In certain regions the following requirement may apply. For BS operating in
Band 41, the transmitter intermodulation level shall not exceed the maximum
levels specified in Table 6.6.1.3.1-3, Table 6.6.2.4.6-1 and Table 6.6.4.1-2
with a square filter in the first adjacent channel, in the presence of an
interfering signal according to Table 6.7.4‑1.
Table 6.7.4-1 Interfering and wanted signals for the additional transmitter
intermodulation requirement for Band 41
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Wanted signal | E-UTRA single carrier (NOTE) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal type | E-UTRA signal of the same | | | channel bandwidth as the wanted | | | signal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal level | Rated total output power in the | | | operating band -- 30dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal centre | ± BW~Channel~ | | frequency offset from the | | | lower/upper centre frequency of | ± 2 x BW~Channel~ | | the wanted signal | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: This requirement applies | | | for 10 or 20 MHz E-UTRA carriers | | | allocated within 2545-2575MHz or | | | 2595-2645MHz. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 7 Receiver characteristics
## 7.1 General
The requirements in clause 7 are expressed for a single receiver antenna
connector. For receivers with antenna diversity or in case of multi-carrier
reception with multiple receiver antenna connectors, the requirements apply
for each receiver antenna connector.
For blocking and intermodulation characteristics, the negative offsets of the
interfering signal apply relative to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency received and positive offsets of the interfering
signal apply relative to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequency received .
A BS supporting DC-HSUPA receives two UTRA FDD cells simultaneously on
adjacent carrier frequencies.
Unless otherwise stated, the receiver characteristics are specified at the BS
antenna connector (test port A) with a full complement of transceivers for the
configuration in normal operating conditions. For FDD operation the
requirements in clause 7 shall be met with the transmitter(s) on. If any
external apparatus such as a RX amplifier, a filter or the combination of such
devices is used, requirements apply at the far end antenna connector (test
port B).
NOTE: In normal operating conditions the BS in FDD operation is configured to
transmit and receive at the same time.. The transmitter may be off for some of
the tests as specifed in 37.141 [10].
Unless otherwise stated the requirements in clause 7 apply during the base
station receive period.
{width="6.166666666666667in" height="1.75in"}
Figure 7.1-1: Receiver test ports
E-UTRA throughput requirements defined for the receiver characteristics in
this clause do not assume HARQ retransmissions.
Values for **F~offset,\ RAT~** to meet receiver requirements are specific for
each RAT in each Band Category as specified in subclause 4.5.1 for Band
Category 1, subclause 4.5.2 for Band Category 2 and subclause 4.5.3 for Band
Category 3.
## 7.2 Reference sensitivity level
The reference sensitivity power level P~REFSENS~ is the minimum mean power
received at the antenna connector at which a reference performance requirement
shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
### 7.2.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified
in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified
in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified
in TS 45.005 [5], applicable parts of subclause 6.2.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.1 apply for GSM/EDGE
reference sensitivity.
## 7.3 Dynamic range
The dynamic range is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal in the presence of an interfering signal inside the received
channel bandwidth or the capability of receiving high level of wanted signal.
### 7.3.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 7.3.
### 7.3.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is specified in TS
25.104 [2], subclause 7.3.
### 7.3.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is specified in TS
25.105 [3], subclause 7.3.
### 7.3.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is expressed as
Nominal Error Rate and is specified in TS 45.005 [5], applicable parts of
subclause 6.1.1.1, 6.1.1.3, 6.1.2.2 and 6.1.3.2.
## 7.4 In-band selectivity and blocking
The in-band selectivity and blocking characteristics are measures of the
receiver ability to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the
presence of an unwanted interferer inside the operating band and are defined
by a (wideband) and a narrowband blocking requirement.
### 7.4.1 General blocking minimum requirement
For the general blocking requirement, the interfering signal shall be a UTRA
FDD signal as specified in Annex A.
The requirement is applicable outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth or Radio
Bandwidth. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges or Radio Bandwidth edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, the requirement applies in
addition inside any sub-block gap, in case the sub-block gap size is at least
15 MHz. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the sub-block
edges inside the sub-block gap.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies in addition
inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap, in case the gap size is at least 15 MHz.
The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base Station RF
Bandwidth edges inside the Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the base station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.1‑1 and 7.4.1-2, the following
requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies according to
Table 7.4.1-1 for the in-band blocking frequency ranges of each supported
operating band.
Table 7.4.1-1: General blocking requirement
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Base | Mean power | Wanted | Centre | Interfering | | Station | of | Signal mean | Frequency | signal | | Type | interfering | power | of | centre | | | signal | [dBm] | Interfering | frequency | | | [dBm] | | Signal | minimum | | | | (Note 1) | | frequency | | | | | | offset from | | | | | | the Base | | | | | | Station RF | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | edge or | | | | | | sub-block | | | | | | edge inside | | | | | | a gap | | | | | | [MHz] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Wide Area | -40 | P~REFSENS~ | See Table | ±7.5 | | BS | | + x dB\ | 7.4.1-2 | | | | | (Note 2) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Medium | -35 | P~REFSENS~ | | | | Range BS | | + x dB\ | | | | | | (Note 3) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Local Area | -30 | P~REFSENS~ | | | | BS | | + x dB\ | | | | | | (Note 4) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the RAT, | | | | | | the BS | | | | | | class and | | | | | | on the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth, | | | | | | see | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 7.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | WA BS, "x" | | | | | | is equal to | | | | | | 6 in case | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | or UTRA | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signals and | | | | | | equal to 3 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | MR BS, "x" | | | | | | is equal to | | | | | | 6 in case | | | | | | of UTRA | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signals, 9 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal and | | | | | | 3 in case | | | | | | of GSM/EDGE | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For | | | | | | LA BS, "x" | | | | | | is equal to | | | | | | 11 in case | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal, 6 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | UTRA wanted | | | | | | signal and | | | | | | equal to 3 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE5: For | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | capable of | | | | | | multi-band | | | | | | operation, | | | | | | "x" in Note | | | | | | 2, 3, 4 | | | | | | apply in | | | | | | case of | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signals | | | | | | that are in | | | | | | the in-band | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band where | | | | | | the wanted | | | | | | signal is | | | | | | present. | | | | | | For other | | | | | | in-band | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | ranges of | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal for | | | | | | the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | operating | | | | | | bands, "x" | | | | | | is equal to | | | | | | 1.4 dB. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 7.4.1-2: Interfering signal for the general blocking requirement
* * *
Operating Band Number Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal [MHz]  
1-7, 9-11, 13, 14, 18, 19, 21-23, 24, 27, 30, 33-44 (F~UL_low~ -20) to
(F~UL_high~ +20) 8, 26, 28 (F~UL_low~ -20) to (F~UL_high~ +10) 12 (F~UL_low~
-20) to (F~UL_high~ +13) 17 (F~UL_low~ -20) to (F~UL_high~ +18) 20 (F~UL_low~
-11) to (F~UL_high~ +20) 25 (F~UL_low~ -20) to (F~UL_high~ +15) 31 (F~UL_low~
-20) To (F~UL_high~ +5)
* * *
NOTE: The requirement in Table 7.4.1-1 and 7.4.1-2 assumes that two operating
bands, where the downlink operating band (see Table 4.5-1 and Table 4.5-2) of
one band would be within the in-band blocking region of the other band, are
not deployed in the same geographical area.
### 7.4.2 General narrowband blocking minimum requirement
For the general narrowband blocking requirement, the interfering signal shall
be an E-UTRA 1RB signal as specified in Annex A.
The requirement is applicable outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth or Radio
Bandwidth. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges or Radio Bandwidth edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, the requirement applies in
addition inside any sub-block gap, in case the sub-block gap size is at least
3 MHz. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the sub-block
edges inside the sub-block gap.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies in addition
inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap in case the gap size is at least 3 MHz. The
interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base Station RF Bandwidth
edges inside the Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the base station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.2‑1, the following requirements shall
be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
Table 7.4.2-1: Narrowband blocking requirement
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Base | RAT of the | Wanted | Interfering | Interfering | | Station | carrier | signal mean | signal mean | RB (Note 3) | | Type | | power | power | centre | | | | [dBm] | [dBm] | frequency | | | | | | offset from | | | | (Note 1) | | the Base | | | | | | Station RF | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | edge or | | | | | | sub-block | | | | | | edge inside | | | | | | a gap | | | | | | [kHz] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Wide Area | E-UTRA,\ | P~REFSENS~ | -49 | ±(240 | | BS | UTRA and | + x dB | | +m*180), | | | GSM/EDGE | (Note 2) | | | | | | | | m=0, 1, 2, | | | | | | 3, 4, 9, 14 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Medium | | | -44 | | | Range BS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Local Area | | | -41 | | | BS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the RAT, | | | | | | the BS | | | | | | class and | | | | | | on the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth, | | | | | | see | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 7.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: "x" | | | | | | is equal to | | | | | | 6 in case | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | or UTRA | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signals and | | | | | | equal to 3 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | (E-UTRA | | | | | | 3MHz) | | | | | | consisting | | | | | | of one | | | | | | resource | | | | | | block | | | | | | positioned | | | | | | at the | | | | | | stated | | | | | | offset, the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | of the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal is | | | | | | located | | | | | | adjacently | | | | | | to the Base | | | | | | Station RF | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | edge. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 7.4.3 Additional Narrowband blocking minimum requirement for GSM/EDGE
The GSM/EDGE in-band blocking requirement as stated in TS 45.005 [5],
applicable parts of subclauses 5.1.3 and 5.1.4, shall apply for any GSM/EDGE
carrier.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.2.1 apply for GSM/EDGE in-
band narrowband blocking.
### 7.4.4 GSM/EDGE requirements for AM suppression
The GSM/EDGE AM suppression requirement as stated in TS 45.005 [5], applicable
parts of subclauses 5.2.2, shall apply for any GSM/EDGE carrier.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.2.3 apply for GSM/EDGE AM
suppression.
### 7.4.5 Additional BC3 blocking minimum requirement
The interfering signal is a 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD modulated signal as specified
in Annex A.
The requirement is always applicable outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth or
Radio Bandwidth. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges or Radio Bandwidth edges.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies in addition
inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap, in case the gap size is at least 4.8 MHz.
The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base Station RF
Bandwidth edges inside the Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the base station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.5‑1, the following requirements shall
be met:
\- For any E-UTRA TDD carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
Table 7.4.5-1: Additional blocking requirement for Band Category 3
* * *
Operating Band Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal [MHz] Interfering Signal
mean power [dBm] Wanted Signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal centre
frequency minimum frequency offset from the Base Station RF Bandwidth edge
[MHz]  
33 - 40 (F~UL_low~ - 20) to (F~UL_high~ + 20) -40, P~REFSENS~ + 6 dB* ±2.4
NOTE*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT and on the channel bandwidth, see section
7.2.
* * *
## 7.5 Out-of-band blocking
The Out-of-band blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver ability
to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an
unwanted interferer outside the uplink operating band.
### 7.5.1 General minimum requirement
For a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS antenna input using the
parameters in Table 7.5.1-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies for each
supported operating band. The in-band blocking frequency ranges of all
supported operating bands according to Table 7.4.1-1 shall be excluded from
the requirement.
Table 7.5.1-1: Blocking performance requirement
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Op | Centre | Inte | Wanted | Type of | | | | erating | Fr | rfering | Signal | Inte | | | | Band | equency | Signal | mean | rfering | | | | Number | of | mean | power | Signal | | | | | Inte | power | [dBm] | | | | | | rfering | [dBm] | | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1-7, | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | 9-11, | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | 13, 14, | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | 18, 19, | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | 21-23, | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | 24, 27, | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | 33-44 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8, 26, | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | 28 | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +10) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +13) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 17 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +18) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 20 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -11) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 25 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +15) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 31 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE*: | | | | | | | | P~R | | | | | | | | EFSENS~ | | | | | | | | depends | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | RAT, | | | | | | | | the BS | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidth, | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bclause | | | | | | | | 7.2.\ | | | | | | | | "x" is | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 6 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | or UTRA | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signals | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 3 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 7.5.2 Co-location minimum requirement
This additional blocking requirement may be applied for the protection of BS
receivers when E-UTRA BS, UTRA, CDMA or GSM/EDGE operating in a different
frequency band are co-located with a BS.
The requirements in this subclause assume a 30 dB coupling loss between the
interfering transmitter and the BS receiver and are based on co-location with
base stations of the same class.
For a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS antenna input using the
parameters in Table 7.5.2-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
Table 7.5.2-1: Blocking requirement for co-location with BS in other frequency
bands.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Type of | Centre | Inte | Inte | Inte | Wanted | Type of | | co- | Fr | rfering | rfering | rfering | Signal | Inte | | located | equency | Signal | Signal | Signal | mean | rfering | | BS | of | mean | mean | mean | power | Signal | | | Inte | power | power | power | (dBm) | | | | rfering | for WA | for MR | for LA | | | | | Signal | BS | BS | BS | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GSM850 | 869 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | or | 894 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | CDMA850 | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GSM900 | 921 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | | 960 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | DCS1800 | 1805 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | | 1880 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | (Note | | | | dB* | | | | 4) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PCS1900 | 1930 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | | 1990 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2110 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 2170 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band I | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 1 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1930 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 1990 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band II | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 2 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1805 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 1880 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | III or | (Note | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | 4) | | | | | | | Band 3 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2110 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 2155 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band IV | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 4 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 869 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 894 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band V | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 5 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 875 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 885 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band VI | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 6 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2620 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 2690 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | VII or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 7 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 925 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 960 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | VIII or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1844.9 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | -- | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band IX | 1879.9 | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 9 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2110 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 2170 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band X | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 10 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1475.9 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | - | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band XI | 1495.9 | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 11 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 729 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 746 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XII or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 12 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 746 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 756 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XIIII | | | | | dB* | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 13 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 758 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 768 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XIV or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 14 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 734 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 17 | 746 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 860 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 18 | 875 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 875 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 890 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XIX or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 19 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 791 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 821 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band XX | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 20 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1495.9 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | -- | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | 1510.9 | | | | + x | | | XXI or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 21 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 3510 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 3590 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XXII or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 22 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2180 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 23 | 2200 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1525 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 24 | 1559 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1930 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 1995 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XXV or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 25 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 859 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 894 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XXVI or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 26 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 852 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 27 | 869 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 758 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 28 | 803 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 717 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 29 | 728 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + 6dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 23 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 30 | 50-2360 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 462.5 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 31 | -- | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | 467.5 | | | | + 6dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1452 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 1496 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + 6dB* | | | XXXII | (NOTE | | | | | | | or | 5) | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 32 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 19 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | TDD | 00-1920 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band a) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | Band 33 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 20 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | TDD | 10-2025 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band a) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | Band 34 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 18 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | TDD | 50-1910 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band b) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | Band 35 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 19 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | TDD | 30-1990 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band b) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | Band 36 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 19 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | TDD | 10-1930 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band c) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | Band 37 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 25 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | TDD | 70-2620 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band d) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 38 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 18 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | TDD | 80-1920 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band f) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 39 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 23 | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | TDD | 00-2400 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band e) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 40 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2496 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 41 | 2690 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3400 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 42 | 3600 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3600 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 43 | 3800 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 703 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 44 | 803 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1 | | | | | | | | (*): | | | | | | | | P~R | | | | | | | | EFSENS~ | | | | | | | | depends | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | RAT, | | | | | | | | the BS | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidth, | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bclause | | | | | | | | 7.2.\ | | | | | | | | "x" is | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 3 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 6 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | UTRA or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ignals. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Except | | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | do not | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | falls | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | any of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | pported | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band or | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | 10 MHz | | | | | | | | imme | | | | | | | | diately | | | | | | | | outside | | | | | | | | any of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | pported | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band.\ | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | | 13 the | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | do not | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | falls | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | 768-797 | | | | | | | | MHz. . | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | Some | | | | | | | | combi | | | | | | | | nations | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | | may not | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | ossible | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | co-site | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | above. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | current | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | ate-of- | | | | | | | | the-art | | | | | | | | tec | | | | | | | | hnology | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | | generic | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | olution | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | of UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | FDD on | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | djacent | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | uencies | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | 30dB | | | | | | | | BS-BS | | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | oupling | | | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | | | H | | | | | | | | owever, | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | te-engi | | | | | | | | neering | | | | | | | | so | | | | | | | | lutions | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | tec | | | | | | | | hniques | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | dressed | | | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | | | 25.942 | | | | | | | | [7]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | China, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | DCS1800 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | III BS | | | | | | | | is only | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | 1805-1 | | | | | | | | 850MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | | 11 or | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | 1475.9 | | | | | | | | -1495.9 | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | | Co- | | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | tations | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | synch | | | | | | | | ronized | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | same or | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | djacent | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | | without | | | | | | | | special | | | | | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | ements. | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | unsynch | | | | | | | | ronized | | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | ations, | | | | | | | | special | | | | | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | are not | | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | pecific | | | | | | | | ations. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 7.6 Receiver spurious emissions
The receiver spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or
amplified in a receiver that appear at the BS receiver antenna connector. The
requirements apply to all BS with separate RX and TX antenna ports. In this
case for FDD BS the test shall be performed when both TX and RX are on, with
the TX port terminated.
For TDD BS with common RX and TX antenna port the requirement applies during
the Transmitter OFF period. For FDD BS with common RX and TX antenna port the
transmitter spurious emission limits as specified in subclause 6.6.1 are
valid.
For BS capable of multi-band operation where multiple bands are mapped on
separate antenna connectors, the single-band requirements apply and the
excluded frequency range is only applicable for the operating band supported
on each antenna connector.
### 7.6.1 General minimum requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the levels in Table
7.6.1-1:
Table 7.6.1-1: General spurious emissions requirement
* * *
Frequency range Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth Note 30MHz ‑ 1 GHz -57 dBm
100 kHz  
1 GHz -- 12.75 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz  
12.75 GHz - 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating
band in GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz Applies only for Bands 22, 42 and 43. NOTE: The
frequency range from F~BW\ RF,DL,low~ -10 MHz to F~BW\ RF,,DLhigh~ + 10 MHz
may be excluded from the requirement. For BS capable of multi-band operation,
the exclusion applies for all supported operating bands. For BS capable of
multi-band operation where multiple bands are mapped on separate antenna
connectors, the single-band requirements apply and the excluded frequency
range is only applicable for the operating band supported on each antenna
connector.
* * *
In addition to the requirements in Table 7.6.1-1, the power of any spurious
emission shall not exceed the Additional spurious emissions requirements in
subclause 6.6.1.3 and in case of FDD BS (for BC1 and BC2) emission shall not
exceed the levels specified for Protection of the BS receivers of own or
different BS in subclause 6.6.1.2. In addition, the requirements for co-
location with other base stations specified in subclause 6.6.1.4 may also be
applied.
### 7.6.2 Additional minimum requirement for BC2 (Category B)
For a BS operating in Band Category 2 when GSM/EDGE is configured and where
Category B spurious emissions apply, the power of any spurious emissions shall
not exceed the limits in Table 7.6.2-1.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the limits in Table 7.6.2-1 are only
applicable when all supported operating bands belong to BC2 and GSM/EDGE is
configured in all bands.
Table 7.6.2-1: Additional BS spurious emissions limits for BC2, Category B
* * *
Frequency range Frequency offset from downlink operating band edge (Note 1)
Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth 500 MHz -- 1 GHz 10 -- 20 MHz -57 dBm 300
kHz 20 -- 30 MHz -57 dBm 1 MHz ≥ 30 MHz -57 dBm 3 MHz 1 GHz -- 12.75 GHz ≥ 30
MHz -47 dBm 3 MHz NOTE 1: For BS capable of multi-band operation, the
frequency offset is relative to the closest supported operating band.
* * *
## 7.7 Receiver intermodulation
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the presence of two
interfering signals which have a specific frequency relationship to the wanted
signal.
### 7.7.1 General intermodulation minimum requirement
Interfering signals shall be a CW signal and an E-UTRA or UTRA signal as
specified in Annex A.
The requirement is applicable outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth or Radio
Bandwidth. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges or Radio Bandwidth edges.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies in addition
inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap, in case the gap size is at least twice as
wide as the UTRA/E-UTRA interfering signal centre frequency offset from the
Base Station RF Bandwidth edge. The interfering signal offset is defined
relative to the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges inside the inter Base Station
RF Bandwidth gap.
For the wanted signal at the assigned channel frequency and two interfering
signals coupled to the base station antenna input, using the parameters in
Table 7.7.1-1 and 7.7.1-2, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.2.
Table 7.7.1-1: General intermodulation requirement
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Base Station | Mean power of | Wanted Signal | Type of | | Type | interfering | mean power | interfering | | | signals | [dBm] | signal | | | [dBm] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Wide Area BS | -48 | P~REFSENS~ +x | See Table | | | | dB (Note 2) | 7.7.1-2 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Medium Range | -44 | P~REFSENS~ +x | | | BS | | dB (Note 3) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Local Area BS | -38 | P~REFSENS~ +x | | | | | dB (Note 4) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | depends on the | | | | | RAT, the BS | | | | | class and on | | | | | the channel | | | | | bandwidth, see | | | | | subclause 7.2. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For WA | | | | | BS, "x" is | | | | | equal to 6 in | | | | | case of E-UTRA | | | | | or UTRA wanted | | | | | signals and | | | | | equal to 3 in | | | | | case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | wanted signal. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For MR | | | | | BS, "x" is | | | | | equal to 6 in | | | | | case of UTRA | | | | | wanted | | | | | signals, 9 in | | | | | case of E-UTRA | | | | | wanted signal | | | | | and equal to 3 | | | | | in case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | wanted signal. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For LA | | | | | BS, "x" is | | | | | equal to 12 in | | | | | case of E-UTRA | | | | | wanted | | | | | signals, 6 in | | | | | case of UTRA | | | | | wanted signal | | | | | and equal to 3 | | | | | in case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | wanted signal. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.7.1-2: Interfering signals for intermodulation requirement
* * *
RAT of the carrier adjacent to the upper/lower Base Station RF Bandwidth edge
Interfering signal centre frequency offset from the Base Station RF Bandwidth
edge [MHz] Type of interfering signal
E-UTRA 1.4 MHz ±2.0 (BC1 and BC3) /\ CW ±2.1 (BC2)
                                                                                  ±4.9                                                                                         1.4MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 3 MHz ±4.4 (BC1 and BC3) /\ CW ±4.5 (BC2)
                                                                                  ±10.5                                                                                        3MHz E-UTRA signal
UTRA FDD and\ ±7.5 CW E-UTRA 5 MHz
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 10 MHz ±7.375 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 15 MHz ±7.25 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 20 MHz ±7.125 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
GSM/EDGE ±7.575 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD ±2.3 (BC3) CW
                                                                                  ±5.6 (BC3)                                                                                   1.28Mcps UTRA TDD signal
* * *
### 7.7.2 General narrowband intermodulation minimum requirement
Interfering signals shall be a CW signal and an E-UTRA 1RB signal as specified
in Annex A.
The requirement is applicable outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth or Radio
Bandwidth. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges or Radio Bandwidth edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum within each supported operating
band, the requirement applies in addition inside any sub-block gap in case the
sub-block gap is at least as wide as the channel bandwidth of the E-UTRA
interfering signal in Table 7.7.2-2. The interfering signal offset is defined
relative to the sub-block edges inside the gap.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies in addition
inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap in case the gap size is at least as wide as
the E-UTRA interfering signal in Table 7.7.2-2. The interfering signal offset
is defined relative to the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges inside the Inter RF
Bandwidth gap.
For the wanted signal at the assigned channel frequency and two interfering
signals coupled to the base station antenna input, using the parameters in
Table 7.7.2-1 and 7.7.2-2, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.2.
Table 7.7.2-1: General narrowband intermodulation requirement
* * *
Base Station Type Mean power of interfering signals [dBm] Wanted Signal mean
power [dBm] Type of interfering signal
Wide Area BS -52 P~REFSENS~ +x dB* See Table 7.7.2-2
Medium Range BS -47
Local Area BS -44
NOTE*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT, the BS class and on the channel
bandwidth, see subclause 7.2.\  
"x" is equal to 6 in case of E-UTRA or UTRA wanted signals and equal to 3 in
case of GSM/EDGE wanted signal.
* * *
Table 7.7.2-2: Interfering signals for narrowband intermodulation requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RAT of the carrier | CW or 1RB | Type of interfering | | adjacent to the | interfering signal | signal | | upper/lower Base | centre frequency | | | Station RF Bandwidth | offset from the Base | | | edge or sub-block | Station RF Bandwidth | | | edge | edge or sub-block | | | | edge inside a gap | | | | [kHz] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 1.4 MHz | ±260 (BC1 and BC3) | CW | | | /\ | | | | ±270 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±970 (BC1 and BC3) | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | /\ | signal, 1 RB* | | | ±790 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 3 MHz | ±260 (BC1 and BC3) | CW | | | /\ | | | | ±270 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±960 (BC1 and BC3) | 3.0 MHz E-UTRA | | | /\ | signal, 1 RB* | | | ±780 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 5 MHz | ±360 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1060 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 10 MHz | ±325 | CW | | | | | | (**) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1240 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 15 MHz | ±380 | CW | | | | | | (**) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1600 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 20 MHz | ±345 | CW | | | | | | (**) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1780 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UTRA FDD | ±345 (BC1 and BC2) | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1780 (BC1 and BC2) | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSM/EDGE | ±340 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±880 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.28Mcps UTRA TDD | ±190 (BC3) | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±970 (BC3) | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | | signal, 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE*: Interfering | | | | signal consisting of | | | | one resource block | | | | positioned at the | | | | stated offset, the | | | | channel bandwidth of | | | | the interfering | | | | signal is located | | | | adjacently to the | | | | Base Station RF | | | | Bandwidth edge. | | | | | | | | NOTE**: This | | | | requirement shall | | | | apply only for an | | | | E-UTRA FRC A1-3 | | | | mapped to the | | | | frequency range at | | | | the channel edge | | | | adjacent to the | | | | interfering signals. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 7.7.3 Additional narrowband intermodulation minimum requirement for
GSM/EDGE
The GSM/EDGE MC-BTS receiver intermodulation requirement as stated in TS
45.005 [5], applicable parts of subclause 5.3.2 shall apply for any GSM/EDGE
carrier.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.2.2 apply for the GSM/EDGE
intermodulation requirement.
## 7.8 In-channel selectivity
In-channel selectivity (ICS) is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned resource block locations in the presence of an
interfering signal received at a larger power spectral density. In this
condition a throughput requirement shall be met for a specified reference
measurement channel.
### 7.8.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for in-channel selectivity is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 7.4.
# 8 Performance requirements
Performance requirements specify the ability of the BS to correctly demodulate
signals in various conditions and configurations. For UTRA and E-UTRA the
requirements specify a minimum throughput or maximum BLER or BER that shall be
achieved at a specific SNR. For GSM/EDGE the requirements specify a maximum
FER, BLER or BER that shall be achieved at specific sensitivity levels (C) and
specific carrier-to-interference ratios (C/I).
## 8.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirements for performance are specified in TS
36.104 [4], clause 8.
## 8.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for performance are specified in TS
25.104 [2], clause 8.
## 8.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirements for performance are specified in TS
25.105 [3], clause 8.
## 8.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirements for reference sensitivity level and
reference interference level are specified in TS 45.005 [5], applicable parts
of clauses 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6. The conditions specified in TS 45.005
[5], Annex P.1 are valid for GSM sensitivity and interference performance.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Characteristics of interfering signals
# A.1 UTRA FDD interfering signal
The UTRA FDD interfering signal shall be a DPCH containing the DPCCH and one
DPDCH. The data content for each channelization code shall be uncorrelated
with each other and to the wanted signal and spread and modulated according to
clause 4 of TS 25.213. Further characteristics of DPDCH and DPCCH are
specified in Table A.1-1.
Table A.1-1: Characteristics of UTRA FDD interfering signal
* * *
Channel Bit Rate Spreading Factor Channelization Code Relative Power DPDCH 240
kbps 16 4 0 dB DPCCH 15 kbps 256 0 -5.46 dB NOTE: The DPDCH and DPCCH settings
are chosen to simulate a signal with realistic Peak to Average Ratio.
* * *
# A.2 UTRA TDD interfering signal
The UTRA TDD interfering signal shall be 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD signal with one
code. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the wanted signal. They are
specified in Table A.2-1.
Table A.2-1: Characteristics of UTRA TDD interfering signal
* * *
UTRA TDD option Type of Interfering Signal 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD 1,28 Mcps UTRA
TDD signal with one code*
* NOTE: The channelisation code ID and Midamble shift shall be different with the wanted signal's. 
* * *
# A.3 E-UTRA interfering signal
The E-UTRA interfering signal shall be a PUSCH containing data and reference
symbols. Normal CP is used. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the
wanted signal and modulated according to clause 5 of TS 36.211. Mapping of
PUSCH modulation to receiver requirement are specified in Table A.3-1.
Table A.3-1: Modulation of the E-UTRA interfering signal
* * *
Receiver requirement Modulation Narrowband blocking QPSK Receiver
intermodulation QPSK
* * *
###### ## Annex B (normative): Environmental requirements for the BS equipment
The BS equipment shall fulfil all the requirements in the full range of
environmental conditions for the relevant environmental class. The
environmental conditions and class shall be from the relevant IEC
specifications or the corresponding ETSI specifications listed below.
IEC specifications for environmental requirements:
IEC 60 721-3-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\" [11]
IEC 60 721-3-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\" [12]
ETSI specifications for environmental requirements:
ETSI EN 300 019-1-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\" [13]
ETSI EN 300 019-1-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\" [14]
Normally it should be sufficient for all tests to be conducted using normal
test conditions except where otherwise stated. For guidance on the use of test
conditions to be used in order to show compliance refer to TS 37.141 [10].
#