# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides an overview and overall description of the
**minimization of drive tests functionality**.
The document describes functions and procedures to support collection of UE-
specific measurements for MDT using Control Plane architecture, for both UTRAN
and E-UTRAN.
Details of the signalling procedures for single-RAT operation are specified in
**the appropriate** radio interface protocol specification. Network operation
and overall control of MDT is described in OAM specifications.
NOTE: The focus is on conventional macro cellular network deployments. In the
current release no specific support is provided for H(e)NB deployments.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.133: \"Requirements for support of radio resource management
(FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Requirements for support of radio resource management
(FDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace control and
configuration management\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.215: \"Physical Layer; Measurements (FDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.225: \"Physical Layer; Measurements (TDD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical Layer; Measurements\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC); Protocol Specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.314: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Layer 2 -- Measurements\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.321: \"Medium Access Control (MAC) Protocol Specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
**Immediate MDT:** MDT functionality involving measurements performed by the
UE in CONNECTED state and reporting of the measurements to eNB/RNC available
at the time of reporting condition as well as measurements by the network for
MDT purposes.
**Logged MDT:** MDT functionality involving measurement logging by UE in IDLE
mode, CELL_PCH, URA_PCH states and CELL_FACH state when second DRX cycle is
used (when UE is in UTRA) for reporting to eNB/RNC at a later point in time,
and logging of MBSFN measurements by E-UTRA UE in IDLE and CONNECTED modes.
**Management Based MDT PLMN List:** MDT PLMN List applicable to management
based MDT.
**MDT measurements:** Measurements determined for MDT.
**MDT PLMN List:** A list of PLMNs where MDT is allowed for a user. It is a
subset of the EPLMN list and RPLMN at the time when MDT is initiated.
**Signalling Based MDT PLMN List:** MDT PLMN List applicable to signalling
based MDT.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACK Acknowledgement
AICH Aquisition Indicator Channel
BLER Block Error Rate
CA Carrier Aggregation
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access
CN Core Network
CPICH Common Pilot Channel
DCH Dedicated CHannel
DL Downlink
DRX Discontinuous Reception
ECGI E-UTRAN Cell Global Identifier
E-CID Enhanced Cell-ID (positioning method)
E-DCH Enhanced Uplink DCH
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
E-RUCCH E-DCH Random Access Uplink Control CHannel
eNB Evolved NodeB
EPLMN Equivalent PLMN
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
FACH Forward Access CHannel
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FIFO First Input First Output
FPACH Fast Physical Access CHannel
GERAN GSM EDGE Radio Access Network
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
HOF Handover Failure
IMEI-SV International Mobile Equipment Identity Software Version
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
IP Internet Protocol
ISCP Interference on Signal Code Power
LA Location Area
LTE Long Term Evolution
MAC Medium Access Control
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MBSFN MBMS Single Frequency Network
MDT Minimization of Drive-Tests
OAM Operation and Maintanence
P-CCPCH Primary Physical Common Control CHannel
PCH Paging Channel
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PH Power Headroom
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PS Packet Switched
QCI QoS Class Identifier
QoS Quality of Service
RA Routing Area
RAB Radio Access Bearer
RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Radio Bearer
RF Radio Frequency
RLC Radio Link Control
RLF Radio Link Failure
RNC Radio Network Controller
RPLMN Registered PLMN
RRC Radio Resource Control
RRM Radio Resource Management
RSCP Received Signal Code Power
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
RTWP Received Total Wideband Power
SCell Secondary Cell
SIR Signal to Interference Ratio
SINR Signal to Noise plus Interference Ratio
SNR Signal to Noise Ratio
SON Self Organizing/Optimizing Network
SRB Signalling Radio Bearer
SRNC Serving RNC
TA Tracking Area
TCE Trace Collection Entity
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
UPH Uplink PH
URA UTRAN Registration Area
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Main concept and requirements
## 4.1 General
The general principles and requirements guiding the definition of functions
for Minimization of drive tests are the following:
**1\. MDT mode\** There are two modes for the MDT measurements: Logged MDT and
Immediate MDT. There are also cases of measurement collection not specified as
either immediate or logged MDT, such as Accessibility measurements.
**2\. UE measurement configuration\** It is possible to configure MDT
measurements for the UE logging purpose independently from the network
configurations for normal RRM purposes. However, in most cases, the
availability of measurement results is conditionally dependent on the UE RRM
configuration.
**3\. UE measurement collection and reporting\ UE MDT** measurement logs
consist of multiple events and measurements taken over time. The time interval
for measurement collection and reporting is decoupled in order to limit the
impact on the UE battery consumption and network signalling load.
**4\. Geographical scope of measurement logging\** It is possible to configure
the geographical area where the defined set of measurements shall be
collected.
**5\. Location information\** The measurements shall be linked to available
location information and/or other information or measurements that can be used
to derive location information.
**6\. Time information\** The measurements in measurement logs shall be linked
to a time stamp.
**7\. UE capability information\** The network may use UE capabilities to
select terminals for MDT measurements.
**8\. Dependency on SON\** The solutions for MDT are able to work
independently from SON support in the network. Relation between
measurements/solution for MDT and UE side SON functions shall be established
in a way that re-use of functions is achieved where possible.
**9\. Dependency on TRACE\** The subscriber/cell trace functionality is reused
and extended to support MDT. If the MDT is initiated toward to a specific UE
(e.g. based on IMSI, IMEI-SV, etc.), the signalling based trace procedure is
used, otherwise the management based trace procedure (or cell traffic trace
procedure) is used. Network signalling and overall control of MDT is described
in TS 32.422 [6].
The solutions for MDT shall take into account the following constraints:
**1\. UE measurements\** The UE measurement logging mechanism is an optional
feature. In order to limit the impact on UE power consumption and processing,
the UE measurement logging should as much as possible rely on the measurements
that are available in the UE according to radio resource management enforced
by the access network.
**2\. Location information\** The availability of location information is
subject to UE capability and/or UE implementation. Solutions requiring
location information shall take into account power consumption of the UE due
to the need to run its positioning components.
# 5 Functions and procedures
## 5.1 General procedures
### 5.1.1 Logged MDT procedures
Support of Logged MDT complies with the principles for idle mode measurements
in the UE specified in TS 25.133[2] and TS 36.133 [3] and principles for IDLE
and CONNECTED mode MBSFN measurements in the UE specified in TS 36.133 [3].
NOTE: It should be noted the established principles may result in different
logged information in different UEs.
Furthermore, measurement logging is differentiated based on UE states in idle
mode i.e. camped normally, any cell selection or camped on any cell. The UE
shall perform measurement logging in \"camped normally\" state. In \"any cell
selection\" and \"camped on any cell\" state the UE is not required to perform
MDT measurement logging (including time and location information).
For Logged MDT, the configuration, measurement collection and reporting of the
concerning measurement will always be done in cells of the same RAT type.
Logging of MBSFN measurements is only applicable to E-UTRA.
#### 5.1.1.1 Measurement configuration
Logged MDT measurements are configured with a MDT Measurement Configuration
procedure, as shown in Figure 5.1.1.1-1.
Figure 5.1.1.1-1: MDT measurement configuration for Logged MDT
Network initiates the procedure to UE in RRC Connected by sending
_LoggedMeasurementConfiguration_ message, which is used to transfer
configuration parameters for Logged MDT. This is a unidirectional RRC
signalling procedure.
A release operation for logged measurement configuration in the UE is realized
only by configuration replacement when the configuration is overwritten or by
configuration clearance in case a duration timer stopping or expiration
condition is met.
##### 5.1.1.1.1 Configuration parameters
The logged measurement configuration consists of:
\- configuration of downlink pilot strength measurements logging.
\- configuration of MBSFN measurement logging for E-UTRA.
\- configuration of the triggering of logging events. Only periodic
measurement trigger is supported, for which the logging interval is
configurable. The parameter specifies the periodicity for storing MDT
measurement results. It should be configured in seconds in multiples of the
applied IDLE mode DRX, i.e. multiples of 1.28s which is either a factor or
multiple of the IDLE mode DRX. The UE behaviour is unspecified when the UE is
configured with a DRX cycle larger than the logging interval.
  * configuration of the logging duration. This configuration parameter > defines a timer activated at the moment of configuration, that > continues independent of state changes, RAT or RPLMN change. When > the timer expires the logging is stopped and the configuration is > cleared (except for the parameters that are required for further > reporting e.g.network absolute time stamp, trace reference, trace > recording session reference and TCE Id).
  * network absolute time stamp to be used as a time reference to UE
  * Trace Reference parameter as indicated by the OAM configuration as > specified in TS 32.422 [6]
  * Trace Recording Session Reference as indicated by the OAM > configuration as specified in TS 32.422 [6]
  * TCE Id as indicated by the OAM configuration as specified in TS > 32.422 [6]
  * MDT PLMN List, indicating the PLMNs where measurement collection and > log reporting is allowed. It is either the Management Based MDT > PLMN List or the Signalling Based MDT PLMN List, depending on how > the Logged MDT task was initiated (see 5.1.3).
\- (optionally) configuration of a logging area. A UE will log measurements as
long as it is within the configured logging area. The scope of the logging
area may consist of one of:
\- a list of up to 32 global cell identities. If this list is configured, the
UE will only log measurements when camping in any of these cells
\- a list of up to 8 TAs or 8 LAs or 8 RAs. If this list is configured, the UE
will only log measurements when camping in any cell belonging to the
preconfigured TA/LA/RAs.
\- The configured logging area can span PLMNs in the MDT PLMN List. If no area
is configured, the UE will log measurements throughout the PLMNs of the MDT
PLMN list.
\- (optionally) configuration of target MBSFN area(s) for MBSFN measurement
logging. If target MBSFN area(s) is configured, UE applies it in addition to
other restrictions such as the logging area. The UE will log measurements as
long as it receives MBMS service from an indicated target MBSFN area and is
within the configured logging area. The target MBSFN area(s) is defined by a
list of up to 8 entries, where each entry indicates a carrier frequency and
optionally indicates a specific MBSFN area on a carrier frequency.
##### 5.1.1.1.2 Configuration effectiveness
The logged measurement configuration is provided in a cell by dedicated
control while UE is in CONNECTED and implies:
\- logged measurement configuration for downlink pilot strength measurements
logging is active
\- in IDLE UE state in E-UTRAN, or
\- in IDLE mode, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH states in UTRAN, or
\- in CELL_FACH state when second DRX cycle is used in UTRAN
\- until logging duration timer expires or stops
\- logged measurement configuration for MBSFN measurement logging is active
\- in IDLE and CONNECTED UE states in E-UTRAN
\- until logging duration timer expires or stops
\- logged measurement configuration and logs are maintained when the UE is in
any state as described above, despite multiple periods interrupted by UE state
transitions, e.g. for downlink pilot strength measurements when the UE is in
CONNECTED state for E-UTRAN and CELL_DCH, CELL_FACH state when second DRX
cycle is not used in UTRAN
\- logged measurement configuration and logs are maintained when the UE is in
any state as described above in that RAT, despite multiple periods interrupted
by UE presence in another RAT
There is only one RAT-specific logged measurement configuration for Logged MDT
in the UE. When the network provides a configuration, any previously
configured logged measurement configuration will be entirely replaced by the
new one. Moreover, logged measurements corresponding to the previous
configuration will be cleared at the same time. It is left up to the network
to retrieve any relevant data before providing a new configuration.
NOTE: The network may have to do inter-RAT coordination.
When a logging area is configured, logged MDT measurements are performed as
long as the UE is within this logging area. If no logging area is configured,
logged MDT measurements are performed as long as the RPLMN is part of the MDT
PLMN list. When the UE is not in the logging area or RPLMN is not part of the
MDT PLMN list, the logging is suspended, i.e. the logged measurement
configuration and the log are kept but measurement results are not logged. In
addition, for MBSFN logged measurements, logged MDT measurements are performed
in logging intervals when the UE receives MBMS service from a MBSFN area
according to the target MBSFN area(s) configuration When the UE is not in the
logging area or does not receive MBMS service from a MBSFN area that matches
the target MBSFN area(s) configuration in the logging interval the logged
measurement configuration and the log are kept but measurement results are not
logged.
NOTE: The logging duration timer continues.
In case the new PLMN that does not belong to the MDT PLMN list provides a
logged measurement configuration any previously configured logged measurement
configuration and corresponding log are cleared and overwritten without being
retrieved.
#### 5.1.1.2 Measurement collection
In \"camp normally\" state, a UE shall perform logging as per the logged
measurement configuration. This state includes a period between cell selection
criteria not being met and UE entering "any cell selection" state, i.e. 10 s
for E-UTRA (See TS 36.133 [3]) or 12 s for UTRA (See TS 25.133 [2]). In \"any
cell selection\" or \"camped on any cell\" state, the periodic logging stops.
However, it should be noted that the duration timer is kept running. When the
UE re-enters "camped normally" state and the duration timer has not expired,
the periodic logging is restarted based on new DRX and logging resumes
automatically (with a leap in time stamp).
For E-UTRA MBSFN measurement logging, the UE shall perform MBSFN measurements
only when receiving MBMS service, and measurement logging is performed only
for logging intervals for which MBSFN measurements are available. The UE shall
perform MBSFN measurements and MBSFN measurement logging in both IDLE and
CONNECTED modes.
NOTE: the UE is only required to perform MBSFN measurements when receiving
MBMS service of the MBSFN area(s) targeted for logging.
The measurement quantities for downlink pilot strength measurement logging are
fixed and consist of both RSRP and RSRQ for EUTRA, both RSCP and Ec/No for
UTRA FDD, P-CCPCH RSCP for UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD, Rxlev for GERAN, and Pilot Pn
Phase and Pilot Strength for CDMA2000 if the serving cell is EUTRAN cell.
The measurement quantities for E-UTRA MBSFN measurement logging are fixed and
consist of MBSFN RSRP, MBSFN RSRQ, BLER for signalling and BLER for data per
MCH, in addition to the measurement quantities for downlink pilot strength
measurements.
UE collects MDT measurements and continues logging according to the logged
measurement configuration until UE memory reserved for MDT is full. In this
case the UE stops logging, stops the log duration timer and starts the 48 hour
timer.
#### 5.1.1.3 Measurement reporting
##### 5.1.1.3.1 Availability Indicator
A UE configured to perform Logged MDT downlink pilot strength measurements
indicates the availability of Logged MDT measurements, by means of an
indicator, in RRCConnectionSetupComplete message during connection
establishment. Furthermore, the indicator (possibly updated) shall be provided
within E-UTRAN handover and re-establishment, and UTRAN procedures involving
the change of SRNC (SRNC relocation), CELL UPDATE, URA UPDATE messages as well
as MEASUREMENT REPORT message in case of state transition to CELL_FACH without
CELL UPDATE. The UE includes the indication in one of these messages at every
transition to RRC Connected mode even though the logging period has not ended,
upon connection to RAT which configured the UE to perform Logged MDT
measurements and RPLMN which is equal to a PLMN in the MDT PLMN list.
A E-UTRA UE configured to perform Logged MDT MBSFN measurements indicates the
availability of Logged MDT MBSFN measurements, by means of an indicator, in
RRCConnectionSetupComplete message during connection establishment. The
indicator (possibly updated) shall be provided within E-UTRAN also at handover
and re-establishment, except when the logged measurement configuration is
active in CONNECTED mode, i.e. except when the logging campaign is still
ongoing.
An indicator shall be also provided in UEInformationResponse message during
MDT report retrieval in case the UE has not transferred the total log in one
RRC message in order to indicate the remaining data availability.
The UE will not indicate the availability of MDT measurements in another RAT
or in a PLMN that is not in the MDT PLMN list.
The network may decide to retrieve the logged measurements based on this
indication. In case Logged MDT measurements are retrieved before the
completion of the pre-defined logging duration, the reported measurement
results are deleted, but MDT measurement logging will continue according to
ongoing logged measurement configuration.
In case the network does not retrieve Logged MDT measurements, UE should store
non-retrieved measurements for 48 hours from the moment the duration timer for
logging expired. There is no requirement to store non-retrieved data beyond 48
hours. In addition, all logged measurement configuration and the log shall be
removed by the UE at switch off or detach.
##### 5.1.1.3.2 Report retrieval
For Logged MDT the measurement reporting is triggered by an on-demand
mechanism, i.e. the UE is asked by the network to send the collected
measurement logs via RRC signalling. UE Information procedure defined in TS
25.331 [4] and TS 36.331 [5] is used to request UE to send the collected
measurement logs. The reporting may occur in different cells than which the
logged measurement configuration is signalled.
Transport of Logged MDT reports in multiple RRC messages is supported. With
every request, the network may receive a part of the total UE log. To indicate
the reported data is a segment, the UE shall include data availability
indicator as specified in 5.1.1.3.1. In multiple RRC transmissions for
segmented Logged MDT reporting, FIFO order is followed, i.e. the UE should
provide oldest available measurement entries in earliest message. There is no
requirement specified on the size of particular reporting parts. However, each
reported part should be "self-decodable", i.e. interpretable even in case all
the other parts are not available.
The UE shall send an empty report when retrieval is attempted and the RPLMN is
not in the MDT PLMN list.
##### 5.1.1.3.3 Reporting parameters
For downlink pilot strength measurements, the logged measurement report
consists of measurement results for the serving cell (the measurement
quantity), available UE measurements performed in idle for intra-
frequency/inter-frequency/inter-RAT, time stamp and location information.
For E-UTRA MBSFN measurements logging, the logged measurement report consists
of MBSFN measurement results from target MBSFN area(s), if configured, and
available downlink pilot strength measurement results. Inter-RAT downlink
pilot strength measurements are not required to be logged.
The number of neighbouring cells to be logged is limited by a fixed upper
limit per frequency for each category below. The UE should log the measurement
results for the neighbouring cells, if available, up to:
\- 6 for intra-frequency neighbouring cells
\- 3 for inter-frequency neighbouring cells
\- 3 for GERAN neighbouring cells
\- 3 for UTRAN (if non-serving) neighbouring cells
\- 3 for E-UTRAN (if non-serving) neighbouring cells
\- 3 for CDMA2000 (if serving is E-UTRA) neighbouring cells
The measurement reports for neighbour cells consist of:
\- Physical cell identity of the logged cell
\- Carrier frequency
\- RSRP and RSRQ for EUTRA
\- RSCP and Ec/No for UTRA FDD,
**\- P-CCPCH RSCP for UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD,** and
\- Rxlev for GERAN
\- Pilot Pn Phase and Pilot Strength for CDMA2000
For any logged cell (serving or neighbour), latest available measurement
result made for cell reselection purposes is included in the log only if it
has not already been reported.
While logging neighbour cells measurements, the UE shall determine a fixed
number of best cells based on the measurement quantity used for ranking during
cell reselection per frequency or RAT.
The MBSFN measurement results consist of, per MBSFN area where MBMS service is
received:
\- MBSFN area identity
\- Carrier frequency
\- MBSFN RSRP
\- MBSFN RSRQ
\- MCH BLER for signalling
\- MCH BLER for data, and related MCH index
Measurements are performed in accordance with requirements defined in TS
25.133 [2] and TS 36.133 [3].
The measurement report is self contained, i.e. the RAN node is able to
interpret the Logged MDT reporting results even if it does not have access to
the logged measurement configuration. Each measurement report also contains
the necessary parameters for the network to be able to route the reports to
the correct TCE and for OAM to identify what is reported. The parameters are
sent to the UE in the logged configuration message, see subclause 5.1.1.1.1.
For each MDT measurement the UE includes a relative time stamp. The base unit
for time information in the Logged MDT reports is the second. In the log, the
time stamp indicates the point in time when periodic logging timer expires.
The time stamp is counted in seconds from the moment the logged measurement
configuration is received at the UE, relative to the absolute time stamp
received within the configuration. The absolute time stamp is the current
network time at the point when Logged MDT is configured to the UE. The UE
echoes back this absolute reference time. The time format for Logged MDT
report is: _YY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS_.
Location information is based on available location information in the UE.
Thus, the Logged MDT measurements are tagged by the UE with location data in
the following manner:
\- ECGI or Cell-Id of the serving cell when the measurement was taken is
always included in E-UTRAN or UTRAN respectively
\- Detailed location information (e.g. GNSS location information) is included
if available in the UE when the measurement was taken. If detailed location
information is available the reporting shall consist of latitude and
longitude. Depending on availability, altitude, uncertainty and confidence may
be also additionally included. UE tags available detailed location information
only once with upcoming measurement sample, and then the detailed location
information is discarded, i.e. the validity of detailed location information
is implicitly assumed to be one logging interval.
NOTE: The neighbour cell measurement information that is provided by the UE
may be used to determine the UE location (RF fingerprint).
Depending on location information, measurement log/report consists of:
\- time information, RF measurements, RF fingerprints, or
\- time information, RF measurements, detailed location information (e.g. GNSS
location information)
#### 5.1.1.4 MDT context handling during handover
For Logged MDT in IDLE, CELL_PCH, URA_PCH states and CELL_FACH state when
second DRX cycle is used, no need is identified to transfer an MDT context
(any related configuration information about measurement and reporting)
between (e)NBs/RNCs. In addition, MDT context is assumed to be released in the
RAN nodes when the UE is in IDLE.
### 5.1.2 Immediate MDT procedures
### 5.1.2.1 Measurement configuration
For Immediate MDT, RAN measurements and UE measurements can be configured. The
configuration for UE measurements is based on the existing RRC measurement
procedures for configuration and reporting with some extensions for location
information.
NOTE: No extensions related to time stamp are expected for Immediate MDT i.e.
time stamp is expected to be provided by eNB/RNC.
If area scope is included in the MDT configuration provided to the RAN, the UE
is configured with respective measurement when the UE is connected to a cell
that is part of the configured area scope.
#### 5.1.2.2 Measurement reporting
For Immediate MDT, the UE provides detailed location information (e.g. GNSS
location information) if available. The UE also provides available neighbour
cell measurement information that may be used to determine the UE location (RF
fingerprint). ECGI or Cell-Id of the serving cell when the measurement was
taken is always assumed known in E-UTRAN or UTRAN respectively.
The location information which comes with UE radio measurements for MDT can be
correlated with other MDT measurements, e.g. RAN measurements. For MDT
measurements where UE location information is provided separately, it is
assumed that the correlation of location information and MDT measurements
should be done in the TCE based on time-stamps.
#### 5.1.2.3 MDT context handling during handover
The measurements configured in the UE for Immediate MDT should fully comply
with the transferring and reconfiguration principles for the current
measurements configured in the UE for RRM purpose during handover (including
conformance with Rel-8 and Rel-9).
The target node releases the measurements configured in the UE for immediate
MDT which are no longer needed based on any MDT trace configuration it
receives or does not receive.
In addition, MDT configuration handling during handover depends on MDT
initiation from OAM defined in section 5.1.3:
\- The MDT configuration configured by management based trace function will
not propagate during handover.
\- For LTE, the MDT configuration received by signalling based trace messages
for a specific UE will propagate during intra-PLMN handover, and may propagate
during inter-PLMN handover if the Signalling Based MDT PLMN List is available
and includes the target PLMN. This behaviour applies also for MDT
configuration that includes area scope, regardless of whether the source or
target cell is part of the configured area scope.
\- For UMTS, the MDT configuration received by signalling based trace messages
for a specific UE will continue during intra-PLMN handover, and may continue
during inter-PLMN handover if the Signalling Based MDT PLMN List is available
and includes the target PLMN, except for the case of SRNS relocation.
NOTE: In the case of SRNS relocation, MDT may be reactivated by the Core
Network following a successful relocation.
### 5.1.3 MDT Initiation
There are two cases that RAN should initiate a MDT measurements collection
task. One is that the MDT task is initiated without targeting a specific UE by
the cell traffic trace, i.e. management based trace function from OAM. The
other is that the MDT task is initiated towards a specific UE by the signaling
trace activation messages from CN nodes, i.e. the Initial Context Setup
message, the Trace Start message or the Handover request message in E-UTRAN,
the CN Invoke Trace message in UTRAN. The detailed procedures to transfer the
MDT configurations to RAN are specified in TS 32.422 [6].
For signalling based MDT, the CN shall not initiate MDT towards a particular
user unless it is allowed.
For management based MDT, the CN indicates to the RAN whether MDT is allowed
to be configured by the RAN for this user considering e.g. user consent and
roaming status (see TS 32.422 [6]), by providing management based MDT allowed
information consisting of the Management Based MDT Allowed indication and
optionally the Management Based MDT PLMN List. The management based MDT
allowed information propagates during inter-PLMN handover if the Management
Based MDT PLMN List is available and includes the target PLMN.
A UE is configured with an MDT PLMN List only if user consent is valid for the
RPLMN.
### 5.1.4 UE capabilities
MDT relevant UE capabilities are component of radio access UE capabilities.
Thus the procedures used for handling UE radio capabilities over (E-)UTRAN
apply.
The UE indicates one capability bit for support for Logged MDT, which
indicates that the UE supports logging of downlink pilot strength
measurements. The UE may also indicate capability for stand-alone GNSS
positioning.
The E-UTRA UE may indicate a capability for RX-TX time difference measurement
for E-CID positioning for MDT.
The E-UTRA UE may indicate a capability for support of logging of MBSFN
measurements.
For UMTS support of the Accessibility measurements is an optional UE feature.
### 5.1.5 Void
### 5.1.6 Accessibility measurements
The UE logs failed RRC connection establishments for LTE and UMTS, i.e. a log
is created when the RRC connection establishment procedure fails. The UE logs
failed RRC connection establishments without the need for prior configuration
by the network.
The UE stores the Selected PLMN on the RRC connection establishment failure.
Only if that PLMN is the same as the RPLMN, the UE may report the log.
NOTE: There is no expected performance degradation for networks using EPLMNs.
The trigger for creating a log related to a failed RRC connection
establishment is for LTE when timer T300 expires and for UMTS when V300 is
greater than N300.
The UE shall store the following information related to the failed RRC
connection establishment:
\- Time stamp, which is the elapsed time between logging and reporting the
log.
\- The global cell identity of the serving cell when the RRC connection
establishment fails, i.e. the cell which the UE attempted to access.
\- The latest available radio measurements for any frequency or RAT
\- The latest detailed location information, if available.
\- For LTE:
\- Number of Random Access Preambles transmitted,
\- Indication whether the maximum transmission power was used.
\- Contention detected
\- For UMTS FDD:
\- Number of RRC Connection Request attempts (e.g. T300 expiry after receiving
ACK and AICH)
\- For UMTS 1.28 Mcps TDD:
\- Number of RRC Connection Request attempts.
\- Whether the FPACH is received or whether the maximum number Mmax of
synchronisation attempts is reached.
\- Failure indication of the E-RUCCH transmission. It is only applied when
common E-DCH is supported by UE and network.
## 5.2 E-UTRAN solutions
### 5.2.1 RRC_CONNECTED
UE in RRC Connected does not support Logged MDT in this release of the
specification, except for the case of logged MDT for MBSFN measurements as
described in subclause 5.1.1. In order to support Immediate MDT where MDT
measurements are executed in the UE, the existing RRC measurement
configuration and reporting procedures apply. Some extensions are used to
carry location information.
#### 5.2.1.1 Measurements and reporting triggers for Immediate MDT
Measurements to be performed for Immediate MDT purposes involve reporting
triggers and criteria utilized for RRM. In addition, there are measurements
performed in eNB. In particular, the following measurements shall be supported
for Immediate MDT performance:
Measurements:
\- M1: RSRP and RSRQ measurement by UE, see TS 36.214 [9].
\- M2: Power Headroom measurement by UE, see TS 36.213 [11].
\- M3: Received Interference Power measurement by eNB, see TS 36.214 [9]. This
is a cell measurement. One sample is logged each measurement collection
period, where one sample corresponds to a measurement period as specified in
TS 36.133 [3].
\- M4: Data Volume measurement separately for DL and UL, per QCI per UE, by
eNB, see TS 36.314 [13].
\- M5: Scheduled IP Throughput for MDT measurement separately for DL and UL,
per RAB per UE and per UE for the DL, per UE for the UL, by eNB, see TS 36.314
[13]. QCI values of the RABs that have contributed to a measurement value are
logged with the measurement values.
Measurement collection triggers:
\- For M1:
\- Event-triggered measurement reports according to existing RRM configuration
for events A1, A2, A3, A4, A5 A6, B1 or B2
\- Periodic, A2 event-triggered, or A2 event triggered periodic measurement
report according to MDT specific measurement configuration.
\- For M2:
\- Reception of Power Headroom Report (PHR) according to existing RRM
configuration.
NOTE: PHR is carried by MAC signalling. Thus, the existing mechanism of PHR
transmission applies, see TS 36.321 [10].
\- For M3:
\- End of measurement collection period
\- For M4:
\- End of measurement collection period.
\- For M5:
\- End of measurement collection period.
#### 5.2.1.2 Enhancement to Radio Link Failure report
The Radio Link Failure report contains information related to the latest
connection failure experienced by the UE. The connection failure can be Radio
Link Failure (RLF) or Handover Failure (HOF). The contents of the RLF report
and the procedure for retrieving it by an eNB are described in TS 36.300 [12].
RLF reports can be collected by OAM. Upon RLF/HOF detection in the UE,
_rlfReport_ defined in TS 36.331 [5] also includes available location
information on where RLF occurred, i.e. if detailed location information (e.g.
GNSS location information) is available the reported location information in
_rlfReport_ consists of:
\- Latitude, longitude (mandatory)
\- Altitude (conditional on availability)
\- Velocity (conditional on availability)
\- Uncertainty (conditional on availability)
\- Confidence (conditional on availability)
\- Direction (conditional on availability).
#### 5.2.1.3 Detailed Location Information
The M1 measurements are tagged by the UE with location data in the following
manner:
\- Detailed location information (e.g. GNSS location information) is included
if available in the UE when the measurement was taken. If detailed location
information is available the reporting shall consist of latitude and
longitude. Depending on availability, altitude, uncertainty and confidence may
be also additionally included. The UE should include the available detailed
location information only once. If the detailed location information is
obtained by GNSS positioning method, GNSS time information shall be included.
For both event based and periodic reporting (see 5.2.1.1), the detailed
location information is included if the report is transmitted within the
validity time after the detailed location information was obtained. The
validity evaluation of detailed location information is left to UE
implementation.
For immediate MDT, the eNB can request the UE to attempt to make GNSS location
information available. Standalone GNSS is used as the default baseline. It is
desired that the UE provides fresh location information with each immediate
MDT measurement report. The details how this is achieved is up to UE
implementation.
The eNB may use an Enhanced Cell ID mechanism for location. The eNB forwards
the raw E-CID specific measurements to the TCE. When E-CID positioning is
requested, the eNB may choose to not use E-CID positioning for collected
measurement for which the UE provides detailed location information.
### 5.2.2 RRC_IDLE
For UE in RRC_IDLE state Logged MDT procedures as described in 5.1.1 apply.
Logged MDT measurements are sent on Signalling Radio Bearer SRB2 in
RRC_CONNECTED state.
## 5.3 UTRAN solutions
### 5.3.1 UTRA RRC Connected
In CELL_PCH, URA_PCH states and CELL_FACH state when second DRX cycle is used,
UE supports Logged MDT as described in 5.1.1. In CELL_DCH state UE supports
Immediate MDT as described in 5.1.2. In CELL_FACH state when second DRX cycle
is not used, MDT is not supported in the current release.
#### 5.3.1.1 Measurements and reporting events for Immediate MDT
The solutions for Immediate MDT in UTRAN are only applicable for UEs in
CELL_DCH state. Measurements to be performed for Immediate MDT purposes
involve normal UTRAN reporting triggers and criteria utilized for controlling
the RRC connection. In addition, there are measurements defined that are
performed in UTRAN. In particular, the following measurements shall be
supported for Immediate MDT:
Measurements:
\- M1: CPICH RSCP and CPICH Ec/No measurement (FDD) by UE, see TS 25.215 [7].
\- M2: **P-CCPCH RSCP and Timeslot ISCP for UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD by UE** , see
TS 25.225 [8].
\- M3: SIR and SIR error (FDD) by NodeB, see TS 25.215 [7] and TS 25.225 [8].
\- M4: UE power headroom (UPH) by the UE, applicable for E-DCH transport
channels, see TS 25.215 [7] and TS 25.225 [8].
\- M5: Received total wideband power (RTWP) by Node B, see TS 25.215 [7] TS
25.225 [8], and TS 25.133 [2]. This is a cell measurement.
\- M6: Data Volume measurement, separately for DL and UL, per QoS class per
UE, by RNC.
\- M7: Throughput measurement, separately for DL and UL, per RAB per UE and
per UE, by RNC. Traffic class and Traffic Handling Priority for interactive
RABs for the RABs that have contributed to a measurement value are logged with
the measurement values.
Measurement collection triggers:
\- For M1:
\- Event triggered measurement reports according to existing RRM
configuration, for measurement types intra-frequency measurement, inter-
frequency measurement and inter-RAT measurement.
\- Periodic, or 1F event-triggered measurement report, primary CPICH becomes
worse than an absolute threshold, according to MDT specific measurement
configuration.
\- For M2:
\- Event triggered measurement reports according to existing RRM
configuration, for measurement types intra-frequency measurement, inter-
frequency measurement and inter-RAT measurement.
\- Periodic, or 1I event-triggered measurement report, timeslot ISCP above a
certain threshold (TDD), according to MDT specific measurement configuration.
\- For M3:
\- When available
\- For M4:
\- Reception of UPH according to existing RRM configuration
\- Provided by the UE according to RRM configuration.
\- UPH samples may be collected and logged:
> \- always
>
> \- periodic, one sample per period.
>
> \- periodic, one sample per period, when measurement value \< threshold.
\- For M5:
\- When available.
\- End of measurement collection period.
\- For M6:
\- End of measurement collection period.
\- For M7:
\- End of measurement collection period.
#### 5.3.1.2 Detailed Location Information
For Immediate MDT, existing procedures for UE Location information are used to
obtain detailed location information.
### 5.3.2 UTRA Idle
For UEs in UTRA Idle mode Logged MDT procedures as described in 5.1.1 apply.
Logged MDT measurements are sent on Signalling Radio Bearer SRB4 in RRC
Connected mode.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Coverage use cases
The MDT data reported from UEs and the RAN may be used to monitor and detect
coverage problems in the network. Some examples of use cases of coverage
problem monitoring and detection are described in the following:
**\- Coverage hole:** A coverage hole is an area where the signal level SNR
(or SINR) of both serving and allowed neighbor cells is below the level needed
to maintain basic service (SRB & DL common channels), i.e. coverage of PDCCH.
Coverage holes are usually caused by physical obstructions such as new
buildings, hills, or by unsuitable antenna parameters, or just inadequate RF
planning. UE in coverage hole will suffer from call drop and radio link
failure. Multi-band and/or Multi-RAT UEs may go to other network layer
instead.
**\- Weak coverage:** Weak coverage occurs when the signal level SNR (or SINR)
of serving cell is below the level needed to maintain a planned performance
requirement (e.g. cell edge bit-rate).
**\- Pilot Pollution:** In areas where coverage of different cells overlap a
lot, interference levels are high, power levels are high, energy consumption
is high and cell performance may be low. This problem phenomenon has been
called "pilot pollution", and the problem can be addressed by reducing
coverage of cells. Typically in this situation UEs may experience high SNR to
more than one cell and high interference levels.
**\- Overshoot coverage:** Overshoot occurs when coverage of a cell reaches
far beyond what is planned. It can occur as an "island" of coverage in the
interior of another cell, which may not be a direct neighbor. Reasons for
overshoot may be reflections in buildings or across open water, lakes etc. UEs
in this area may suffer call drops or high interference. Possible actions to
improve the situation include changing the coverage of certain cells and
mobility blacklisting of certain cells.
**\- Coverage mapping:** There should be knowledge about the signal levels in
the cell areas in order to get a complete view for the coverage and be able to
assess the signal levels that can be provided in the network. This means that
there should be measurements collected in all parts of the network, and not
just in the areas where there are potential coverage issues.
**\- UL coverage: Poor UL coverage might impact user experience** in terms of
call setup failure / call drop / poor UL voice quality. Therefore, coverage
should be balanced between uplink and downlink connections. Possible UL
coverage optimization comprises adapting the cellular coverage by changing the
site configuration (antennas) but also about adjusting the UL related
parameters in the way that they allow optimized usage of UL powers in
different environments.
\- **Cell boundary mapping:** There should be knowledge about the location of
(intra/inter RAT) cell boundaries in order to compare to the expected/planned
network setting. Poor handover performance may be caused by changed cell
boundaries due to changes in the physical condition of the surrounding area,
e.g., construction of new buildings, bridge or tunnel near the handover area.
\- **Coverage mapping for pico cell in CA scenario:** As a realization of CA
scenario 4 in TS 36.300 [12], pico cell may be deployed in area where high
traffic occurs. The location where a pico cell is available to be added as an
SCell may show whether the deployment of pico cell is according to the needs
of capacity increase.
###### ## Annex B (informative): QoS verification use cases
The MDT data reported from UEs and the RAN may be used to verify Quality of
Service, assess user experience from RAN perspective, and to assist network
capacity extension. Use cases are described in the following:
**\- Traffic Location:** MDT functionality to obtain information of where data
traffic is transferred within a cell.
**\- User QoS Experience:** MDT functionality to assess the QoS experience for
a specific UE together with location information.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Measurements
This annex provides information on measurements that are used for MDT and are
not specified elsewhere.
**Throughput measurement for UMTS**. The throughput is measured on PDCP or RLC
level. A measurement value for a UE and each RAB of the UE is provided each
measurement period, except if the value is zero. The measurement is performed
separately for UL and DL, and is performed for PS RABs. Idle periods shall not
be taken into account, when there is no data buffered or no data being
transmitted.
**Data Volume measurement for UMTS**. Data Volume is measured on PDCP or RLC
(without Layer 2 overhead). A measurement value for a QoS class for a UE is
provided each measurement period, except if the value is zero, where the QoS
class is one of conversational, interactive, streaming or background. The
measurement is performed separately for UL and DL, and is performed for PS
RABs.
###### ## Annex D (informative): MBSFN use cases
The MDT data reported from UEs may be used to verify signal strength, signal
quality and block error rates for MBSFN reception, to support network
verification, re-planning of MBSFN areas, and optimization of MBSFN operation
parameters.
#