# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides descriptions of agreed use cases and solutions
with regards to self configuring and self optimizing networks for LTE-HRPD
Inter-RAT cases.
The scope of the self configuring and self optimizing functionality is defined
in 3GPP TS 36.300 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.902: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Self-configuring and self-optimizing network (SON) use cases and
solutions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
eHRPD enhanced High Rate Packet Data in 3GPP2
HRPD High Rate Packet Data in 3GPP2
RAT Radio Access Technology
RIM RAN Information Management
# 4 Description of envisioned self configuring and self optimizing
functionality, use cases
## 4.1 Load reporting between LTE and eHRPD
### 4.1.1 Use case description
Objective:
For the purpose of load balancing in the scenario where both LTE and eHRPD
coverage is present in the same geographical area (overlaid coverage), enable
LTE and eHRPD RAN nodes to trigger inter-RAT mobility actions.
These load balancing actions are triggered on the basis of exchanged
information about current load in the cells of both RATs. The load balancing
can improve the overall system capacity compared to the static/non-optimised
load distribution scenario. Such optimisation can also minimize human
intervention in the network management and optimization tasks.
User QoS and service capability aspects in the respective RATs are assumed not
to require additional standards support in the context of load balancing.
### 4.1.2 Solution cescription
#### 4.1.2.1 Load definition
For the load definition from LTE to eHRPD, the suggested solution is to re-use
the current load reporting between LTE/UTRAN/GERAN, namely the Composite
Available Capacity Group IE defined in 9.2.44 of 36.423. This provides the
separate uplink and downlink load in the form of the Composite Available
Capacity IE which contains:
\- an optional Cell Capacity Class Value IE which indicates the value that
classifies the cell capacity with regards to the other cells, and
\- a Capacity Value IE which indicates the amount of resources that is
available relative to the total E-UTRAN resources and can be weighted
according to the ratio of cell capacity class values, if available.
The same load definition is suggested to be used for load reporting from eHRPD
to LTE.
#### 4.1.2.2 Reporting types
The following reporting types, which are a sub set of the types used for intra
3GPP load reporting, are suggested for the load reporting from LTE to eHRPD
and from eHRPD to LTE:
\- Multiple Cell Load Reporting\ In multiple cell reporting, the requesting
node includes a list of cells for which the requesting node would like to
receive a load report. The reporting node responds with a list of cell load
values for each cell.
\- Event-based Load Reporting\ In event based load reporting, the requesting
node includes the number of reporting levels and the reporting node triggers a
load report every time the load in the cell crosses a load threshold. The load
thresholds are achieved by dividing the cell load scale into the indicated
number of reporting levels. The load levels are evenly distributed on a linear
scale below the reporting node\'s threshold for overload. The reporting cell
also sends a report when the cell load enters and exits overload state, which
is indicated by an overload flag in the report.
### 4.1.3 Conclusion
It is concluded that the following solutions for intra 3GPP load reporting can
be re-used for LTE to eHRPD and eHRPD to LTE load reporting:
\- the load definition of Composite Available Capacity Group IE, and
\- the reporting types: multiple cell load reporting and event-based load
reporting.
## 4.2 Mobility Robustness Optimization (MRO) between LTE and eHRPD
### 4.2.1 Use case description
Objective:
Enable the eNB to detect the scenario where a UE connected to the E-UTRAN
experiences connection failure and immediately establishes a new radio
connection to eHRPD AN (too late handover from LTE to eHRPD). Such detection
mechanism can be used by the eNB to adjust the inter-RAT handover trigger from
LTE to eHRPD.
Automatic adjustment of the handover triggering threshold may result in
unnecessary handovers from LTE to eHRPD with negative impact on the overall
use of network capacity or on user QoS. A mechanism to detect unnecessary
handover from LTE to eHRPD may therefore be beneficial in addition to
detection of too late handover from LTE to eHRPD.
### 4.2.2 Solution description
#### 4.2.2.1 Too late LTE to eHRPD mobility
When the UE re-connects after the failure to an eHRPD cell, it stores the
necessary failure information. This includes the identity of the last serving
LTE cell and the eHRPD cell where the UE re-establishes after the failure.
Then, when the UE sets up a connection in an LTE cell, the failure information
is made available for the network (e.g. as a RLF Report). The RLF report is
forwarded to the last serving eNB where the analysis is performed.
No additional signalling between eHRPD and LTE nodes is needed.
#### 4.2.2.2 Unnecessary handover from LTE to eHRPD
In this solution, the eNB includes a measurement configuration, with
measurement criteria and a measurement time, piggy backed with the handover
preparation to the eHRPD node. The eHRPD node configures the UE to perform
measurements on LTE during this measurement time and reports the result of
these measurements back to the eNB.
The report from the eHRPD node to the LTE node contains the following
information:
\- Identity of the LTE source cell from which the UE was handed over to eHRPD
\- Identity of the eHRPD target cell to which the UE was handed over from LTE
\- A list of candidate LTE cells, for which the measurement criteria was
fulfilled during the measurement period.
The analysis of the feasibility to request these UE measurements while being
connected to eHRPD would require input from 3GPP2.
### 4.2.2 Conclusion
The typical scenario would be to use re-direction to support mobility from LTE
to eHRPD.
The impact of this is that:
\- the existing solution for unnecessary handover (in 3GPP) cannot be reused,
since the measurement configuration is piggybacked in the handover request;
\- the existing solution for too late inter RAT handover (where the UE reports
the cell where he will attempt to connect in the other RAT) may be re-used.
The details on how to use the existing solution to optimise the LTE-eHRPD
redirection need to be further analysed.
Hence, the conclusion is that, given this typical scenario, it is at the
moment not beneficial to include the solutions for unnecessary handover.
The feasibility of the too late LTE to eHRPD solution depends on whether the
UE can include the ID of the eHRPD cell where the UE connects after failure in
the RLF report and would require input from RAN2.
# 5 SON Information transfer mechanisms between LTE and eHRPD
## 5.1 Extension of RIM
In this solution, the existing RAN interface is re-used, i.e. RIM PDUs are
transmitted on S1 between the eNB and the MME using the eNB Direct Information
Transfer and the MME Direct Information Transfer procedures. The RIM
application must be updated to support addressing of eHRPD cells and nodes.
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | **Drawback** | eHRPD needs to implement a GERAN spec which | | | from 3GPP2 point of view, which may be an | | | obstacle. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | **Benefit** | Reusing of existing mechanism will require | | | less effort compared with creating a new | | | application.\ | | | The current scope of LTE HRPD SON is a sub | | | set of the intra-3GPP SON. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | **Standard impact** | Add target ID (CDMA2000 Sector ID) in RIM | | | Routing Address IE to support routing to HPRD | | | Sector. | | | | | | Update the corresponding SON container to | | | include HPRD in addition to GERAN and UMTS. | | | | | | A new message (on S101) or logic interface | | | (Sxxx) between MME and eAN should be defined. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
## 5.2 New RIM adaptation solution
In this solution, the existing procedures eNB/MME Direct Information Transfer
is reused and a subset of the RIM specification for LTE HRPD SON is specified
separately.
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Drawback | Need to have new specification which means that | | | more work is expected compared with to re-using | | | existing RIM specification. The new specification | | | can be included in existing specification e.g. in | | | 3GPP TS 36.413. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Benefit | Since it will be a new specification, no | | | constraints from previous solutions exist. One | | | example of this is that the existing RIM | | | application needs to have a request & response | | | pair while some application may not need any | | | response, | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Standard impact | The application can be carried in the eNB/MME | | | DIRECT INFORMARION TRANSFER message. | | | | | | A new message (on S101) or logic interface (Sxxx) | | | between MME and eAN should be defined. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
## 5.3 New direct interface
In this solution, a new logical interface between eNB and eHRPD AN is defined.
This also requires that new procedures and messages for the new interface are
defined.
* * *
Drawback Need to specify a new interface from layer 1 so more work is expected
than to re-use existing interfaces. Benefit The application signalling
messages do not need to go through CN side therefore this solution will have
no impact on CN e.g. signalling load etc. Standard impact New interface,
protocol and messages between eNB and eAN should be defined.
* * *
## 5.4 Handover piggybacking based solution
In this solution, the load reports are piggy backed in the handover messages
between LTE and eHRPD. There is currently no explicit S1 handover messages
between LTE and eHRPD via the EPC, but only the direct transferring messages
in S1AP (36.413) and S101AP (29.276) which will convey the CDMA2000 eHRPD
handover related messages and pre-registration related messages between UE and
eHRPD.
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Drawback | The solution was previously ruled out for | | | intra-3GPP since there is no way to send load | | | reporting in case no mobility between the cells | | | takes place. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Benefit | No further impact on CN as the new piggy back IE | | | is added to the existing messages and the new IE | | | can be transparent to the CN. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Standard impact | To add load information of LTE/eHRPD in the | | | following message, as well as procedure text: | | | | | | S1AP: UPLINK S1 CDMA2000 TUNNELING message | | | | | | S1AP: DOWNLINK S1 CDMA2000 TUNNELING message | | | | | | S101AP: DIRECT TRANSFER REQUEST message | | | | | | S101AP: DIRECT TRANSFER RESPONSE message | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
## 5.5 Conclusion
Two solutions are considered to be more suitable than the others: Extension of
RIM (sub-section 5.1) and New RIM adaptation solution (sub-section 5.2). The
solution descriptions in these two sub-sections cover documentation aspects as
well as the choice of interface between the 3GPP core network and eHRPD.
Down-selection of documentation options takes into account:
\- Extension of RIM\ The advantage of re-using the existing RIM application
and extend it by adding the possibility to address eHRPD nodes and cell is
that there would not be a need to extend the functionality of RIM since the
scenarios discussed for LTE-HRPD is a sub set of the existing LTE/UTRAN/GERAN
inter RAT SON functionalities. The impact of re-using RIM from specification
point of view would however be that 3GPP TS 48.018 must be implemented in
3GPP2.
\- New RIM adaptation solution\ The advantage of defining a new specification
is that this would avoid the implementation of 3GPP TS 48.018 in 3GPP2. It
also avoids implementing functionality defined in RIM that is not (yet)
considered useful for LTE HRPD SON. It may also allow a more efficient
implementation of messages that are not request-response in nature.
It is concluded that the \"Extension of RIM\" documentation option will be
used due to significantly lower specification impact and in order to avoid
duplication of specification.
Concerning the choice of interface between the 3GPP Core Network and eHRPD, an
aspect to consider is that since S101 is defined as UE associated interface,
e.g. Session ID is mandatory which is associated with an UE, a new message
should be defined. Another option would be to create a new interface (Sxxx).
It is concluded to create a new interface (Sxxx) for the reason of the
benefits to leave S101 backward compatible and also increase the flexibility
with regards to the endpoint on the eHRPD side. The eHRPD endpoint of the Sxxx
interface may be at the eHRPD/AN or at an interworking gateway, depending on
the choice and configuration of the eHRPD network. The MME may still assume
that the eHRPD endpoint is the eHRPD/AN and perform signalling accordingly.
#