# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the L-band for supplemental
downlink (SDL) for 1452-1492 MHz. It is intended to be specified for both UTRA
and E-UTRA for operations in Region 1. The band is to be used in CA or DB-DC-
HSDPA/DB-4C-HSDPA configuration in E-UTRA and UTRA, respectively.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios \".
[3] Void
[4] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\".
[5] [ECC(12)052]{.underline}: \"Minutes of the 32nd ECC Meeting\", October
30-November 2nd , 2012.
[6] ECC Report 202: \"Out-of-Band limits for Mobile/Fixed Communication
Networks (MFCN) Supplemental Downlink (SDL) operating in the 1452 - 1492 MHz
band.\" http://www.cept.org/Documents/wg-se/13145/SE(13)Temp046R4_ECC-
Report-202
[7] ECC Report 121: \"Compatibility Studies Between Professional Wireless
Microphone (PWMS) and Other Services/Systems in the Bands 1452 \- 1492 MHz,
1492 - 1530 MHz, 1533 - 1559 MHz also Considering the Services/Systems in the
Adjacent Bands (Below 1452 MHz and Above 1559 MHz,\" Vilnius, September 2008.
[http://www.erodocdb.dk/docs/doc98/official/pdf/ECCRep121.pdf]{.underline}
[8] CEPT ECC decision (13) 03: \"The harmonised use of the frequency band
1452-1492 MHz for Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks Supplemental Downlink
(MFCN SDL)\".
[9] ECC PT1(13)042: \"Report and output of the correspondence group activity
on MFCN SDL in the 1452-1492 MHz\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[11] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[13] Recommendation ITU-R SM 329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[14] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[15] 3GPP TS 25.141: \"Base Station (BS) conformance testing (FDD)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**operating band:** A frequency range in which E-UTRA operates (paired or
unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements**.**
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
{width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.25in"} Average energy per PN chip.
{width="0.20833333333333334in" height="0.2777777777777778in"} The received
power spectral density (integrated in a bandwidth of (1+α) times the chip rate
and normalized to the chip rate) of the downlink signal as measured at the UE
antenna connector. For DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA,
{width="0.20833333333333334in" height="0.2777777777777778in"} is defined for
each of the cells individually and is assumed to be equal for both cells
unless explicitly stated per cell.
P~EM,B32,ind~ Declared emission level in Band 32, ind=a, b, c, d, e
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
4C-HSDPA Four-Carrier HSDPA. HSDPA operation configured on 3 or 4 DL carriers
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
BEM Block Edge Mask
BS Base Station
CW Continuous Wave
DB-DC-HSDPA Dual Band Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSUPA Dual Cell HSUPA
CA Carrier Aggregation
CEPT European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications
DAB Digital Audio Broadcasting
DL DownLink
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
ECC Electronics Communication Committee
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
FL Fixed Link
FS Fixed service
HS-PDSCH High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Channel
IIP3 Third Order Input Intercept Point,
LA BS Local Area Base Station
MFCN Mobile/Fixed Communication Network
MIC Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
MOP Maximum Output Power
MR BS Medium Range Base Station
MS Mobile Service
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
OOB Out-of-band
PHS Personal Handy-phone System
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
REFÎ~or~ Reference {width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.2777777777777778in"}
Rx Receiver
SDL Supplemental Downlink
SE Spectrum Engineering
SEM Spectrum Emission Mask
TRR Tactical Radio Relay
Tx Transmitter
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UE User Equipment
UL UpLink
# 4 Background
CEPT decided in October 2012, to harmonize the frequency band 1452-1492 MHz
(L-band) for mobile communications Supplemental Downlink (SDL), [5]. The
L-band (1452-1492 MHz) has earlier been a broadcasting band (terrestrial and
satellite DAB) in Europe, and in order to allow countries wishing to continue
terrestrial DAB operation in part of the band, a solution that avoids having
mobile devices transmitting in the band was required.
The decision by CEPT is as follows:
\- The **purpose** of the ECC Decision is to harmonize the use of the band
1452-1492 MHz for terrestrial mobile/fixed communications networks
supplemental downlink (MFCN SDL);
\- CEPT administrations shall designate the frequency band 1452-1492 MHz to
MFCN SDL, taking into account that the designation of the frequency band
1452-1492 MHz to mobile/fixed communications networks (MFCN) SDL does not
prevent administrations from using parts of the band for terrestrial
broadcasting, aeronautical telemetry, MFCN other than SDL or other terrestrial
applications to adapt to national circumstances;
In addition to the above status in Region 1,in Japan, the downlink frequency
spectrum 1475.9 - 1495.9 MHz is allocated and operated as Band 11 DL, and it
would be possible to utilize SDL L-band not only in Region 1 but also in Japan
by extending the upper edge of the band by 4 MHz covering up to 1496 MHz. This
enables the use of the L-Band for SDL in Region 1 and Japan, which will drive
economies of scale while ensuring compliance with regional regulatory
requirements (i.e. use of SDL in 1452-1492 MHz only in Europe and 1475.9 -
1495.9 MHz in Japan). This approach will be beneficial not only to UE vendors
but also to operators who are trying to make use of the band more globally.
The objective of the WI is to:
\- Specify the band numbering and RF characteristics of the L-band for UTRA,
E-UTRA and MSR.
\- E-UTRA channel bandwidths 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz.
\- The L-band is restricted to be used on CA configuration for E-UTRA or dual
band configuration for UTRA
\- Specify the UE RF requirements for frequency range of L-band as 1452 \-
1496 MHz based on assumption that UE Rx filter is optimized for 1452 - 1492
MHz.
\- Specify the RF requirements for the support of E-UTRA CA between Band 20 +
L-band (1452-1496 MHz):
* * *
E-UTRA band / channel bandwidth  
CA Configuration E-UTRA Bands 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz
CA_20A-xA 20 Yes Yes X Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
> The requirements should be based on the functionality currently defined for
> DL-only CA.
\- Specify the RF requirements for the support of UTRA dual band for the band
combinations of Band I (2.1 GHz) + L-band (1452-1496 MHz).
The requirements should be based on the functionality currently defined for
DB-DC HSDPA and 4C-HSDPA:
* * *
UTRA SDL Anchor Band (DL and UL) Supplemental Band (DL only)
Configuration Band Bandwidth Band Bandwidth
1a I (2.1 GHz) 5 MHz XXXII\ 5 MHz (1452- 1492 MHz)
1b 5 MHz 10 MHz
1c 10 MHz 5 MHz
* * *
# 5 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
## 5.1 Coexistence scenarios for the BS as aggressor
The coexistence scenarios studied in SE7 were first identified in ECC Report
121 [7] and coexistence with those identified systems in closest proximity to
the proposed MFCN SDL band were further studied in ECC Report 202 [6]. These
include Fixed Service (FS), Mobile Service (MS), and aeronautical telemetry
below the band from 1429 - 1452 MHz and above the band from 1492 - 1518 MHz.
The agreed L-band frequency arrangement is based on a block size of 5 MHz
resulting in the following 8 frequency blocks in 1452 - 1492 MHz as shown in
table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1: Frequency arrangement for L-band SDL.
* * *
1452 -1457 1457 - 1462 1462 - 1467 1467 - 1472 1472 - 1477 1477 -1482 1482 -
1487 1487 - 1492 **Downlink (base station transmit)**  
40 MHz (8 blocks of 5 MHz)
* * *
### 5.1.1 Fixed Service (FS)
FSs are mainly located in rural areas providing highly directional point-to-
point service between specified fixed points. Since these services are fixed,
it is possible to coordinate the deployment of new MFCN SDL Base Stations (BS)
with existing Fixed Link (FL) stations. In this scenario where coordination is
possible, a coordination distance is derived based on transmitter and receiver
performance parameters. In other countries and administrations, however, Fixed
Links may operate in an uncoordinated manner indicating that these links do
not have specific operation locations. In those cases, the study considers a
worst case scenario where, for example, the main beams of the antennas are
coincident.
For coordinated FLs, the analysis approach is to start with assumptions on the
MFCN SDL BS in-band Tx power and out-of-block emissions and compute the
minimum coupling loss taking into account the FL receiver blocking performance
as well as its noise level and target interference-to-noise ratio. It was
found that FL deployment in the first MHz outside of the band required
significantly larger separation between aggressor and victim due to the
blocking selectivity of the FL receiver. When coordination is possible so that
main-beam to main-beam interference can be avoided, the recommended
coordination pathloss was determined to be 130 dB, corresponding to an 8 km
coordination distance. The transmitter characteristics of the MCFN SDL BS
assumed in this analysis are shown in table 5.1.1-1 with an assumption of
maximum in-block EIRP of 68 dBm/5 MHz.
Table 5.1.1-1: Out-of-block emission performance assumed for the SDL BS
+-------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range of | Maximum mean | Measurement | | | | | | out-of-block emissions | out-of-block EIRP | Bandwidth | | | | | | | [dBm] | [MHz] | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------+ | -10 to -5 MHz from lower block edge | 11 dBm | 5 MHz | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------+ | -5 to 0 MHz from lower block edge | 16.3dBm | 5 MHz | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------+ | 0 to +5 MHz from upper block edge | 16.3 dBm | 5 MHz | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------+ | +5 to +10 MHz from upper block edge | 11 dBm | 5 MHz | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------+ | Remaining MFCN SDL frequencies | 9 dBm | 5 MHz | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-------------+
For uncoordinated FL, the objective is to define the out-of-band emissions to
ensure compatibility under the worst case placement condition,; I.e., main
beam to main beam scenario with 250 meter separation distance. Based on this,
the following BS emission limits were derived. Note that these limits are much
more stringent than those assumed for the case of coordinated links. It is
therefore recommended that these limits could only be applicable in those
countries where uncoordinated deployment is considered.
Table 5.1.1-2: Specific MFCN SDL BS power limits for countries deploying
uncoordinated FL in adjacent bands
+---------------------------------+---------------+ | Parameter | Value | +---------------------------------+---------------+ | Maximum OOB e.i.r.p. | -38.5 dBm/MHz | +---------------------------------+---------------+ | Maximum In-Band e.i.r.p. | 11.8 dBm | | | | | 1452-1457 MHz and 1487-1492 MHz | | +---------------------------------+---------------+ | Maximum In-Band e.i.r.p. | 20.2 dBm | | | | | 1457-1487 MHz | | +---------------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.2 Mobile Service (MS)
The MS operating in this frequency range from 1429 - 1452 MHz and 1492 - 1518
MHz has been identified to be used for Tactical Radio Relay (TRR) operations.
The approach is to derive the necessarily Out-of-Band emission (OOB)
requirements on the MFCN SDL BS in order to maintain compatibility with
existing MS. The compatibility studies indicate that the most appropriate
frequency plan is to establish a 3 MHz separation between the channel edge of
the MFCN SDL and the MS TRR. Operation within 3 MHz may require additional
consideration and coordination. The principle behind the study was to
determine the OOB emissions from the MFCN SDL BS in such a way that the
contribution of out-of-band interference is insignificant; instead,
coexistence is dominated by the blocking performance of the TRR receiver.
The recommended out-of-band emissions for the MFCN SDL BS are provided in
table 5.1.2-1.
Table 5.1.2-1: Out-of-band emission limits for the L-band SDL basestation for
coexistence with mobile service (TRR)
+-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range of | Maximum mean | Measurement | | | | | | out-of-band emissions | out-of-band e.i.r.p. | Bandwidth | +-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+ | Below 1449 MHz | -20 dBm | 1 MHz | +-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+ | 1449-1452 MHz | 14 dBm | 3 MHz | +-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+ | 1492-1495 MHz | 14 dBm | 3 MHz | +-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+ | Above 1495 MHz | -20 dBm | 1 MHz | +-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+
### 5.1.3 Aeronautical telemetry
The coordination distance between MFCN SDL and aeronautical telemetry systems
was evaluated using the same MFCN out-of-band emissions as derived for TRR. It
was determined that coordination path loss of 150 dB, equivalent to up to 117
km for 10% of time and 50% of locations, is needed for coexistence with ground
based aeronautical telemetry systems within 3 MHz of the MFCN SDL channel
edge; that is, from 1449 - 1452 MHz and from 1492 - 1495 MHz. Outside of this
frequency range, the coordination path loss is 121 dB corresponding to a
distance of 28 km for 10% of time and 50% of locations. Additional
interference mitigation techniques may be required for distances less than the
coordination distances computed. The study did not include the impact of
blocking tolerance in the aeronautical telemetry receiver.
## 5.2 Summary of regulatory requirements
Report 202 summarizes the result of studies conducted within the spectrum
engineering working group of ECC. However, the regulatory requirements based
on these studies are provided in the ECC Decision 13(03). These include EIRP
limits for the BS within the band 1452-1492 MHz band but out-of-block as well
as EIRP limits out of the band 1452-1492 MHz.
Table 5.2-1: Base station BEM out-of-block EIRP limits within the band 1452 -
1492 MHz per antenna
+-------------------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range of | Maximum mean | Measurement | | | | | | out-of-block emissions | out-of-block e.i.r.p. | Bandwidth | | | | | | | [dBm] | [MHz] | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | -10 to -5 MHz from lower block edge | 11 dBm | 5 MHz | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | -5 to 0 MHz from lower block edge | 16.3 dBm | 5 MHz | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | 0 to +5 MHz from upper block edge | 16.3 dBm | 5 MHz | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | +5 to +10 MHz from upper block edge | 11 dBm | 5 MHz | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | Remaining MFCN SDL frequencies | 9 dBm | 5 MHz | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+
Table 5.2-2: Base station OOB EIRP limits out of the band 1452 - 1492 MHz
+-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range of | Maximum mean | Measurement | | | | | | out-of-band emissions | out-of-band e.i.r.p. | Bandwidth | | | | | | | [dBm] | [MHz] | +-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+ | Below 1449 MHz | -20 dBm | 1 MHz | +-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+ | 1449-1452 MHz | 14 dBm | 3 MHz | +-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+ | 1492-1495 MHz | 14 dBm | 3 MHz | +-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+ | Above 1495 MHz | -20 dBm | 1 MHz | +-----------------------+----------------------+-------------+
# 6 List of band specific issues for the L-band for supplemental DL
\- General
\- Co-existence with other systems around/within the band
\- Co-existence with other 3GPP operating bands in Region 1
\- BS unwanted emission
\- Specific E-UTRA: Band 20+L-band
\- UE REFSENS
\- UE MOP
\- Specific UTRA: Band I+L-band
\- UE REFSENS
\- UE MOP
\- UE blocking performance; UE reference input power adjustment for a dual
band device
# 7 General issues
## 7.1 Co-existence with other systems around/within the band
### 7.1.1 **Declaration levels related to regulatory requirements in Region
1**
As summarized in 5.2, the regulatory requirements for L-band in Region 1 are
defined by ECC in terms of EIRP while 3GPP specifies requirements at antenna
connector. In order to allow operators to assess the compliance with the
regulatory requirements, 3GPP includes on the BS specifications a declaration
requirement. EIRP can be estimated based on manufacturer declarations and site
specific conditions such as antenna gain and feeder loss.
### 7.1.1.1 Declared operating band unwanted emission limits within 1452-1492
MHz
The three emission levels at antenna connector corresponding to BEM EIRP
requirement in table 5.2-1 are proposed to be declared by manufacturers.
\- P~EM,B32,a~ Declared emission limit for the first adjacent 5 MHz blocks
\- P~EM,B32,b~ Declared emission limit for the second adjacent 5 MHz blocks
\- P~EM,B32,c~ Declared emission limit for a 5MHz measurement bandwidth for
the rest of frequencies up to 1492 MHz and down to 1452 MHz
The following change is proposed to the BS specifications to add a
\"declaration requirement\" for emissions within 1452-1492 MHz.
\
In certain regions, the following requirements may apply to E-UTRA BS
operating in Band 32 within 1452-1492 MHz. The level of operating band
unwanted emissions, measured on centre frequencies f_offset with filter
bandwidth, according to table 7.1.1.1-1, shall neither exceed the maximum
emission level P~EM,B32,a\ ,~ P~EM,B32,b~ nor P~EM,B32,c~ declared by the
manufacturer.
Table 7.1.1.1-1: Declared operating band 32 unwanted emission within 1452-1492
MHz
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Declared
emission level [dBm] Measurement bandwidth 2.5 MHz P~EM,B32,a~ 5 MHz 7.5 MHz
P~EM,B32,b~ 5 MHz 12.5 MHz ≤ f_offset ≤ f_offset~max,B32~ P~EM,B32,c~ 5 MHz
NOTE: f_offset~max,B32~ denotes the frequency difference between the lower
channel edge and 1454.5 MHz, and the frequency difference between the upper
channel edge and 1489.5 MHz for the set channel position.
* * *
Note: The regional requirement, included in [CEPT ECC Decision (13)03], is
defined in terms of EIRP per antenna, which is dependent on both the BS
emissions at the antenna connector and the deployment (including antenna gain
and feeder loss). The requirement defined above provides the characteristics
of the base station needed to verify compliance with the regional requirement.
The assessment of the EIRP level is described in Annex XY in TS 36.104 [10].
#### 7.1.1.2 Declared emission levels for co-existence with systems below 1452
MHz and above 1492 MHz
##### 7.1.1.2.1 The frequency limits for the OOB outside 1452-1492 MHz
The European license conditions ECC PT1(13)042 [9] specify requirements for
BSs operating within 1452-1492 MHz in terms of EIRP. As part of the license
conditions, an OOB has been specified outside the band 1452-1492 MHz in terms
of EIRP as included in Table 5.2-2.
The technical conditions for co-existence with systems below 1452 MHz and
above 1492 MHz do not include any upper or lower frequency limit to which the
regulatory requirements apply. This imposes practical problems in terms of
requirements for demonstrating compliance.
Requirements cannot be demonstrated in an unlimited frequency range due to
limitations in measurement equipment performance. In addition, there is a
further aspect when discussing the frequency range for which the requirements
are meaningful to be addressed by 3GPP.
Since 3GPP specifications so far have limited the requirements with regard to
RF signals and emissions to the antenna port (i.e. conducted measurements in
impedance matched conditions), and the site conditions like antenna properties
and feeder loss are outside the control of 3GPP, the way to assist operators
and regulators is to offer a manufacturer declaration of unwanted emissions .
From these declared maximum levels, the EIRP can be calculated using the
nominal antenna gain and the feeder loss at each site, thus facilitating the
estimate of the conformance to the requirement compared to field measurements.
However, the nominal antenna gain is only applicable within a certain
frequency range (depending on the antenna). The frequency on which the
manufacturer declares the unwanted emissions also needs to be applicable for
the validity of the antenna gain values.
In order to assess what frequency range may be meaningful to declare emission
powers in for 3GPP, some analysis of the ECC decision and its background work
has been made:
The levels in CEPT ECC Decision(13)03 [8] are based on the co-existence
analysis in ECC Report 202 [6] . In such report, compatibility between
Mobile/Fixed Communication Networks (MFCN) Supplemental Downlink (SDL)
operating in the 1452-1492 MHz band and other services/systems in adjacent
bands is studied. More in detail, in [6] , the following is specifically
stated under chapter 3.1. \"the use scenario considered in this Report is
provided in Figure 1\". The mentioned figure 1 in [6] is copied in figure
7.1.1.2.1-1 of the present document.
{width="6.336111111111111in" height="1.4868055555555555in"}
Figure 7.1.1.2.1-1: Services in bands adjacent to 1452-1492 MHz, Figure 1 in
ECC Report 202 [6]
RAN4 concludes that the intention of the CEPT ECC Decision (13)03 [8] is to
protect primarily the frequency range 1429 MHz - 1518 MHz. This frequency
range is also a reasonable bandwidth for assuming that the antenna gain is
close to nominal, and consequently useful for estimating the EIRP with the
standard formula. Thus, the declared emission limits in 3GPP can be limited
down to 1429 MHz and up to 1518 MHz
##### 7.1.1.2.2 Declared emissions levels
As discussed in clause 7.1.1.2.1, it is proposed to declare the OOB emission
limit within 1429-1518 MHz to protect the adjacent systems rather than the
unlimited frequency ranges in Table 5.2-2. Therefore two emission levels are
for the declaration by BS manufacturers.
\- P~EM,B32,d~ Declared emission limit for 1429-1449 MHz and 1495-1518 MHz
measured with 3MHz bandwidth
\- P~EM,B32,e~ Declared emission limit for 1449-1452 MHz and 1492-1495 MHz
measured with 1MHz bandwidth
The following change is proposed to the BS specifications to add a
\"declaration requirement\" for emissions outside 1452-1492 MHz.
\
In certain regions, the following requirement may apply to E-UTRA BS operating
in Band 32 within 1452-1492 MHz for the protection of services in spectrum
adjacent to the frequency range 1452-1492 MHz. The level of emissions,
measured on centre frequencies F~filter~ with filter bandwidth according to
table 7.1.1.2.2-1, shall neither exceed the maximum emission level P~EM,B32,d~
nor P~EM,B32,e~ declared by the manufacturer. This requirement applies in the
frequency range 1429-1518MHz even though part of the range falls in the
spurious domain.
> Table 7.1.1.2.2-1: Operating band 32 declared emission outside 1452-1492 MHz
* * *
Filter centre frequency, F~filter~ Declared emission level [dBm] Measurement
bandwidth 1429.5 MHz ≤ F~filter~ ≤ 1448.5 MHz P~EM,B32,d~ 1 MHz F~filter~ =
1450.5 MHz P~EM,B32,e~ 3 MHz F~filter~ = 1493.5 MHz P~EM,B32,e~ 3 MHz 1495.5
MHz ≤ F~filter~ ≤ 1517.5 MHz P~EM,B32,d~ 1 MHz
* * *
Note: The regional requirement, included in [CEPT ECC Decision (13)03], is
defined in terms of EIRP, which is dependent on both the BS emissions at the
antenna connector and the deployment (including antenna gain and feeder loss).
The requirement defined above provides the characteristics of the base station
needed to verify compliance with the regional requirement. The assessment of
the EIRP level is described in Annex XY in TS 36.104 [10].
### 7.1.1.3 Relation of declared emission levels and regulatory requirement,
Annex XY in TS 36.104
In order to derive EIRP from the declared emission levels by manufacturers,
the site specific conditions such as antenna gain and feeder loss are also
required. A guideline on how to estimate EIRP is included in Annex XY of TS
36.104 [10].
## 7.2 Co-existence with other 3GPP bands in Region 1
The bands allocated in Europe are Band 1/I, 3/III, 7/VII, 8/VIII, 20/XX,
22/XXII, 33, 34, 38, 40, 42, 43. A SI to introduce the spectrum
1980-2010/2170-2200 MHz in Region 1 is also on going in 3GPP.
There is not any co-existence issue between any of the bands above and the
L-band. The frequency separation is large enough for the L-band BS to protect
Band 1/I, 3/III, 7/VII, 8/VIII, 20/XX, 22/XXII, 33, 34, 38, 40, 42, 43 and the
band including 1980-2010/2170-2200 MHz according to the standard BS
requirements for spurious emissions for co-existence/co-location. The standard
UE protection from these bands towards the L-band is also feasible. In
addition, there are no UE harmonic products towards the L-band.
Clause 8.3 and clause 9.3 include the updates required for UTRA and E-UTRA UE
emissions for co-existence.
## 7.3 Co-existence with other 3GPP bands in Japan
The bands allocated in Japan are Band 1/I, 3/III, VI, 8/VIII, IX, 11/XI, 18,
19/XIX, 21/XXI, 26/XXVI, 28, 34, and 41.
The L-band (or Band 32/XXXII) is intended to be deployed in Japan within the
overlapping frequencies with Band 11/XI DL, i.e. 1475.9-1495.9 MHz.
The UE spurious emissions for co-existence in TS 36.101/25.101 already
consider protection limits from operating bands in Japan towards Band 11/XI DL
and therefore, no modifications are needed specifically for the L-band UE
operation in this geographical area.
In terms of BS, L-band operation in Japan needs to be carefully taken into
account as the frequency range of the L-band partially overlaps with Band
21/XXI UL from 1452 - 1462.9 MHz and completely includes Band 11/XI DL.
Changes to the BS specifications for co-existence/co-location are included in
clause 7.4.
## 7.4 BS requirements for co-existence/co-location
There are some regionally specific requirements for Band 11/XI or Band 21/XXI.
When the L-band BS is operated in Japan instead of Band 11/XI, the following
BS requirements apply:
i) BS Spurious emissions limits for BS for co-existence with systems operating
in other frequency bands
ii) Home BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with Home BS operating
in other frequency bands
iii) BS Spurious emissions limits for BS for co-existence with PHS
iv) Spurious emissions limits for Wide Area/Local Area/Medium range BS co-
located with another BS
v) Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area/Local Area/Medium range BS
when co-located with BS in other frequency bands
For (i), the following modifications are needed to E-UTRA BS specifications.
The same applies to UTRA and MSR specifications.
Table 7.4-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with systems
operating in other frequency bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | System type | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | for E-UTRA | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | to co-exist | c | | | | | with | o-existence | | | | | | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1475.9 - | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XI or | 1510.9 MHz | | | requirement | | XXI or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | E-UTRA Band | | | | E-UTRA BS | | 11 or 21 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11, | | | | | | 21 or band | | | | | | 32. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1427.9 - | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1447.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | | | | | | For E-UTRA | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 32, | | | | | | this | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | within | | | | | | 1475.9MHz | | | | | | and | | | | | | 1495.9MHz. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1447.9 - | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1462.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 21, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | | | | | | For E-UTRA | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 32, | | | | | | this | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | within | | | | | | 1475.9MHz | | | | | | and | | | | | | 1495.9MHz. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1452 - 1496 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XXXII | MHz | | | requirement | | or E-UTRA | | | | does not | | Band 32 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11, | | | | | | 21 or band | | | | | | 32. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
For (ii), the following modification is needed to E-UTRA specifications.
Similar changes apply to UTRA.
Table 7.4-2: Home BS spurious emissions limits for co-existence with Home BS
operating in other frequency bands
* * *
System type for E-UTRA to co-exist with Frequency range for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note UTRA FDD Band XI, XXI or
E-UTRA Band 11, 21 1427.9 - 1447.9 MHz -71 dBm 100 kHz This requirement does
not apply to Home BS operating in band 11, since it is already covered by the
requirement in sub-clause 6.6.4.2. For Home BS operating in band 32, this
requirement applies for carriers allocated within 1475.9MHz and 1495.9MHz.
1447.9 - 1462.9 MHz -71 dBm 100 kHz This requirement does not apply to Home BS
operating in band 21, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-
clause 6.6.4.2. For Home BS operating in band 32, this requirement applies for
carriers allocated within 1475.9MHz and 1495.9MHz.
* * *
Considering (iii), the L-band BS is required to protect PHS below -41
dBm/300kHz where L-band and PHS co-exist. No changes are needed related to
this requirement in the UTRA, E-UTRA or MSR BS specifications.
Regarding handling of (iv), the spurious emission requirements for co-location
may apply to the L-band BS for protection of other BS. No modifications to the
BS spurious emissions for co-location are needed. In addition, L-band is a DL
only band. Addition of a co-location protection level for this band is
therefore is not needed.
Next, we take a look at (v) about the blocking requirement for co-location. In
Japan, Band 21/XXI uplink overlaps with L-band downlink. The 3GPP
specifications state that \"Except for a BS operating in Band 13/XIII, the
blocking requirements do not apply when the interfering signal falls within
any of the supported uplink operating band or in the 10 MHz immediately
outside any of the supported uplink operating band\". Therefore the Band
21/XXI blocking requirement for co-location with L-band would start from
1472.9 MHz but in Japan, a specific consideration is required. The L-band BS
is not allowed to transmit within the frequency range 1452-1475.9 MHz in
current Japanese frequency assignment; Therefore, it is not necessary to
consider blocking requirements for co-location with carriers allocated between
1472.9 MHz and 1475.9 MHz. The same argument is applied to Band 11/XI BS and a
blocking signal between 1457.9 MHz and 1475.9 MHz. This needs to be addressed
in the E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR BS specifications by the addition of a note.
Table 7.4-3: Blocking requirement for co-location with BS in other frequency
bands
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Type of | Centre | Inte | Inte | Inte | Wanted | Type of | | co- | Fr | rfering | rfering | rfering | Signal | Inte | | located | equency | Signal | Signal | Signal | mean | rfering | | BS | of | mean | mean | mean | power | Signal | | | Inte | power | power | power | (dBm) | | | | rfering | for WA | for MR | for LA | | | | | Signal | BS | BS | BS | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1452 - | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | FDD | 1496 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | MHz | | | | + 6 | | | XXXII | | | | | dB* | | | or | (Note | | | | | | | E-UTRA | X) | | | | | | | Band 32 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | Except | | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | do not | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | falls | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | any of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | pported | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band or | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | 10 MHz | | | | | | | | imme | | | | | | | | diately | | | | | | | | outside | | | | | | | | any of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | pported | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band.\ | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | | 13 the | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | do not | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | falls | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | 768-797 | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 42 or | | | | | | | | 43, the | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | do not | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | falls | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | Band 42 | | | | | | | | or 43 | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | tations | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | synchr | | | | | | | | onized. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Some | | | | | | | | combi | | | | | | | | nations | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | | may not | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | ossible | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | co-site | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | above. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | current | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | ate-of- | | | | | | | | the-art | | | | | | | | tec | | | | | | | | hnology | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | | generic | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | olution | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | of UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | FDD on | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | djacent | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | uencies | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | 30dB | | | | | | | | BS-BS | | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | oupling | | | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | | | H | | | | | | | | owever, | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | te-engi | | | | | | | | neering | | | | | | | | so | | | | | | | | lutions | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | tec | | | | | | | | hniques | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | dressed | | | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | | | 25.942 | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE X: | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | | 11 or | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | 1475.9 | | | | | | | | -1495.9 | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 7.5 BS transmitter intermodulation
Transmitter intermodulation requirement should be considered when L-band BS is
operated in Japan. The necessary handling for E-UTRA is shown in table
7.5-1[10]. Note 1 should not be applied in Japan. Similar changes are needed
in the UTRA specifications.
Table 7.5-1: Interfering and wanted signals for the Transmitter
intermodulation requirement
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Wanted signal | E-UTRA single carrier, or | | | multi-carrier, or multiple | | | intra-band contiguously or | | | non-contiguously aggregated | | | carriers | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal type | E-UTRA signal of channel | | | bandwidth 5 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal level | Mean power level 30 dB below the | | | mean power of the wanted signal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal centre | ± 2.5 MHz | | frequency offset from the lower | | | (upper) edge of the wanted | ± 7.5 MHz | | signal or edge of sub-block | | | inside a sub-block gap | ± 12.5 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Interfering signal | | | positions that are partially or | | | completely outside of any | | | downlink operating band of the | | | base station are excluded from | | | the requirement, unless the | | | interfering signal positions | | | fall within the frequency range | | | of adjacent downlink operating | | | bands in the same geographical | | | area. In case that none of the | | | interfering signal positions | | | fall completely within the | | | frequency range of the downlink | | | operating band, TS 36.141 [4] | | | provides further guidance | | | regarding appropriate test | | | requirements. | | | | | | NOTE 2: Note 1 is not applied in | | | Band 1, 3, 8, 9, 11, 18, 19, 21, | | | 28, 32 operating within | | | 1475.9-1495.9 MHz, 34 in certain | | | regions. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 7.6 BS operating band unwanted emission and spurious emissions
### 7.6.1. BS operating band unwanted emission and spurious emissions in
Region 1
In CEPT ECC decision (13)03 [8], a BEM (Block Edge Mask) has been introduced
as a regulatory requirement in terms of EIRP for the DL band within 1452-1492
MHz. In ECC PT1(13)042 [9] it was proposed to derive the out-of-block BEM
within 1452-1492 MHz based on the 3GPP MSR operating band unwanted emission
for BS. This BEM is applicable for both E-UTRA and UTRA technologies. ECC
PT1(13)042 [9] also refers to CEPT Report 39, where a BEM is derived for 2GHz
based on BS to UE interference scenarios. In this report, the assumed antenna
gain is 17dBi. The BEM out of block EIRP limits in the LRTC in CEPT ECC
decision (13)03 [8] are specified _per antenna._
A BS fulfilling the operating band unwanted emission as defined by 3GPP in the
MSR specifications does not automatically comply with the BEM as defined by
CEPT as the latter is subject to the antenna gain. However, this mask is the
most suitable as it was used as the baseline mask by CEPT to derive the BEM
out of block EIRP requirements.
Spurious emission in Region 1 is defined by the Category B requirements
according to ITU-R SM 329. In addition, CEPT ECC decision (13)03 [8]
introduces, as part of the LRTC, out of band EIRP limit requirements applying
per BS. These requirements, partly belonging to the spurious domain, and
partly to the unwanted operating band emission domain, are addressed as
additional regional operating band requirements.
### 7.6.2 BS operating band unwanted emission and spurious emissions in Japan
The L-band is expected to be deployed in Japan within the overlapping
frequencies with Band 11/XI DL. The same SEM or operating band unwanted
emission as for this band should apply. ARIB specifies requirements for UTRA
and E-UTRA BSs by transposing TS 25.141 and TS 36.141, respectively. The
applicable SEM defined by MIC for LTE BSs at 1.5 GHz is according to Category
A as specified in TS36.141. In addition, spurious emissions for Category A
apply.
### 7.6.3 In the 3GPP specifications
3GPP adopts the MSR operating band unwanted emission for UTRA, E-UTRA and MSR
BS operating in the L-band as a European regional requirement since this was
used as the baseline by CEPT to derive the BEM within 1452-1492 MHz. Noting
that compliance with this mask will also ensure the fulfilment of the Japanese
law.
3GPP also allows compliance to the same operating band unwanted emission
requirements/SEM as applied for Band 11/XI DL regionally in Japan.
TS 25.104 [12] SEM and TS 37.104 [11] operating band unwanted emission both
adhere to the assumptions of the BEM derivation, for all operating bands, and
nothing needs to be specifically done for this band.
In TS 36.104 [10], a BS operating in the L-band may be allowed to be compliant
to either Category A as per Band 11, or Category B (Option 2), which applies
to the L-band for deployment in Europe.
# 8 Study of UTRA specific issues, Band I + L-band
Recognizing that at 1452 - 1492 MHz, the L-band is a mid-frequency band, we
can take advantage of the extensive study already conducted for CA with mid-
bands.
UTRA SDL (Band I + L-band combination) is similar to the combination of E-UTRA
Band 1 with Band 21 (1447.9 MHz - 1510.9 MHz). The diplexer data is provided
in ECC Report 202 [6] and reproduced in Table 8-1 where it can be seen that
the average insertion loss is approximately 0.5 - 0.6 dB.
Table 8-1: Summary of diplexer insertion loss data
| Vendors |  Average |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 |  |  |  |  |  |   
| Min | Max | removed | Min | Max | Min | Max | Min | Max | **(dB)** |   
| (dB) | (dB) |  | (dB) | (dB) | (dB) | (dB) | (dB) | (dB) | **** |   
IL | B21 Tx | - | 0.43 |  | - | 0.64 | - | 0.3 | - | 0.59 | 0.5  
| B21 Rx | - | 0.45 |  | - | 0.64 | - | 0.3 | - | 0.62 | 0.5  
| B1 Tx | - | 0.65 |  | - | 0.76 | - | 0.5 | - | 0.49 | 0.6  
| B1 Rx | - | 0.5 |  | - | 0.76 | - | 0.5 | - | 0.52 | 0.6  
Furthermore, it is observed that for this CA configuration for E-UTRA, the
allocation of insertion loss to reference sensitivity and maximum output power
relaxations are such that ∆R~IB~ = 0 and ∆T~IB~ = 0.3.
On the other hand, a similar band combination was also considered for DB-DC-
HSDPA. DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 4, which consists of UTRA Band I and Band XI
(1427.9 MHz - 1495.9 MHz), assumes the insertion loss of 1 dB for both Band I
and Band XI based on the typical insertion loss (0.8 dB for Band XI and 0.9 dB
for Band I) identified in previous DB-DC-HSDPA study . For this DB-DC-HSDPA
configuration, 1 dB MOP and REFSENS relaxation was used.
It is expected that the additional insertion loss for a diplexer for UTRA
supplemental downlink (Band I and L-band) would not be worse than either
option (E-UTRA Band 1+21 or UTRA Band I+XI). Therefore, 0.6 dB of additional
insertion loss due to the diplexer will be assumed for the analysis for UE
core requirements analysis for UTRA supplemental downlink (Band I + L-Band)
Simulation results for the insertion loss for L-band are summarized in Table
8-2. Compared to a commercially available Band I duplexer which may have an
insertion loss of 2-2.5 dB, these simulated filters exhibits an additional
insertion loss of up to 0.5 dB in some cases. The insertion loss for UTRA
L-band Rx filter will be assumed to be the same as Band I duplexer insertion
loss for UE core requirements for UTRA supplemental downlink (Band I +
L-Band). Thus, L-band REFSSENS is the same as for Band I.
Table 8-2: Summary of insertion loss simulation data for L-band SDL Rx filter
* * *
             Insertion loss for L-band spec (1452 - 1492 MHz) or Band 32   Insertion loss for L-band spec (1452 - 1496 MHz) or Band 32
Vendor A 2.8 dB 3.3 dB Vendor B 2.4 dB 2.8 dB Vendor C 2.0 dB 2.0 dB Vendor D
2.5 dB 2.6 dB Vendor E 2.5 dB 2.6 dB
* * *
## 8.1 UE MOP
The same values of relaxation for the lower tolerance of maximum output power
shown in Table 8.1-1 are adopted as used in E-UTRA Band 1+21 for the
corresponding DB-DC-HSDPA and dual band 4C-HSDPA combinations between Band I
and L-Band.
~Table\ 8.1-1:\ Allowed\ adjustment\ to\ maximum\ output\ power\ lower\
tolerance\ for\ UTRA\ Band\ I\ +\ L-Band\ (Band\ I\ +Band\ XXXII)~
* * *
UTRA SDL Configuration Anchor Band (DL and UL) Supplemental Band (DL only)
Maximum allowed adjustment in lower side of tolerance (dB)  
Band Bandwidth Band Bandwidth  
1a I (2.1 GHz) 5 MHz XXXII 5 MHz -0.3 1b I (2.1 GHz) 5 MHz XXXII 10 MHz -0.3
1c I (2.1 GHz) 10 MHz XXXII 5 MHz -0.3 NOTE: The maximum allowed adjustment in
lower side tolerance of maximum output power is only applicable for the anchor
band.
* * *
## 8.2 UE REFSENS
The same values of relaxation for the reference sensitivity shown in Table
8.2-1 are adopted as used in E-UTRA Band 1+21 for the corresponding DB-DC-
HSDPA and dual band 4C-HSDPA combinations between Band I and L-Band.
Table 8.2-1: Allowed desensitization for UTRA Band I + L-Band (Band I +Band
XXXII)
* * *
UTRA SDL Configuration Anchor Band (DL and UL) Supplemental Band (DL only)
Allowed de-sensitization (dB)  
Band Bandwidth Band Bandwidth  
1a I (2.1 GHz) 5 MHz XXXII 5 MHz 0 1b I (2.1 GHz) 5 MHz XXXII 10 MHz 0 1c I
(2.1 GHz) 10 MHz XXXII 5 MHz 0
* * *
Reference sensitivity is impacted by transmitter noise and front-end insertion
loss among other factors. For the L-band SDL, the transmitter is in a
different band. Isolation is provided by the duplexer in the uplink band as
well as the diplexer. For the UTRA, when aggregated with Band I, it is
anticipated that transmitter noise can be neglected for reference sensitivity.
Based on Table 8.2-1 and UTRA L-band REFSENS proposal, the REFSENS for UTRA
SDL (Band I + L-band) is provided below. Note that L-band is labelled as \"L\"
since the numbering needs to be done for the specification.
Table 8.2-2: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional requirement
for DB-DC-HSDPA.
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | DB- | DL Band | UL Band | Unit | HS-P | \ | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | \ | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | I | I | dBm/3.84 | -113 | -102.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | VIII | | dBm/3.84 | -110 | -99.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | I | VIII | dBm/3.84 | -113 | -102.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | VIII | | dBm/3.84 | -110 | -99.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | II | II | dBm/3.84 | -110 | -99.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | IV | | dBm/3.84 | -112 | -101.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | II | IV | dBm/3.84 | -110 | -99.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | IV | | dBm/3.84 | -112 | -101.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | I | I | dBm/3.84 | -113 | -102.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | V | | dBm/3.84 | -111 | -100.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | I | V | dBm/3.84 | -113 | -102.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | V | | dBm/3.84 | -111 | -100.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4 | I | I | dBm/3.84 | -112 | -101.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | XI | | dBm/3.84 | -112 | -101.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | I | XI | dBm/3.84 | -112 | -101.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | XI | | dBm/3.84 | -112 | -101.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | II | II | dBm/3.84 | -111 | -100.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | V | | dBm/3.84 | -111 | -100.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | II | V | dBm/3.84 | -111 | -100.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | V | | dBm/3.84 | -111 | -100.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6 | I | I | dBm/3.84 | -113 | -102.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | | XXXII | | dBm/3.84 | -113 | -102.7 | | | | | MHz | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1 | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | Power | | | | | | | class 3 | | | | | | | and 3bis | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | power. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2 | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | Power | | | | | | | class 4 | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | power. | | | | | | +----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 8.2-3: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional requirement
for dual band 4C-HSDPA.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Dual | DL Band | UL Band | Unit | HS-PD | \ | carrier | | 4 | | | | \ | | aration | | config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I-2 | I | I | d | -113 | -102.7 | Minimum | | -VIII-1 | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | I-3- | | | | | | | | VIII-1, | | | | | | | | I-2- | | | | | | | | VIII-2, | | | | | | | | I-1 | | | | | | | | -VIII-2 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | VIII | | d | -110 | -99.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | I | VIII | d | -113 | -102.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | VIII | | d | -110 | -99.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | II | II | II | d | -110 | -99.7 | Minimum | | -1-IV-2 | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | II | | | | | | | | -2-IV-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | II | | | | | | | | -2-IV-2 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | IV | | d | -112 | -101.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | II | IV | d | -110 | -99.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | IV | | d | -112 | -101.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I-1-V-2 | I | I | d | -113 | -102.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | I-2-V-1 | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | I-2-V-2 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | V | | d | -111 | -100.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | I | V | d | -113 | -102.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | V | | d | -111 | -100.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | II | II | d | -111 | -100.7 | Minimum | | I-1-V-2 | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | V | | d | -111 | -100.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | II | V | d | -111 | -100.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | V | | d | -111 | -100.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I-1-L-2 | I | I | d | -113 | -102.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | I-2-L-1 | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | XXXII | | d | -113 | -102.7 | Minimum | | | | | Bm/3.84 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | Power | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | 3, 3bis | | | | | | | | and 4, | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be at | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | | power. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 8.3 UE emissions for co-existence
Table 8.3-1 contains the updates required in the Additional spurious emissions
for co-existence table in TS 25.101. This is needed for SC and DC-HSUPA.
Table 8.3-1: Additional spurious emissions requirements for UTRA
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Operating Band | Frequency | Measurement | Minimum | | | Bandwidth | Bandwidth | requirement | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | 462.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz | -50 dBm | | | ≤ 467.5 MHz | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz | -50 dBm | | | 803 MHz | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz | -60 dBm | | | 821 MHz | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz | -50 dBm | | | 859 MHz | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz | -60 dBm | | | 894 MHz | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 921 MHz ≤ f \ where additional IL is 0.6dB, see clause 8 of the present document.
\- Combined duplexer and diplexer isolation at the Tx frequency = 50 dB
\- Combined duplexer and diplexer isolation at RX frequency = 45 dB
\- IIP3 = -10 dBm
Cross modulation noise simulation results for single uplink are shown in table
8.4-1.
Table 8.4-1: Cross modulation noise for single uplink
* * *
UTRA SDL configuration Unit 1b 1c DL Band I/XXXII I/XXXII Vendor Qualcomm
Qualcomm In-band Blocking dBm/3.84 MHz -135.64 -135.64 Intermod dBm/3.84 MHz
-129.7 -129.7 ACS Case 1 dBm/3.84 MHz -97.24 -97.24 ACS Case 2 dBm/3.84 MHz
-69.57 -69.57
* * *
Cross modulation noise simulation results for dual uplinks are shown in table
8.4-2.
Table 8.4-2: Cross modulation noise for dual uplinks
* * *
UTRA SDL configuration Unit 1c  
DL Band I/XXXII  
Vendor Qualcomm Ericsson In-band Blocking dBm/3.84 MHz -105.36 -105.5 Intermod
dBm/3.84 MHz -96.34 -96.4
* * *
### 8.4.1 UE In-band blocking
Requirements based on cross modulation noise simulation results are presented
in table 8.4.1-1 and table 8.4.1-2 for single uplink and dual uplinks
respectively.
Table 8.4.1-1: In-band blocking requirements with single uplink frequency
* * *
UTRA SDL Configuration 1b 1c DL Band I/XXXII I/XXXII Vendor Qualcomm Qualcomm
Requirements from simulation -102 -102 Existing specs (REF** _Î_** or +3 dB)
-99.7 -99.7 Agreed Requirements \ (dBm) -99.7 -99.7
* * *
Table 8.4.1-2: In-band blocking requirements with dual uplink frequencies
* * *
UTRA SDL Configuration 1c  
DL Band I/XXXII I/XXXII Vendor Qualcomm Ericsson Requirements from simulation
-100 N/A Existing specs (REF** _Î_** or +3 dB) -99.7  
Agreed Requirements \ (dBm) -99.7
* * *
### 8.4.2 UE Intermodulation
Requirements based on cross modulation noise simulation results are presented
in table 8.4.2-1 and table 8.4.2-2 for single uplink and dual uplink
respectively.
Table 8.4.2-1: Intermodulation requirements with single uplink frequency
* * *
UTRA SDL Configuration 1b 1c DL Band I/XXXII I/XXXII Vendor Qualcomm Qualcomm
Requirements from simulation -102 -102 Existing specs (REF** _Î_** or +3 dB)
-99.7 -99.7 Agreed Requirements \ (dBm) -99.7 -99.7
* * *
Table 8.4.1-2: Intermodulation requirements with dual uplink frequencies
* * *
UTRA SDL Configuration 1c  
DL Band I/XXXII I/XXXII Vendor Qualcomm Ericsson Requirements from simulation
-94.4 -94.6 Existing specs (REF** _Î_** or +3 dB) -99.7  
Agreed Requirements \ (dBm) -94.4
* * *
### 8.4.3 UE ACS
Requirements based on cross modulation noise simulation results are presented
in table 8.4.3-1 and table 8.4.3-2 for ACS case 1 and case 2 respectively.
Table 8.4.3-1: ACS case 1 requirements with single uplink frequency
* * *
UTRA SDL Configuration 1b 1c DL Band I/XXXII I/XXXII Vendor Qualcomm Qualcomm
Requirements from simulation -95.1 -95.1 Existing specs (REF** _Î_** or +14dB)
-88.7 -88.7 Agreed Requirements \ (dBm) -88.7 -88.7
* * *
Table 8.4.3-2: ACS case 2 requirements with single uplink frequency
* * *
UTRA SDL Configuration 1b 1c DL Band I/XXXII I/XXXII Vendor Qualcomm Qualcomm
Requirements from simulation -68.4 -68.4 Existing specs (REF** _Î_** or +41dB)
-61.7 -61.7 Agreed Requirements \ (dBm) -61.7 -61.7
* * *
## 8.5 UE Reference input power adjustment for a dual band device
For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA, the reference
input powers for DC-HSUPA requirements need to be adjusted. Typically the
amount of adjustment has been the same as the additional insertion loss
itself. Therefore, the allowed increase of reference input power in table
8.5-1 and table 8.5-2 is adopted.
Table 8.5-1: Allowed increase of HS-PDSCH Ec and Î~or~ for UE which supports
DB-DC-HSDPA.
* * *
DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration Allowed increase of HS-PDSCH Ec and Î~or~ (dB)
Applicable bands 6 0.6 I
* * *
Table 8.5-2: Allowed increase of HS-PDSCH Ec and Î~or~ for UE which supports
dual band 4C-HSDPA.
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Dual Band 4C-HSDPA | Allowed increase of | Applicable bands | | Configuration | HS-PDSCH Ec and Î~or~ | | | | (dB) | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | I-1-XXXII-2 | 0.6 | I | | | | | | I-2-XXXII-1 | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
## 8.6 BS UTRA ACLR
TS 25.104 includes a regional ACLR requirement. The requirement will also
apply to the L-band BS when this is operating within 1475.9-1495.9 MHz
Table 8.6-1: BS ACLR in TS 25.104
+--------------------------------------------------------+------------+ | BS adjacent channel offset below the first or above | ACLR limit | | the last carrier frequency used | | +--------------------------------------------------------+------------+ | 5 MHz | 45 dB | +--------------------------------------------------------+------------+ | 10 MHz | 50 dB | +--------------------------------------------------------+------------+ | Note 1: In certain regions, the adjacent channel power | | | (the RRC filtered mean power centered on an adjacent | | | channel frequency) shall be less than or equal to -8.0 | | | dBm/3.84 MHz (for Band I, III, IX, XI, XXI or Band | | | XXXII operating within 1475.9-1495.9 MHz) or | | | ＋2.0 dBm/3.84 MHz (for Band VI, VIII and XIX) or as | | | specified by the ACLR limit, whichever is the higher. | | | This note is not applicable for Home BS. | | | | | | Note 2: For Home BS, the adjacent channel power (the | | | RRC filtered mean power centered on an adjacent | | | channel frequency) shall be less than or equal to | | | -44.2 dBm/3.84 MHz or as specified by the ACLR limit, | | | whichever is the higher. | | +--------------------------------------------------------+------------+
# 9 Study of E-UTRA specific issues, Band 20 + L-band
## 9.1 UE MOP
Table 9.1-1 includes the applicable relaxation for Band 20+L-band CA. A more
detailed analysis can be found in clause 8 of the present document
**Table 9.1-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_20A-32A 20 0.3
* * *
## 9.2 UE REFSENS
Refer to clause 8 of the present document, where the UE REFSENS as per Band 1
is derived.
The UE REFSENS for Band 20+Lband is specified in table 9.2-1. The requirements
are based in the Band 1 UE REFSENS and account for 0dB relaxation . The uplink
configuration is included in Table 9.2-2.
Table 9.2-1: Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | EUTRA | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | CA | band | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | uplex | | Con | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | mode | | figur | | (dBm) | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C | 20 | | | -97 | -94 | -91.2 | -90 | FDD | | A_20 | | | | | | | | | | A-32A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 32 | | | -100 | -97 | -95.2 | -94 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | P~ | | | | | | | | | | UMAX~ | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | | .2.5A | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | | .101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | | | | ttern | | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | | FD | | | | | | | | | | D/TDD | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | A.5.1 | | | | | | | | | | .1/A. | | | | | | | | | | 5.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | | .101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 9.2-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | EUTRA | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | CA | band | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | uplex | | Con | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | mode | | figur | | (dBm) | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C | 20 | | | 25 | 20^1^ | 20^2^ | 20^2^ | FDD | | A_20 | | | | | | | | | | A-32A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 32 | | | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | ^1^ | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | close | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | pos | | | | | | | | | | sible | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | dow | | | | | | | | | | nlink | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | | | nsmis | | | | | | | | | | sion. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | ^2^ | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | 20; | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 5 MHz | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | RB~s | | | | | | | | | | tart~ | | | | | | | | | | 11 | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 9.3 UE emissions for co-existence
Table 9.3-1 contains the updates required in the Additional spurious emissions
for co-existence table in TS 36.101.
Table 9.3-1: E-UTRA spurious emissions for co-existence
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | Band | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | Note | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1880 | | 1895 | -40 | 1 | 15,27 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1895 | | 1915 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26, | | | range | | | | | | 27 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1915 | | 1920 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26, | | | range | | | | | | 27 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 6, 8, | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 1,32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 13 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 13 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | 859 | - | 869 | -27 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 26 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 875 | -37 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 875 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 7 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | 8 | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 23 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 23 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 23 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 10 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 15 | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 12, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 12, | | | range | | | | | | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 10 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 18 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | 9, 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 21 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -35 | 1 | 10, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 15 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 10 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 22 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3510 | - | 3525 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3525 | - | 3590 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 23 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 14, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 15 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1998 | - | 1999 | -21 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1997 | - | 1998 | -27 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1996 | - | 1997 | -32 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1995 | - | 1996 | -37 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1990 | - | 1995 | -40 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1990 | | 1999 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 28 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1999 | | 2000 | -40 | Note | 15, | | | uency | | | | | 29 | 28 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 24 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 0,12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 26 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 703 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 851 | - | 859 | -53 | 0. | 20 | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | 859 | -32 | 1 | 20 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 27 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | 790 | - | F | -32 | 1 | 16 | | | -UTRA | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 28 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | F~DL\ | - | 790 | -50 | 1 | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 28 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 4, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 24 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 25 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 773 | -32 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 773 | - | 803 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 662 | - | 694 | -26.2 | 6 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 19 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 30 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2200 | - | 2288 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 31 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2288 | - | 2292 | -37 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 31 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2292 | - | 2296 | -31 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 31 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2296 | - | 2300 | -25 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 31 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2320 | - | 2324 | -25 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 31 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2324 | - | 2328 | -31 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 31 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2328 | - | 2332 | -37 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 31 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2332 | - | 2395 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 31 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 33 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 34 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8,39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 35 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37 | | | - | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1,3, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2620 | - | 2645 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2645 | - | 2690 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 40 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13 , | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 30 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -50 | 1 | 30 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 30 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 42 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | [ | [1] | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | -50] | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 44 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 5, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | | -50 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .5-1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: To | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | non | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | nchro | | | | | | | | | nized | | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_05 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.1 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 7: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | -1 | | | | | | | | | 919.6 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | -1 | | | | | | | | | 915.7 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 9: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_08 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.3 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 10: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_09 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.4 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 11: | | | | | | | | | Wh | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | 93-80 | | | | | | | | | 5 MHz | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | stead | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | 99-80 | | | | | | | | | 5 MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | TBD | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 12: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | ffici | | | | | | | | | ently | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | ave | | | | | | | | | raged | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nsure | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | \ 3\. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 24: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -38 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 25: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -36 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 27: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 927.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 929.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1930 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1938 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1920 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1980 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 28: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_20 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 29: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | is 1% | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | 6-1). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 30: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 2545 | | | | | | | | | -2575 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | is 10 | | | | | | | | | or 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 31: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_21 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 9.4 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/2 DL
The 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and IMD products caused in the BS by
transmitting of Band 20 and L-band DL carriers can be calculated as shown in
table 9.4-1 below:
Table 9.4-1: Band 20 and Band 32 (L-band) DL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high DL frequency (MHz) 791 821 1452
1492
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1582 1642 2904 2984 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 2373 2463 4356 4476
2^nd^ order IMD products (f2-low - f1-high) (f2-high - f1-low) (f2-low +
f1-low) (f2-high + f1-high) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 631 701 2243 2313
3^rd^ order IMD products (2*f1-low - f2-high) (2*f1-high - f2-low) (2*f2-low -
f1-high) (2*f2-high - f1-low) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 90 190 2083 2193
3^rd^ order IMD products (2*f1-low + f2-low) (2*f1-high + f2-high) (2*f2-low +
f1-low) (2*f2-high + f1-high) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3034 3134 3695 3805
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low - f2-high + f2-low) (f1-high + f2-high -
f2-low) (f2-low - f1-high + f1-low) (f2-high + f1-high - f1-low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 751 861 1422 1522
3^rd^ order IMD products (with maximum channel bandwidth) (f1-low - f2-BWmax)
(f1-high + f2- BWmax) (f2-low - f1- BWmax) (f2-high + f1- BWmax) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 771 841 1442 1502
* * *
It can be seen from table 9.4-1 that the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonics of BS
transmitting in Band 20 may fall into the BS receive band of Band 24 and Band
40, respectively, while the 2^nd^ IMD products of BS supporting CA of Band 20
and L-band may fall into the BS receive band of Bands 12, 30 and 40, and the
3^rd^ IMD products may fall into the BS receive band of Bands 5, 6, 11, 13,
14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, 43 and 44. Note that the calculation in table
9.4-1 (except the last row) assumes the BS is transmitting with the whole 30
MHz DL frequency of Band 20 and the whole 40 MHz DL frequency of L-band.
However, even if the BS is only transmitting an up to 10 MHz DL in Band 20 and
an up to 20 MHz DL in L-band as stated in the WIDS, the 3^rd^ IMD products may
still fall into the BS receive band of Bands 5, 6, 11, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21,
26, 27, 43 and 44 as shown in the last row in table 9.4-1, but the 3^rd^ IMD
products will not fall into the BS own (up to 10 MHz) receive block within
Band 20, and may only fall into the BS receive band of certain frequency range
within Band 20 under the transmit configurations shown in table 9.4-2 below.
Table 9.4-2: Band (20 + 32) BS transmit configurations with 3^rd^ IMD within
Band 20 BS receive band
* * *
Band 20 DL channel bandwidth (MHz) Band 20 DL frequency block (MHz) Band 32 DL
channel bandwidth (MHz) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5 816 - 821 15 801 - 836 5
816 - 821 20 796 - 841 10 811 - 821 15 796 - 836 10 811 - 821 20 791 - 841 5
811 - 816 20 791 - 836 10 806 - 816 20 786 - 836
* * *
It should be noted that Bands 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 21, 24, 26, 27,
30, 40 and 44 are not intended for use in the same geographical area as Band
20 and L-band. Therefore, the focus here will be on the harmonics and IMD
falling into Bands 20 and 43.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the IMD interference generated within the Band 43 receiver would
be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the possibility of receiver
desensitization, provided that Bands 20 and L BS transmitters do not share the
same antenna with Band 43 BS receiver. And as discussed above, the 3^rd^ IMD
products will not fall into the Band 20 UL if the BS can avoid the transmit
configurations shown in table 9.4-2.
On the other hand, it is recommended Band 20 and L-band BS transmitters should
not share the same antenna with Band 43 BS receiver, or Band 20 BS receiver
for the affected frequency ranges if the BS transmit configurations shown in
table 9.4-2 are used, to prevent BS receiver desensitization, unless the
antenna path meets very stringent 3^rd^ order PIM specification so that the
PIM will not cause Band 20 or 43 BS receiver desensitization.
# 10 Study of MSR specific issues
There are not specific MSR issues for Band 32/XXXXII.
# 11 Channel numbering for E-UTRA, UTRA, MSR
The UARFCN allocated for the EU-L band (operating band XXXII) is as outlined
in tables 11-1and 11-2.
Table 11-1: UARFCN definition (general)
+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Band | UPLINK | D | | | | | | | (UL) | OWNLINK | | | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | tr | UE | | | | | | | ansmit, | r | | | | | | | Node B | eceive, | | | | | | | receive | Node B | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | UARFCN | Carrier | UARFCN | Carrier | | | | | formula | fr | formula | fr | | | | | offset | equency | offset | equency | | | | | | (F~UL~) | | (F~DL~) | | | | | F~UL_ | range | F~DL_ | range | | | | | Offset~ | [MHz] | Offset~ | [MHz] | | | | | [MHz] | | [MHz] | | | | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | F~U | F~UL | | F~D | F~DL | | | | L_low~ | _high~ | | L_low~ | _high~ | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XXXII | N/A | N/A | N/A | **131** | 1454.4 | 1493.6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 11-2: UARFCN definition (additional channels)
+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Band | UPLINK (UL) | DOWNLINK | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | UE transmit, | | | | | | Node B | UE receive, | | | | | receive | Node B | | | | | | transmit | | | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | UARFCN | Carrier | UARFCN | Carrier | | | formula | frequency | formula | frequency | | | offset | [MHz] | offset | [MHz] | | | | | | | | | F | (F~UL~) | F | (F~DL~) | | | ~UL_Offset~ | | ~DL_Offset~ | | | | [MHz] | | [MHz] | | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XXXII | - | - | 87.1 | 1454.5, | | | | | | 1459.5, | | | | | | 1464.5, | | | | | | 1469.5, | | | | | | 1474.5, | | | | | | 1479.5, | | | | | | 1484.5, | | | | | | 1489.5 | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
The EARFCN allocated for the EU-L band (operating band 32) is as outlined in
table 11-3.
Table 11-3: E-UTRA channel numbers
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ **[MHz]** N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ **[MHz]** N~Offs-UL~
Range of N~UL~ 32 1452 9920 9920 - 10359 N/A
* * *
Channel number allocations are not specified in the 3GPP 37 series (MSR)
specifications, but are referenced from the respective RAT. Consequently, no
changes are incurred in the MSR specifications due to the introduction of new
UARFCN or EARFCN.
# 12 Required changes to E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR specifications
The introduction of the L-band comprises both carrier aggregation elements and
the use of supplemental downlink. These complexities were not anticipated
during the creation of 3GPP TR 30.007 [4], and hence it does not apply well in
many cases. Table 12-1 lists where TR 30.007 [4] is applied directly and where
this is not the case, references to clauses in this document where actual
changes to the respective specifications are listed. It is assumed the L-band
will be operating bands XXXII/32.
Table 12-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
* * *
3GPP specification Clause in TR 30.007 [4] where the required changes are
given Clause in the present document identifying changes replacing
corresponding TR 30.007 changes TS 36.101 8.2.1.1  
TS 36.104 8.2.1.2 Clause 12.2
TS 36.113 8.2.1.4 TR 30.007 applies directly TS 36.124 8.2.1.5 TR 30.007
applies directly TS 36.133 8.2.1.6  
TS 36.141 8.2.1.7 Clause 12.5
TS 36.307 8.2.1.9  
TS 25.101 8.2.2.1
TS 25.104 8.2.2.3 Clause 12.3
TS 25.106 8.2.2.5  
TS 25.113 8.2.2.6 TR 30.007 applies directly TS 25.123 8.2.2.7  
TS 34.124 8.2.2.8 TR 30.007 applies directly TS 25.133 8.2.2.9  
TS 25.141 8.2.2.10 Clause 12.6
TS 25.307 8.2.2.13  
TS 25.331 8.2.2.14  
TS 25.461 8.2.2.15 TR 30.007 applies directly TS 25.466 8.2.2.16 TR 30.007
applies directly TS 37.104 8.2.3.1 Clause 12.1 TS 37.113 8.2.2.2 TR 30.007
applies directly TS 37.141 8.2.2.3 Clause 12.4
* * *
12.1 Changes in TS 37.104
Table 12.1-1 lists all changes in TS 37.104 made to introduce operating bands
XXXII and 32.
Table 12.1-1: Required changes for TS 37.104
+---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Section | Requirement | Description of changes in | | | | TS 37.104 | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 2 | References | Reference to CEPT ECC | | | | decision 13 (3) is added | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 3.2 | Symbols | Symbols for declared | | | | emission levels at | | | | appropriate BW are | | | | introduced. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 4.4 | Regional requirements | Added reference to the | | | | regional requirements | | | | applicable to BS operating | | | | in band XXXII or 32 in | | | | table 4.4-1 | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 4.5 | Operating bands and Band | Add operating bands XXXII | | | Categories | and 32 to table 4.5-1 and | | | | add a note describing the | | | | exclusive downlink with | | | | dual band operation. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.1.3 | Additional spurious | Add the operating bands | | | emissions requirements | XXXII and 32 to | | | | table6.6.1.3.1-1, with | | | | standard DL requirements. | | | | | | | | Add exclusion for band 32 | | | | and for its overlapping | | | | part with band 11for band | | | | 11 and 21 entries. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.2.4 | Additional operating band | Add clause 6.6.2.4.7 | | | unwanted emissions | defining the additional | | | requirements | regional requirement | | | | applicable to operating | | | | band XXXII and 32 BS, in | | | | terms of declared unwanted | | | | emission in band 32 and | | | | its adjacent spectrum. | | | | Note about regional EIRP | | | | requirements and reference | | | | to EIRP assessment in | | | | informative Annex H of | | | | TS36.104. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.7.1 | Transmitter | Add the part of operating | | | intermodulation | band 32 overlapping with | | | | band 11 to Note 2 in Table | | | | 6.7.1-1 | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.5.2 | Co-location minimum | Add operating bands XXXII | | | requirement for | and 32 to table 7.5.2-1. | | | out-of-band blocking | Apply standard | | | | requirements. Add note | | | | about the partial | | | | application in Japan (only | | | | band 11 and 21 | | | | frequencies) | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
## 12.2 Changes in TS 36.104
Table 12.2-1 lists all changes in TS 36.104 made to introduce operating bands
XXXII and 32.
Table 12.2-1: Required changes for TS 36.104
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Section | Requirement | Description of | | | | changes in TS 36.104 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2 | References | Reference to CEPT | | | | ECC decision 13 (3) | | | | is added | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3.2 | Symbols | Symbols for declared | | | | emission levels at | | | | appropriate BW are | | | | introduced. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3.3 | Abbreviations | EIRP is added | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5.5 | Operating bands | Add band 32 to table | | | | 5.5-1 | | | | | | | | Add the carrier | | | | aggregation | | | | combination of band | | | | 20 plus band 32 in | | | | table 5.5-3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5.7.3 | Carrier frequency | Add band 32 entry | | | and EARFCN | and associated | | | | EARFCN set to table | | | | 5.7.3-1. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.6.3.1 | Operating band | Add band 32 for | | | unwanted emission | category A | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.6.3.2 | Operating band | Add band 32 to the | | | unwanted emissions | option 2 entries for | | | Minimum requirements | 5 MHz and above | | | for Wide Area BS | carrier bandwidth in | | | (Category B) | clause 6.6.3.2.2. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.6.3.3 | Additional | In clause 6.6.3.3, | | | (operating band | add a section | | | unwanted emissions ) | defining the | | | requirements | additional regional | | | | requirement | | | | applicable to | | | | operating band 32 | | | | base station, in | | | | terms of declared | | | | unwanted emission in | | | | band 32 and its | | | | adjacent spectrum. | | | | Note about regional | | | | EIRP requirements | | | | and reference to | | | | EIRP assessment in | | | | informative Annex H. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.6.4.3 | Additional spurious | Add operating band | | | emissions | 32 to tables | | | requirements | 6.6.4.3.1-1 and | | | | 6.6.4.3.1-1x, with | | | | standard DL | | | | requirements. | | | | | | | | Add exclusion for | | | | band 32 and for its | | | | overlapping part | | | | with band 11for band | | | | 11 and 21 entries. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.7.1 | Transmitter | Add the part of | | | intermodulation | operating band 32 | | | | overlapping with | | | | band 11 to Note 2 in | | | | Table 6.7.1-1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 7.6.2 | Co-location with | Add operating bands | | | other base stations | XXXII and 32 to | | | | tables 7.6.2.1-1, | | | | 7.6.2.1-2, | | | | 7.6.2.1-3, Apply | | | | standard E-UTRA/UTRA | | | | requirements. Add | | | | note in the tables | | | | about the | | | | applicability in | | | | frequencies | | | | overlapping bands 11 | | | | and 21. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Annex H | Calculation of EIRP | Text to be added: | | (informative) | based on | (Generalized | | | manufacturer | description on how | | | declarations and | to assess EIRP | | | site specific | requirements based | | | conditions | on manufacturer | | | | declared unwanted | | | | emission as | | | | described in 3GPP | | | | specifications) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 12.3 Changes in TS 25.104
Table 12.3-1 lists all changes in TS 25.104 made to introduce operating bands
XXXII and 32.
Table 12.3-1: Required changes for TS 25.104
+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | Section | Requirement | Description of changes in | | | | TS 25.104 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 2 | References | Add reference to the ECC | | | | decision. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 3.2 | Abbreviations | EIRP added | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 4.3 | Regional requirements | Add a note that | | | | additional spectrum | | | | protection requirements | | | | may apply locally in | | | | entry 6.6.2.1 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 5.2 | Frequency bands | Add operating band XXXII | | | | to table 5.0 with note | | | | about dual band | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | Add combination of | | | | operating bands I and | | | | XXXII to table 5.0aA. | | | | | | | | Add combination of | | | | operating bands I and | | | | XXXII to table 5.0aC. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 5.4.3 | Channel number | Add band XXXII UARFCN in | | | | table 5.1 | | | | | | | | Add band XXXIII | | | | additional channels in | | | | table 5.1A | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.6.2.1 | Spectrum emission mask | Add regional requirement | | | | for protection of | | | | services in spectrum | | | | inside or close to | | | | operating band XXXII | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.6.3.1.2 | Spurious emissions | Add operating band XXXII | | | (Category B) | to the header of table | | | | 6.9 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.6.3.3 | Co-existence with other | Add operating band | | | systems in the same | XXXII/32 to table 6.11. | | | geographical area | Apply standard | | | | UTRA/E-UTRA requirements | | | | for DL (no UL | | | | requirement). Add | | | | exclusion for band XXXII | | | | and for its overlapping | | | | part with band XI for | | | | band XI and XXI entries. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.7 | Transmit intermodulation | Add band XXXII overlap | | | | with bands XI and XXI to | | | | Note 2 in table 6.21 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 7.5.2 | Co-location with other | Add operating bands XXXII | | | base stations | and 32 to tables 7.5C. | | | | 7.5D, and 7.5E, Apply | | | | standard E-UTRA/UTRA | | | | requirements. Add note | | | | about the overlap with | | | | bands XI and XXI. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
## 12.4 Additional changes in TS 37.141
Table 12.4-1 lists all changes in TS 37.141 required to introduce operating
bands XXXII and 32.
Table 12.4-1: Required changes for TS 37.141
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 37.141 2 References Reference
to CEPT ECC decision 13 (3) is added 3.2 Symbols Introduce symbols useful to
describe the additional operating band unwanted emission regionally applicable
to base station operating in band XXXII or 32. 3.3 Abbreviations EIRP is added
4.3 Regional requirements Add reference to the regional requirements
applicable to base stations operating in band XXXII or 32 in table 4.3-1 4.4
Operating bands and Band Categories Add operating bands XXXII and 32 to table
4.4-1 and add note describing the exclusive downlink operation for the band.
4.6 Manufacturer's declarations of regional and optional requirements Add
necessary information to determine conformance to the L-band requirements, in
4.6.3. 6.6.1.5.5 Additional spurious emissions requirements Add the operating
bands XXXII and 32 to table 6.6.1.5.5-1, with standard DL requirements and no
UL requirements. Add notes about the overlap with bands XI/11 and XXI/21.
6.6.2.5.4 Additional operating band unwanted emissions requirements Add clause
6.6.2.5.4.6 defining the additional regional requirement applicable to
operating band XXXII and 32 BS in Region 1. Add reference to Annex H in
TS36.104 for EIRP calculation. 7.5.5.2 Co-location minimum requirement for
out-of-band blocking Add operating bands XXXII and 32 to table 7.5.5.2-1.
Apply standard requirements. Add note about the overlap of bands 11/21
applicability in Japan.
* * *
## 12.5 Additional changes in TS 36.141
Table 12.5-1 lists all changes in TS 36.141 required to introduce operating
bands XXXII and 32.
Table 12.5-1: Required changes for TS 36.141
+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | Section | Requirement | Description of changes in | | | | TS 36.141 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 2 | References | Reference to CEPT ECC | | | | decision 13 (3) is added | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 3.2 | Symbols | Introduce symbols useful | | | | to describe the | | | | additional operating band | | | | unwanted emission | | | | requirements regionally | | | | applicable to base | | | | station operating in band | | | | XXXII or 32 (if needed). | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 3.3 | abbreviations | EIRP is added | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 4.6 | Manufacturer's | Add information needed to | | | declarations of regional | confirm compliance to the | | | and optional requirements | L-band EU regional | | | | requirement on unwanted | | | | emission in clause 4.6.5 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 5.5 | Operating bands | Add band 32 to table | | | | 5.5-1 | | | | | | | | Add the carrier | | | | aggregation combination | | | | of band 20 plus band 32 | | | | in table 5.5-3 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 5.7.3 | Carrier frequency and | Add band 32 entry and | | | EARFCN | associated EARFCN set to | | | | table 5.7.3-1. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.6.3.5.1 | Operating band unwanted | Add band 32 to the list | | | emissions Minimum | above table 6.6.3.5.1-4 | | | requirements for Wide | addressing operating | | | Area BS (Category A) | bands applicable for | | | | table 6.6.3.5.1-6. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.6.3.5.2 | Operating band unwanted | Add band 32 to the option | | | emissions Minimum | 2 entries for 5 MHz and | | | requirements for Wide | above carrier bandwidth | | | Area BS (Category B) | in clause 6.6.3.5.2.2. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.6.3.5.3 | Additional (operating | Add text defining the | | | band unwanted emissions ) | additional regional | | | requirements | requirement applicable to | | | | operating band 32 BS to | | | | fulfil the EEC decision | | | | in Region 1. Add | | | | reference to Annex H in | | | | TS 36.104, addressing | | | | EIRP assessments. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.6.4.5 | Spurious emissions test | Add operating band 32 to | | | requirements | table 6.6.4.5.4-1 and | | | | table 6.6.4.5.4-1a. Apply | | | | standard E-UTRA | | | | requirements. Add | | | | comments about the | | | | overlap with bands 11 and | | | | 21. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.7 | Transmitter | Add the part of band 32 | | | intermodulation | overlapping with bands 11 | | | | and 21 to note 2 in table | | | | 6.7.1-1 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 7.6.5.2 | Co-location with other | Add operating bands XXXII | | | base stations | and 32 to tables 7.6-3, | | | | 7.6-4, and 7.6-5. Apply | | | | standard E-UTRA/UTRA | | | | requirements. Add notes | | | | about the applicability | | | | for the overlap with | | | | bands11 and 21. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
## 12.6 Additional changes in TS 25.141
Table 12.6-1 lists all changes in TS 25.141 required to introduce operating
bands XXXII and 32.
Table 12.6-1: Required changes for TS 25.141
+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | Section | Requirement | Description of changes in | | | | TS 25.141 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 2 | References | Reference to CEPT ECC | | | | decision 13 (3) is added | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 3.3 | Abbreviations | EIRP is added | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 3.4.1 | Frequency bands | Add operating band XXXII | | | | to table 3.0 with note | | | | about dual band | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | Add combination of | | | | operating bands I and | | | | XXXII to table 3.0aA. | | | | | | | | Add combination of | | | | operating bands I and | | | | XXXII to table 3.0aC. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 3.5.3 | Channel number | Add band XXXII UARFCN in | | | | table 3.1 | | | | | | | | Add band XXXIII | | | | additional channels in | | | | table 3.2 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 4.7 | Regional requirements | Add a note that | | | | additional spectrum | | | | protection requirements | | | | may apply locally in | | | | entry 6.5.2.1.5 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.5.2.1.5 | Spectrum emission mask | Add regional requirement | | | | for protection of | | | | services in spectrum | | | | inside or close to | | | | operating band XXXII in | | | | region 1. Reference to TS | | | | 36.104 for EIRP | | | | assessment. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.5.3.7.2 | Spurious emissions | Add operating band XXXII | | | (Category B) | to the header of table | | | | 6.36 | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.5.3.7.4 | Co-existence with other | Add operating band | | | systems in the same | XXXII/32 to table 6.38. | | | geographical area | Apply standard | | | | UTRA/E-UTRA requirements | | | | for DL (no UL | | | | requirement). Add notes | | | | about the overlap with | | | | bands XI and XXI. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.6 | Transmit intermodulation | And band XXXII overlap | | | | with bands XI and XXI to | | | | note 2 in table 6.48. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 7.5.5 | Co-location with other | Add operating bands XXXII | | | base stations | and 32 to tables 7.4N. | | | | 7.4P, and 7.4Q, Apply | | | | standard E-UTRA/UTRA | | | | requirements. Add note | | | | about overlap with bands | | | | XI and XXI in certain | | | | regions. | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
#