# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
SON enhancements may be necessary for the interoperability of the existing
features as well as for the new features and new deployments considered in
Rel.12.
In Rel.11 Mobility Robustness Optimisation (MRO) has been enhanced so that
identification of the UE type, for which a failure has occurred may be
possible. Other SON use cases may benefit from similar differentiation in
handling. Active antennas allow the creation of multiple vertical and
horizontal beams making the deployment dynamic. SON may enhance network
deployment based on active antennas. Finally, review of SON techniques and
verification of any enhancements with regard to existing pre-Rel.12 small
cells are part of the study item.
# 1 Scope
The objectives of the study are:
\- Identify SON enhancements and new features needed for the interworking
between existing features and user type differentiation based on of UE
configuration UE capability UE characteristic or location (considering SA5
work).
\- identify SON enhancements and new features needed for the deployments based
on active antennas
\- Evaluate the benefits and impacts of the identified solutions
For pre-release 12 Small Cells:
\- Identify any gaps between existing SON and further enhancements needed
specifically for Small Cells
\- Reduce Network planning efforts for small cells
\- Enhance network optimization efforts including aspects like mobility
robustness and load balancing (duplication with HetNET mobility enhancement WI
should be avoided)
The present document provides descriptions and possible solutions of use cases
and analysis of these solutions. Considerations with regards to requested
functionality in scope of other 3GPP groups if any, may be captured in this
document as well.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAS Active Antenna System
MRO Mobility Robustness Optimisation
PCI Physical Cell Identifier
RLF Radio Link Failure
SON Self-Optimizing Network
TAI Tracking Area Identifier
TTT Time-to-Trigger
# 4 Description of addressed problems and solutions
## 4.1 SON for UE types
According to current specifications, differentiation of mobility settings is
possible. The objective of the \"SON for UE types\" task should be to evaluate
if differentiation of mobility settings mechanisms can cause interoperability
issues and if yes, to evaluate solutions for them.
Any solution should bring sufficient improvements to inter vendor
interoperability and it should be robust and future proof (namely it should
not be forced to changes with future evolutions of the system, e.g.
introduction of new UE capabilities). Any solution should be scalable, i.e.
with the introduction of new features and capabilities, the solution should
minimize impacts on implementation and standard. Such solutions should not
unnecessarily limit the flexibility available in current systems for assigning
different policies to UEs or UE groups: it should be possible to treat UEs in
different conditions (e.g. different services, capabilities) in different
ways.
### 4.1.1 Ping-pong event
**[Problem description:]{.underline}**
Enabling wider differentiation of mobility setting may be needed in the system
(homogeneous and heterogeneous scenarios), but may create issues, such as
ping-pongs. Example scenarios are presented below:
When load balancing is used to resolve congestion in the source cell, and the
Mobility Settings Change procedure is used to adapt the handover trigger point
to the target cell, some UE categories may be subject to ping-pong depending
on how the UE category is handled in the target cell. A UE belonging to such
UE category is handed over from the congested source cell to the target cell
while located far out in the edge of the target cell. While the eNB serving
the target cell is aware that handing over the UE back to the congested cell
within a certain time window is a ping pong event, the eNB serving the target
cell may need additional information for further handover decisions. These
decisions are typically based on a trade off between the risk for failure and
ping pong.
**[Solutions:]{.underline}**
The following solutions have been identified:
1\. Solution without additional information\ The existing information such as
load information, Handover Cause Value, measurement configuration, QoS
parameters and UE capabilities can be used to assess the reason and the offset
used for a handover. The serving eNB can estimate the likelihood of connection
failure of the served UEs and trigger handovers to previous serving cells only
when needed from a radio conditions point of view. Therefore, current
specifications enable an eNB to have enough information for avoiding
unnecessary handovers back to the source cell.
2\. Solution with additional information but without pre-defined UE groups.\
In this solution the source eNB sends an indication in the handover request to
the target eNB to give additional information about each handover.
a. Signal the offset from the agreed handover trigger used for this handover.
b. Signal a timer to inform the target that it should not hand over the UE
back to source within the given time.
c. Signal a group identity (defined at source as a bit string) in the Mobility
Setting Change procedure; later, the target, if it accepted the new mobility
settings, applies the new settings to the UEs handed over successfully with
the same group identity signalled in the HO preparations.
3\. Solution with pre-defined UE groups\ In this solution, the groups are
defined in the standard. The mobility settings change procedure is extended to
include negotiation of the predefined groups.
a. The eNB exchange the group ID in the handover request.
b. The groups are based on commonly known parameters, like UE capabilities or
release or bearer class or UE behaviour (e.g. UE mobility state as known by
the network).
**[Evaluation:]{.underline}**
Evaluation of the above solutions is proposed to be based on:
**Flexibility (adaptation)** : the point is to verify if the solution enables
to apply mobility policies to any UE, according to what implementation
believes opportune, based on existing criteria (e.g. capabilities, services,
etc.).
**Flexibility (future development)** : the point is to verify if the solution
enables to apply new mobility policies to any UE, according to what
implementation believes opportune, based on any newly introduced criteria
(e.g. new capabilities, services, etc.).
**Ping-pong and connection failure avoidance** : The problem statement defines
the ping-pong as the risk that should be avoided. In addition, the risk of
failures shall not be increased. The proposed solutions should therefore
decrease the risk for the unnecessary HO (i.e. HOs not for radio reasons) that
would lead to ping-pong, while not increasing the risk of failures.
**Ability to optimize other aspects (e.g. QoS)** : the point to analyses is if
the solution enables the target eNB to choose a HO trigger point that takes
into account other criteria, e.g. QoS.
**Standardisation and implementation effort** : the point here is to analyse
implementation impact, for example what signalling procedures may be affected
and at what extent.
The evaluation of the solutions is summarised in the Table 4.1.1-1.
Table 4.1.1-1: Evaluation of the solutions for the ping-pong event
+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Fl | Ping-pong | Ability | Standa | | | | exibility | and | to | rdization | | | | | c | optimize | and | | | | | onnection | other | imple | | | | | failure | aspects\ | mentation | | | | | avoidance | (e.g. | effort | | | | | | QoS) | | | +-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | | A | Future | | | | | | daptation | de | | | | | | | velopment | | | | +-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 1 | The eNB | The eNB | Ping-pong | QoS is | No change | | | may apply | may | avoidance | optimized | in | | | any | create | can be | at source | standard | | | policy it | any new | achieved, | and at | is | | | likes to | policy it | assuming | the | needed. | | | all UEs, | likes. | the | target | | | | it is not | | mea | indep | The | | | bound by | | surements | endently. | target | | | prior | | provided | | may need | | | ag | | from the | | to adopt | | | reements. | | peer eNB | | its | | | | | are | | policy to | | | | | relevant. | | what is | | | | | | | under | | | | | Failure | | standable | | | | | can be | | from the | | | | | avoided | | source's | | | | | based on | | si | | | | | the | | gnalling. | | | | | available | | | | | | | meas | | | | | | | urements. | | | +-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 2-a | The eNB | The eNB | Ping-pong | By | Requires | | | may apply | may | avoidance | informing | a new IE | | | any | create | can be | the delta | in the HO | | | policy it | any new | achieved | to the | pre | | | likes to | policy it | based on | target | paration. | | | UEs | likes. | the | eNB, the | | | | without | | signalled | QoS | The | | | the | | delta. | treatment | target | | | delta, it | | | can be | should | | | is not | | Failure | optimized | adopt its | | | bound by | | can be | at the | policy to | | | prior | | avoided | source. | the delta | | | ag | | based on | However, | signalled | | | reements; | | the | the | from the | | | for UEs | | available | target | source. | | | handed | | meas | may not | | | | over with | | urements. | be able | | | | a delta | | | to apply | | | | it should | | | optimal | | | | respect | | | QoS while | | | | the | | | the delta | | | | delta. | | | is | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | espected. | | +-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 2-b | The eNB | The eNB | Ping-pong | By | Requires | | | may apply | may | avoidance | informing | a new IE | | | any | create | can be | the timer | in the HO | | | policy it | any new | achieved, | to the | pre | | | likes to | policy it | assuming | target | paration. | | | UEs | likes. | the | eNB, the | | | | without | | mea | QoS | The | | | the | | surements | treatment | target | | | timer, it | | provided | can be | should | | | is not | | from the | optimized | change | | | bound by | | peer eNB | at the | its | | | prior | | are | source. | policy | | | ag | | relevant. | However, | during | | | reements; | | Ping-pong | the | the time | | | for UEs | | detection | target | indicated | | | handed | | can be | may not | from the | | | over with | | avoided. | be able | source. | | | a timer | | | to apply | | | | it should | | Failure | optimal | | | | keep them | | can be | QoS | | | | for the | | avoided | during | | | | specified | | based on | this | | | | time. | | the | time. | | | | | | available | | | | | | | meas | | | | | | | urements. | | | +-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 2-c | The eNB | The eNB | Ping-pong | By | Requires | | | may apply | may | avoidance | in | a new IE | | | any | create | can be | forming/c | in the | | | policy it | any new | achieved | ancelling | MSC | | | likes to | policy it | based on | the | p | | | UEs | likes. | the | mobility | rocedure. | | | without | | agreed HO | policies | A new IE | | | the group | | trigger | to the | in the HO | | | ID, it is | | point. | target | pr | | | not bound | | | eNB, the | eparation | | | by prior | | Failure | QoS | may be | | | ag | | can be | treatment | needed. | | | reements; | | avoided | can be | | | | for UEs | | based on | optimized | The | | | handed | | the | at the | target | | | over with | | available | source. | should | | | a known | | meas | However, | adopt its | | | ID it | | urements. | the | policy to | | | should | | | target | the HO | | | respect | | | may not | trigger | | | the | | | be able | point | | | agreed HO | | | to assess | agreed | | | trigger | | | the QoS | with the | | | point. | | | treatment | source. | | | | | | before | | | | | | | the HO. | | +-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 3-a | The eNB | Creating | Ping-pong | By | Requires | | | shall | new | avoidance | coo | a new IE | | | apply the | grouping | can be | rdinating | in the | | | agreed HO | criteria | achieved | mobility | MSC and | | | trigger | requires | based on | policies | HO | | | point to | spec | agreed HO | between | pr | | | UEs, | ification | trigger | eNBs, a | eparation | | | according | change. | point. | c | pr | | | to the | | | ompromise | ocedures. | | | group | | Failure | QoS | | | | they | | can be | treatment | The | | | belong | | avoided | can be | target | | | to. | | based on | provided. | shall | | | | | the | However, | adopt its | | | | | available | QoS for | policy to | | | | | meas | some UEs | the HO | | | | | urements. | within a | trigger | | | | | | group may | point | | | | | | be | agreed | | | | | | degraded, | with the | | | | | | if the | source. | | | | | | groups | RRM at | | | | | | are too | source | | | | | | coarse. | may need | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | modified | | | | | | | to take | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | account | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | groups. | +-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 3-b | The eNB | Creating | Ping-pong | By | Requires | | | shall | new | avoidance | coo | a new IE | | | apply the | grouping | can be | rdinating | in the | | | agreed HO | criteria | achieved | mobility | MSC | | | trigger | requires | based on | policies | p | | | point to | spec | agreed HO | between | rocedure. | | | UEs, | ification | trigger | eNBs, a | | | | according | change. | point. | c | The | | | to the | | | ompromise | target | | | group | | Failure | QoS | shall | | | they | | can be | treatment | adopt its | | | belong | | avoided | can be | policy to | | | to. | | based on | provided. | the HO | | | | | the | However, | trigger | | | | | available | QoS for | point | | | | | meas | some UEs | agreed | | | | | urements. | within a | with the | | | | | | group may | source. | | | | | | be | RRM at | | | | | | degraded, | source | | | | | | if the | may need | | | | | | groups | to be | | | | | | are too | modified | | | | | | coarse. | to take | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | account | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | groups. | +-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
### 4.1.2 Mobility Settings Change interpretation
**[Problem description:]{.underline}**
The way the Mobility Setting Change procedure is defined allows for very
different implementations, also such that may reduce the available range for
the negotiation. To depict it, the following example may be considered:
There are two eNBs, eNB A, whose vendor considers the procedure as
\"advisory\" and relies on its implementation, and eNB B where the procedure
is considered binding and where the mobility decisions are made according to
the agreed mobility settings. If the two eNBs are to negotiate the mobility
setting, the eNB A may propose rather big changes, assuming that if there is a
UE that can not handle such a big extensions, the mobility implementation will
hand over the UE sooner. Despite the fact that the specifications do not
mandate to apply the negotiated handover to all UEs, the eNB B may reject such
a request because some UEs (e.g. legacy UEs) may not be able to handle it. And
since the standard states that eNB A should consider the response before
executing the planned change, the available range for the load balancing may
be reduced.
**[Solutions:]{.underline}**
The problem can be solved in different ways:
1\. A clarification can be added as a specification or as an information
element in the Mobility Setting Change procedure.
a. Clarify that the negotiation is for the least sensitive UE (typically
legacy UEs).
b. Clarify that the negotiation is for the most sensitive UEs.
2\. A solution that enables the Mobility Setting Change to be applied to a
selected group of UEs (as discussed for the ping-pong problem) can also help
to limit the ambiguity of the procedure.
3\. The problem may be considered as irrelevant, because the ambiguity was
present in the procedure since the Rel.9, when it was first specified. Then,
the handover trigger points established via Mobility Setting Change procedures
should be interpreted as a recommendation that, whenever possible, the
negotiated handover trigger point shall be respected. This trigger point
represents then the outmost handover point from a source cell to a target
cell. Namely, UEs can be handed over to the target cell at or before this
trigger point. The handover trigger point negotiated via Mobility Setting
Change should be applied whenever possible, depending on UE conditions and
implementation.
**[Evaluation:]{.underline}**
All the solutions address the interpretation problem appropriately. The
evaluation of the above solutions is proposed to be based on:
**Standardisation and implementation effort** : the point here is to analyse
implementation impact, for example what signalling procedures may be affected
and at what extent.
The evaluation of the solutions is summarised in the Table 4.1.2-1.
Table 4.1.2-1: Evaluation of the solutions for the interpretation problem
+---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Standardisation and implementation effort | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | 1 | Existing implementations that are not aligned with the | | | clarification may become non-compliant; | | | | | | or new signalling is needed to inform about the interpretation | | | of given Mobility Change request. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | 2 | See the standardisation and implementation impact of solutions | | | 2c and 3a in Table 4.1.1-1: | | | | | | New signalling is needed to inform about the grouping; also: | | | | | | for 2c: the target should adopt its policy to the HO trigger | | | point agreed with the source; | | | | | | for 3a: the target shall adopt its policy to the HO trigger | | | point agreed with the source; RRM at source may need to be | | | modified to take into account defined groups. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | 3 | No standard impact is foreseen; however, if any clarification | | | is provided, the impact is similar as solution 1. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
### 4.1.3 Conclusions
Based on the discussions and studies done so far, following conclusions
concerning SON enhancement for UE types can be formulated:
1) Any work impacting RRM mechanism shall be consulted with appropriate WGs,
e.g. RAN2.
2) For the ping-pong problem, the solutions 2b and 3b shall be treated with
lower priority.
3) The study has found that the Mobility Setting Change procedure can:
\- be enhanced with a further description of how the negotiated HO trigger
point should be interpreted; stage-3 should not be changed
\- be enhanced with extra information allowing the HO trigger point to be
negotiated on a per UE group basis; stage-3 needs to be changed
4) The benefit of solutions enabling UE grouping is higher granularity of
mobility border negotiations fit to UE groups, at the cost of restrictions to
the RRM and scheduling policies (which is less restricted in case of status
quo proposals or proposals adding extra mobility information such as offset to
HO preparation messages).
5) The benefit of solutions based on exchange of HO trigger point information
via HO preparation procedure is to enable per-UE alignment of HO trigger point
at the target eNB. The source eNB would be informed of the target's ability to
apply the HO policy for the UE once the handover preparation is completed
(while in case of solutions enabling UE grouping this can be known
beforehand).
## 4.2 SON for AAS-based deployments
The objective of SON for AAS task should be to evaluate whether SON mechanism
could be beneficial to optimize inter-operability of AAS operations. Also, as
part of the task, an evaluation should be performed of whether existing SON
features need to be enhanced to handle the dynamic changes due to AAS
activities.
The scenario assumes high traffic demand from high density of UEs. The UEs may
be concentrated temporarily or permanently in space; the AAS-based deployment
is used to optimise capacity.
Three AAS techniques have been considered:
1) Beam forming
\- The solution introduces adaptive or reconfigurable antenna systems, where
the coverage of each cell is maintained unchanged.
\- The same PCI is used in all the cell coverage.
\- These adjustments are considered to be on fast time scale (following RRM).
\- The control unit may be the base station (implementation based).
\- Problems related to existing SON features or enhancements needed: none
(intra-cell activity).
2) Cell Shaping
\- The solution introduces adaptive or reconfigurable antenna systems, where
the main coverage of each cell is maintained unchanged but the cell edge can
be adapted to load demand.
\- The same PCI is used in all the cell coverage.
\- These adjustments are considered to be on medium time scale (every 1h or
more seldom).
\- The trigger for the change may be OAM reconfiguration (e.g. based on
collected KPIs) or the control unit may be the base station (implementation
based).
\- Problems related to existing SON features or enhancements needed: depending
on the scale of the change, MRO may be impacted.
3) Cell splitting
\- The solution adopts higher order sectorisation (vertical, horizontal or a
combination) to selected base stations by changing an antenna system to
include more antenna beams, each covering a smaller area than before the
change -- however, the main coverage of the combined beams correspond to the
main cell coverage before the split.
\- Each of the beams broadcasts different PCI.
\- Cell splitting / merging procedures is considered on a long term time scale
(every 1h or more seldom -- few times a day).
\- The trigger for the change may be OAM reconfiguration (e.g. based on
collected KPIs) or, if the cell coverage is not affected and the split is pre-
planned, the control unit is the base station (implementation based).
Indication of the cell splitting may be needed at OAM and neighbour eNBs.
\- Problems related to existing SON features or enhancements needed: MRO.
A centralized (in OAM) controlled solution is already possible today, since
OAM is able to send any configuration to the involved eNBs. It is also capable
of monitoring an extensive range of measurements. Therefore, the solutions for
cell splitting operate on a discreet set of configurations provided from OAM.
Scenario descriptions involving cell splitting should provide answers to the
following questions:
1\. Should cell splitting occur in zones freely defined by the eNB, or only
according to OAM preconfigured geographical information?
Answer: The cell splitting should occur according to OAM preconfigured
geographical information.
The process of cell splitting should be carried out in a controlled and
preconfigured way, i.e. by selecting splitting configurations that have been
validated in terms of coverage at OAM level. According to network load and
users service type and requirements in the considered geographic areas, OAM
can define whether a cell splitting is necessary or not.
2\. Should the RAN provide particular information to OAM in order to help
configuration of geographical or other information related to cell splitting?
Answer: Information such as MDT measurement data or statistics can be provided
to OAM to help further optimisation of configuration related to cell
splitting.
RAN can provide statistics and/or MDT data to OAM, for example, OAM can
consider statistics and/or configure MDT measurements before or after cell
splitting in the concerned zones, and the statistics and/or MDT measurements
data collected from eNBs and UEs may help operators get knowledge of the real
coverage and capacity conditions under the two different antenna
configurations within the concerned geographical area. Operators can make
further optimisation on the setting of AAS antenna and geographical zones.
3\. Should the cell splitting, once defined by OAM, be permanently activated?
Answer: The cell splitting can be activated and merged back.
In a situation where the hot spots of traffic demand are consistently
localised in space and are present for most of the time, or appear/disappear
with a relatively short time period, it would be plausible to permanently
adopt the cell splitting configuration.
On the other end, if the traffic hotspots are not consistently localised in
space and appear in time with rather long periods, it may be plausible to
allow the merge back, from the splitting configuration to a merged one.
4\. Should the OAM system be able to activate/de-activate the cell splitting
(cell merging)?
Answer: The OAM system should be able to activate/de-activate the cell
splitting/merging, which allows operators to control the cell
splitting/merging functionality at their needs.
5\. Should the eNB be able to autonomously activate (the possibly OAM
preconfigured) cell splitting? If so which kind of information is needed?
6\. Should the eNB be able to autonomously de-activate cell splitting (cell
merging)? If so which kind of information is needed?
Answer5/6: The eNB should be able to activate/de-activate the cell splitting
using splitting configurations preconfigured by OAM. Under the supervision and
validation of OAM (e.g. validation that the configuration is compatible with
the neighbouring eNB status), the eNB may be able to trigger activation/de-
activation of the cell splitting when certain conditions are met.
7\. Should intra-frequency scenarios be considered?
8\. Should inter-frequency scenarios be considered?
Answer7/8: Both, intra-frequency and inter-frequency scenarios should be
considered, which may satisfy different operators demands.
### 4.2.1 Connection failures due to cell splitting/merging
**[Problem description:]{.underline}**
a) Radio link failures in the splitting/merging cell
Once the cell splitting is triggered, the eNB controlling the cell to be split
may not yet know exactly which UEs will be impacted. Therefore, it may not be
able to initiate a handover for some UEs accordingly before the cell splitting
action. Even though such UEs could be identified and assuming that these UEs
are in active mode while the cell splitting occurs, it is not guaranteed that
a suitable target cell for handover is available. Consequently, these UEs may
experience an RLF.
In addition, some UEs served by the cell for which the PCI is unchanged before
and after a splitting/merging action, they may also experience an RLF if the
interruption time due to cell splitting/merging is too long (e.g., longer than
the RLF detection related timer T310).
Moreover, once the cell splitting is triggered a large number of UEs may have
to be in handover procedures. Therefore, this solution may result in high
handover failure cases because of the inter-cell interference in the intra-
frequency deployment.
b) Incoming handover failure and consequent re-establishment failure
Handover preparation may be triggered by a neighbouring eNB to the cell to be
split/merged before the cell splitting/merging action. When the UE tries to
access the target cell, the target cell may have changed due to cell
splitting/merging. This handover may fail due to unsuccessful access. Soon the
UE attempts to re-establish the connection in the best cell, it would fail due
to lack of re-establishment information for this cell.
**[Solutions:]{.underline}**
Following solutions have been identified for (a):
1\. Cell splitting is executed after successful HO the active mode UEs.
According to the measurement result of the UEs, the eNB will know whether
there are candidate cells for the UE. After all the UEs are handover out
successfully, the eNB perform cell splitting.
2\. Multiple preparation in the eNB handling the split/merged cells and to eNB
handling neighbour cells to guarantee the successful re-establishment.
It is assumed that there is no coverage change for the cell splitting/merging.
For all the UEs in the coverage of the initial cell, they can be served by the
new splitting/merging cells. The initial serving cell can prepare the UE
context in the new cells. If there is connection failure for some UEs, the UE
can perform the RRC reestablishment procedure successfully in the new
splitting/merging cells.
All above solutions can be supported by implementation with the current
standard.
A potential method to avoid possible failures when UEs need to be handed over
in large numbers (mainly due to interference and/or collisions at RACH),
following solution may be applied:
3\. In case of cell splitting the new and the old cells are using the same
antenna units. Also in case of merging, the cells to be combined are using the
same antenna. Therefore, the RACH access phase can be eliminated and the UEs
reporting a new cell may be provided, in the RRCConnectionReconfiguration,
with the system information needed to set up connection to the new cell. With
completion of the reconfiguration the lower layers of the UEs are prepared
such that each UE is informed via PDCCH about DL/UL grants in the new cell and
from which TTI on the new cell has to be used. With this approach all UEs
having the inner sector as best server can be simultaneously handed over to
the new cell shortly after the activation.
NOTE: The feasibility and complexity of the solution requires verification in
RAN1 or RAN2.
If a handover has been triggered (measurement event reported) before
deployment change of the target cell and the handover execution
(RRCConnectionReconfig + RACH attempt) occurs after the deployment change, the
handover and consequent RRC reestablishment may fail. In order to minimise the
risk of preparing a HO to a non-existing cell and guarantee the success of
consequent RRC reestablishment, the neighbour may be notified about the
deployment change in advance. Therefore the solution for (b) is:
4\. With the pre-condition that cell splitting / cell merging is under the
supervision and validation of OAM, the neighbour eNBs of the eNB controlling
the cell to be split / merged are notified about the planned deployment change
in advance. There are two options for the notification:
a. Direct notification: X2 message is used to inform neighbours about the cell
split/merge.
b. Notification by OAM: OAM can inform neighbour eNBs about the split/merge.
**[Summary of solutions -- part (a):]{.underline}**
The main features of the solutions 1, 2 and 3 are summarized in table 4.2.1-1.
Table 4.2.1-1: Comparison of the solutions to provide connection continuity
+---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | | UE failure | Feasibility | Specification | Impact on | | | avoidance | | impact | functionality | | | | | | outside the | | | | | | RAN3 scope | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 1 | UE failure | Feasible, if | No impact | No impact | | | can be | there is | | | | | avoided if | enough | | | | | there are | capacity | | | | | other | available in | | | | | candidate | the same | | | | | cells in the | coverage. | | | | | coverage. | | | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 2 | UE failure | Feasible, if | No impact | No impact | | | can be | all the UEs | | | | | avoided by | manage to | | | | | re- | re-establish | | | | | establishment | successfully | | | | | procedure. | (i.e. no | | | | | | congestion) | | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 3 | UE failure | UL access is | Specification | Impact RAN2. | | | can be | optimized in | change is | | | | avoided also | case of large | needed. | May also | | | in case of | number of UE | | impact RAN1. | | | RACH | need to be | | | | | congestion | handed over | | | | | (when random | when cell | | | | | access | split/merging | | | | | procedure is | need to be | | | | | necessary for | performed. | | | | | the UE). | The | | | | | | precondition | | | | | | for this | | | | | | solution is | | | | | | that the old | | | | | | cell and the | | | | | | new | | | | | | split/merged | | | | | | cell(s) can | | | | | | work | | | | | | si | | | | | | multaneously. | | | | | | | | | | | | Feasibility | | | | | | needs to be | | | | | | assessed in | | | | | | other WGs. | | | | | | | | | | | | Usefulness of | | | | | | the solution | | | | | | depends if | | | | | | cell | | | | | | spli | | | | | | tting/merging | | | | | | is performed | | | | | | at high load | | | | | | situation. | | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
**[Evaluation -- part (b):]{.underline}**
For the evaluation of solutions 4, the criteria in the section 4.2.2, which
are adopted for the problem AAS-based deployment impact on SON, can also
apply. And the evaluation outcome for the explicit indicator would also apply
to the direct notification via X2.
The following additional criterion may also be adopted:
**Time delay for indication** : This criterion evaluates how soon the
neighbour of the eNB operating cell splitting/merging can receive the
indication after cell splitting/merging initiation.
The criterion above is discussed for two cases:
\- OAM's initiation of cell splitting/merging,
\- eNB's initiation of cell splitting/merging.
Based on this additional criterion, the two options of solution 4 are
evaluated in the table 4.2.1-2.
Table 4.2.1-2: Evaluation of the solutions to prevent HO failure
+-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | | Time delay for indication | | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | | OAM's initiation of cell | eNB's initiation of cell | | | splitting/merging | splitting/merging | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 4-a | Upon reception of command | The eNB could notify the | | | from OAM, the eNB could | neighbour eNBs at the same | | | notify the neighbour eNBs. | time of splitting/merging | | | Thus the time delay between | initiation or in advance, | | | AAS operation and | and the time delay could be | | | notification is very low. | negligible. | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 4-b | The time delay may increase | When the eNB initiates cell | | | due to the OAM management | splitting/merging, it should | | | interface being non | inform the OAM firstly, and | | | real-time. | then OAM notifies the | | | | neighbour eNBs. | | | | | | | | The time delay may increase. | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+
### 4.2.2 Impact on MRO
**[Problem description:]{.underline}**
MRO is used to optimise mobility parameters. This optimisation is normally
assumed to be done for a static coverage scenario, or at least a scenario with
infrequent changes to the coverage. If we introduce the scenario where we
change the coverage dynamically for example when we split or merge cells with
AAS, this could result in quick and frequent changes to the coverage of the
cells. MRO could probably, given enough time, adjust to the new coverage
scenario, but during the meantime (while MRO is trying to find the optimal
point) the mobility parameters will not be adjusted properly, which may lead
to increased mobility failures.
**[Solutions:]{.underline}**
One solution could to let OAM reconfigure all the mobility parameters of all
involved cells at each reconfiguration. This would require that the eNB
informs OAM about the MRO state (e.g. the current HO trigger) before the
reconfiguration. The benefit is that no new signalling over X2 is needed and
the eNB does not need to store any additional information. Delayed UE RLF
Reports may be locally stored in the eNB and processed when the eNB is
switched back to the relevant SON state.
Another solution is to send an indicator to neighbour cells. This indicator
can either be an implicit indicator or an explicit indicator. The benefit of
this solution is that the eNB can store more information of the internal state
of the MRO algorithm, e.g. reports (RLF indications and HO reports) that was
received but not yet taken into account.
The explicit indicator could for example be an optional IE included the
_Served Cell Information_ IE exchanged over X2. The explicit indicator may be
relative to a change of cell configuration or a modification of cell coverage
for one or more cells.
One example of an implicit indicator is to always use different ECGI and
different PCI for different coverage configurations. In this example, the
change of cell configuration or a modification of cell coverage will then be
signalled as cell switch-off (deactivation of the old configuration or
coverage) and cell switch-on (activation of the new configuration or
coverage). If the PCI is changed, too, then the drawback of this is that every
time the coverage configuration is changed, the PCI and ECGI must be changed,
which would impact active mode UEs in the reconfigured cell.
The solutions for notifying the neighbours, described above, can be
summarized:
1\. OAM-based reconfiguration
2\. Indicator about deployment change
a. Explicit indicator: X2-based signalling
b. Implicit indicator: change of existing configuration parameters implicitly
indicating deployment change
**[Evaluation:]{.underline}**
The criteria used for evaluating are presented below:
**Impact on active mode UEs** : This criterion evaluates the impact on active
mode UEs served by a cell modifying its coverage and/or configuration.
**Impact on SON** : This criterion evaluates the impact on SON, i.e. MRO.
**Impact on functionality outside the RAN3 scope** : This criterion evaluates
the impact on functionality outside the RAN3 scope, e.g. PCI planning, OTDOA.
The evaluation of the solutions is summarised in the Table 4.2.2-1. In the
table below, both the impact of different methods of triggering cell
configuration changes and the impact of different methods of notifying the
neighbours is captured.
Table 4.2.2-1: Evaluation of the solutions to address the impact on MRO
+-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | Impact on active | Impact on SON | Impact on | | | mode UEs | | functionality | | | | | outside the RAN3 | | | | | scope | +-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 1 | If the OAM is not | OAM may | Dynamic | | | notified by the | reconfigure SON | deployment | | | eNB about | and thus make the | changes based on | | | splitting/merging | change | AAS may impact | | | opportunities, | transparent, | services relying | | | OAM may not be | except for | on deployment | | | aware of the UEs | handling of | stability, e.g. | | | served at the | delayed UE RLF | MDT or | | | affected eNBs; | Reports; | positioning based | | | | | on cell IDs. | | | The OAM-initiated | OAM must store | | | | reconfiguration | and exchange SON | | | | may affect UEs in | context with | | | | whole area. | eNBs; | | | | | | | | | The eNB could | If OAM is used | | | | still be allowed | only to transfer | | | | to decide on the | notification of | | | | most appropriate | cell split/merge | | | | timing for | from one of the | | | | effectuating the | eNBs, it may | | | | split/merge. This | introduce delays. | | | | would require the | | | | | eNB to re-inform | | | | | when it has | | | | | split/merged to | | | | | OAM. | | | | | | | | | | If OAM based | | | | | split/merge and | | | | | OAM based | | | | | notification is | | | | | used, there will | | | | | be a small delay | | | | | in informing the | | | | | neighbours about | | | | | the split/merge | | | | | which could | | | | | induce some | | | | | incoming active | | | | | UE HO failure. | | | +-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 2-a | Since eNB is | The explicit X2AP | Dynamic | | | aware about the | indicator is | deployment | | | UEs served, it | meant to mitigate | changes based on | | | may select a | impact on MRO by | AAS may impact | | | moment that | enabling | services relying | | | minimizes the | switching of SON | on deployment | | | impact on the | contexts locally | stability, e.g. | | | UEs. | and in neighbour | MDT or | | | | eNBs. The | positioning based | | | If some PCIs are | explicit X2AP | on cell IDs. | | | reused, IRAT | indicator can be | | | | mobility may be | used to inform | If some PCIs are | | | subject to | neighboring eNBs | reused, the IRAT | | | mobility | also before the | neighbor | | | failures. | change is taken | relationships may | | | | into operational | be affected and | | | | use in the eNB. | cause mobility | | | | | failure. | +-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 2-b | Since eNB is | The implicit | Dynamic | | | aware about the | indicator is | deployment | | | UEs served, it | meant to mitigate | changes based on | | | may select a | impact on MRO by | AAS may impact | | | moment that | enabling local | services relying | | | minimizes the | switching of SON | on deployment | | | impact on the | contexts. | stability, which | | | UEs. | | are not part of | | | | If the | the network, e.g. | | | If the | reconfiguration | MDT or | | | reconfiguration | of the cell IDs | positioning based | | | of the cell IDs | involves all PCIs | on cell IDs. | | | involves all PCIs | (PCIs are not | | | | (PCIs are not | reused), it may | If the | | | reused), it may | impact automatic | reconfiguration | | | impact more UEs | PCI selection. | of the cell IDs | | | than if some PCIs | | involves all PCIs | | | are reused. | If the | (PCIs are not | | | | reconfiguration | reused), it may | | | If some PCIs are | of the cell IDs | make the PCI | | | reused, the IRAT | does not involve | planning more | | | neighbor | PCIs, it may | challenging than | | | relationships may | impact RLF | if some PCIs are | | | be affected and | Reporting in | reused. | | | cause mobility | cases when only | | | | failure. | PCI is reported. | If some PCIs are | | | | | reused, the IRAT | | | | | neighbor | | | | | relationships may | | | | | be affected and | | | | | cause mobility | | | | | failure. | +-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
### 4.2.3 Conclusions
Based on the discussions and studies done so far, following conclusions
concerning SON enhancement for AAS-based deployments can be formulated:
1) Any work impacting RRM mechanism shall be consulted with appropriate WGs,
e.g. RAN2.
2) Connection continuity within modified cell may be provided based on
existing functionality; inter-eNB mobility requires inter-eNB coordination
(prior to the planned change).
3) AAS-based deployment changes impact MRO; the impact may be mitigated if
inter-eNB coordination is enabled.
4) There are benefits of re-using the PCI, but this requires a solution to
avoid possible PCI/ECGI ambiguity creating inter-RAT mobility problems and
problems with RLF indication.
5) The explicit indicator can be sent before AAS reconfiguration is executed
and, therefore, can resolve both problems related to SON for AAS-based
deployments. Thus, it is considered to be the most appropriate solution.
## 4.3 SON for pre-Rel.12 small cells
### 4.3.1 Taking the outcome of the RRC re-establishment into account for MRO
**[Problem description:]{.underline}**
The UE is currently reporting which cell it will attempt to re-establish after
a failure in the RLF report. The actual outcome of the re-establishment is
currently not available for the MRO analysis. The reported re-establishment
cell is used to diagnose the failure by MRO and may lead to a corrective
action by MRO. For certain UEs, it may be possible that the re-selected cell
becomes unsuitable just after being selected. This may either have no impact
on MRO, assuming that a statistical evaluation in MRO allows to discard these
error cases or the appropriate corrective actions may differ depending on the
actual outcome of the RRC re-establishment.
**[Solutions:]{.underline}**
Following solutions have been identified (applicable, if the problem is
confirmed):
1\. Network-based solution 1: A flag is added into the first RLF indication
(triggered by the re-establishment). This information can be stored in the
receiving eNB and combined with a second RLF indication (triggered by the RLF
report).
2\. Network based solution 2:
a. A comparison between the cell the UE was connected at the moment the RLF
report was retrieved and the re-establishment cell indicated in the RLF report
is carried out. If these cells are matched, the re-establishment cell should
be considered for MRO adjustments at the eNB where the failure has occurred.
The comparison is performed at the eNB retrieving the RLF report and a new IE
is added to the RLF indication to identify the matched and unmatched cases.
b. A similar comparison to the one done in Network Solution 2a is carried out.
The comparison is performed by the eNB where the RLF has occurred (the one
receiving the RLF Indication) and no additional IE is needed. Instead the
existing IE called Re-establishment cell ECGI in the RLF Indication can be
used to signal the cell where the RLF report has been retrieved i.e. a cell
where a successful RRC re-establishment/handover has occurred.
3\. Network based solution 3: The radio measurement in UE RLF Report can be
used to decide the suitable handover target.
4\. UE-based solution: enhancement to the RLF reporting:
a. The result of the reestablishment is recorded in the RLF Report;
b. Only include re-establishment cell ID if the re-establishment was either
successful or rejected;
c. Only send RLF Report when the re-establishment was either successful or
rejected.
5\. Network-based solution 4: The receiver of the RLF indication considers
that the re-establishment cell is a proper candidate to serve the UE at the
moment of failure if the RLF indication contains the RLF report but does not
include the _RRC Conn Setup Indicator_ IE. Otherwise, the re-establishment
cell is considered inappropriate, e.g. the re-establishment failed or the UE
is handed over as soon as the successful re-establishment.
Solutions Evaluation:
The criteria proposed to evaluate the solutions are the following:
\- **Impact on UE procedures** : this criterion evaluates weather UE changes
are needed in order to implement the solution;
\- **Impact on existing X2 procedures such as the X2 RLF Indication** : this
criterion evaluates whether X2 procedures, e.g. the RLF indication, have to be
modified.
\- **Complexity of the eNB implementation** : evaluates how complex the
solution is for the network.
\- **Effectiveness** : evaluates how effective the solution is.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Impact at | Impact at | Additional | Ef | | | UE | the X2 RLF | imp | fectiveness | | | procedures | Indication | lementation | | | | | | at the eNBs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Solution |** None**|** Medium**|** High**|** Medium**| | 1** | | | | | | | Ne | Addition of | Additional | This | | | twork-based | a new IE in | complexity | solution | | | solution | the RLF | at the eNB | provides | | | without any | indication | sending the | some | | | UE impact | to flag the | RLF | results on | | | | outcome of | Indication | re-est | | | | a | e.g. to | ablishment, | | | | re-est | include the | i.e. it | | | | ablishment. | outcome of | specifies | | | | | the | if the | | | | | re-es | re-es | | | | | tablishment | tablishment | | | | | | was | | | | | Additional | successful, | | | | | complexity | incomplete | | | | | at the eNB | or | | | | | receiving | rejected, | | | | | the RLF | only if the | | | | | indication | UE context | | | | | messages | is | | | | | e.g. | available | | | | | storing | at | | | | | parameters | reception | | | | | and | of second | | | | | correlating | RLF | | | | | to next | Indication | | | | | incoming | which is | | | | | messages. | not the | | | | | | most | | | | | | typical | | | | | | case. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Solution |** None**|** Medium**|** Medium**|** Medium**| | 2a** | | | | | | | Ne | Addition of | Additional | This | | | twork-based | a new IE in | complexity | solution | | | solution | the RLF | at the eNB | provides | | | without any | indication | retrieving | information | | | UE impact. | to include | the report | on whether | | | | the outcome | in order to | the | | | | of the | perform the | re-es | | | | comparison | comparison | tablishment | | | | between the | between | was | | | | re-es | cells | successful | | | | tablishment | before | or not | | | | cell at the | sending the | (i.e. | | | | RLF report | RLF | incomplete | | | | and the | indication. | or | | | | cell where | | rejected). | | | | the report | | The | | | | has been | | solution | | | | retrieved. | | functions | | | | | | also when | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | context is | | | | | | not | | | | | | available | | | | | | at | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | eNB | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Solution |** None**|** Low**|** Medium**|** Medium**| | 2b** | | | | | | | Ne | Use of an | A | This | | | twork-based | existing IE | comparison | solution | | | solution | that is | is required | provides | | | without any | re- | by the eNB | information | | | UE impact. | interpreted | retrieving | on whether | | | | i.e. no | the RLF | the | | | | need for | report and | re-es | | | | ASN.1 | by the eNB | tablishment | | | | changes. | receiving | was | | | | | the RLF | successful | | | | | Indication. | or not | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | incomplete | | | | | | or | | | | | | rejected). | | | | | | The | | | | | | solution | | | | | | functions | | | | | | also when | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | context is | | | | | | not | | | | | | available | | | | | | at | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | eNB. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Solution |** None**|** None**|** Medium**|** Low**| | 3** | | | | | | | Ne | Use of | eNB needs | M | | | twork-based | existing | to deduce | easurements | | | solution | m | the outcome | in RLF | | | without any | easurements | of the | Report may | | | UE impact. | in the RLF | re-es | be stale, | | | | Report. | tablishment | e.g. as old | | | | | from the | as T310 | | | | | m | duration | | | | | easurements | (up to 2 | | | | | contained | seconds) | | | | | in RLF | plus | | | | | Report | re-es | | | | | | tablishment | | | | | | time (up to | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | seconds). | | | | | | Evaluation | | | | | | of | | | | | | re-es | | | | | | tablishment | | | | | | result from | | | | | | such | | | | | | m | | | | | | easurements | | | | | | may be | | | | | | unreliable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Solution |** High**|** None**|** None**|** Medium**| | 4** | | | | | | | Changes in | UE-based | The same | Although | | | the RLF | solution | procedures | this | | | report e.g. | without any | are | solution | | | add the | impact on | performed | provides | | | outcome of | X2 | by the eNB | the highest | | | the RRC | procedures. | retrieving | granularity | | | re-est | | the RLF | in terms of | | | ablishment. | | report and | re-es | | | | | the one | tablishment | | | Changes in | | receiving | result | | | the UE | | the RLF | i | | | behaviour | | indication. | nformation, | | | upon the | | | the | | | re-es | | | solution | | | tablishment | | | would be | | | e.g. only | | | available | | | include the | | | only for | | | re-es | | | Rel12 | | | tablishment | | | onwards | | | cell ID if | | | capable | | | successful | | | UEs. Hence | | | or | | | the number | | | rejected. | | | of | | | | | | statistics | | | Changes in | | | available | | | the UE | | | may not be | | | behaviour | | | sufficient. | | | upon the | | | | | | RLF report | | | | | | retrieval | | | | | | e.g. only | | | | | | send RLF | | | | | | report when | | | | | | the | | | | | | re-es | | | | | | tablishment | | | | | | was | | | | | | successful | | | | | | or | | | | | | rejected. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Solution |** None**|** None**|** Low**|** Medium**| | 5** | | | | | | | Ne | Use of | Additional | This | | | twork-based | existing | complexity | solution | | | solution | IEs in the | only in the | provides | | | without any | RLF | eNB | some | | | UE impact. | indication | receiving | information | | | | | the RLF | on the | | | | | indication. | appr | | | | | | opriateness | | | | | | of the | | | | | | re-es | | | | | | tablishment | | | | | | cell. The | | | | | | solution | | | | | | functions | | | | | | also when | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | context is | | | | | | not | | | | | | available | | | | | | at | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | eNB. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 4.3.2 RLF reporting in LTE island coverage scenarios
**[Problem description:]{.underline}**
In LTE deployments where small LTE cells are used to provide capacity in areas
with high capacity requirements, the LTE coverage may be limited to islands.
In the edge of these islands it is very important to set the correct inter RAT
mobility parameters to balance the amount of measurements and avoid call
drops. Inter RAT MRO provides the support for this, but requires an X2
connection in order to report the failures. At the same time, the reporting
solution for inter RAT MRO is that the UE reports when connecting to LTE again
after the failure. If the coverage is not mature (islands) the UE may travel
quite far before reaching LTE coverage again. Enabling these reports would
require an extensive setup of X2 connections.
**[Solutions:]{.underline}**
One solution is to use proprietary methods (e.g. OAM) to forward the
information in the RLF report to the eNB handling the last serving cell.
Another solution is to forward the information in the RLF report over S1 to
the eNB handling the last serving cell. For this solution, there are two
options. The first option is to only support sending this to an eNB belonging
to the same MME pool. The second option is to support sending this to an eNB
belonging to any MME pool. The latter requires that the TAI of the last
serving LTE cell is known. RAN2 needs to discuss whether it is feasible to
include the TAI in the RLF report from the UE.
### 4.3.3 MRO and TTT scaling
**[Problem description:]{.underline}**
Time-to-trigger (TTT) is one part of the measurement configuration for UEs and
defines for how long the condition shall be fulfilled before triggering a
report from the UE to the network. This can be used to adjust the UE reporting
depending on the radio environment (together with the other parameters in the
measurement configuration).
TTT scaling was specified since release 8. The UE estimates a mobility state
and use this state to scale TTT differently depending on the state. The
network may not know the mobility state at the time of failure. Therefore,
when the network concurrently uses both MRO and TTT scaling, MRO may not know
the exact TTT used by one UE at the time of failure, and this may prevents MRO
from making a correct analysis on the reason of the failure and may lead to
inappropriate corrective actions which will deteriorate the network mobility
performance.
**[Solutions:]{.underline}**
The UE includes the mobility state at the time of failure in the RLF report.
The last serving eNB can use this information together with stored context to
determine which mobility parameters were used by the UE at the time of
failure.
The problem and solution requires a validation from RAN2.
### 4.3.4 Conclusions
The conclusions that can be drawn from the study are described below:
1) RAN3 did not identify any new scenarios that would concern pre-Rel.12 small
cells. However, the study revealed that the Rel.11 solution has some gaps that
still require discussion.
2) RAN3 did not manage to conclude if the algorithm defined in RAN2 for
failure recording may or may not confuse MRO. Therefore it is not clear if any
of the listed solutions are indeed needed to be implemented. The decision may
be made as part of the discussion on the improvements for the SON for HetNet
deployments.
3) RAN3 confirmed, what has been noticed in Rel.11, that in island-like LTE
deployments, MRO signalling over X2 may be unavailable. However, this may be
corrected with a simple solutions proposed in the discussion. It may be left
up to discussion on the improvements for the SON for HetNet deployments.
4) RAN3 did not manage to conclude if the network is able to always determine
the mobility state in the UE at the time of failure. Therefore it is not clear
if the listed solution is indeed needed to be implemented. The decision may be
made as part of the discussion on the improvements for the SON for HetNet
deployments.
Considering the above, it is concluded that the work on the SON for HetNets
deployments may be continued as part of the technical enhancements (TEI) to
the existing Rel.11 SON solution.
#