# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the 2GHz FDD for UTRA and LTE
in Region 1 (1980-2010MHz and 2170-2200MHz Bands) study item in RP-122031
approved at TSG RAN#58 (Barcelona, Dec 2012).\ The objective of the study item
is to facilitate and harmonize the efficient use of the bands 1 980-2 010 MHz
and\ 2 170-2 200 MHz for UMTS and LTE technologies in FDD in applicable
countries in Region 1.
This study addresses only the case of a terrestrial network operating as a
complementary ground component in the MSS frequency band 1 980 - 2 010 MHz / 2
170 - 2 200 MHz. Inter-operation and coexistence between the terrestrial
network part of the complementary ground component and the satellite component
are not part of this study.\ The satellite component is not within the scope
of 3GPP, and will therefore not be within the scope of this study either.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\".
[3] R4-140077, \"TR 36.861 v.0.3.0: \"Technical Report for Study Item: Study
on LTE FDD in the bands 1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200 MHz\" \", KT, SK Telecom,
LS Uplus, LG Electronics, Ericsson, 3GPP TSG-RAN4 #70, Prague, Czech Republic,
February 2014.
[4] Compatibility Studies -- MSS terminals transmitting to a satellite in the
band 1980-2010MHz and adjacent channel UMTS services
[5] EN 302 574-1: Complementary Ground Component (CGC) for wideband systems,
http://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_en/302500_302599/30257401/01.01.01_60/en_30257401v010101p.pdf
[6] EN 302 574-2: User Equipment for wideband systems,
http://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_en/302500_302599/30257402/01.01.01_30/en_30257402v010101v.pdf
[7] RP-140505 revised SID in RP-122031: \" Study on 2GHz FDD for UTRA and LTE
in Region 1 (1980-2010MHz and 2170-2200MHz Bands)\",
FS_UTRA_LTE_1980_2170_REG1, DISH Network, Solaris Mobile, TSG RAN #63, Mar
2014, Fukuoka, Japan.
[8] Commission Decision 2007/98/EC on the harmonised use of radio spectrum in
the 2GHz frequency bands for the implementation of systems providing mobile
satellite services (MSS), http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2007:043:0032:0034:EN:PDF.
[9] Decision No 626/2008/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of
30 June 2008 on the selection and authorisation of systems providing mobile
satellite services (MSS),\ http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2008:172:0015:0024:en:PDF
[10] Call for applications for pan-European systems providing mobile satellite
services (MSS) (2008/C 201/03),\ http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:C:2008:201:0004:0027:EN:PDF
[11] Commission Decision of 13 May 2009 on the selection of operators of pan-
European systems providing mobile satellite services (MSS) (notified under
document number C(2009) 3746) (2009/449/EC),\ http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2009:149:0065:0068:EN:PDF
[12] http://www.erodocdb.dk/docs/doc98/official/pdf/ECCDEC0609.PDF
[13] http://www.erodocdb.dk/docs/doc98/official/pdf/Rec1001.pdf
[14] ITU‑R Recommendation SM.329-10: \"\".
[15] ITU‑R Recommendation SM.329-1: \"\".
[16] EN 301 908-3: \"\".
[17] ETSI TS 125 141: \"\".
[18] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[20] 3GPP TS 36.113: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) and repeater ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC)\".
[21] 3GPP TS 36.124: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) requirements for mobile terminals and
ancillary equipment\".
[22] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[23] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[24] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-independent
frequency band\".
[25] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[26] 3GPP TS 37.113: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)\".
[27] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
Within the European Union (EU), the frequency bands 1 980-2 010 MHz and 2
170-2 200 MHz can be used for terrestrial mobile networks operated as a
complement to mobile satellite services in the same frequency band.
A highly efficient spectrum utilization and deployment may be expected if the
band 1 980-2 010 MHz and\ 2 170-2 200 MHz are used for such complementary
terrestrial services because the adjacent band 1 (1 920-1 980 MHz and 2 110-2
170 MHz) are used for UMTS and may be used for LTE within certain countries in
Region 1.
The purpose of this study item on FDD in the bands 1 980-2 010 MHz and 2 170-2
200 MHz is to facilitate and harmonize the efficient use of these bands for
UMTS and LTE technologies in applicable countries in Region 1.\ The satellite
component is not within the scope of 3GPP, and will therefore not be within
the scope of this study.
The terrestrial network equipment will adhere to all 3GPP emission masks to
protect adjacent band services.\ It is expected that the impacts on the co-
existence with adjacent bands will be studied during the study item progress.
This study item proposes studying the implication of adding the bands
1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200 MHz, for use in applicable countries in Region 1,
to the 3GPP specifications.\ This study item complements the on-going study
item FS_LTE_1980_2170_Korea (TR 36.861 [3]) considering the use of this band
for terrestrial IMT in Korea and other parts of ITU Region 3, and may lead to
a common normative work item.
**The purpose and objectives of this study item are:**
• Study related aspects of adding a FDD band into UTRA/E-UTRA that covers the
frequency range of UL: 1980-2010/DL: 2170-2200 MHz in applicable countries in
Region 1.
• Study coexistence issues with adjacent bands in applicable countries in
Region 1.
• Identify regulatory issues applicable to deploying the proposed band in
applicable countries in Region 1.
**This study addresses only the case of a terrestrial LTE network operating in
the MSS frequency band\ 1 980 - 2 010 MHz / 2 170 - 2 200 MHz. Inter-operation
and coexistence between the terrestrial LTE network part of the complementary
ground component and the satellite component are not part of this study.**
# 5 Regulatory background
## 5.1 General regulatory situation within Region 1
As set out in the Radio Regulations (RR 5.388 and Resolution 212 (rev.
WRC-07)), the band 1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200 MHz is identified for the
satellite component of IMT throughout Region 1. In addition, complementary
terrestrial networks operated in complement to the satellite component of IMT
are permitted in certain countries, subject to national authorizations.
Within ITU Region 1, only CEPT countries (including all EU Member States) can
be considered applicable countries for the current study, even though other
countries may also adopt a similar concept (complementary ground component
operating within a mobile satellite system) at a later stage. The European
Union has established a legally binding regulatory framework enabling selected
operators to deploy Complementary Ground Component (CGC) networks as an
integral part of its satellite network anywhere within its satellite footprint
and anywhere within its assigned frequency band. A similar framework may also
be adopted by other CEPT Member States in accordance with the ECC Decision
ECC(06)09 as well as other ITU Member States.
## 5.2 European Union framework
February 2007 saw the adoption of a Commission Decision [8] on the harmonized
use of radio spectrum in the 2GHz frequency bands for the implementation of
systems providing mobile satellite services (MSS). In June 2008 the European
Parliament and Council adopted Decision 626/2008/EC [9], which provides a
selection and authorization process for the award of the designated spectrum
to MSS operators (i.e. satellite operators), and for a harmonized approach to
authorization and deployment of MSS systems in European Union Member States.
On 7 August 2008 the European Commission issued a Public Call for Applications
[10] for candidate operators interested in offering services within this band.
The deadline for receipt of applications was 7 October 2008. Four candidate
operators submitted an application.
On 14 May 2009, the European Commission confirmed the assignment of 2 x 15 MHz
of spectrum to each to two operators within the 2GHz Band across Europe [11].
This provides the two selected operators with the obligation to provide MSS,
and the right to deploy CGC in all 27 EU Member States within the 2x15 MHz
assigned to each of them, to the exclusion of any third party. Only the
selection of the operators of systems of mobile satellite services has been
made at the level of the European Union. Operators are to be authorized by
each European Union Member State, subject to a number of harmonized
authorization conditions.
In summary, the legal framework within the European Union, which is legally
binding on the Member States of the European Union, enables each operator to
deploy Complementary Ground Component (CGC) networks as an integral part of
its satellite network anywhere within its satellite footprint and anywhere
within its assigned frequency band. The frequency assignment between satellite
and terrestrial component is at the discretion of the operator.\ There are no
restrictions on the technologies used on the ground (or on the satellite),
enabling the deployment of UMTS, LTE and similar technologies as typically
defined by 3GPP.
## 5.3 CEPT harmonization
### 5.3.1 Decision (06) 09
In December 2006 the Electronic Communications Committee (ECC) within the
European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT)
adopted Decision (06) 09 on the \"**_Designation of the bands 1980-2010 and
2170-2200 MHz for the use by systems in the Mobile Satellite Service (MSS)
including those supplemented by a Complementary Ground Component (CGC) so as
to facilitate the introduction of mobile satellite systems in the 2GHz MSS
bands\" [12]_**.
The ECC Decision provides the necessary provisions for the designation and the
conditions of use of the bands\ 1980-2010 and 2170-2200MHz by systems in the
mobile satellite service including those supplemented by a CGC. The Decision
includes the requirement for mobile satellite systems operating in this
frequency band to ensure compatibility with terrestrial systems operating in
the mobile service in the adjacent bands operating in bands below 1980 MHz and
between 2010MHz and 2170MHz. CEPT Project Team SE40 is charged with examining
the compatibility between MSS 2GHz and services in adjacent bands.
  * ECC Recommendation on Guidelines for compatibility between Complementary Ground Components (CGC) operating in the Band 2170-2200 MHz and EESS/SOS/SRS Earth Stations operating in the Band 2200-2290 MHz [13]
The Recommendation provides guidelines that Member States should use to ensure
the compatibility between CGC in the band 2170-2200MHz and a number of earth
stations listed in the Recommendation used by the Earth Satellite Service,
Space Research Service, or Space Operation Service operating in the band
2200-2290MHz.\ The Recommendation requires Member States to coordinate CGC
operating in the band 2170-2200 and operating within a specific radius /
distance from the specific earth stations listed.
  * ECC Report on compatibility studies between MSS and UMTS systems in adjacent bands
The ETSI standards approved in 2010 for MSS terminals (narrow-band and wide-
band), allowing MSS terminals to operate with out-of-band emission levels
higher than that anticipated in previous compatibility studies, warranted a
new set of compatibility studies between MSS terminals transmitting in the
1980 -- 2010 MHz band and adjacent channel UMTS systems.
CEPT PT SE40 has developed ECC Report 197 addressing the issue of
compatibility between MSS terminals in the\ 2GHz MSS band (without CGC) and
terrestrial UMTS in adjacent or nearby bands. This ECC Report was approved for
Public Consultation by CEPT in January 2013. Final publication (following
Public Consultation) is expected around mid-2013.
## 5.4 ECC Report 197
ECC Report 197 [4] was approved on 15^th^ May, 2013. The issue covered by this
report applies to an MSS User Terminal (UT) and is not applicable to the
discussion in 3GPP.
## 5.5 EN 302 574-1
ETSI EN 302 574-1 [5] details the technical requirements for CGC BS for
wideband systems.\ The CGC BS transmitting only to the User Equipment or
transmit and receive to / from the User Equipment in the frequency bands
defined as follows:
Table 5.5-1: CGC frequency bands
* * *
Direction of transmission CGC frequency bands Transmit 2170 -- 2200MHz Receive
1980 -- 2010MHz
* * *
The document applies to CGC radio equipment type deployed in Mobile Satellite
Service systems which have the following characteristics:
  * The CGCs operate with an assigned channel bandwidth of 1 MHz or greater;
  * The CGCs may be local coverage, medium coverage or wide coverage ground components;
  * The CGCs may be an element in a multi-mode base station.\ It may consist of a number of modules with associated connections, or may be a self contained single unit.
A summary of the requirements is provided in the following clause.
### 5.5.1 System specifications of EN 302 574-1
To meet the essential requirements under article 3.2 of the R&TTE Directive
for IMT-2000 Complementary Ground Component (CGC) seven essential parameters
have been identified. Table 5.5.1-1 provides a cross reference between these
seven essential parameters and the corresponding nine technical requirements
for equipment within the scope of the present document.
Table 5.5.1-1: EN 302 574-1 [5] technical requirement list
* * *
Essential parameter Spectrum emissions mask Conducted spurious emissions from
the transmitter antenna connector Accuracy of maximum output power
Intermodulation attenuation of the transmitter Conducted spurious emissions
from the receiver antenna connector Impact of interference on receiver
performance Receiver adjacent channel selectivity
* * *
**Spectrum emission mask**
Definition
Out‑of‑band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the channel
bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non‑linearity in the
transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. This out‑of‑band emission limit
is specified in terms of a spectrum emission mask and adjacent channel leakage
power ratio for the transmitter.
Limits
The requirement shall be met by a CGC transmitting on a channel multiplex
configured in accordance with the manufacturer\'s specification. Emissions
shall not exceed the maximum level specified in tables 5.5.1-1 to 5.5.1-4 for
the appropriate CGC maximum output power, in the frequency range from ∆f = 0,5
CBw to ∆fmax from the carrier frequency, where:
> ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the nominal ‑3 dB
> point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
>
> f_offset is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of
> the measurement filter.
>
> f_offsetmax is either (10+CBw/2) MHz or the offset to the MSS Tx band edge,
> whichever is the greater.
>
> ∆fmax is equal to f_offsetmax minus half of the bandwidth of the measuring
> filter.
>
> In tables 5.5.1-3, -4, -5, -6, f_offset and CBw are in MHz.
Table 5.5.1-1: Spectrum emission mask values, CGC for output power P ≥ 43 dBm
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3 dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement\ Maximum level Measurement bandwidth filter centre frequency,
f_offset
{width="1.3465277777777778in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
{width="1.9722222222222223in" height="0.2916666666666667in"} ‑12,5 dBm 30 kHz
{width="1.7222222222222223in" height="0.2916666666666667in"} {width="2.125in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} {width="1.9819444444444445in"
height="0.3333333333333333in"} 30 kHz
{width="1.75in" height="0.2916666666666667in"} {width="2.0833333333333335in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"} ‑24,5 dBm 30 kHz
{width="1.3611111111111112in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
{width="1.7361111111111112in" height="0.2916666666666667in"} ‑11,5 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
Table 5.5.1-2: Spectrum emission mask values, CGC maximum output power 39 dBm
≤ P \ 2 × CBw 50 dB
* * *
Table 5.5.1-6: CGC ACLR limits for Case 2
* * *
CGC channel offset below the first or above the last carrier frequency used
Minimum ACLR requirement 1^st^ adjacent channel centre 45 dB 2^nd^ adjacent
channel centre 50 dB 3^rd^ adjacent channel centre 50 dB NOTE: If necessary,
the channel offset may be increased by including any operational guard band
that is defined.
* * *
Transmitter spurious emissions
Definition
Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter
effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emission, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out‑of‑band emissions.
This is measured at the CGC RF output port.
The requirements of EN 302 574-1 [5] clause 4.2.4.2 apply at frequencies
within the specified frequency ranges, which are more than (10+CBw/2) MHz
under the first carrier frequency used or more than (10+CBw/2) MHz above the
last carrier frequency used.
The requirements of EN 302 574-1 [5] clause 4.2.4.2 apply whatever the type of
transmitter considered (single carrier or multi‑carrier). It applies for all
transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer\'s specification.
Unless otherwise stated, all requirements are measured as mean power.
Limits
Spurious emissions
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits specified in
table 5.5.1-7.
Table 5.5.1-7: CGC mandatory spurious emissions limits
+------------------+---------------+------------------+------------+ | Band | Maximum level | Measurement | Note | | | | bandwidth | | +------------------+---------------+------------------+------------+ | 9 kHz to 150 kHz | -36 dBm | 1 kHz | see note 1 | +------------------+---------------+------------------+------------+ | 150 kHz to 30 | -36 dBm | 10 kHz | see note 1 | | MHz | | | | +------------------+---------------+------------------+------------+ | 30 MHz to 1 GHz | -36 dBm | 100 kHz | see note 1 | +------------------+---------------+------------------+------------+ | 1 GHz to 2 160 | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | see note 1 | | MHz | | | | +------------------+---------------+------------------+------------+ | 2 160 MHz to 2 | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | see note 2 | | 210 MHz | | | | +------------------+---------------+------------------+------------+ | 2 210 MHz to | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | see note 3 | | 12,75 GHz | | | | +------------------+---------------+------------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Bandwidth as in | | | | | ITU‑R | | | | | Recommendation | | | | | SM.329-10 [14] | | | | | clause 4.1. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Limit | | | | | based on ITU‑R | | | | | Recommendation | | | | | SM.329-10 [14] | | | | | clause 4.3 and | | | | | annex 7. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Bandwidth as in | | | | | ITU‑R | | | | | Recommendation | | | | | SM.329-10 [14] | | | | | clause 4.1.\ | | | | | Upper frequency | | | | | as in | | | | | ITU‑R Recomme | | | | | ndation SM.329-1 | | | | | [15] | | | | | clause 2.5, | | | | | table 1. | | | | +------------------+---------------+------------------+------------+
Coexistence with other systems in the same geographical area
These requirements apply for the protection of UE, MS and/or BS/CGC operating
in other frequency bands in the same geographical area. The requirements may
apply in geographic areas where a system operating in another frequency band
than the MSS operating band is deployed. The system operating in the other
frequency band may be GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850. The power of any
spurious emission shall not exceed the limit specified in table 5.5.1-8.
Table 5.5.1-8: Spurious emissions limits in geographic coverage area of
systems operating\ in other frequency bands for protection of receiver
* * *
System type operating in the same geographical area Band for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth GSM900 921 MHz to 960 MHz -57
dBm 100 kHz 876 MHz to 915 MHz -61 dBm 100 kHz DCS1800 1 805 MHz to 1 880 MHz
-47 dBm 100 kHz 1 710 MHz to 1 785 MHz -61 dBm 100 kHz PCS1900 1 930 MHz to 1
990 MHz -47 dBm 100 kHz 1 850 MHz to 1 910 MHz -61 dBm 100 kHz GSM850 869 MHz
to 894 MHz -57 dBm 100 kHz 824 MHz to 849 MHz -61 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Protection of UTRA FDD in adjacent frequency band
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limit specified in
table 5.5.1-9.
Table 5.5.1-9: Spurious emissions limits for protection of UTRA FDD receiver
in adjacent frequency band
* * *
System type operating in the same geographical area Band for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth UTRA FDD 2 110 MHz to 2 170
MHz -30 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
Protection of UTRA -TDD
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limit specified in
table 5.5.1-10.
Table 5.5.1-10: Spurious emissions limits for protection of UTRA TDD receiver
* * *
System type operating in the same geographical area Band for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth UTRA TDD 1 900 MHz to 1 920
MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz 2 010 MHz to 2 025 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz 2 570 MHz to 2 610 MHz
-52 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
Protection of UTRA BS
The terms Wide Area BS, Medium Range BS, Local Area BS are defined in EN 301
908-3 [16].
This requirement may be applied in order to prevent the receivers of other BSs
being desensitized by emissions from a CGC transmitter.
The power of any spurious emission may not exceed the limit specified in
tables 5.5.1-11a, -11b or -11c depending on the declared Base Station class
and operating band.
Table 5.5.1-11a: Spurious emissions limits for protection of a Wide Area BS
receiver
* * *
Operating band Band Maximum level Measurement bandwidth I 1 920 MHz to 1 980
MHz ‑96 dBm 100 kHz III 1 710 MHz to 1 785 MHz ‑96 dBm 100 kHz VII 2 500 MHz
to 2 570 MHz ‑96 dBm 100 kHz VIII 880 MHz to 915 MHz ‑96 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 5.5.1-11b: Spurious emissions limits for protection of a Medium Range BS
receiver
* * *
Operating band Band Maximum level Measurement bandwidth I 1 920 MHz to 1 980
MHz ‑86 dBm 100 kHz III 1 710 MHz to 1 785 MHz ‑86 dBm 100 kHz VII 2 500 MHz
to 2 570 MHz ‑86 dBm 100 kHz VIII 880 MHz to 915 MHz ‑86 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 5.5.1-11c: Spurious emissions limits for protection of a Local Area BS
receiver
* * *
Operating band Band Maximum level Measurement bandwidth I 1 920 MHz to 1 980
MHz ‑82 dBm 100 kHz III 1 710 MHz to 1 785 MHz ‑82 dBm 100 kHz VII 2 500 MHz
to 2 570 MHz ‑82 dBm 100 kHz VIII 880 MHz to 915 MHz ‑82 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Protection of the CGC receiver of own or different CGC
This requirement applies in order to prevent the receivers of the CGCs being
desensitized by emissions from a CGC transmitter.
The power of any spurious emission (as defined in clause 4.2.4.1) does not
exceed the limits specified in table 5.5.1-12 depending on the declared CGC
class.
Table 5.5.1-12: Spurious emissions limits for protection of a CGC receiver
* * *
CGC type Band Maximum level Measurement bandwidth Wide coverage CGC 1 980 MHz
to 2 010 MHz -96 dBm 100 kHz Medium coverage CGC 1 980 MHz to 2 010 MHz -86
dBm 100 kHz Local coverage CGC 1 980 MHz to 2 010 MHz -82 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
CGC maximum output power
Definition
Maximum output power, Pmax, of the CGC is the mean power level per carrier
measured at the antenna connector in specified reference conditions.
Limit
In normal conditions, the CGC maximum output power shall remain within +2,7 dB
and ‑2,7 dB of the manufacturer\'s rated output power.
In extreme conditions, the CGC maximum output power shall remain within +3,2
dB and ‑3,2 dB of the manufacturer\'s rated output power.
Transmit inter modulation
Definition
The transmit inter modulation performance is a measure of the capability of
the transmitter to inhibit the generation of signals in its non‑linear
elements caused by presence of the wanted signal and an interfering signal
reaching the transmitter via the antenna.
The frequency of the interference signal shall be ±CBw, ±2 × CBw and ±3 × CBw
offset from the subject signal carrier frequency, but excluding interference
frequencies that are outside of the allocated frequency band specified in
clause 1 of ?? reference# [xy].
The requirements are applicable for a channel multiplex.
Limit
In the frequency range relevant for this test, the transmitting inter-
modulation level does not exceed the Out‑of‑band emission or the spurious
emission requirements of reference?? [xy], clauses 4.2.2.2, 4.2.3.3 and
4.2.4.2, in the presence of an interference signal with a mean power level 30
dB lower than the mean power of the wanted signal.
Receiver spurious emissions
Definition
The spurious emission power is the power of the emissions generated or
amplified in a receiver that appears at the CGC antenna connector. The
requirements apply to all CGC with separate Rx and Tx antenna ports.\ The test
shall be performed when both Tx and Rx are active with the Tx port terminated.
For all CGC with common Rx and Tx antenna port, the transmitter spurious
emission as specified in reference?? [xy] clause 4.2.4 shall apply.
Limits
The power of any spurious emission (as defined in reference?? [xy] clause
4.2.7.1) shall not exceed the limits specified in table 5.5.1-13.
Table 5.5.1-13: Spurious emission requirement
* * *
Band Maximum level Measurement bandwidth Note
30 MHz to 1 GHz -57 dBm 100 kHz With the exception of frequencies between
(10+CBw/2) MHz below the first carrier frequency and (10+CBw/2) MHz above the
last carrier frequency used by the CGC transmitter.
1 GHz to 12,75 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz
1 900 MHz to 1 980 MHz and\ -78 dBm 3,84 MHz Frequency band for UTRA FDD and
TDD BS receivers 2 010 MHz to 2 025 MHz
1 980 MHz to 2 010 MHz -78 dBm CBw frequency allocation as defined in table #
of reference [xy] Error: Reference source not found
* * *
Blocking characteristics
Definition
The blocking characteristics are a measure of the receiver ability to receive
a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of the adjacent channels
Limit
The BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters specified in table 5.5.1-14
depending on the declared CGC class.
Table 5.5.1-14: Blocking characteristics
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CGC type | Centre | Int | Wanted | Minimum | Type of | | | f | erfering | signal | offset | inte | | | requency | signal | mean | of | rfering\ | | | of | mean | power | int | signal | | | int | power | | erfering | | | | erfering | | | signal | | | | signal | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Wide | 1 980 | -40 dBm | -115 dBm | 10 MHz | WCDMA | | coverage | MHz to 2 | | | | | | CGC | 010 MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 1 900 | -40 dBm | -115 dBm | 10 MHz | WCDMA | | | MHz to | | | | | | | 1980 MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 1 MHz to | -15 dBm | -115 dBm | | CW | | | 1980 MHz | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 010 | | | | | | | MHz to | | | | | | | 12 750 | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Medium | 1 980 | -35 dBm | -105 dBm | 10 MHz | WCDMA | | coverage | MHz to 2 | | | | | | CGC | 010 MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 1 900 | -35 dBm | -105 dBm | 10 MHz | WCDMA | | | MHz to | | | | | | | 1980 MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 1 MHz to | -15 dBm | -115 dBm | | CW | | | 1980 MHz | | | | Carrier | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 010 | | | | | | | MHz to | | | | | | | 12 750 | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Local | 1 980 | -30 dBm | -101 dBm | 10 MHz | WCDMA | | coverage | MHz to 2 | | | | | | CGC | 010 MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 1 900 | -30 dBm | -101 dBm | 10 MHz | WCDMA | | | MHz to 1 | | | | | | | 980 MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 1 MHz to | -15 dBm | -115 dBm | | CW | | | 1 980 | | | | carrier | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 010 | | | | | | | MHz to | | | | | | | 12 750 | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | charact | | | | | | | eristics | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | WCDMA | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | rference | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 125 | | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | 1 [17] | | | | | | | annex I. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Receiver inter-modulation characteristics
Definition
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel.
Inter-modulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific frequency
relationship to the wanted signal.
Limit
The BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters specified in tables
5.5.1-15, -16 or -17 depending on the declared CGC class.
Table 5.5.1-15: Interferer signals for Wide Coverage CGC intermodulation
performance requirement
* * *
Type of signal Offset Signal mean power Wanted signal ‑ -115 dBm CW signal 2 ×
CBw -48 dBm WCDMA signal 2 × CBw -48 dBm NOTE: The characteristics of the
WCDMA interference signal are specified in TS 125 141 [17] annex I.
* * *
Table 5.5.1-16: Interferer signals for Medium Coverage CGC intermodulation
performance requirement
* * *
Type of signal Offset Signal mean power Wanted signal ‑ -105 dBm CW signal 2 ×
CBw -44 dBm WCDMA signal 2 × CBw -44 dBm NOTE: The characteristics of the
WCDMA interference signal are specified in TS 125 141 [17] annex I.
* * *
Table 5.5.1-17: Interferer signals for Local Coverage CGC intermodulation
performance requirement
* * *
Type of signal Offset Signal mean power Wanted signal ‑ -101 dBm CW signal 2 ×
CBw -38 dBm WCDMA signal 2 × CBw -38 dBm NOTE: The characteristics of the
WCDMA interference signal are specified in TS 125 141 [17] annex I.
* * *
Receiver adjacent selectivity
Definition
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre
frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the receiver filter
attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to the receive filter
attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).
The interference signal is offset from the wanted signal by the frequency
offset Fuw which is determined by both the assigned channel bandwidth
CBwassigned and the adjacent channel bandwidth CBwadjacent.
Limit
In case the assigned and the adjacent multiplex are the same bandwidth
(CBwassigned = CBwadjacent =CBw), the BER shall not exceed 0,001 using the
parameters specified in tables 5.5.1-18, 19 or 20 depending on the declared
CGC class.
Table 5.5.1-18: Adjacent channel selectivity for Wide Coverage CGC for the
same channel characteristic
* * *
Parameter Level Unit Reference measurement channel data rate 4,75 kbit/s
Wanted signal mean power -115 dBm Interfering signal mean power -52 dBm Fuw
offset (modulated) ±CBw MHz
* * *
Table 5.5.1-19: Adjacent channel selectivity for Medium Coverage CGC for the
same channel characteristic
* * *
Parameter Level Unit Reference measurement channel data rate 4,75 Kbit/s
Wanted signal mean power -105 dBm Interfering signal mean power -42 dBm Fuw
offset (modulated) ±CBw MHz
* * *
Table 5.5.1-20: Adjacent channel selectivity for Local Coverage CGC for the
same channel characteristic
* * *
Parameter Level Unit Reference measurement channel data rate 4,75 Kbit/s
Wanted signal mean power -101 dBm Interfering signal mean power -38 dBm Fuw
offset (modulated) ±CBw MHz
* * *
Else the BER shall not exceed 0,001 using the parameters specified in tables
5.5.1-21, -22 and -23.
Table 5.5.1-21: Adjacent channel selectivity for Wide Coverage CGC for
different channel characteristic
* * *
Parameter Level Unit Reference measurement channel data rate 4,75 kbit/s
Wanted signal mean power -115 dBm Interfering signal mean power -52 dBm Fuw
offset (modulated) ±{width="1.4875in" height="0.43472222222222223in"} MHz
NOTE: Of necessary a guard band may be introduced.
* * *
Table 5.5.1-22: Adjacent channel selectivity for Medium Coverage CGC for
different channel characteristic
* * *
Parameter Level Unit Reference measurement channel data rate 4,75 Kbit/s
Wanted signal mean power -105 dBm Interfering signal mean power -42 dBm Fuw
offset (modulated) ±{width="1.4986111111111111in"
height="0.43472222222222223in"} MHz NOTE: If necessary a guard band may be
introduced.
* * *
Table 5.5.1-23: Adjacent channel selectivity for Local Coverage CGC for
different channel characteristic
* * *
Parameter Level Unit Reference measurement channel data rate 4,75 Kbit/s
Wanted signal mean power -101 dBm Interfering signal mean power -38 dBm Fuw
offset (modulated ) ±{width="1.4875in" height="0.43472222222222223in"} MHz
NOTE: If necessary a guard band may be introduced.
* * *
## 5.6 EN 302 574-2
ETSI EN 302 574-2 [6] details the technical requirements for device for
wideband systems.\ The device is capable of operating in all or in any part of
the following frequency bands:
Table 5.6-1: CGC device frequency bands
* * *
Direction of transmission CGC frequency bands Transmit 1980 - 2010MHz Receive
_2170-2200MHz_
* * *
EN 302 574-2 [6] applies to UE which have the following characteristics:
  * The UEs operate with an assigned channel bandwidth of 1 MHz or greater;
  * The UEs may be handset, handheld, portable, vehicle-mounted, host connected, semi-fixed or fixed equipment, or may be an element in a multi-mode terminal. It may consist of a number of modules with associated connections, or may be a self contained single unit.
A summary of the requirements is provided in the following clause.
## 5.6.1 System specifications of EN 302 574-2
To meet the essential requirements under article 3.2 of the R&TTE Directive
for IMT-2000 User Equipment (UE) eight essential parameters have been
identified. Table 5.6.1-1 provides a cross reference between these eight
essential parameters and the corresponding twelve technical requirements for
equipment within the scope of the present document.
Table 5.6.1-1: EN 302 574-2 technical requirement list
* * *
Essential parameter Spectrum emissions mask Conducted spurious emissions from
the transmitter antenna connector Accuracy of maximum output power Prevention
of harmful interference through control of power Conducted spurious emissions
from the receiver antenna connector Impact of interference on receiver
performance Receiver adjacent channel selectivity Control and monitoring
functions
* * *
specifications of
ask0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000Control
and monitoring functions
Definition
This requirement, together with other control and monitoring technical
requirements identified in the table of cross references in the applicable
part, verifies that the control and monitoring functions of the UE prevent it
from transmitting in the absence of a valid network.
This test is applicable to radio communications equipment and ancillary
equipment.
This test shall be performed on the radio communications equipment and/or a
representative configuration of the ancillary equipment.
Limit
The maximum measured power during the duration of the test shall not exceed
-30 dBm.
Maximum output power
Definition
The nominal maximum output power and its tolerance are defined according to
the power class of the UE.
The nominal power defined is the broadband transmit power of the UE, i.e. the
power in a bandwidth of at least (1 + α) times the symbol rate of the radio
access mode. The duration of the measurement shall be at least 50 % of one
contiguous unit of transmission time.
> NOTE: For both TDMA and OFDM, the unit of transmission time corresponds to a
> frame.
Limit
The UE maximum output power shall be within the shown value in Table 5.6.1-2
even for the multi‑physical channel transmission mode.
Table 5.6.1-2: UE power classes
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | Class | Class | Class | Class | | | | | | 1 | 1bis | 2 | 3 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Tol | Power | Tol | Power | Tol | Power | Tol | | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | +39 | +2,7 | +33 | +1/-3 | +27 | +1/-3 | +24 | +1,7 | | | /-2,7 | | | | | | /-3,7 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power class depends on the transmit power. Corresponding EIRP figure depends
on the antenna gain.
Spectrum emissions mask
Definition
The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are between
CBw/2 and ((CBw/2)+10) MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency. The out
of channel emission is specified relative to the filtered mean power of the UE
carrier.
Limit
The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in table
5.6.1-3.
Table 5.6.1-3: Spectrum emission mask requirement
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | Δf in | Minimum | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | requirement\ | bandwidth\ | | | | units\ | (Notes 2, 5 | (Note 4) | | | | (Notes 1 and | and 6) | | | | | 5) | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | Relative | Absolute\ | | | | | requirement | requirement | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | | | dth="1.210416 | idth="2.37361 | | | | | 6666666667in" | 1111111111in" | | | | | heigh | height | | | | | t="0.27847222 | ="0.49375in"} | | | | | 222222223in"} | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | {wi | | | | | dth="1.564583 | dth="2.593055 | | | | | 3333333334in" | 5555555554in" | | | | | heigh | height | | | | | t="0.27361111 | ="0.49375in"} | | | | | 111111114in"} | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | {wi | | | | | dth="1.590277 | dth="2.544444 | | | | | 7777777777in" | 4444444443in" | | | | | heigh | heigh | | | | | t="0.27361111 | t="0.4625in"} | | | | | 111111114in"} | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | {wi | | | | | | dth="1.629861 | | | | | | 1111111112in" | | | | | | heigh | | | | | | t="0.27361111 | | | | | | 111111114in"} | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | NOTE 1: ∆f is | | | | | | the | | | | | | separation | | | | | | between the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency and | | | | | | the centre of | | | | | | the | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is calculated | | | | | | from the | | | | | | relative | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | or the | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | requirement, | | | | | | whichever is | | | | | | the higher | | | | | | power. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | first and | | | | | | last | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | position with | | | | | | a 30 kHz | | | | | | filter is at | | | | | | ∆f equals to | | | | | | (CBw/2)+15 | | | | | | kHz and\ | | | | | | (CBw/2) + | | | | | | 985 kHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: As a | | | | | | general rule, | | | | | | the | | | | | | resolution | | | | | | bandwidth of | | | | | | the measuring | | | | | | equipment | | | | | | should be | | | | | | equal to the | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | However, to | | | | | | improve | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | accuracy, | | | | | | sensitivity | | | | | | and | | | | | | efficiency, | | | | | | the | | | | | | resolution | | | | | | bandwidth may | | | | | | be smaller | | | | | | than the | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | When the | | | | | | resolution | | | | | | bandwidth is | | | | | | smaller than | | | | | | the | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth, | | | | | | the result | | | | | | should be | | | | | | integrated | | | | | | over the | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth in | | | | | | order to | | | | | | obtain the | | | | | | equivalent | | | | | | noise | | | | | | bandwidth of | | | | | | the | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: Δf | | | | | | and CBw units | | | | | | are in MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: ΔP is | | | | | | a correction | | | | | | factor in dB | | | | | | that shall be | | | | | | determined by | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | Transmit | | | | | | Power (P) | | | | | | measured in | | | | | | dBm as | | | | | | follows: | | | | | | | | | | | | > For P \ dBm : ΔP = | | | | | | > 0 dB. | | | | | | > | | | | | | > For 24 dBm | | | | | | > ≤ P ≤ 33 | | | | | | > dBm : ΔP = | | | | | | > (P - 24) | | | | | | > dB. | | | | | | > | | | | | | > For 33 dBm | | | | | | > \ 9 dB. | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+
Transmitter spurious emissions
Definition
Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter
effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emission, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out‑of‑band emissions.
Limits
The limits shown in Tables 5.6.1-4 and -5 are only applicable for frequencies
which are greater than ((CBw/2)+10) MHz away from the UE centre carrier
frequency.
Table 5.6.1-4: General spurious emissions requirements
* * *
Frequency bandwidth Measurement bandwidth Minimum requirement 9 kHz ≤ f \ Case 1: Adjacent channel bandwidth is the same as the assigned channel
> bandwidth.
>
> This refers to CBwassigned = CBwadjacent = CBw.
>
> if the adjacent channel power exceeds -50 dBm then the ACLR shall be higher
> than the value specified in Table 5.6.1-6.
>
> Case 2: Adjacent and assigned channel bandwidths are different.
>
> This refers to CBwassigned ≠ CBwadjacent.
>
> if the adjacent channel power exceeds -50 dBm then the ACLR should be higher
> than the value specified in Table 5.6.1-7.
Table 5.6.1-6: UE ACLR for same assigned and adjacent channel bandwidth
characteristics
+-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Power Class | Adjacent channel | Minimum\ | | | frequency relative | ACLR requirement | | | to\ | | | | assigned channel | | | | frequency | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | ±CBw | 42 dB (see note 4) | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | ±2 × CBw | 52 dB (see note 4) | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 1bis | ±CBw | 42 dB (see note 4) | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 1bis | ±2 × CBw | 52 dB (see note 4) | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | ±CBw | 36 dB | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | ±2 × CBw | 46 dB | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 3 | ±CBw | 33 dB | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 3 | ±2 × CBw | 43 dB | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | requirement shall | | | | still be met in the | | | | presence of switching | | | | transients. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The ACLR | | | | requirements reflect | | | | what can be achieved | | | | with present state of | | | | the art technology. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Requirement | | | | on the UE shall be | | | | reconsidered when the | | | | state of the art | | | | technology | | | | progresses. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: If necessary | | | | a guard band may be | | | | introduced. | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
Table 5.6.1-7: UE ACLR for different assigned and adjacent channel bandwidth
characteristics
+-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Power Class | Adjacent channel | Minimum\ | | | frequency relative | ACLR requirement | | | to\ | | | | assigned channel | | | | frequency | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | 1st adjacent channel | 42 dB (see note 4) | | | centre | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | 2nd adjacent channel | 52 dB (see note 4) | | | centre | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 1bis | 1st adjacent channel | 42 dB (see note 4) | | | centre | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 1bis | 2nd adjacent channel | 52 dB (see note 4) | | | centre | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | 1st adjacent channel | 36 dB | | | centre | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | 2nd adjacent channel | 46 dB | | | centre | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 3 | 1st adjacent channel | 33 dB | | | centre | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | 3 | 2nd adjacent channel | 43 dB | | | centre | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | requirement shall | | | | still be met in the | | | | presence of switching | | | | transients. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The ACLR | | | | requirements reflect | | | | what can be achieved | | | | with present state of | | | | the art technology. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Requirement | | | | on the UE shall be | | | | reconsidered when the | | | | state of the art | | | | technology | | | | progresses. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: If necessary | | | | a guard band may be | | | | introduced. | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
Out of synchronization handling of output power
Definition
The UE shall monitor the downlink signal (associated to the transmission
signal of the two ways services) in order to detect a loss of the signal. Upon
quality level threshold detection, the UE shall stop transmitting.
Limits
Limits are dependent on the radio interface. In any case, in band spurious
emitted shall be lower than minimum output power defined in reference ?? [xy]
clause 4.2.6.
Receiver Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Definition
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive a signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre frequency
of the assigned channel.
Limits
The limits to ACS are measured at frequency offsets which are determined by
both the assigned channel bandwidth CBwassigned and the adjacent channel
bandwidth CBwadjacent.
In fact, it is necessary to distinguish two cases:
> In the first case, adjacent channel bandwidth is the same as the assigned
> channel bandwidth:
>
> CBwassigned = CBwadjacent =CBw
>
> In the second case, adjacent channel bandwidth is different:
>
> CBwassigned ≠ CBwadjacent
In the first case Table 5.6.1-8 applies. In the second case, table 5.6.1-9
applies.
Table 5.6.1-8: Adjacent Channel Selectivity for the same channel
characteristic
* * *
Case ACS Interference frequency offset 1 48 dB ±CBw 2 55 dB ±2 × CBw 3 55 dB >
2 × CBw
* * *
Table 5.6.1-9: Adjacent Channel Selectivity for different channel
characteristic
* * *
Case ACS Interference frequency offset 1 48 dB 1st adjacent channel centre 2
55 dB 2nd adjacent channel centre 3 55 dB > 2nd adjacent channel centre NOTE:
If necessary a guard band may be introduced.
* * *
Blocking characteristics
Definition
The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive
a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of the spurious response
or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted input signal causing a
degradation of the performance of the receiver beyond a specified limit.
Receiver blocking is specified separately for in-band and out-of-band signals.
The blocking performance shall apply at all frequencies except those at which
a spurious response occur.
In-band signals are signals in the 2 160 MHz to 2 210 MHz band, i.e. signals
in the MSS and neighbouring bands.
Out-of-band signals are signals outside this band.
Limits
The BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters specified in Table 5.6.1-10.
Table 5.6.1-10: Test parameters for in‑band blocking characteristics
+--------------------+------+--------------------------+---------------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Level | | +--------------------+------+--------------------------+---------------------------+ | Wanted signal | dBm | \ \+ 3 dB | | +--------------------+------+--------------------------+---------------------------+ | Interfering signal | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | | | | | | | (for Fuw offset ±2 × CBw | (for Fuw offset ±3 × CBw) | +--------------------+------+--------------------------+---------------------------+
In-band blocking is defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling into
the UE receive band or into the first (3×CBw) below or above the UE receive
band. The BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters specified in Table
5.6.1-11.
Table 5.6.1-11: Test parameters for out‑of‑band blocking characteristics
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Frequency | Frequency | Frequency | | | | range 1 | range 2 | range 3 | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Wanted | dBm | \ | \ | \ | | signal | | + 3 dB | + 3 dB | + 3 dB | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Interfering | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | signal (CW) | | | | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Fuw | MHz | 2 110 \ \+ 3 dB Interfering signal
(CW) dBm -44 Fuw MHz Spurious response frequencies
* * *
Receiver intermodulation characteristics
Definition
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receiver
a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the presence of two or
more interfering signals which have a specific frequency relationship to the
wanted signal.
Limits
The BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters specified in Table 5.6.1-13.
Table 5.6.1-13: Receive intermodulation characteristics
* * *
Parameter Level Unit  
Wanted signal \ \+ 3 dB dBm  
Interfering signal 1 (CW) -46 dBm  
Interfering signal 2 (same as wanted) -46 dBm  
Fuw1 (offset) 2 × CBw -2 × CBw  
Fuw2 (offset) 4 × CBw -4 × CBw
* * *
Receiver spurious emissions
Definition
Conformance tests described in reference ?? [xy] clause 5.4.11 shall be
carried out.
Limits
The power of any narrow band CW spurious emission shall not exceed the maximum
level specified in Table 5.6.1-14 and Table 5.6.1-15.
Table 5.6.1-14: General receiver spurious emission requirements
* * *
Frequency Band Measurement Bandwidth Maximum level 30 MHz ≤ f \15 | | | | | | | | | | NA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | -40 dBm/MHz | 2 | | | | | 2/21.5/21.5/21 | | | | | | | | | | NA | | | | | | | | | | 15/14/14/14 | | | | | | | | | | NA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | -30 dBm/MHz | 12/11/11/11 | | | | | | | | | | NA | | | | | | | | | | 11/10/10/9 | | | | | | | | | | NA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | -15.5 dBm/5MHz | 6/4/5/4 | | | | | | | | | | NA | | | | | | | | | | 3/3/3/3 | | | | | | | | | | NA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5/10/15/20 | 5 | -50 dBm/MHz | 9/14/15/15 | | | | | | | | | | NA | | | | | | | | | | 8/15/15/15 | | | | | | | | | | NA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | -40 dBm/MHz | 0/4/5/5 | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | 5/10.5/12/11.5 | | | | | | | | | | 5/10/10/10 | | | | | | | | | | 4/10/1010 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | -30 dBm/MHz | 0/0/0/0 | | | | | | | | | | 1/5/4/4 | | | | | | | | | | 1/5/5/5 | | | | | | | | | | NA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | -15.5 dBm/5MHz | 0/0/0/0 | | | | | | | | | | 0/0.5/0.5/0.5 | | | | | | | | | | 1/1/1/1 | | | | | | | | | | NA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5/10/15/20 | 10 | -50 dBm/MHz | 0/6/13/13.5 | | | | | | | | | | NA | | | | | | | | | | 3/8/15/15 | | | | | | | | | | NA/NA/15/NA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | -40 dBm/MHz | 0/0/4/3 | | | | | | | | | | 0/5/10/9 | | | | | | | | | | 1/5/10/10 | | | | | | | | | | NA/5/10/10 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | -30 dBm/MHz | 0/0/0/0 | | | | | | | | | | 0/0/4/4 | | | | | | | | | | 0/1/5/5 | | | | | | | | | | NA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | -15.5 dBm/5MHz | 0/0/0/0 | | | | | | | | | | 0/0/0.5/0.5 | | | | | | | | | | 1/1/1/1 | | | | | | | | | | NA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The study above provides the necessary guidance for the work item phase.
#### 7.1.2.2 BS-to-BS co-existence
2 GHz Band specific BS co-existence spurious emission levels will need to be
defined in TS 36.104 [19]Clause 6.6.4.3. It is observed BSs are typically
required to meet the standard -52 dBm/MHz and -49 dBm/MHz BS co-existence
spurious emission levels in the 2 GHz downlink and uplink bands, respectively.
##### 7.1.2.2.1 BS-to-BS co-existence with Band 34
For BS-to-BS co-existence with Band 34, two methods are observed in the
current specifications:
  * Specific BS emission levels for the 10 MHz range outside the downlink band may be covered by local or regional requirements (e.g. Bands 1/39 and Bands 7/38);
  * Specific BS emissions levels along with frequency ranges are specified in TS 36.104 [19]\ (Bands 23/25, Bands 26/27).
##### 7.1.2.2.2 BS-to-BS co-existence with other bands
# 8 Required changes to UTRA, E-UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarised in Table 8-1.
Table 8-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
* * *
3GPP specification Clause in TR 30.007 where the\ Clause in the present
document\ required changes are given identifying additional changes
TS 36.101 [18] 8.2.1.1
TS 36.104 [19] 8.2.1.2
TS 36.113 [20] 8.2.1.4
TS 36.124 [21] 8.2.1.5
TS 36.133 [22] 8.2.1.6
TS 36.141 [23] 8.2.1.7
TS 36.307 [24] 8.2.1.9
TS 37.104 [25] 8.2.3.1
TS 37.113 [26] 8.2.2.2
TS 37.141 [27] 8.2.2.3
* * *
# 9 Conclusions
Per the scope of the study item, the following topics were studied:
  * **Studied related aspects of adding a FDD band into E-UTRA that > covers the frequency range of UL: 1980-2010/DL: 2170-2200 MHz in > applicable countries in Region 1.**
  * **Studied coexistence issues with adjacent bands in applicable > countries in Region 1**
  * **Identified regulatory issues applicable to deploying the proposed > band in applicable countries in Region 1.**
Based on the results of the study item, it is concluded that adding a new LTE
FDD band covering the frequency range **of UL: 1980-2010/DL: 2170-2200 MHz**
is feasible. This study item will be proceeded by a new work item for
standardizing a new band in Region 1. Regarding the work item, it was agreed
in RAN #64 that:
  * Initially until RAN #65, two candidate band plan options will be considered in the work item:
    * 30x30 MHz (1980-2010 MHz uplink and 2170-2200 MHz downlink)
    * 90x90 MHz (1920-2010 MHz uplink and 2110-2200 MHz downlink)
  * RAN4 will work towards selecting one of the candidate band plan options by RAN4 #72. In the absence of RAN4 consensus after RAN4 #72, RAN will decide on a band plan in RAN #65
  * The work item will progress with the selected band plan per defined WI scope after RAN #65
#