# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control;
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc;
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the results of the study item on RAN
Enhancements for UMTS/HSPA and LTE Interworking in RP-122036[2]. It identifies
the existing mobility functions for HSPA and LTE interworking, the use cases
and requirements for enhancements, and reviews and compares scenarios and
techniques for enhancement of interworking functionality. The evaluation and
comparison between existing and enhanced solutions is also included.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-122036: \"Proposed SID: RAN Enhancements for UMTS/HSPA and LTE
Interworking\", China Unicom.
[3] R3-130873: \"Discussion on Load Balancing Enhancements for Scenario 1\",
Huawei.
[4] R3-131026: \"Load reporting mechanism enhancement\", Samsung.
[5] R3-131403: \"Evaluation method for current load balancing mechanisms in
the context of UMTS-LTE interworking\", NSN.
[6] R3-131915: \"Evaluation method for current load balancing mechanisms in
the context of UMTS-LTE interworking,\" NSN.
[7] R1-120852: \"Simulation assumptions for CELL_FACH TDM evaluation,\"
Ericsson, ST-Ericsson.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CDF Cumulative Density Function
HO Handover
LB Load Balancing
TP Throughput
# 4 General
In order to facilitate multi-RAT deployment and operation, there is a strong
need to investigate possible mechanism for seamless UMTS/HSPA and LTE
interworking. The aim of the study on as captured in the SI description
RP-122036 [2]:
\- Investigate and evaluate mechanisms to enhance inter-RAT call redirection,
connected mode mobility and load balancing between UMTS/HSPA and LTE;
\- Identify the suitable deployment scenarios and requirements, including LTE
hotspot deployments;
\- Investigate signalling optimisations and reduction in switching latency for
both PS and CS services;
\- Identify the specification and implementation impacts affecting EUTRAN and
UTRAN.
Unnecessary duplication of solutions addressing the same problem area shall be
avoided. Performance and efficiency of the new solutions should all be
compared against legacy. Moreover, the intention is to avoid UE impact as much
as possible.
# 5 Requirements
Since the purpose of this study item is to investigate and evaluate mechanisms
to enhance inter-RAT call redirection, connected mode mobility and load
balancing between UMTS/HSPA and LTE, the following requirements should be
considered for the enhancement/optimization.
1\. The enhancement /optimization should reduce any signalling load to the CN
compared to any existing standard mechanism.
2\. The enhancement /optimization should reduce latency except backhaul when
compared with any existing standard mechanism.
3\. The enhancement /optimization should avoid UEs impacts.
4\. The enhancement /optimization should focus on backwards compatible
solutions for the RAN.
# 6 Target Scenarios for Enhancements
## 6.1 Scenario 1
One RAT (LTE or UMTS) is deployed for capacity improvement while the other RAT
(UMTS or LTE) provides full overlapping coverage:
\- Scenario 1a: UMTS provides full coverage where LTE provides only a partial
coverage for capacity improvement;
\- Scenario 1b: LTE provides full coverage where UMTS provides only a partial
coverage for capacity improvement.
Examples of the deployment scenarios are captured in Figure 6.1-1.
Figure 6.1-1: Examples of deployment scenarios for scenario 1.
## 6.2 Scenario 2
One RAT (LTE or UMTS) provides coverage extension where the other RAT (UMTS or
LTE) provides the basic coverage:
\- Scenario 2a: UMTS provides basic coverage where LTE provides only a partial
coverage for coverage extension;
\- Scenario 2b: LTE provides basic coverage where UMTS provides only a partial
coverage for coverage extension.
Examples of the deployment scenarios are captured in Figure 6.2-1.
Figure 6.2-1: Examples of deployment scenarios for scenario 2.
## 6.3 Scenario 3
In a certain area, both RAT (UMTS and LTE) have the full coverage, i.e.
collocated coverage:
\- Scenario 3a: In a certain area, both RAT (UMTS and LTE) have the full
coverage, i.e. collocated coverage, while the coverage is provided by an MSR
base station.
An example of the deployment scenario is captured in Figure 6.3-1.
Figure 6.3-1: An example deployment scenario for scenario 3a.
# 7 Enhanced Interworking: description and comparison of the different options
## 7.1 Inter-RAT Load Balancing
### 7.1.1 Cell Load Reporting Enhancement for Scenario 1a
#### 7.1.1.1 Enhancement aspects
**(1) UTRAN cell load reporting enhancement to EUTRAN**
Typically, in hot spot deployment, one UTRAN cell may have many neighbouring
E-UTRAN cells who may belong to several eNBs. For purpose of load balancing,
the load reporting of UTRAN cell and neighboring E-UTRAN cell should be
exchanged between RNC and neighbouring eNBs.
For each time event-triggerred load reporting is triggered for one macro cell,
RNC may duplicate the same load info for this cell in different RIM-PDUs going
via the same SGSN and MME if the requested reporting threadsholds from
different eNBs are same. More overlapping neighbouring eNBs there are, more
duplicating information there would be. The load of the cell may quite
dynamic, and would trigger the cell load reporting in a short period of time,
e.g. every several minutes, thus it would be beneficial to consider the
possible enhancement to reduce the duplicated UTRAN cell load reporting (CLR)
for inter-RAT load balancing in scenario 1a.
Figure 7.1.1.1-1: Current UTRAN Cell Load Reporting Procedure to LTE
**(2) EUTRAN cell load reporting enhancement to UTRAN**
In the current mechnisim, since _Destination Cell Identifier_ and _Source Cell
Identifier_ in RIM PDU can only be set to one RNC-id or eNB id, each time one
RIM PDU could only transfer information between one RNC and one eNB. For
E-UTRAN cell load reporting acquiring in scenario 1a, the RNC could possibly
need to send multiple RIM PDU to request EUTRAN cell load from multiple
overlapping neighbouring eNBs. However, one of these eNBs may have already got
the cell load of the rest of neighboring eNBs via current X2 RESOURCE STATUS
UPDATE procedure. Therefore, it would be beneficial to consider allowing RNC
to request/acquire neighbouring E-UTRAN cell load that belongs to multiple
eNBs with one single RIM PDU.
#### 7.1.1.2 Solutions for UTRAN cell load reporting to E-UTRAN
##### 7.1.1.2.1 Option1: Master eNB distributes UTRAN cell load response to
slave eNBs
This solution is targeting to reduce the duplicated event triggering UTRAN
cell load reporting in Iu, S3 and S1 interfaces. As shown in the Figure
7.1.1.2.1-1 below, in step 1\~6, master eNB requests and acquires from the
neighbouring RNC the UTRAN cell load information using existing RIM procedure
[3]. In step 7, the Master eNB sends the UTRAN Cell load to salve eNB1, 2 and
3 via X2 interface based on the UTRAN cell load request from them in step0.
And in case of Event-triggered Cell Load Reporting, when the UTRAN cell load
meets the reporting criterion, the RNC would send a report to the master eNB
via SGSN and MME. Upon receiving the new cell load, the master eNB sends it to
the slave eNB1, 2 and 3 in step 7 via X2 interface again.
Figure 7.1.1.2.1-1: eNB distributes UTRAN cell load from master eNB to slave
eNBs
In this solution, there is no impact to the RIM procedure among Master eNB,
MME, SGSN and RNC. When the master eNB receives the UMTS cell load from the
RNC, there are three ways for the master eNB to send the cell load to the
slave eNBs:
**Option-1-1** : Master eNB would transfer the received RIM PDU which contains
the requested/updated UTRAN cell load to slave eNBs with some modification.
Before transfer, master eNB would change the _Destination Cell Identifier_
from master eNB-id to slave eNB-id in the received RIM PDU.
**Option-1-2** : Master eNB would transfer the received RIM PDU which contains
the requested/updated UTRAN cell load to the slave eNB directly without any
modification. The slave eNBs who receives the RIM PDU should ignore the
_Destination Cell Identifier_ in the RIM PDU.
**Option-1-3** : Master eNB would derives the requested/updated UTRAN cell
load from the RIM PDU and sends the UMTS cell load to the eNB via X2AP with
new IE or new procedure, which is FFS.
Before requesting the UMTS cell load, the neighbouring eNBs of the UTRAN cell
should be grouped. The eNB group could be configured by OAM or self-
established via new defined X2 AP procedure. Each eNB group could consist of
several slave eNBs and one master eNB. The master eNB of the group could
request/acquire the neighbouring UTRAN cell load reporting as agency for the
other eNBs in the group.
There are only three slave eNBs (eNB 1, 2 and 3) (N=4) shown in the figure.
The number of RIM PDU transmission via MME, SGSN and RNC will be decreased to
1/N by using enhanced RIM transmission as shown in Figure 7.1.1.2.1-1. The
more slave eNBs are in the group, the more signalling reduction is achieved
from the aspect of cost for the RIM-PDU transmission via the path of
RNC/SGSN/MME/eNB.
Assumptions and observations:
\- The same report level should be applied to all Slave eNBs, which is not as
flexible as current specification;
\- In this option the grouping of slave eNBs needs to be configured
beforehand;
\- The master/slave architecture does not exist in the today's specification.
To introduce a Master eNB may cause bottleneck problems when the Master eNB
needs to broadcast load information among the slaves.
##### 7.1.1.2.2 Option2: MME distributes UTRAN cell load response to the eNBs
This solution is targeting to reduce the duplicated event triggering UMTS cell
load reporting in Iu, S3 interfaces.
As shown in Figure 7.1.1.2.2-1, each eNB requests cell load from the RNC using
existing RIM procedure. RNC sends one combined RIM load reporting if all the
eNBs request the same event threshold. The RNC reports the UTRAN cell load
reporting via RAN Information to the MME, and this MME forwards the cell load
reporting to different eNBs (see R3-131026 [4]). The MME gets the routing
information in the RIM header.
Figure 7.1.1.2.2-1: MME distributes UTRAN cell load to the eNBs
In this solution, eNB1, eNB2 and eNB3 request RNC about UTRAN cell load
through MME and SGSN. No matter the eNBs' requests arrive at the same time or
different time, MME and SGSN route them one by one. In another words, there is
no change to the existing UTRAN cell load request procedure. With the received
load request from eNB1, eNB2 and eNB3, if eNB1, eNB2 and eNB3 request the same
report level, when the requested report event happens, the RNC can aggregate
the load response according to the report level. The global eNB ID of eNB1,
eNB2 and eNB3 with the same report level will be involved in the destination
address for routing. Besides, if eNB1, eNB2 and eNB3 sharing the same TAI, the
TAI can replace the global eNB ID in the destination address for routing. With
the received load response from RNC, MME should understand the new destination
address including the multiple eNB global IDs or TAI and distributes the load
response messages over S1 interface according to the routing information: to
the eNBs indicated by the global eNB ID or to the TAI.
Assumptions and observations:
\- In order to distribute the UTRAN cell load messages to multiple eNBs. MME
is impacted to be able to understand the new destination address included in
the RIM PDU, i.e. multiple target global eNB IDs or TAI, comparing to one
target global eNB ID in current destination address;
\- In order to reduce the load response messages, when the event of requested
report level happens, the RNC should aggregate the load response to the eNBs
which request the same report level. The signalling reduction level depends on
the number of eNBs with the same requested report level;
\- In this solution, the MME will not aggregate the cell load report request,
because in most cases, the eNB1, 2, 3 will send requests to the MME in
different time.
##### 7.1.1.2.3 Option3: eNB distributes UTRAN cell load response to other
eNBs
This solution is targeting to reduce the duplicated event triggering UTAN cell
load reporting in Iu, S3 and S1 interfaces.
As showed in Figure 7.1.1.2.3-1, each eNB requests cell load from the RNC
using existing RIM procedure. RNC sends one combined RIM load reporting if all
the eNBs request same event threshold. The RNC reports the UTRAN cell load
reporting via RAN Information to one eNB, and this eNB forwards the cell load
reporting to other eNB via X2 [4]. The eNB gets the routing information in the
SON Transfer Container. It assumes that there is an X2 interface between the
eNB and the other eNBs.
Figure 7.1.1.2.3-1: eNB distributes UTRAN cell load based on the routing info
in SON Transfer Container
In this solution, the RNC adds the global eNB Id of eNB 2, 3 into the RIM PDU
sent to eNB1, eNB1 distributes the UTRAN cell load to the eNB2 and eNB3 via X2
accordingly.
Assumptions and observations:
\- In order to reduce the load response messages, when the event of requested
report level happens, the RNC should aggregates the load response to the eNBs
which request the corresponding report level. The signalling reduction level
depends on the number of eNBs with the same requested report level;
\- In this option the grouping of eNBs is more flexible (with respect to
option 1) and does not need to be pre-configured;
\- The master/slave architecture does not exist in the today's specification.
To introduce a Master eNB may cause bottleneck problem when the Master eNB
needs to broadcast load information among the slaves;
\- The neighbouring eNBs of the UTRAN cell should also be grouped. RNC will
group the eNBs according to the OAM configuration and whether the same
reporting level is requested by these eNBs.
#### 7.1.1.3 Solutions for E-UTRAN cell load reporting to UTRAN
##### 7.1.1.3.1 Option4: Master eNB aggregates EUTRAN cell load response of
slave eNBs to RNC
This solution is targeting to reduce the signalling load of EUTRAN cell load
reporting request/response in Iu, S3 and S1 interfaces.
As shown in the Figure 7.1.1.3.1-1, the RNC requests the master eNB for the
E-UTRAN cell load of slave eNB 1, eNB 2 and 3 by setting _Destination Cell
Identifier_ as master eNB-id meanwhile setting _Reporting Cell Identifier_ as
cell ids those can belong to slave eNB1, eNB2, and eNB3 (see [3] [4]). Upon
receiving the RIM PDU aims at cell load request, the master eNB checks whether
the load of cells listed in the _Reporting Cell Identifier_ is available. If
not available, the master eNB need to identify which eNBs the cells in the
_Reporting Cell Identifier_ list belong to and request the cell load via X2.
Afterwards, master eNB could encapsulate all requested E-UTRAN cell load in
one single RIM PDU and send them to the RNC, if the requested events on
different slave eNBs happen and the triggered cell load reporting from those
eNB arrive the master eNB at the same time.
From specification point of view, it is now not explicitly forbidden to
include cells belongs to multiple eNBs as _Reporting Cell Identifier._
Figure 7.1.1.3.1-1: Multiple eNBs cell load request/response aggregattion in
single RIM PDU
Before requesting the E-UTRAN cell load, the neighbouring eNBs of the UTRAN
cell should be grouped. The eNB group could be configured by OAM or self-
established via new defined X2 AP procedure. Each eNB group would consist of
several slave eNBs and one master eNB. The eNB group info could also be
configured in RNC by OAM or received from the master eNB via new defined RIM
procedure. Then, the RNC could request the master eNB for the load reporting
of more than one eNBs of the group. Based on the request, the master eNB
requests the cell load of the slave eNBs via X2 and then reports them to the
RNC.
For simplicity, only three slave eNBs (eNB 1, 2, 3) are shown as an example in
the figure (N=4). The number of RIM PDU transmission via MME, SGSN and RNC
will be decreased to 1/N by using enhanced RIM transmission as shown in Figure
7.1.1.3.1-1. More eNBs in the group, more signalling reduction is achieved in
the RIM-PDU transmission via the path of RNC/SGSN/MME/eNB.
Assumptions and observations:
\- The same report level should be applied to Slave eNBs, which is not as
flexible as current specification;
\- The master/slave architecture does not exist in the today\'s specification.
To introduce a Master eNB may cause bottleneck problem when the Master eNB
needs to aggregate load information from the slaves;
\- The Master eNB should record the report for the Slaves;
\- The signalling reduction level depends on the number of requested events on
different slave eNBs happen and the triggered cell load reporting from those
eNB arrive the master eNB at the same time.
##### 7.1.1.3.2 Option5: MME aggregates EUTRAN cell load response of eNBs to
RNC
The goal of this solution is to reduce the signalling load in case of Scenario
1a and the RNC needs load information from eNBs that are located under its
area. This situation may occur for instance when the UMTS macro Node B becomes
overload, and the RNC seeks to offload UEs to all the LPN eNB that are within
its coverage area. At that moment in time the RNC will request load
information from a list of eNBs.
The solution can be summarized as follows:
\- The RNC sends a request for load information which contains a list of cells
belonging to different eNBs that it requests load information from;
\- The MME de-multiplexes the one request sent by the RNC into several for the
eNBs;
\- The MME send the requests to the eNBs, starts a timer and collects their
replies until the timer expires. The timer should reflect the topology of the
backbone: A larger value is required for eNBs that are connected over several
hops;
\- Once the MME has bundled the replies from the eNBs, it will send those to
the RNC in a single message;
\- If late eNB replies are received by the MME, they will be forwarded as
single replies without bundling to the RNC in order to keep the latency for
the reply low.
Figure 7.1.1.3.2-1 below describes the message exchange for the solution.
Figure 7.1.1.3.2-1: RNC requesting multiple eNBs' load information and MME
grouping responses.
Assumptions and observations:
\- RNC and MME need to be modified to be able to generate/understand the new
destination address included in the RIM PDU, i.e. multiple target global eNB
IDs or TAI;
\- RNC to be configured via O&M with eNB IDs and TAIs;
\- MME needs to record and store the eNB load response;
\- Might be introduced extra latency for the fastest responding eNBs.
#### 7.1.1.4 Evaluation and comparisons
Table 1: Evaluation metrics for related enhancements
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | **Option |** Option | **Option |** Option | **Option | | | 1** | 2**| 3** | 4**| 5** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Ap | UTRAN | UTRAN | UTRAN | E-UTRAN | E-UTRAN | | plicable | cell | cell | cell | cell | cell | | Sce | load | load | load | load | load | | narios** | r | r | r | r | r | | | eporting | eporting | eporting | eporting | eporting | | | to | to | to | to UTRAN | to UTRAN | | | E-UTRAN | E-UTRAN | E-UTRAN | in | in | | | in | in | in | scenario | scenario | | | scenario | scenario | scenario | 1a. | 1a. | | | 1a. | 1a. | 1a. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Si | Lo | Low | Low- | Low- | Low | | gnalling | w- >High | | >Medium | >Medium | | | R | | Reduce | | | Reduce | | eduction | Reduce | response | Reduce | Reduce | number | | on | request | messages | response | request | of | | S1/Iu** | and | on Iu. | messages | messages | request | | | response | | on S1 | on S1 | and | | | messages | No | and Iu. | and Iu. | response | | | on S1 | change | | | messages | | | and Iu. | on S1. | Si | Reduce | on Iu. | | | | | gnalling | response | | | | Si | Si | over S1 | messages | No | | | gnalling | gnalling | and Iu | on S1 | change | | | over S1 | over Iu | reduced | and Iu | on S1. | | | and Iu | reduced | to 1/N | if get | | | | reduced | to 1/N | d | multiple | Reduce | | | to 1/N | d | epending | Slave | number | | | d | epending | on how | eNB's | of | | | epending | on how | many | cell | request | | | on Slave | many | eNBs | load | messages | | | eNB | eNBs | request | arrive | on Iu by | | | number | request | for the | at | 1/N. (N | | | in the | for the | same | Master | being | | | group. | same | r | eNB | the | | | | r | eporting | within a | number | | | | eporting | level. | short | of eNBs | | | | level. | | period. | in the | | | | | | | list) | | | | | | Si | | | | | | | gnalling | Reduce | | | | | | over S1 | number | | | | | | and Iu | of | | | | | | reduced | response | | | | | | to 1/N | messages | | | | | | d | on Iu up | | | | | | epending | to 1/N | | | | | | on Slave | if | | | | | | eNB | multiple | | | | | | number | eNB cell | | | | | | in the | load | | | | | | group. | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | messages | | | | | | | arrive | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | MME | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | timer. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **S | No | No | No | No | No | | witching | impact. | impact. | impact. | impact. | impact | | Latency | | | | | | | Red | | | | | | | uction** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Access | Low- | Low- | Low | Low- | Low | | network | >Medium | >Medium | | >Medium | | | resource | | | Less | | Fewer | | ef | Less | Less | response | Less | requests | | ficiency | request | response | sent by | request | message | | *** | received | sent by | RNC. | sent and | sent by | | | and | RNC. | | response | and | | | response | | More | received | r | | | sent by | More | memory | by RNC. | esponses | | | RNC. | memory | and | | messages | | | | and | pr | More | received | | | More | pr | ocessing | memory | by RNC. | | | memory | ocessing | load in | and | | | | and | load in | RNC to | pr | More | | | pr | RNC to | group | ocessing | memory | | | ocessing | group | the | load in | and | | | load in | the | eNBs. | Master | pr | | | Master | eNBs. | | eNB to | ocessing | | | eNB to | | More | a | load in | | | di | | memory | ggregate | RNC for | | | stribute | | and | the | t | | | the | | pr | response | argeting | | | response | | ocessing | from | several | | | to Slave | | load in | Slave | eNBs. | | | eNBs. | | eNB1 to | eNBs. | | | | | | di | | | | | | | stribute | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to other | | | | | | | eNBs. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Core | Lo | Low- | Lo | Low- | Low | | network | w- >High | >Medium | w->High | >Medium | - | | resource | | | | | >Medium | | ef | Less | Less | Less | Less | | | ficiency | request | response | request | request | Fewer | | *** | and | f | and | f | requests | | | response | orwarded | response | orwarded | and | | | f | by MME | f | by MME | response | | | orwarded | and | orwarded | and | messages | | | by MME | SGSN. | by MME | SGSN. | f | | | and | | and | | orwarded | | | SGSN. | More | SGSN. | | by MME | | | | memory | | | and | | | | and | | | SGSN. | | | | pr | | | | | | | ocessing | | | More | | | | load in | | | pr | | | | MME to | | | ocessing | | | | di | | | required | | | | stribute | | | by MME. | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to eNBs. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **UE | No | No | No | No | No | | Impact** | impact. | impact. | impact. | impact. | impact. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **eNodeB | High | Low | High | Medium | No | | Impact** | | | | | impact. | | | The | When | When | When | | | | Master | r | r | r | No | | | eNB will | eceiving | eceiving | eceiving | change | | | t | a RIM | a RIM | a EUTRAN | in eNB | | | erminate | PDU, the | PDU, if | Cell | be | | | the | eNB | one eNB | load | haviour. | | | UTRAN | needs to | detects | Request, | | | | cell | detect | the | the | | | | load | if the | other | Master | | | | report | eNB is | eNBs' | eNB | | | | request | included | IDs in | should | | | | from | in the | the SON | check | | | | Slave | "_Des | Transfer | whether | | | | eNBs, | tination | C | the | | | | and | Cell | ontainer | r | | | | di | Ident | via S1 | equested | | | | stribute | ifier"._ | in | cells' | | | | the | | terface, | load is | | | | received | | it | av | | | | UTRAN | | should | ailable, | | | | cell | | forward | ot | | | | load to | | the | herwise, | | | | these | | UTRAN | the | | | | Slave | | cell | Master | | | | eNBs. | | load | eNB need | | | | | | r | to | | | | New X2AP | | eporting | request | | | | IE/p | | to other | the cell | | | | rocedure | | eNBs via | load via | | | | is | | X2 | X2 | | | | needed | | in | resource | | | | to | | terface. | status | | | | exchange | | | r | | | | UTRAN | | The | eporting | | | | Cell | | other | pr | | | | load | | eNBs | ocedure. | | | | Request/ | | need to | | | | | Response | | a | The | | | | between | | ssociate | Master | | | | Master | | the | eNB | | | | eNB and | | response | could | | | | Slave | | received | enc | | | | eNBs. | | via X2 | apsulate | | | | | | with the | all | | | | More | | request | r | | | | si | | sent via | equested | | | | gnalling | | S1. | E-UTRAN | | | | ex | | | cell | | | | changing | | New X2AP | load in | | | | via X2. | | IE/p | one | | | | | | rocedure | single | | | | | | is | RIM PDU | | | | | | needed | and send | | | | | | to send | them to | | | | | | UTRAN | the RNC. | | | | | | Cell | | | | | | | load | More | | | | | | Response | si | | | | | | from the | gnalling | | | | | | eNB | ex | | | | | | r | changing | | | | | | eceiving | via X2. | | | | | | RIM PDU | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | eNBs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | More | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | gnalling | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | changing | | | | | | | via X2. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **R | No | High | High | Medium | High | | NC/NodeB | impact. | | | | | | Impact** | | The RNC | The RNC | The RNC | The RNC | | | | would | would | would | would | | | | include | include | set | set | | | | a new | the | _R |_ R | | | | des | other | eporting | eporting | | | | tination | eNBs' | Cell | Cell | | | | address | IDs in | Ide | Ide | | | | i | the SON | ntifier _| ntifier_ | | | | ncluding | Transfer | IE to | IE to | | | | the | C | the | the | | | | multiple | ontainer | r | r | | | | eNB | in the | equested | equested | | | | global | response | cell ids | cell ids | | | | IDs or | message. | belong | belong | | | | TAI in | | to | to | | | | the | The RNC | multiple | multiple | | | | response | needs to | eNBs in | eNBs in | | | | message. | group | the | the | | | | | the eNBs | request | request | | | | The RNC | based on | message. | message. | | | | needs to | the | | | | | | group | request | | | | | | the eNBs | level | | | | | | based on | and the | | | | | | the | X2 | | | | | | request | rela | | | | | | level. | tionship | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | eNBs. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **CN | No | Medium | No | No | High | | Impact** | impact. | | impact. | impact. | | | | | The MME | | | The MME | | | | would | | | would | | | | analyze | | | de-m | | | | the new | | | ultiplex | | | | des | | | the | | | | tination | | | resource | | | | address | | | requests | | | | i | | | (e.g., | | | | ncluding | | | remove | | | | the | | | non | | | | multiple | | | n | | | | eNB | | | ecessary | | | | global | | | cells | | | | IDs or | | | from | | | | TAI in | | | request | | | | the | | | messages | | | | response | | | and send | | | | message | | | them to | | | | and | | | the | | | | di | | | app | | | | stribute | | | ropriate | | | | the | | | eNBs), | | | | UTRAN | | | and | | | | cell | | | bundle | | | | load to | | | the | | | | the eNBs | | | re | | | | i | | | sponses. | | | | ndicated | | | The MME | | | | by the | | | could be | | | | global | | | also | | | | eNB ID | | | res | | | | or to | | | ponsible | | | | the TAI. | | | for the | | | | | | | timer | | | | Impact | | | setting, | | | | due to | | | while | | | | RIM | | | still | | | | modi | | | re | | | | fication | | | specting | | | | is FFS. | | | maximal | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | set by | | | | | | | the RNC. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The MME | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | erminate | | | | | | | the RIM | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | | open as | | | | | | | many as | | | | | | | RIM | | | | | | | asso | | | | | | | ciations | | | | | | | as eNBs | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | pool. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | RIM | | | | | | | messages | | | | | | | need to | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | modified | | | | | | | to work | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | core | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | include | | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | | targets. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The MME | | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | | be able | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | etermine | | | | | | | if it is | | | | | | | handling | | | | | | | legacy | | | | | | | RIM | | | | | | | messages | | | | | | | or new | | | | | | | ones. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **OAM | Medium | No | Medium | Medium | Medium | | impact** | | impact | | | | | | C | | C | C | The RNC | | | onfigure | | onfigure | onfigure | needs to | | | the | | X2 | neig | be | | | neig | | rela | hbouring | co | | | hbouring | | tionship | eNBs of | nfigured | | | eNBs of | | of the | the | with | | | the | | eNBs to | UTRAN | eNBs and | | | UTRAN | | the RNC | cell | TAIs so | | | cell | | to group | into a | that it | | | into a | | the | group, | knows | | | group, | | eNBs. | each eNB | which | | | each eNB | | | group | eNBs to | | | group | | | consists | contact. | | | consists | | | of | | | | of | | | several | | | | several | | | Slave | | | | Slave | | | eNBs and | | | | eNBs and | | | one | | | | one | | | Master | | | | Master | | | eNB. | | | | eNB. | | | | | | | | | | C | | | | C | | | onfigure | | | | onfigure | | | the | | | | the | | | group | | | | group | | | inf | | | | inf | | | ormation | | | | ormation | | | to in | | | | to | | | RNC. | | | | Master | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | NB/Slave | | | | | | | eNBs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | onfigure | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | report | | | | | | | level to | | | | | | | the eNBs | | | | | | | in a | | | | | | | group. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
NOTE:
* Network resource efficiency means evaluation on resource occupation of network nodes which is unlikely to be quantified, and should be different from signalling reduction on specific interface.
** The description list in the metrics for each solution is compared with
existing solutions, and thus provides uniform evaluation dimensions. Necessary
entries can be added for different enhancement sections.
## 7.2 Inter-RAT Connected Mobility
### 7.2.1 Enhancement aspects
### 7.2.2 Solutions
#### 7.2.2.1 Option1: Message parallelization
As reported in Figure 7.2.2.1-1 below, the proposal is to trigger the HO
Preparation procedure with the target RAN around the same time the inter-RAT
measurements are setup with the UE. By the time the inter-RAT measurement
report arrives in the source RAN the HO Preparation procedure should most
likely be at a stage where the preparation of the target RAN resources is
done. When the UE confirms the target cell, the HO to the target RAN can be
executed rapidly.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="5.243055555555555in"}
**Figure 7.2.2.1-1** : Exemplary scenario showing the proposal for inter-RAT
HO from E-UTRAN to UTRAN
**_Step 1_** : The source RAT triggers the UE to measure a set of inter-RAT
cells.
**_Step 2-7_** (shown in colored box): The source RAN initiates the HO
preparation procedure similarly to the legacy case except that it tags this
procedure as pre-fetch of resources. When the target SGSN receives the request
for handover (with this cause), the target SGSN creates the context for this
UE including the security context and sends it to the target RAN. However
there is a difference from the legacy procedure perspective: The target RAN
does not yet know which target cell will be reported by the UE and the RNC
will not complete the RL Setup Procedure with the Node-B. It would wait until
a confirmation message is received during the execution phase. Consequently,
at the end of Step 7, there will be pre-allocated resources inside the RNC
ready to be used when the target NB will be indicated in step 9.
**_Step 8_** : UE sends Measurement Report to source RAN with inter-RAT
measurements. Step 8 could happen anywhere between 2 & 7 and is not required
to be serialized with the signaling in the box as such.
**_Step 9_** : After the reception of message #8 and message #7, if the
handover is needed, the source RAN then continues the HO with the target RAN
and now has decided which target cell the UE wants service from. It formats a
message Handover Finalize Request to the target RAN.
**_Step 10_** : Target RAN executes the signaling with the Node-B according to
the NBAP: RL Setup procedure.
**_Step 11_** : Target RAN sends the HO container to the Source RAN in the
Handover Finalize Response.
**_Step 12-13_** : UE completes the HO to the target RAN.
**_Step 14_** : The HO procedure is declared complete by the target RAN.
##### 7.2.2.1.1 Handling of handover cancellation cases
**_[Cancellation of pre-fetched resources (HO procedure cancellation or no
cells resolved in UE measurement report)]{.underline}_**
In case the relocation preparation is cancelled by the source RAN just after
Step 7 (and potentially before or just after Step 8 or latest at Step 11), the
following transactions are used to cancel the HO procedure:
\- Handover Cancel message is sent by the source eNB to the source MME to
cancel the ongoing HO preparation or already prepared HO. The source MME
initiates the cancellation procedure with the SGSN;
\- HO cancellation is informed to potentially multiple target RNCs by target
SGSN by the Iu Release procedure.
**_[Cancellation due to handover not needed]{.underline}_**
There might be cases in which the triggered handover (by the eNB) is not
needed because the measurements report at Step 8 does not indicate to have
handover. In this case, in addition to the signalling described above, a timer
in the source eNB might be needed to trigger the HO cancellation towards the
potential target RNC(s).
**_[Cancellation due to handover failure]{.underline}_**
It is possible that at Step 13 the HO to UTRAN complete message is not
received by the target RNC and instead the source RAN received the
corresponding HO from E-UTRAN failure message (or, similarly, the timer
expired).
\- In this case, similar to legacy signalling, the source eNB will cancel the
Relocation procedure by sending the Handover Cancel message and continue
serving the UE or will ask the SGSN via the MME to release the UE context via
UE context release procedure;
\- The SGSN will signal the Relocation procedure termination to potentially
multiple target RNCs by Iu Release procedure.
##### 7.2.2.1.2 Assumptions and observations
**Handling of timers**
\- As described above, in case of handover not needed, a new timer in the
source eNB is needed;
\- At Step 7, the trigger could be used to complete the transaction in Step 2
with the same legacy HO timer TS1RELOCprep and the trigger at Step 8 could be
used to start the legacy HO timer TS1RELOCoverall;
\- In case of multiple RNCs, extra HO cancellation signaling (See Section
2.1.2) or an extra timer might be needed to release pre-fetched resources in
the RNCs not selected as target.
**Other assumptions**
\- These option can provide the benefit that the source RAN has started early
the HO preparation procedure with the target RAN and, as such, could start the
HO execution in a faster way when the UE reports a suitable cell (at Step 8);
\- It is assumed that the target SGSN is known beforehand at the source RAN
based on configuration;
\- At Step 4 the RNC cannot pre-allocate the resources as in the legacy case
because it does not know the target cell;
_\- If the security context provided at Step 4 expires (e.g., because the
indication in the measurement report to execute handover arrives only after
several attempts) then the legacy handover procedure should come into play to
retrieve another time the necessary context;_
\- In case of handover cancellation or handover failure, the extra signaling
needed to terminate the procedure could me more costly than the equivalent one
needed for legacy handover.
### 7.2.3 Evaluation and comparisons
Table 2: Evaluation metrics for related enhancements
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | **Option 1 (message | | | parallelization)** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Applicable Scenarios** | Scenario 1a, 2a, 3, 3a | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Signalling Reduction on | Low | | S1/Iu** | | | | Change of containers and dummy | | | values might be needed. | | | | | | Indicator in HO required message | | | to indicate that a new type of | | | HO is request to the MME. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Switching Latency Reduction** | Medium-High | | | | | | Very short HO preparation due to | | | resource caching based on the | | | parallelization of two portions | | | of the handover procedure | | | reduction can be in the order of | | | tens of/100 milliseconds. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Access network resource | Medium-Low | | efficiency *** | | | | Pre-reservation keeps resources | | | occupied for longer time before | | | HO is committed. | | | | | | In some cases more than one RNC | | | might need to pre-allocate | | | resources. | | | | | | The handover cancellation due to | | | handover failure or due to | | | handover not needed triggers | | | more signalling than the legacy | | | procedure. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Core network resource | High | | efficiency *** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **UE Impact** | None | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **eNodeB Impact** | High | | | | | | New messages defined for | | | pre-fetching and finalizing | | | handover: Resource pre-fetch | | | Request/Response, and Handover | | | Finalize Request/Response. | | | | | | New timer needed. Default values | | | or dummy values (e.g., Target | | | Cell-ID) to be filled in HO | | | Preparation message. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **RNC/NodeB Impact** | High | | | | | | In RNC: New functionality | | | required for triggering and | | | managing resource reservation. | | | | | | New timer might be needed to | | | release pre-fetched resources in | | | case of multiple target RNCs and | | | in case no new HO cancellation | | | signalling is used. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **CN Impact** | Low | | | | | | CN nodes needs to be able to | | | forward to target RAN a new | | | cause value (pre-fetch) received | | | in the Handover Required. | | | | | | Also HO preparation request | | | message to CN needs to have a | | | list of cells. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **OAM Impact** | Low | | | | | | If dummy value for Target | | | Cell-ID used, configuration in | | | MME is needed to select target | | | SGSN. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
NOTE:
* Network resource efficiency means evaluation on resource occupation of network nodes which is unlikely to be quantified, and should be different from signalling reduction on specific interface.
** The description list in the metrics for each solution is compared with
existing solutions, and thus provides uniform evaluation dimensions. Necessary
entries can be added for different enhancement sections.
## 7.3 Inter-RAT Call Redirection
### 7.3.1 Enhancement for CSFB with redirection for Scenario 3/3a
#### 7.3.1.1 Enhancement aspects
As popular voice solution for operators, CS Fallback to UTRAN with redirection
is applicable for Scenario 3, in which collocated UMTS establishes CS bearer
for voice. In the current CSFB procedure, it first sets up an RRC connection
in E-UTRAN with the extended service request procedure (dash area in Figure
7.3.1.1-1), which takes time to set up RRC Connection and to exchange S1
messages. However, RRC resources in E-UTRAN will later be released since voice
service should be finally accomplished in UTRAN. During these procedures,
there is no key information exchange between UTRAN and E-UTRAN nodes.
Therefore, in order to save the RRC connection setup/release latency and
minimize the S1 signalling overhead, redirection procedures could be improved
by adding MO call type information (including e.g., PS and CS indicator) into
RRC connection request in the serving RAT.
Figure 7.3.1.1-1: Illustration of MO CS call according to current
specifications.
#### 7.3.1.2 Solutions
##### 7.3.1.2.1 Option1: Improvement for MO CS Call
This option is applicable for both scenario 3/3a. This solution targets to
reduce the latency of CS service setup and improves the network resource
efficiency by avoiding nonessential RRC connection setup and release procedure
in E-UTRAN.
Step 0: The collocated 3G cell(s) will be served as candidate cell (s) for CS
bearer establishment in Scenario 3 by OAM configuration. Serving eNB could
acquire information of target cell(s) e.g.CarrierFreq, PhysCellId, BCCH
Container from collocated/overlapping 3G cell(s) through RIM update.
Step 1: If the UE camping on LTE decides to originate a MO CS call, the UE
sends RRC connection request to eNB. _Domain Indicator_ IE needs to be added
into _RRC connection request_ for E-UTRAN, in order to notify E-UTRAN the
service type of MO CS call before RRC connection setup complete. (_Domain
Indicator_ IE will be enumerated as CS domain in this case.)
Step 2: With the information of _Domain indicator IE_ together with RRC
connection request from step1, eNB is able to clearly identify the types of UE
MO calls. And instead of the following RRC connection setup in traditional
procedure (Figure 7.3.1.2.1-1), eNB will directly reject such RRC connection
request and give UE instruction of re-selecting to candidate cell(s) in UTRAN.
The information of candidate cell(s) e.g. PhysCellId, CarrierFreq, BCCH
Container and cause of CSFB should be transmitted to UE together with RRC
connection rejection message from eNB.
Then, UE which was informed by rejection signalling from eNB could make the
redirection to collocated/overlapping 3G cell for CS service setup, similar as
redirection procedure in Release 9.
The improved procedure could be indicated in Figure 7.3.1.2.1-1.
Figure 7.3.1.2.1-1: Inter-RAT redirection improvements for CS service.
In such enhancement, the information of candidate redirection 3G cell(s)
should be determined by eNB other than MME in order to avoid RRC connection
setup/release and UE context setup/release in E-UTRAN. Therefore, such
enhancement is quite suitable for Scenario 3, which provides
collocated/overlapping cells.
Assumptions and observations:
\- The collocated 3G cell(s) is configured as candidate cell (s) for CS bearer
establishment in Scenario 3/3a by OAM;
\- In order to support the eNB to identify call types before RRC connection
setup, a new _Domain Indicator_ IE should be transmitted to eNB together with
_RRC Connection Request_ from the UE;
\- Redirection information e.g. PhysCellId, CarrierFreq, BCCH Container and
cause of CSFB should be included in the RRC rejection message;
\- eNB makes the CSFB decision without interaction with CN;
\- The eNB may redirect the UE to the UMTS cell even though the UE doesn\'t
subscribe to the CSFB service;
\- It is only applied to particular eNB, e.g. only CSFB is enabled. For the
network enabling both VOIP and CSFB, option 1 cannot be applied;
\- Option 1 is only applied for the MO CS call originating in the idle mode.
Connected mode UE shall apply the normal CSFB mechanism;
\- Evaluation from other work groups (RAN2/SA2) is needed for this option in
the WI phase;
\- The impacts on Uu interface and the relevance of current fast re-direct
feature (RAN2);
\- The confirmation of the modification to the normal CSFB (RAN2, SA2);
\- The further impacts result from skipping the EPC procedures (RAN2, SA2).
#### 7.3.1.3 Evaluations and comparisons
Table 3: Evaluation metrics for related enhancements
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | **Option 1** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Applicable Scenarios** | CSFB with redirection to UTRAN | | | for MO CS call in Scenario 3/3a | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Signalling Reduction on | Low- >High | | S1/Iu** | | | | Reduce initial UE Context Setup | | | messages result from idle UE MO | | | service request and subsequent | | | UE Context Release Messages in | | | E-UTRA. | | | | | | No signalling reduction on Iu. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Switching Latency Reduction** | Low->High | | | | | | eNB rejects the UE after | | | reception of RRC connection | | | setup request for MO call, | | | result in latency reduction of | | | subsequent RRC setup and RRC | | | release procedure in Uu | | | interface and initial UE context | | | setup procedure in S1 interface. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Access network resource | Low- >Medium | | efficiency *** | | | | Less request received and | | | response sent by eNB due to | | | skipping RRC setup procedure and | | | initial UE context setup | | | procedure for MO call. | | | | | | More memory and processing load | | | are required in eNB for | | | identifying MO call type | | | information in RRC Connection | | | Setup Request, and making RRC | | | rejection decision accordingly | | | without notifying MME. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Core network resource | Low- >Medium | | efficiency *** | | | | No requests received and | | | response sent by MME for MO CS | | | call from idle UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **UE Impact** | High | | | | | | UE should indicate a New Domain | | | indicator (CS or PS) in RRC | | | Connection Request message to | | | inform eNB the MO CS call | | | request. | | | | | | UE should also identify new | | | redirection information within | | | RRC rejection message and | | | request CS call in UTRA | | | accordingly, e.g. PhysCellId, | | | CarrierFreq, BCCH Container and | | | cause of CSFB from eNB. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **eNodeB Impact** | High | | | | | | eNB should understand New Domain | | | indicator (CS or PS) in RRC | | | Connection Request message and | | | make the CSFB decision without | | | interaction with CN. | | | | | | eNB should indicate the new | | | redirection information to UE | | | via RRC rejection message, e.g. | | | PhysCellId, CarrierFreq, BCCH | | | Container and cause of CSFB. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **RNC/NodeB Impact** | No Impact. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **CN Impact** | Medium | | | | | | EPC procedures for MO CS call | | | from idle UE are skipped and | | | subscription data is no more | | | needed for MO CS call in E-UTRA. | | | | | | The new functions cannot work | | | simultaneously with VoIP. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **OAM Impact** | Low | | | | | | The UTRAN cell(s) of the | | | collocated NodeB with eNB is | | | configured as candidate cell (s) | | | for MO CS call. | | | | | | The information of the candidate | | | UTRAN cell(s) should be | | | exchanged as redirection | | | information for MO CS call. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
NOTE:
* Network resource efficiency means evaluation on resource occupation of network nodes which is unlikely to be quantified, and should be different from signalling reduction on specific interface.
** The description list in the metrics for each solution is compared with
existing solutions, and thus provides uniform evaluation dimensions. Necessary
entries can be added for different enhancement sections.
# 8 Conclusions
**(1) Inter-RAT Load Balancing**
During the study of load balancing, five options were investigated and
described in the present document. All of them are alternative solutions with
limited gain in terms of user experience (refer to Annex A) and signalling
reduction.
Considering the impact across the affected RAN and/or the CN and/or the OAM
entities and the limited gain, the standardization of those options cannot be
justified.
**(2) Inter-RAT Connected Mobility**
The option for enhancing inter-RAT connected mode mobility has extensive
impact. There may be potential benefits in some specific cases, but there is
extra signalling in case of not needed handover. The impact from the direct
interface between EUTRAN and UTRAN is extensive so the introduction of such an
interface is not agreed. Therefore the standardization of the option cannot be
justified.
**(3) Inter-RAT Call Redirection**
Subject to RAN2 and SA2 evaluation, such option might be an alternative
solution for MO CS call originating in the idle mode. Without the evaluation
from RAN2 and SA2, the standardization of this option cannot be justified.
###### ### Annex A: Evaluation of current load balancing mechanisms
# A.1 Introduction
In this Annex we present a reference point for optimizations, where the
reference is an upper bound for the performance that can be achieved with
current standardized mechanisms. A methodology to evaluate the performance of
connected mode load balancing techniques is described in subclauses A.1.1 to
A.1.4, further details on the simulation assumptions are provided in [5 - 7].
This methodology considers that the network had ideal load balancing
capabilities and does not take coverage aspects into account. It allows for
the performance analysis of file transfer in the following cases:
1\. Random RAT allocation at the beginning of a file transfer without inter-
RAT handover during the transfer (baseline).
2\. Call Redirection at the start of the file transfer (without inter-RAT HO
during the transfer).
3\. Inter-RAT Handovers during the file transfer (also referred as dynamic
load balancing).
Performance results both in terms of file transfer delay and HO frequency are
presented in A.2.
Any enhancement proposed in this TR should be evaluated while taking into
account the results presented in this Annex.
## A.1.1 Air interface modelling
The air interface in uplink and downlink can simply be modeled by taking the
amount of users with data to be transmitted or received into account, like for
instance depicted in the Figure A.1.1-1 below, where the downlink throughput
(in bps) is shown as function of the number of active users. The model does
not consider the distance from the UE to the cell, as that is not believed to
have a significant impact on the conclusions. The different amounts of
spectrum and multi carrier configurations can simply be modeled from this. At
least the configuration with one carrier for 3G and one for LTE should be
considered.
{width="3.847916666666667in" height="2.8930555555555557in"}
Figure A.1.1-1: Example of downlink air interface modelling. User throughput
expressed in bps.
## A.1.2 Traffic model parameters
We propose to model the bursty traffic source with file size distribution
according to [4]. In order to represent different offered loads it is proposed
to use two different mean packet size values as shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Traffic Model
* * *
Parameters PDF Mean file size = 500 Kbytes  
Mean file size about 4Mbytes
* * *
The file size distribution is also visualized in Figure A.1.2-1.
{width="4.121527777777778in" height="2.9291666666666667in"}
Figure A.1.2-1: File size distribution in bytes.
## A.1.3 Offered load per carrier
The offered system load is given then by the mean file size multiplied by the
mean user inter-arrival time. It is proposed to model a Poisson interarrival
process of mean interarrival time of 100 sec.
\- interarrival time: Poisson process with Lambda = 1/100 per sec per UE.
## A.1.4 Simulation modelling details
The model will then work as follows: Users are generated according to the
arrival process. They will be allocated to a carrier according to the chosen
technique. Their instantaneous transmission rate is given by the instantaneous
amount of users on the carrier. Once a user has finished transmission of its
file it will disappear. The resulting user TP will be a function of the
allocation technique.
Further details for each considered technique are:
1\. Random RAT allocation at the beginning of a call/file transfer: random
allocation to either RAT at the start of a call/file transfer and no
subsequent redirection or handover.
2\. Call Redirection at the start of the call/file transfer: redirect to the
other RAT at the start of the call/file transfer if a better user throughput
can be achieved for the considered user. Different setup delays may be
evaluated.
3\. Handovers during the call/file transfer: Handover to the carrier which has
better user performance. The carrier quality is checked every _x_ ms and a gap
in the transmission is considered if the handover is made of _y_ ms. The
values _x_ and _y_ may be chosen according to empirical data.
# A.2 Performance Results
## A.2.1 File transfer duration
As a measure of the performance of the load balancing technique we choose to
present here the file transfer duration which is the time that it takes a user
to transmit one packet. The file transfer duration is directly related to the
throughput (TP), but exhibits a somewhat smoother graph compared to the TP: TP
CDF will show a step as a consequence of the TP gap between the UMTS and LTE
layer TP mapping curve.
The mean file transfer duration length of the three balancing techniques is
displayed for low load in Figure A.2.1-1, and for high load in Figure A.2.1-2,
for different measurement intervals (load balancing), and different
redirection and HO gaps. The low load was modelled with traffic according to
section 2.2, with a 0.5 MB file size. In particular, a 0.4 Mbps offered load
was obtained with
\- 10 users served at the same time by the cell,
\- 0.01 the probability to start a file transfer per UE per second,
\- 0.5 MB mean packet size:
_Offered aggregated load = 10 users *0.01 packets/(sec*user) * 0.5 * 8
Mb/packet = 0.4 Mbps._
Figure A.2.1-1 shows that advanced load balancing techniques such as call
redirection and dynamic load balancing by inter-RAT HO become advantageous
only if the redirection delay or LB gap can be contained to 300ms or 500ms,
respectively. While LB may show better performance, the advantage over
redirection appears small.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="5.020138888888889in"}
Figure A.2.1-1: Call redirection (blue line) vs. load balancing (black lines)
mean file transfer duration with low offered load of 0.4 Mbps
Another observation is that the LB measurement interval affects the
performance of the LB scheme only to a certain degree. This suggests that the
frequency of load information exchange signalling can be kept low. However the
overall amount of load information exchange is of course scaled with the
amount of UEs and their file transfer length.
As for the low load, the high load was modelled with traffic according to
section 2.2, this time with a 4 MB file size:
_Offered aggregated load = 10 users *0.01 packets/(sec*user) * 4 * 8 Mb/packet
= 3.2 Mbps._
For high load, shown in Figure A.2.1-2, it is essential to have at least a
call redirection mechanism in place, instead of a random UE placement, as
there is a factor larger than two for the mean file transfer duration between
the random placement and redirection balancing . We observe a 20% file
transfer duration advantage of LB over call redirection.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="5.020138888888889in"}
Figure A.2.1-2: Call redirection (blue line) vs. load balancing (black lines)
mean file transfer duration. At high offered load of 3.2 Mbps dynamic load
balancing has a 20% advantage.
## A.2.2 Number of HOs and HO frequency
Figure A.2.2-1 and Figure A.2.2-2 show that in absolute terms the amount of
HOs increase for LB is moderate, on average well below 1 HO per file transfer.
Figure A.2.2-1 shows that on average for LB the better performance for higher
offered load leads to more HOs per file transfer, a consequence of the longer
file size.
{width="4.981944444444444in" height="3.7319444444444443in"}
Figure A.2.2-1: CDF of amount of HO per call for ideal LB (2ms measurement
interval, 0ms HO gap)
When the amount of HOs is normalized for time as in Figure A.2.2-2, we see
that the amount of HOs per file transfer per sec is decreasing, a consequence
of lower load variance across the carriers. This can be considered an
intuitive result: If both carriers are full, there is no free capacity that
could be balanced across carriers. This also means that a large amount of load
information exchange is beneficial mostly when there is little load, and the
backhaul is not likely to experience a bottleneck.
{width="4.983333333333333in" height="3.7333333333333334in"}
Figure A.2.2-2: CDF of amount of HO per call per sec for ideal LB (2ms
measurement interval, 0ms HO gap).
#