# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The coexistence of Multiple RATs introduces many operational coordination
problems for network operators. The co-existence of various RATs (i.e.
LTE/UMTS/GSM/CDMA/WLAN) is an obvious reality and it will remain relevant in
the future. This raises important issues for operators in terms of
coordination across the RATs to achieve better user experience (QoE),
efficient resource usage, higher network capacity and easier maintenance,
especially in a multi-vendor environment. For an operator with multi-RAT
networks, frequent updated information from all RATs (radio resource
management, mobility and traffic load) is required in order to enable
efficient coordination by the network. It will be beneficial to consider a
general Multi-RATs coordination from RAN perspective.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides descriptions and possible solutions of use cases
for the multi-RAT joint operation, and also provides analysis of these
solutions. Considerations with regards to requested functionality in scope of
other 3GPP groups, if any, may be captured in this document as well.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".[2] 3GPP TR 23.852:
\"Study on S2a Mobility based on GPRS Tunnelling Protocol (GTP) and Wireless
Local Area Network (WLAN) access to the Enhanced Packet Core (EPC) network
(SaMOG)\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.861: \"Network based IP flow mobility\"
[4] 3GPP TR 23.865: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)\"
[5] 3GPP TR 23.890: \"Study on Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) network
selection for 3GPP terminals\"
[6] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via
non-3GPP access networks\"
[7] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.312: \"Access Network Discovery and Selection Function (ANDSF)
Management Object (MO)\"
[9] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\"
[10] RP-132086 "New SID: Study on Multi-RAT joint coordination" CMCC, China
Unicom, Huawei
[11] http://techliberation.com/2013/02/11/fcc-incentive-auction-will-the-fcc-
pick-a-winner-among-mobile-technologies/
[12] http://www.telecomstechnews.com/blog-hub/2013/apr/03/arceps-refarming-
decision-presents-operators-with-a-4g-opportunity/
[13] Carlos M. Gutierrez, SECRETARY, "Improving International Spectrum
Management Policies and Framework", 2008-03
[14] Tamara Lee, "Spectrum Licensing in Australia",
http://acma.gov.au/webwr/_assets/main/lib310474/spect_licensing_in_aust.pdf
[15] RP-132101 "New Work Item Proposal: WLAN/3GPP Radio Interworking", Intel
Cooperation,
[16] SP-120847 "WID for WLAN Network Selection for 3GPP Terminals", Intel
Cooperation
[17] Wi-Fi Alliance® Technical Committee, Hotspot 2.0 Technical Task Group
Hotspot 2.0 (Release 2) Technical Specification Version 3.11.
[18] IEEE Std 802.11TM-2012, IEEE Standard for Information technology-
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems-Local and
metropolitan area network.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Spectrum re-allocation:**
Assignment of spectrum from one RAT to another, in a reversible manner, for a
period of time (temporal) or in an area (spatial).
It consists of these categories:
Temporal Spectrum re-allocation:
The re-allocation is for a time period that is _dynamic_ , _semi-static_ or
_static_.
_Dynamic_ should be understood in terms of seconds or minutes
_Semi-static_ should be understood in terms of hours or days and based on
planned configurations that guarantee system stability and improve system
throughput in each scenario
_Static_ (also known as _spectrum refarming_) should be understood in terms of
months or years and based on planned configurations that guarantee system
stability and improve system throughput in each scenario.
Spatial Spectrum re-allocation
The re-allocation is for a particular area, which is smaller than a whole
geographic region. Both spatial and temporal re-allocation may be combined.
**Traffic steering between 3GPP and WLAN**
The traffic offloading of served/camping UEs between one RAT and WLAN at APN
level. It is assumed that the UE is in EMM-REGISTERED mode.
**Operator-managed WLAN nodes**
WLAN nodes under the control of a cellular operator and its partners (e.g.,
the operator controls the backhaul QoS settings and who can access the AP),
either directly or through e.g. an agreement.
**Spectrum Hole**
The spectrum hole is a portion of the spectrum licensed to the operator which
for some reasons at some time in some places is not used.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ANDSF Access Network Discovery and Selection Function
BSS load Basic Service Set load
Eb/No Bit Energy over Spectral Noise Density
RCPI Received Channel Power Indicator
RSNI Received Signal to Noise Indicator
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
# 4 General Requirements
## 4.1 Requirements
### 4.1.1 Requirements from the SID
The requirements in the objectives of the SID [10] are shown here numbered for
reference:
1\. Identify the potential scenarios and use cases where Multi-RAT
coordination would be useful; including LTE, UMTS, GSM, CDMA and WLAN.
a. Identify and evaluate potential benefits and functionalities for joint
operation among different RATs, including:
b. Steering of UEs among different RATs, taking into account service type,
user experience, processing capacity, backhaul constraints and/or traffic
load, and consequent mobility enhancement;
2\. Efficient multi RAT joint radio resource coordination to improve load
balancing and for an operator to enable, e.g. spectrum re-farming.
3\. Investigate the potential enhancements of RAN interfaces and procedures to
support the joint operation among different RATs as described above, taking
into account the following:
a. Reuse existing RAN interfaces and procedures as much as possible;
b. No impact on UE operation and air interfaces.
c. Possibility to support different architectures/implementations.
### 4.1.2 Requirements for Study
The requirements to guide the study are shown in Table 4.1.2.1.
Table 4.1.2.1 Requirements
* * *
      Requirement                                                                                                                        Justification                                                                                                                                                                 Comment
1 Consider these RATs: LTE, UMTS, GSM, CDMA, WLAN From SID: 1, these are the
basic RATs mentioned.  
2 No architectural changes or internal interface changes to the CN. This is a
RAN SI so internal changes to CN are out of scope.  
3 No impact on UE operation and air interfaces. From SID: 3b.  
4 Reuse existing RAN interfaces and where possible existing procedures From
SID: 3a which says 'where possible'. Reuse existing interfaces and avoid
creating new interfaces for legacy RATs that would make upgrade of existing
deployments difficult. 5 Both dynamic solutions and longer term solutions
(e.g. UE Steering, load balancing after spectrum re-farm) should be
considered. From SID: 2a and 2b. UE steering requires some per call
operations, whereas introduction of new RAT deployments and spectrum re-
farming may require some long term changes.  
6 No adverse impact on legacy systems performance. Legacy network performance
should not be negatively impacted.  
7 Consider the inter-RAT co-ordination Interactions scenarios in Tables 4.2.1
and 4.2.2. Based on information in the SID and motivational document  
8 Focus on non-integrated 3GPP/WLAN nodes Integrated 3GPP/WLAN node is a
matter of implementation, and is not in the scope of this SI.  
9 Focus on operator-managed WLAN nodes The operator has control over e.g. AP
access and backhaul QoS, so this greatly reduces uncertainty over possible
user experience. Non-operator managed WLAN nodes are not considered
* * *
## 4.2 Interactions
The study covers multiple RATs and not all interactions between every RAT are
either useful or in scope.
Two aspects are considered:
\- Traffic Steering
\- Spectrum reallocation
Table 4.2.1 Interaction Scenarios for Traffic/UE steering
* * *
From To LTE UMTS GSM CDMA WLAN LTE x TrSteer TrSteer TrSteer ^Note\ 1^ TrSteer
^Note\ 2^ UMTS TrSteer X TrSteer TrSteer ^Note\ 1^ TrSteer ^Note\ 2^ GSM
TrSteer TrSteer X Out of Scope Out of scope CDMA TrSteer ^Note\ 1^ TrSteer
^Note\ 1^ Out of scope x Out of Scope WLAN TrSteer ^Note\ 2^ TrSteer ^Note\ 2^
Out of scope Out of scope x
* * *
NOTE 1: CDMA is not under 3GPP responsibility.
NOTE 2: RAN2/SA2 progress on WLAN interworking has to be considered.
Table 4.2.2 Interaction Scenarios for Spectrum Reallocation
* * *
From To LTE UMTS GSM CDMA WLAN LTE x SR SR SR ^Note\ 1^ Out of Scope UMTS SR X
SR SR ^Note\ 1^ Out of Scope GSM SR SR x Out of Scope Out of Scope CDMA SR
^Note\ 1^ SR ^Note\ 1^ Out of scope x Out of Scope WLAN Out of scope Out of
scope Out of scope Out of scope x
* * *
NOTE 1: CDMA is not under 3GPP responsibility.
# 5 Potential Deployment Scenarios and Use Cases
## 5.1 Use cases for 3GPP-WLAN Interworking
### 5.1.1 Estimation of UE throughput in WLAN
The UE may face throughput degradation after accessing the WLAN AP. Currently,
there is no information in RAN to help estimate such degradation (if present).
It is beneficial to investigate which information (if any) is helpful to be
exchanged between 3GPP and WLAN in such a scenario.
### 5.1.2 Parameters exchanged from the WLAN to 3GPP nodes
The following list of parameters would be considered for exchange from the
WLAN to the eNB/RNC for the purpose of WLAN-3GPP RAT coordination.
* * *
Parameter Description Usage Availability in the AP BSS Load Provides
information about current over-the-air traffic levels; it may be typically
used for vendor-specific AP-selection algorithms. It has a "Channel
Utilization" field, which indicates the amount of time that the AP senses the
medium as busy. It is broadcasted by the AP. May be used to get an indication
of expected data rate for the WiFi over-the-air connection, in order to make
more accurate traffic steering decisions, including e.g. setting RAN
thresholds for each UE. It is standardized in MIB in [17] and configurable in
AP for over-the-air broadcasting according to implementation. UE Average data
rate Average data rate (in uplink / downlink) for a UE connected to the AP,
calculated by the AP (not standardized by IEEE, implementation-specific). The
RAN may compare the UE average data rate of each AP with the throughput
obtained in the serving cell to determine if the AP is a candidate for
offloading. Seems to require UE-associated signaling. May not be available in
the AP according to implementation WLAN identifiers (e.g. SSID, BSSID, HESSID)
As defined in [18] The eNB should know which WLAN APs are around them in order
to perform traffic steering and HO, including filtering the list which is
broadcasted to UEs.  
BSS Average Access Delay / BSS AC Access Delay As defined in [18] A long BSS
Average Access Delay/BSS AC Access Delay indicates that an incoming UE might
not achieve a high QoE in that AP. It is standardized in MIB in [17] and
configurable in AP for over-the-air broadcasting. WAN Metrics Provides
information about the uplink/downlink WAN (backhaul) speed and load for the
AP. Can be enquired from the AP by the UE. Vendor-specific metric defined
in[17]. The eNB will know the latest load status of the WLAN backhaul and
could make more accurate traffic steering decisions, including e.g. setting
RAN thresholds for each UE. It is standardized in MIB in [17] and configurable
in AP for over-the-air broadcasting.
* * *
## 5.2 Use cases for spectrum re-allocation
It should be analyzed whether the following uses cases, which produce spectrum
holes, require dynamic spectrum allocation functionality. This scenario can be
better understood by looking at the following statistics, if available:
1\. expected frequency/relevance of this scenario;
2\. expected amount of LTE and 3G users in a certain time frame (e.g.
2016-2020);
3\. expected amount of GSM-only users in a certain time frame (e.g.
2016-2020);
4\. expected number of involved GSM-only users.
### 5.2.1 Spectrum Hole in Long Term
With the development of 3GPP networks, mobile subscribers transferring from
GSM/UMTS to LTE will be a global phenomenon, and usually the procedure may
last about 10 years. However, the transfer progress varies in different areas.
It is impossible to have a uniform prediction of such progress, as different
operators have different plans for spectrum refarming according to their own
predictions. The accuracy of such predictions may also vary. Furthermore, the
traditional static approach to spectrum refarming cannot keep up with the
reduction in spectrum requirements of GSM and UMTS, and thus needs to wait a
long time (usually 1\~2 years) until a specific spectrum portion is empty. In
this period, when the legacy system cannot make sufficient use of the owned
spectrum, a "spectrum hole" occurs as shown in Fig. 5.2.1-1. Such "spectrum
hole" may limit the network performance.
{width="3.3354166666666667in" height="1.7159722222222222in"}
Figure: 5.2.1-1 Spectrum hole in long term
If the spectrum available for sharing may be allocated in smaller or irregular
"chunks" (e.g. narrow bandwidth configurations possible for some RATs), this
may help to alleviate the "spectrum hole", at least locally, provided that the
involved RATs are able to efficiently use it.
### 5.2.2 Spectrum Hole in Short Term
The load distribution over cells varies all the time due to e.g. work/rest
time period in business vs. residential areas or due to differences in
customer usage over time periods and business groups. Spectrum holes may be
found in some periods within the same day, where the legacy system cannot make
sufficient use of the owned spectrum yet the more advanced RAT is in an
overload situation. CS and PS traffic could vary significantly as shown in
Fig. 5.2.2-1 (data from a real network). It is assumed that most PS traffic is
carried by LTE, and most CS traffic is carried by legacy GSM/UMTS in the
future. This spectrum hole may occur in a short time interval as well.
{width="3.238888888888889in" height="2.329861111111111in"}
Figure: 5.2.2-1 Spectrum hole in short term
### 5.2.3 Spectrum Hole in Space
In real networks, the highly loaded cells are only in a small portion of the
network; for example, in a commercial network in 2013 it was found that most
cells (>70%) have a load below 30%; the hotspot cells with load above 70% are
only less than 5%. It seems possible for most cells to share out spectrum to
LTE. In hotspots, spectrum sharing with legacy RATs may not be possible due to
high load, but this situation can be improved by site densification or by
adding LTE small cells (as shown for the urban area in Fig. 5.2.3-1). On the
other hand, most of the suburban area could obtain enough spectrum by sharing
it from GSM/UMTS with much less investment.
{width="3.058333333333333in" height="2.2222222222222223in"}
Figure: 5.2.3-1 Spectrum hole in space
### 5.2.4 Local vs. Large-Scale Averages
The "spectrum hole" effect mentioned above (both in space and in time) needs
to be put in perspective with respect to local averages. For example, the
possible gain due to dynamic spectrum reallocation may vary significantly
according to the particular area, due to the various traffic patterns. In
particular, with respect to a coverage area, if we consider e.g. a border
region between the coverage areas of different RATs, the possible spectrum
"pool" available for reallocation may be more limited than if we were to
consider a larger multi-RAT coverage area. In the same way, the "spectrum
hole" may significantly vary according to the particular time frame with
respect to the traffic pattern and the available spectrum resources. This may
limit the potential benefit of dynamic spectrum reallocation.
## 5.3 Use cases for Intra 3GPP deployment scenario
### 5.3.1 Consideration of user experience consistency
Currently, user experience with services based on non-GBR bearers is left up
to node implementation. That often means the user is allocated the best
throughput allowed in the given load situation. Therefore at, inter-RAT
handover the user experience may change. Using different implementation based
solutions to apply the same treatment to non-GBR bearers may not always
provide an adequate solution.
### 5.3.2 Potential solutions
**Option 1:**
A partial solution consists in using GBR bearers, for those services that
suffer significantly from user experience change across RATs and that can be
transported using GBR bearers.
# 6 Description of addressed problems and solutions
## 6.1 Issue 1: Potential solutions for spectrum holes
### 6.1.1 Descriptions
Spectrum reallocation should satisfy capacity and coverage requirements among
different RATs. In order to satisfy the service quality, interference should
be taken into account when spectrum reallocation is applied, since if not
coordinated it may also cause resource waste in some or all of the involved
RATs.
### 6.1.2 Solutions
The following potential solutions are considered: static spectrum reallocation
(i.e., Spectrum Re-farming) and semi-static spectrum re-allocation.
**Option 1: Static spectrum reallocation**
Static spectrum reallocation, known as spectrum refarming, is used by
operators to reallocate a certain amount of spectrum from a legacy RAT to an
advanced RAT permanently in a whole network or in a certain geographical area,
when the difference between them in terms of traffic demand reaches a certain
level. It is understood that spectrum refarming needs a careful network
planning including network analysis, parameter audit, neighbour planning,
frequency plan, network optimization and drive test. To avoid interference
between refarmed area and unrefarmed area, usually some buffer zones should be
planned.
The refarming granularity is relevant to the type of RAT. For instance, within
a 20 MHz GSM band an operator can release as many GSM hopping carriers as
needed for the required LTE carrier, which can be increased step by step. It
is noted that the minimum size of a spectrum hole can be of, e.g., 1.4MHz.
**Option 2: Semi-static spectrum re-allocation**
Semi-static reallocation requires that some planned radio resource usage
schemes are configured in the network, where, e.g. each plan is used for a
particular capacity requirement (in this case, when the capacity requirement
changes, the network would apply a new plan). Each plan defines a particular
allocation of spectrum resources to each RAT. In a particular plan, a spectrum
resource (defined in space, frequency and time) is allocated to one RAT only.
The shared area is defined as the area where the spectrum may be allocated to
more than one RAT under different plans.
Each plan may also include a buffer zone around the geographical RAT
boundaries to avoid interference between different RATs using the shared
spectrum. However, such buffer zones in some cases may also result in
inefficient use of spectrum.
\- If the plan assumes existence of shared areas, it may also coordinate
spectrum resource usage schemes (e.g. in frequency or time domains). One of
the RATs (e.g. the legacy RAT) could be given priority according to e.g.
operator policy.
\- The planned schemes are set in a centralized manner (e.g. by OAM).
Triggering of the scheme change could be initiated in a centralised manner
(e.g. by OAM), or in a distributed manner (e.g. as a scheme change
notification exchanged among peer network entities like BSC, RNC and eNB).
### 6.1.3 Evaluations
### 6.1.3.1 Interaction with RAN Mechanisms
If two different RATs are deployed over the same spectrum in a particular
area, there are some practical issues which the operator should consider
before deploying spectrum reallocation in that area:
1) The involved RAN nodes cannot be considered independently from the
surrounding coverage area. Spectrum reallocation may impact the coverage in
the surroundings, possibly causing areas of suboptimal performance. This might
require additional planning beforehand.
2) We could envisage an open-loop spectrum reallocation and a closed-loop
spectrum reallocation. Open-loop spectrum reallocation could be based on, e.g.
a fixed schedule, possibly via OAM coordination. Closed-loop spectrum
reallocation could operate according to information exchanged between the RAN
nodes and/or OAM. Open-loop mode is going to be slower and less responsive to
unforeseen variations, while closed-loop mode is going to be more signaling-
intensive and highly dependent on implementations.
3) There may be issues in case of an emergency. Considering the requirements
for emergency services may result in additional constraints on spectrum
reallocation.
4) Spectrum reallocation will also interact with Mobility Load Balancing
(MLB), Inter-Cell Interference Coordination (ICIC), User Plan Congestion
management (UPCON), and other functionality. Convergence across relevant RAN
nodes will not be trivial (and implementation-dependent), especially
considering the various time scales for all these functionalities.
### 6.1.3.2 Different RAT Architectures
Some RATs (i.e. GSM, UMTS) allocate resources from nodes which control many
base stations (i.e. the BSC and the RNC, respectively) while LTE operates in a
distributed manner (e.g. ICIC). This can be an issue: resource allocation
mechanisms in different RATs operate according to their respective
architectures. Information exchange between different RATs can take place
through e.g. RIM or the respective OAMs. The implications of such interaction
are also unknown.
### 6.1.3.3 Complementing Coverage with Unlicensed Spectrum
Spectrum reallocation applies to licensed spectrum only. However, it may be
beneficial to consider using unlicensed spectrum (e.g. deployment of WLAN) as
a complementary solution to spectrum reallocation in extremely dense areas..
## 6.2 Issue Y
### 6.2.1 Descriptions
### 6.2.2 Solutions
### 6.2.3 Evaluations
# 7 Conclusions
###### ### Annex A: Current status of RAN2 and SA2 work
# A.1: Summary of WLAN/3GPP radio interworking in RAN2
As part of the WLAN/3GPP radio interworking WI [15] RAN2 are working on
solutions for RAN assisted UE based bi-directional traffic steering between
E-UTRAN and WLAN for UEs in RRC_IDLE and RRC_CONNECTED. A solution is being
defined which can co-exist with ANDSF policies if present. This solution is
applicable to LTE and UMTS WLAN interworking.
Quantities were identified so that the UE can measure and compare them to
thresholds provided by RAN for making decisions on moving traffic between 3GPP
RATs and WLAN. The thresholds will be part of both ANDSF and newly created RAN
rules. They comprise RSRP and RSRQ for LTE, CPICH RSCP and Ec/No for UMTS, BSS
load (channel utilization), WAN metrics (available UL and DL backhaul rate),
RCPI and RSNI for WLAN. The RAN may provide an Offload Preference Indicator
(OPI) which can be used in the UE's ANDSF policies.
The UE uses the RAN assistance parameters in the evaluation of:
\- Traffic steering rules defined in [9]; or
\- ANDSF policies defined in [8].
The E-UTRAN can also provide a set of WLANs. The E-UTRAN can provide an
associated priority for WLANs.
# A.2: Summary of other WLAN related topics in SA2
**[WLAN_NS]{.underline}**
The objective of the WLAN_NS (WLAN Network Selection for 3GPP Terminals) work
item described in [16] is to evaluate the enhancement of the WLAN network
selection policies provided by mobile operators via ANDSF.
Ensure there are no conflicting policies between ANDSF and Hotspot 2.0 rules
for WLAN access network selection, and keep them consistent.
More information for this work item and stage 2/3 specifications can be found
in [4], [7], [6], and [8].
**[eSaMOG]{.underline}**
Generally, SaMOG (S2a Mobility Over trusted WLAN access to EPC) in R11 defined
how trusted WLANs access to EPC via S2a interface based on GTP and PMIPv6
without UE impact. The SaMOG in R11 has many limitations, such as Handover
between TWAN and 3GPP access with IP address preservation, connectivity to a
non-default APN (as not signalled by the UE), and UE initiated connectivity to
additional PDN are not supported, etc.
This study of eSaMOG in R12 is to enhance the function of SaMOG to solve the
limitations left in R11 SaMOG, including:
\- Handover between TWAN and 3GPP access with IP address preservation,
\- connectivity to a non-default UE-provided APN
\- UE initiated connectivity to additional PDN, i.e. support for multiple
simultaneous PDN Connections
More information for this work item and stage 2 specifications can be found in
[2] and [7].
**[NB-IFOM (Network based IP flow mobility)]{.underline}**
Rel-10 IFOM is designed to allow seamless offload of individual IP flows from
3GPP to WLAN. And the Rel-10 IFOM requires the network and UE to support
DSMIPv6.
The NB-IFOM is an ongoing study item to study support of IFOM by PMIP and GTP
protocol over S2a and S2b.
More information for this study item can be found in [3].
**[WORM (Optimized Offloading to WLAN in 3GPP-RAT Mobility)]{.underline}**
The WORM in SA2 is to solve the following issues due to the limitation of
current ANDSF policies:
Set ANDSF WLAN preferences with respect to specific 3GPP RATs.
Avoid of Ping-pong offloading to WLAN
More information for this work item can be found in [5].
###### ### Annex B: Regulatory View on Dynamic Spectrum Re-allocation
Technology neutral spectrum is a global trend, where the licensees are free to
deploy different radio technologies in the licensed spectrum. The initial
survey results of some regions are presented below:
  * United States
In United States, the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) has adopted
"flexible use" mobile policies since 1993 with the Broadband PCS band and
continuing through 2007 with the 700 MHz band. Now these flexible usage
policies allow spectrum licensees to decide the services they will provide and
the technologies they will use. Switching between technologies on the licensed
spectrum for different RATs is allowed. [11]
  * Nordic and Baltic Countries
There has been no limitation on which technology to be allocated to the
spectrum since 2007. In other words, also it is possible to shift licensed
spectrum freely between technologies e.g. UTRAN and E-UTRAN. Hence, in Nordic
and Baltics, this kind of spectrum sharing is allowed.
  * France
The French communications regulator, has announced that Bouygues Telecom [12]
will be permitted to refarm its spectrum in the 1800MHz band in order to
provide 4G services from October 1, 2013, and _all spectrum licenses in the
country will become technologically neutral_ from May 2016\. So the switch
between technologies on any licensed spectrum is also allowed from that date.
  * United Kingdom
The United Kingdom does not explicitly support or forbid a policy for the
spectrum technology neutrality, but lets the market determine this. This would
allow the market to drive spectrum harmonization, leaving the government to
facilitate rather than plan, therefore, when the market requires the spectrum
technology neutrality, the market can do it [13].
  * Australia
The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) announced that the
flexible use of the spectrum is allowed, to choose technologies and type of
services by licensee [14].
  * China
Although not all the spectrum bands are technologically neutral, the flexible
RAT shift of TD-SCDMA and TD-LTE in the 1880MHz\~1900MHz and 2320MHz\~2370MHz
bands is allowed.
#