# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the findings of the Study Item on UE Application
Layer Data Throughput Performance and the proposed test procedures.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission and reception
Part 1: Conformance Testing\".
[3] 3GPP TS 34.121-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception (FDD); Part 1: Conformance specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 34.122: \"Terminal conformance specification; Radio transmission
and reception (TDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 34.123-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 1:
Protocol conformance specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.224: \"Physical Layer Procedures (TDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE): Security
architecture\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Physical Channels and Modulation\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"E-UTRA Physical layer procedures\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.508: "Common test environments for User Equipment (UE)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"UE Radio transmission and reception (FDD)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"E-UTRA UE radio transmission and reception\".
[14] 3GPP TS 34.108: \"Common Test Environments for User Equipment (UE)
Conformance Testing\".
[15] L. J. Greenstein, V. Erceg, Y. S. Yeh, and M. V. Clark, "A new path-
gain/delay-spread propagation model for digital cellular channels", IEEE
Trans. on Vehicular Technology, Vol. 46, No. 2, May 1997, pp. 477-485.
[16] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"E-UTRA User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[17] 3GPP TS 36.331: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
${\hat{E}}_{s}$ The received energy per RE of the wanted signal during the
useful part of the symbol, i.e. excluding the cyclic prefix, averaged across
the allocated RB(s) (average power within the allocated RB(s), divided by the
number of RE within this allocation, and normalized to the subcarrier spacing)
at the UE antenna connector
I~MCS~ Modulation Coding Scheme Index
{width="0.20833333333333334in" height="0.2777777777777778in"}(LTE) The total
transmitted power spectral density of the own-cell downlink signal (power
averaged over the useful part of the symbols within the transmission bandwidth
configuration, divided by the total number of RE for this configuration and
normalised to the subcarrier spacing) at the UE antenna connector.
{width="0.20833333333333334in" height="0.2777777777777778in"}(HSPA) The
received power spectral density (integrated in a bandwidth of (1+α) times the
chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of the downlink signal as measured
at the UE antenna connector.
$N_{\text{oc}}$ The power spectral density of a white noise source (average
power per RE normalised to the subcarrier spacing), simulating interference
from cells that are not defined in a test procedure, as measured at the UE
antenna connector
N~Offs-DL~ Offset used for calculating downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-UL~ Offset used for calculating uplink EARFCN
N~PRB~ Total number of allocated PRBs
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACK Acknowledgement
AES Advanced Encryption Standard
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BDP Bandwidth Delay Product
BLER Block Error Rate
BS Base Station
CAT Category
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
C/I Carrier-to-Interference Power Ratio
CP Cyclic Prefix
CQI Channel Quality Indicator
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
C_RNTI Cell RNTI
DCH Dedicated Channel
DCCH Dedicated Control Channel
DL Downlink
DRB Data Radio Bearer
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EPS Evolved Packet System
ETU Extended Typical Urban
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
EVA Extended Vehicular A
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FFS For Further Study
FTP File Transfer Protocol
G Geometry Factor
GCF Global Certification Forum
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
HARQ Hybrid ARQ
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HSPA High Speed Packet Access
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
HS-DPCCH High Speed-Dedicated Physical Control Channel
HS-PDSCH High Speed-Physical Downlink Shared Channel
HS-SCCH High Speed-Shared Control Channel
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
IP Internet Protocol
IPv4 Internet Protocol, version 4
IPv6 Internet Protocol, version 6
ISD Inter Site Distance
kbps Kilobits per second
LNA Low Noise Amplifier
LTE Long Term Evolution (common expression, in other 3GPP specifications
defined as EUTRA and EPC)
MAC Medium Access Control
Mbps Megabits per second
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MTU Maximum Transmission Unit
NACK Negative Acknowledgement
NIC Network Interface Connection
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
PA Pedestrian A (Fading model, depending on context)
PB Pedestrian B
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PDU Protocol Data Unit
PHY Physical layer
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QCI QoS Class Identifier
QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying
RAB Radio Access Bearer
RB Resource Block
RF Radio Frequency
RLC Radio Link Control
RNTI Radio Network Temporary Identity
RRC Radio Resource Control
RTP Real-Time Transport Protocol
RTT Round Trip Time
SFTP SecureFile Transfer Protocol
SIMO Single Input Multiple Output
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
SS System Simulator
TBS Transport Block Size
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
TDD Time Division Duplex
TFT Traffic Flow Template
TFTP Trivial File Transfer Protocol
TM Transparent Mode
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
USB Universal Serial Bus
VA Vehicular-A
VoIP Voice over IP
# 4 Background
The currently-used HSPA and the newly-deployed LTE radio access technologies
are providing a very large increase in data transmission capacity in mobile
networks. This is being matched and even exceeded by a corresponding increase
in the demand for data from users of the latest data-hungry devices and
applications.
It is therefore essential that data devices achieve high efficiency when using
data services and do not unduly load the network regardless of the maximum
data rate that they are capable of achieving.
The GCF has indicated that they wish to add UE Application-Layer Data
Throughput Measurements under various simulated network conditions to their
Performance Items area of activity and has requested RAN5 to recommend and
produce the necessary test procedures. It is also noted that the PTCRB, TCG
might additionally be able to take advantage of the results of such work in
3GPP.
## 4.1 Study Item Objective
The objective of this Study Item is to define test procedures to measure UE
data throughput performance at the application-layer, with no qualification of
the results (i.e. no verdicts such as \"pass/fail\", \"good\", \"medium\",
\"bad\" will be supplied).
The test procedures developed will measure the achieved average application-
layer data rates (e.g. using FTP or UDP) of the UE standalone or/and in
combination with a laptop under simulated realistic network scheduling and
radio conditions in a repeatable lab-based environment (i.e. using lab-based
simulators and other necessary equipment).
Note: The point of measurement on the UE side will be either in a connected PC
for terminals that support tethered mode only, or inside the UE in case of a
terminal that does not support tethered mode, or in both places for UEs that
support both modes.
The test procedures will be developed in a flexible manner to accommodate
various test conditions. The exact simulated network scheduling and down link
radio conditions to be used will be determined during the study. It is
envisaged that in addition to some measurements under \"ideal conditions\", an
initial set of suitable scheduling/radio conditions to be used by the test
systems, will be defined to simulate typical network conditions. Additional
optional conditions may be developed later as and when required.
The study will aim to reuse wherever possible conditions already specified by
RAN4 (e.g. radio conditions) and test procedures used in current conformance
testing by RAN5. Although utilising existing test procedures without any
modification is unlikely, adaptation of existing test cases may well be
possible. The study should determine the best candidates.
Note: Test cases for example in clause 8 of TS 36.521-1 [2] could possibly be
adapted for the study and test procedures could be based on the existing
single antenna port, transmit diversity, and open and closed loop spatial
multiplexing test cases.
The study will determine suitable test procedures for downlink data transfers,
uplink data transfers and bidirectional data transfers.
The study will determine the Applications and the related Application
requirements (e.g. FTP, UDP, quality of service, TCP settings, etc.) to be
used.
GCF has stated that the Radio connection should be limited to LTE and W-CDMA
Rel-5 (HSDPA) and later and the study will only consider these.
Other issues that the Study Item may investigate include:
\- The definition of a reliable and repeatable test environment to ensure the
best possible repeatability of the results. This could include the definition
of a reference laptop configuration, applications in the UE or/and the Laptop
that would measure the throughput, etc.
\- The impact from the lower layers data throughput on the application-layer
data throughput, especially when variable radio conditions are applied.
# 5 Study of UE Application Layer Data Throughput Performance
## 5.1 Definition of UE Application Layer Data Throughput Performance
### 5.1.1 Definition of End Points
For tethered connections, the UE is tethered to a laptop using the appropriate
UE to PC interface Modem or Network Interface Connection (NIC) drivers as
recommended by the UE manufacturer for the intended use by the customer/user.
In most cases, a laptop with an embedded modem is considered to be a tethered
data configuration as opposed to an embedded data configuration due to the UE
to PC interface.
For tethered connections, the end points are the application running on the PC
connected to the UE and a corresponding Data Server that is adjacent to the
simulated lab-based Core Network. In this case, the PC drivers (typically USB)
will also play a role in the UE Application Layer Data Throughput performance.
For non-tethered connections as in the case of embedded applications or
applications running on the UE itself, the end points are the application
running on the UE and a corresponding Data Server that is adjacent to the
simulated lab-based Core Network.
### 5.1.2 Definition of UE Application Layer Data Throughput
The measured UE Application Layer Throughput, T, is defined as the number of
useful user data bits per unit of time delivered by the network from the
source end point to the destination end point, excluding protocol overhead
(TCP header, UDP header, etc.) and retransmitted data packets. The end points
are defined in clause 5.1.1.
## 5.2 Parameters for Measurement
### 5.2.1 Throughput
The UE Application Layer Data Throughput as defined in clause 5.1.2 shall be a
parameter for measurement. The parameter would apply for any chosen
application. The throughput can be measured in each direction (downlink and
uplink).
## 5.3 Test Configurations
### 5.3.1 UE Application Layer Data Throughput Test Equipment
The test equipment utilized for UE Application Layer Data Throughput shall
consistent of the following items. Some of the elements below may be
implemented in the same piece of test equipment depending on implementation.
\- UE
\- For tethered mode operation, Laptop/PC and appropriate UE to PC interface
Modem or Network Interface Connection (NIC) drivers and any associated cabling
as recommended by the UE manufacturer for the intended use by the
customer/user
\- Data client test application for the PC for tethered mode operation
\- Data client test application(s) for the UE for embedded mode operation
\- System Simulator(s) suitable for the radio technology(s) used for testing
with necessary IP connectivity
\- Application Servers
\- Faders and AWGN Sources capable of supporting the radio environments
defined
### 5.3.2 UE Application Layer Data Throughput Connection Diagrams
#### 5.3.2.1 UE Application Layer Data Throughput Connection Diagram for
Tethered
The UE Application Layer Data Throughput connection diagram for tethered
operation is shown in Figure C.2.1-1.
#### 5.3.2.2 UE Application Layer Data Throughput Connection Diagram for
Embedded
The UE Application Layer Data Throughput connection diagram for embedded
operation is shown in Figure C.2.2-1.
### 5.3.3 RF Connection Diagrams for UE Application Layer Data Throughput
The RF connections between the SS and the UE shall be in compliance with the
associated RF connection diagrams specified in the test procedure clauses in
Annex A. As the RF connection diagrams vary based on device type and UE
category, it is preferable to reference appropriate RF connection diagrams for
similar test configurations in the core test specifications. The RF connection
diagrams are to be based on the representative RF connection diagrams
referenced in 36.521-1 [2], 34.121-1 [3], or 34.122 [4].
### 5.3.4 UE Specific Items
There are no UE specific items identified at this time that are required to
support the UE Application Layer Data Throughput testing herein.
### 5.3.5 Reference Laptop
The reference laptop should be used in the tethered connections as defined in
sub-clause 5.1.1. It is necessary to specify drivers and electronic
characteristics of hardware interface (typically power and ground noise) in
the UE Application Layer Data Throughput performance. The physical interface
towards the UE may be for example a standard USB interface. Other interfaces
of proprietary or standardized type shall not be precluded. The laptop should
be equipped with the appropriate processing power in order to support high
data rates. The laptop should be "Stand Alone" and not embedded in any
network, for example company network. The laptop configuration, including
hardware and software is subject to change in order to follow the latest
development in the market.
The laptop should not be equipped with SW that influences the data transfer.
The laptop should be configured with standard modem driver or driver provided
by the UE manufacturer.
## 5.4 Transport and Application Layer Protocols
### 5.4.1 Transport Layer Protocol
For the transport layer protocol, TCP and UDP are considered. It is proposed
to test with both TCP and UDP as measurements utilizing each transport
protocol are relevant.
The following items highlight the need for TCP transport.
\- Most of the applications that need reliable data transfers use TCP as
transport layer.
\- The throughput is sensitive to the end-to-end delay.
\- Good for testing FTP/HTTP in bi-directional tests in asymmetric data rate
links because the downlink speeds are limited by uplink speeds. For FTP/HTTP
data transfers in one direction, the TCP ACKs are transmitted in the other
direction, therefore delay in receiving TCP ACK in one direction negatively
impacts FTP/HTTP throughput in the other direction.
The following items highlight the need for UDP transport.
\- The performance of UDP based data transfer, unlike TCP based transfer, is
Operating System agnostic
\- Real-Time Transport Protocols used by most of Multi Media Applications are
based on UDP protocol.
\- UDP Data Transfer in one direction (uplink/downlink) is not dependent on
the other direction characteristics, unlike with TCP.
### 5.4.2 Application Layer Protocol
The following items have been considered for appropriate application layer
protocols that utilize TCP as a transport protocol.
\- FTP
\- TFTP
\- SFTP
\- HTTP
\- VoIP (RTP-based)
To reduce the amount of testing, it is proposed to use FTP only. FTP (File
Transfer Protocol) runs on top of TCP/IP and is frequently used in
applications where download/upload performance would be noticeable to the end
user.
The following list identifies the reasons not to duplicate testing across the
other application layer protocols.
\- SFTP and HTTP both use TCP as a transport protocol. So it is redundant to
use HTTP/SFTP protocols to test data throughput when FTP protocol is used.
\- For test purposes, HTTP is typically used to benchmark the browser's
rendering capabilities as a functional test. Download performance in terms of
relative throughput is not as noticeable to the end user as it would be for
file downloads.
\- SFTP is process intensive and used to exercise the security engine within
the UE.
\- TFTP is typically used in embedded devices to update the firmware in a
reliable way using a low footprint stack to avoid using the full TCP stack.
TFTP is a request-response protocol and is not a candidate for performance
analysis.
\- VoIP (RTP-based) applications are diverse in nature and application
compatibility is an issue for a standard set of UE Application Layer Data
Throughput Performance test procedures.
For UDP, it is proposed to use raw data transfer as opposed to defining a
streaming protocol to simplify the UDP transfer application requirements.
#### 5.4.2.1 FTP Settings
It is recommended that the FTP server used for testing meet the following
requirements:
\- The TCP send/receive buffer sizes at the FTP server should be set to values
sufficiently large to ensure they do not limit the maximum throughput
achievable at the UE
\- The tx queue length should be set to a value sufficiently large value to
ensure flow control between the network interface (ppp) and TCP is not
triggered
It is recommended that the FTP application used on the tethered PC for
tethered testing meet the following requirements:
\- The tethered FTP application should allow the user to transfer files of any
format supported by the tethered PC, in binary mode, in both the Downlink and
the Uplink
\- The tethered FTP application should provide the means to compute the
throughput T as defined in subclause 5.1.2 at the end of each file transfer
\- The tethered FTP application should provide an interface allowing
automation of testing
\- The tethered FTP application t should not implement hidden optimizations
that might impact the throughput
An example of an FTP application meeting these requirements is the Windows FTP
command line application. This example is cited for information only and does
not in any way preclude the use of other applications meeting the recommended
requirements.
For embedded testing, the FTP client will reside in the UE under test. This
will require an FTP application to be installed on the UE. It is recommended
that this application meet the following requirements:
\- The embedded FTP application should allow the user to transfer files of
formats supported by the UE, in binary mode, both in the Downlink and the
Uplink.
\- The embedded FTP application should provide the means to compute the
throughput T as defined in subclause 5.1.2 at the end of each file transfer.
\- The embedded FTP application should provide an interface allowing
automation of testing. If an interface for automation of testing is
implemented, it is recommended to use the embedded data client automation
recommendations in Annex E.
\- The embedded FTP application should not implement hidden optimizations that
might impact the throughput.
The following settings are to be used.
\- The TCPWindowSize is derived based on the bandwidth-delay product (BDP) for
the particular radio access bearer used in the test. Refer to clause 5.4.2.1.1
for guidance concerning the TCP advertised receiver window size setting.
\- The TCPWindowSize is adjusted to near even-multiple of TCP MTU. The Windows
Scaling is enabled for all FTP transfers.
\- The socket buffer sizes are set to even-multiples of TCP MTU in use and set
to values equal or greater than the BDP.
\- The TCP MTU size is set to a value comprised between 1280 and 1500 bytes as
recommended by the manufacturer.
\- The FTP transfers are always carried out in Binary mode.
\- The contents of the files to be transferred over FTP are chosen in such a
way that they are statistically random, with least compressibility.
\- No application level compression protocols are used to compress the FTP
files.
\- Either IPv4 or IPv6 can be used, but only results obtained with the same IP
address type can be compared, since the IP address type will affect the
measured throughput.
##### 5.4.2.1.1 TCP advertised receiver window size setting
In order to achieve maximum throughput during FTP testing, the TCP advertised
receiver window size must be equal to or greater than the BDP (Bandwidth Delay
Product), which can be expressed as follows:
BDP = TCP data rate * RTT
Where:
TCP data rate is the portion of the radio bearer used to send TCP data
RTT is the unloaded Round Trip Time between TCP end-points (FTP server and
tethered laptop/embedded FTP app) as seen by the TCP sender.
Note that the TCP data rate and the RTT may be different for different test
procedures.
#### 5.4.2.2 UDP Settings
It is recommended that the UDP server used for testing meet the following
requirements:
\- UDP blast duration shall be selected to meet the minimum test times using a
sufficient rate to prevent physical layer DTX based upon the UE Category.
It is recommended that the UDP application used on the tethered PC for
tethered testing meet the following requirements:
\- The tethered UDP application should allow the user to transfer files of any
format supported by the tethered PC, in binary mode, in both the Downlink and
the Uplink.
\- The tethered UDP application should provide the means to compute the
throughput T as defined in subclause 5.1.2.
\- The tethered UDP application should provide an interface allowing
automation of testing.
\- The tethered UDP application should not implement hidden optimizations that
might impact the throughput.
For embedded testing, the UDP client will reside in the UE under test. This
will require an UDP application to be installed on the UE. It is recommended
that this application meet the following requirements:
\- The embedded UDP application should allow the user to transfer files of
formats supported by the UE, in binary mode, both in the Downlink and the
Uplink.
\- The embedded UDP application should provide the means to compute the
throughput T as defined in subclause 5.1.2.
\- The embedded UDP application should provide an interface allowing
automation of testing. If an interface for automation of testing is
implemented, it is recommended to use the embedded data client automation
recommendations in Annex E.
\- The embedded UDP application should not implement hidden optimizations that
might impact the throughput.
The following settings are to be used.
\- The UDP MTU size is set to a value comprised between 1280 and 1500 bytes as
recommended by the manufacturer.
\- The UDP transfers are always carried out in Binary mode.
\- The contents of the files to be transferred over UDP are chosen in such a
way that they are statistically random, with least compressibility.
\- No application level compression protocols are used to compress the UDP
files..
\- Either IPv4 or IPv6 can be used, but only results obtained with the same IP
address type can be compared, since the IP address type will affect the
measured throughput.
## 5.5 Test Environment
Editor's Note: As per RAN4 recommendations, Recommendation #4 as stated in
response LS R4-122042, RAN 5 is investigating the possibility to add multicell
scenario's in to the TR.
### 5.5.1 Signal Levels
The signal levels chosen for test should either be representative of field
conditions or appropriate for the test purpose of the particular test
procedure defined.
In order to optimize test time and to focus on the appropriate set of signal
levels for test, it is proposed to leverage the signal levels for test
associated with the associated performance test cases in 34.121-1 [3], 34.122
[4], and 36.521-1 [2] or to limit the number of signal levels for the majority
of the downlink performance tests to a representative range. For test cases
that would require specific geometries to be set, this approach is reasonable
and allows as much re-use of existing test setups as possible.
However, one aspect of a receiver\'s performance that is not typically
addressed in the conformance testing is the ability of the receiver to perform
well across a range of signal levels in a relatively low-noise environment
where the UE noise floor may be the dominant factor in determining SNR. The
end user would expect the UE Application Layer Data Throughput to increase as
the signal level is increased in relation to the UE noise floor or to achieve
relatively consistent UE Application Layer Data Throughput if located in a
sufficient signal strength area such that the throughput has reached a
maximum. However, it has been shown across different radio designs that the
data performance can vary significantly due to LNA switch points which may
impact the perceived SNR to the modem and thus impacting the end user
perception of throughput performance even in a strong signal environment.
Therefore, it is proposed to use a power sweep test to characterize the UE
performance within a limited range of power levels. Also, in order to exercise
the hysteresis associated with the LNA switch points under realistic RF
conditions, it is proposed to make use of a vehicular fading profile from
34.121-1 [3], 34.122 [4], and 36.521-1 [2].
By addressing the power sweep test in the UE Application Layer Data Throughput
performance testing, one achieves the ability to evaluate the impact of this
receiver aspect and its impact at the user level without impacting the
industry conformance test cases. For LTE, typical transmission modes that
would be used in operation based on the downlink signal level presented to the
UE should also be considered.
### 5.5.2 Fading Profiles
The request from the GCF Steering Group was to measure the average UE
Application Layer Data Throughput using simulated realistic radio conditions.
In order to support this requirement, it is proposed to consider the following
fading profiles to maintain consistency with 3GPP defined fading profiles that
have been developed to assess a UE\'s capability of performing in various
multi-path environments. Also, a static propagation condition should be
considered for any uplink testing and any downlink performance testing where
the test purpose does not specifically require fading (e.g. maximum throughput
testing, stress testing where the focus is on processor utilization aspects,
etc.).
For HSPA, the following defined 3GPP profiles have been considered depending
on the particular test procedure.
\- Static
\- PB3
\- PA3
\- VA3
\- VA30
\- VA120
For LTE, the following defined 3GPP profiles have been considered depending on
the particular test procedure.
\- Static
\- EPA5
\- EVA5
> \- EVA70
\- EVA200
\- ETU70
\- ETU300
\- HST
See clause 5.5.4.5 for the conclusion of selected fading profiles to be used
for UE application layer data throughput measurements.
### 5.5.3 Noise and Interference Levels
In order to assess the end user perception of UE Application Layer Data
Throughput, it is desirable to vary Ior/Ioc over a range of values that are
representative of the majority of the conditions experienced by the end user.
It is also desirable to utilize very high SNR cases for maximum data rate
testing or for high order modulation testing. The range of values chosen
should either match existing performance test cases in 3GPP or represent a
reasonable number of discrete SNR values for test with the exception of any
test procedure where the test purpose is to evaluate the throughput
performance versus geometry. In this case, the step size for the SNR values
should be chosen appropriately.
See clause 5.5.4.5 for the conclusion of selected noise and interference
levels to be used for UE application layer data throughput measurements.
### 5.5.4 Selection of combinations of Fading Profiles and Noise and
Interference Levels
#### 5.5.4.1 General
The objective of the study item is to define testing procedures to measure the
UE data throughput at the application layer and give an assessment on the
data-rate variation with various levels of fading and speed profiles. The
throughput at a UE application level includes the combined performance of the
1\. Radio link RF performance
2\. Radio link protocol data processing performance (MAC, RLC, PDCP)
3\. TCP/IP processing performance
4\. Internet Application and driver process performance
The radio link performance is thoroughly tested in TS 34.121-1 [3] /TS
34.122[4]/ TS 36.521-1 [2] under various propagation conditions, but the
higher layer performance is not. The selection of test points should thus be
taken from the upper-layer perspective, while keeping the assessment of the
actual data-rate variations of different implementations in mind. This is
consistent with the justification of the study item
> "The proposed Work Item will define test procedures to measure the data
> throughput under various network conditions that will provide absolute
> measured results as evidence that, even with an excellent radio connection
> or optimised equaliser, the net data rate is not reduced due to, for
> example, a non-optimised software architecture or sup-optimal components in
> the device. Furthermore unsuitable drivers connecting the Data device with a
> PC could have also a negative impact on the measured data throughput rate."
that address finding evidence of bottlenecks in the protocol stack limiting
the application layer throughput. This requires that the physical-layer test
conditions are chosen so that relevant mechanisms of the higher-layers are
triggered.
#### 5.5.4.2 Lower-layer (PHY) testing
The physical layer is thoroughly tested in TS 34.121-1 [3]/ TS 34.122 [4]/ TS
36.521-1 [2] and dominates the end-to-end performance as discussed in clause
5.8. In order to avoid duplication of tests, the aim should not be to go
through all the existing tests and configurations.
In clause 5.8 it is proposed to consider application-layer performance tests
measuring higher layer throughput in noise-free non fading single-path
conditions suggesting such tests are the best in revealing higher layer UE
bugs affecting throughput. The static and noise-free scenario is certainly one
possible test condition, but in order to make sure the entire protocol stack
is tested with regard to implementation errors and mismatch under transport
block size variability and fast variations similar to what occurs in e.g. the
field tests under live conditions, relevant fading scenarios that trigger
these variations should also be included. This will not only complement the
higher-layer tests in TS 34.123-1 [5] (UTRA) and TS 36.523-1 (E-UTRA)
performed under ideal radio conditions, but also meet the objective of
providing an assessment of the UE data-rate variations with various fading-
and speed profiles.
#### 5.5.4.3 Higher-layer impact on application layer throughput
Table 5.5.4.3-1 shows the test aspects that should be considered in addition
to the static and noise-free scenario for some selected HSPA and LTE scenarios
to check that upper-layers do not constrain (often by errors or mismatch) the
throughput under dynamic the channel conditions as experienced in field
(drive) tests. The application and associated channel profiles and geometries
are just examples.
The dynamic conditions can trigger undesired behaviours of the upper-layers
not covered in the signalling tests, e.g. when RLC retransmissions occur or
being caused.
Table 5.5.4.3-1: Aspects covered for identifying high-layer performance
* * *
Conditions Test aspect HSPA, Download UDP/FTP Throughput, follow-CQI, PA3,
Geometry = 10dB Big TBS variations HSPA, Download UDP/FTP Throughput, follow-
CQI, VA30, Geometry = 10dB Fast variations HSPA, Download UDP/FTP Throughput,
follow-CQI, VA120, Geometry = 0dB High BLER and fast variations HSPA, Bi-
Directional UDP/FTP Throughput, follow-CQI, Static, Geometry = 20 dB
Processing capability HSPA Cat8, Bi-Directional FTP Throughput, AMR Multi RAB,
follow-CQI, Static, Geometry = 20 dB Processing capability LTE, Download
UDP/FTP Throughput, follow-CQI sub band reporting, EPA3, SNR = 20dB Big TBS
variations LTE, Download UDP/FTP Throughput, follow-CQI sub band reporting
ETU70, SNR = 0dB Fast variations LTE, Download UDP/FTP Throughput, follow-CQI
wideband reporting, ETU300, SNR = 0dB High BLER and fast variations LTE,
Download UDP/FTP Throughput, follow-CQI wideband reporting, Static, SNR = 20dB
Processing capability LTE, Bi-Directional FTP Throughput, follow-CQI wideband
reporting, Static, SNR = 20dB Processing capability
* * *
Figure 5.5.4.3-1 shows the variation of the reported CQI (TBS) and the time-
variability of some of the propagation conditions typically used in the radio-
link test cases.
{width="7.40625in" height="3.9375in"}
Figure 5.5.4.3-1: TBS- and time variability for various propagation
conditions.
The PA channel gives rise to larger TBS variations than the more dispersive VA
and PB channels. This is due to the wide-sense stationary uncorrelated
channels used, in which the likelihood that the single dominant tap in the PA
model experiences a fading dip is larger than the likelihood that the taps in
the dispersive models will experience fading dips simultaneously. The SNR and
wanted-signal variability tracked by the CSI reporting is therefore smaller
for the latter channels.
Higher geometries will allow larger TBS and MCS variations and verification of
the processing capabilities at good radio conditions. For lower geometries and
high speed the BLER is typically high such as under the VA120 at 0 dB
geometry.
To pick relevant propagation conditions, then scenarios that users typically
experience and that also challenge the upper layers should be selected.
#### 5.5.4.4 Typical physical parameters for verifying higher-layer impact
The typical physical parameters should be chosen to trigger mechanisms in the
higher layers whilst finding relevant conditions for assessment of UE
performance beyond PASS/FAIL.
The empirical Greenstein model [15] has constituted the basis for many models
including the 3GPP/3GPP2 spatial channel model described in TR 25.996. The
path gain and delay spread follow [15] with the shadow correlated with the
delay spread, and assuming uncorrelated shadowing between sites. The geometry
(C/I) is the ratio between the path gain from best site and sum of path gains
from all other sites. 100 sites has been laid out at various ISD (inter-site
distance) assuming and urban, sub-urban and rural scenario.
Figures 5.5.4.4-1 and 5.5.4.4-2 show the results for urban environment with
ISD = 0.5 km and 3 km, respectively. The CDF curves display the cumulative
distribution of the delay spread conditioned on a certain range of C/I.
Figure 5.5.4.4-1: Urban environment with small microcells
Figure 5.5.4.4-2: Urban environment with microcells
The delay spread of the Pedestrian A (PA), Pedestrian B (PB), Vehicular A (VA)
and Typical Urban (TU) are 0.05 _μ_ s, 0.75 _μ_ s, 0.37 _μ_ s and 1 _μ_ s,
respectively. The results in Figure 5.5.4.4-1 indicate that 0.02% of all users
have a C/I > 20 dB and a delay spread larger or equal to that of VA, while
0.2% has C/I > 10 dB and a delay spread larger or equal to that of VA. The
corresponding results for the larger microcells are 1% with C/I > 20 dB and 8%
with C/I > 10 dB. It appears that the typical urban is not very typical (it
was developed in early GSM days with very large cells), and we note that only
1% has C/I > 0 dB and a more dispersive profile than PB.
The results from the sub-urban and rural scenarios are shown in Figure
5.5.4.4-3. It can be observed that 0.4% of all users have C/I > 20 dB and a
delay spread larger or equal to that of VA for the sub-urban, while 0.1% of
all users in rural macro cells have C/I > 0 dB and a delay spread of 0.5 _μ_ s
or larger.
Figure 5.5.4.4-3: Fraction of users with a certain delay spread and geometry
for sub-urban (left) and rural (right)
The simulations have some weak points: BS antenna tilt has not been considered
and the Greenstein model from 1994 may be slightly outdated considering more
recent network deployments. However, a comparison with measured results taken
in Atlanta, GA, reveals that there is good agreement between measurements and
simulations. The measurements are car-based with a test terminal inside the
vehicle, and with routes covering urban, suburban and highways. From Figure
5.5.4.4-4 we note that 0.2% of all locations have a C/I > 20 dB and a delay
spread exceeding that of VA.
Figure 5.5.4.4-4: Measured results from Atlanta, GA
To sum up the results, it seems that the VA channel could cover the great
majority of locations in field tests. For LTE the corresponding channel is
EVA. The typical urban case (ETU for LTE) occurs infrequently in urban areas,
less than 0.1% of measured locations with C/I > 0 dB have a delay spread
exceeding that of the TU.
#### 5.5.4.5 Selection of test points
Based on the discussion in clauses 5.5.4.1 to 5.5.4.4 the channel profiles as
listed in Table 5.5.4.5-1 for HSPA and Table 5.5.4.5-2 for LTE testing have
been selected to challenge the higher layers, but also cover the vast majority
of propagation scenarios experienced in field tests. The simulations and
measurements as discussed in clause 5.5.4.4 indicate that the VA channel would
cover most scenarios experienced in drive tests. The number of test cases
should be reasonable as there is no need to repeat all the radio-link tests in
TS 34.121-1 [3] ,TS 34.122[4] or TS 36.521-1 [2]. It is more important to
cover the missing aspects. The aim has been to find a limited number of
relevant propagation conditions (4-6) to achieve a reasonable test count,
including the static condition.
Table 5.5.4.5-1: Test Points for HSPA
+------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Propagation Condition | Geometry | Justification | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Static | No interference | To check that | | | | upper-layers do not | | | Note 1 | constrain data | | | | throughput | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | PA3 | 20dB | To exhibits large TBS | | | | variations (see clause | | | | 5.5.4.3) and very | | | | common scenarios for | | | | high-data rate | | | | requiring processing | | | | capability | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | VA30 | 10dB | Fast variations and VA | | | | occurs frequently in | | | | deployments | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | VA120 | 0dB | A high BLER scenario | | | | may trigger higher | | | | layer retransmissions, | | | | and also addresses the | | | | high speed scenario in | | | | the work item | | | | objective | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | PB3 | 0dB | Most common | | | | high-dispersion case | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Note 1: In the | | | | performance report, | | | | the tester shall | | | | indicate for the 'No | | | | Interference' | | | | condition, the | | | | following note: In | | | | case of \'no | | | | interference\', the | | | | throughput is expected | | | | to be maximal. This | | | | may be the maximum | | | | theoretical throughput | | | | or below. In the | | | | latter case it cannot | | | | be distinguished, | | | | whether UE | | | | limitations, or signal | | | | generator limitations | | | | with respect to EVM, | | | | or both contribute to | | | | this. | | | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+
Table 5.5.4.5-2: Test Points for LTE
+------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Propagation Condition | SNR | Justification | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Static | No interference | To check that | | | | upper-layers do not | | | Note 1 | constrain data | | | | throughput | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | EPA5 | 20dB | To exhibits large TBS | | | | variations (see clause | | | | 5.5.4.3) and very | | | | common scenarios for | | | | high-data rate | | | | requiring processing | | | | capability | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | EVA5 | 10dB | EVA occurs frequently | | | | in deployments | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | EVA70 | 20 dB | Adds EVA70, high SNR | | | | coverage which is | | | | common in low | | | | frequency(\ \- UDP Uplink Performance
\- Stress Test Performance
\- UDP Power Sweep Performance
\- UDP Downlink vs. SNR Performance
IP header compression will not be used.
The integrity protection algorithm of RRC and NAS messages shall be set to one
of the algorithms supported by the UE under test. The ciphering of RRC and NAS
messages and user plane data will be set to null for UDP and AES for FTP to
check CPU processing ability of UE. Refer to TS 33.401 [8].
The recorded UE throughput for the FTP and UDP Downlink and Uplink Performance
test procedures shall be based upon the simple average of 5 transfers for each
test condition.
Unless otherwise stated, the UE output power for the tests shall be set0 dBm
with ±2dBm tolerance.
Unless stated otherwise, power control of the Downlink is OFF.
The physical channels specified in TS 36.211 [9] clause 6 (for downlink
physical channels) shall be as defined in the respective sections below.
In addition to any recommendations made in this clause and the downlink test
procedures herein, the uplink shall be configured to allow the UE under test
to achieve the maximum downlink throughput.
In addition to any recommendations made in this clause and the uplink test
procedures herein, the uplink shall be configured to allow the uplink to
achieve maximum uplink throughput as per Annex F.2. For a given UE category
and channel bandwidth the reference channel with highest throughput supported
be that UE category is chosen. The downlink shall be configured accordingly to
allow the UE under test to achieve said uplink throughput.
The requirement for a UE that support E-UTRA in downlink shall be tested
according to the declared UE PDSCH category.
The fading of the signals and the AWGN signals applied to each receiver
antenna connector shall be uncorrelated. The levels of the test signal applied
to each of the antenna connectors shall be as defined in the respective test
cases.
The test procedures defined herein are based on UE(s) that utilize a dual-
antenna receiver.
For all test procedures, the SNR is defined as:
{width="1.2638888888888888in" height="0.5097222222222222in"},
where the superscript indicates the receiver antenna connector. The SNR
requirement applies for the UE categories given for each test.
The parameters specified in Table A.3.1-2 are valid for all FDD tests unless
otherwise stated.
Table A.3.1-2: Common Test Parameters (FDD)
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | Comments | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Inter-TTI | | 1 | | | Distance | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of HARQ | Processes | 8 | For FDD, 8 | | processes | | | HARQ processes | | | | | in the DL, as | | | | | specified in | | | | | TS 36.213 | | | | | [10] clause | | | | | 7. All 8 HARQ | | | | | processes are | | | | | used. | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Total number | | UE category | The value | | of soft | | dependent | depends on UE | | channel bits | | value | category as | | | | | specified in | | | | | TS 36.306 | | | | | [16] clause | | | | | 4.1. | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scheduling of | | | 1. | | r | | | R | | etransmissions | | | etransmissions | | | | | use the same | | | | | Transport | | | | | Block Size | | | | | (TBS) as the | | | | | initial | | | | | transmission. | | | | | | | | | | 2. HARQ | | | | | processes are | | | | | scheduled | | | | | consecutively, | | | | | independent of | | | | | the fact, | | | | | whether | | | | | r | | | | | etransmissions | | | | | (for | | | | | negatively | | | | | acknowledged | | | | | HARQ | | | | | processes) or | | | | | new | | | | | transmissions | | | | | (for | | | | | positively | | | | | acknowledged | | | | | HARQ | | | | | processes) | | | | | occur. | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Maximum number | | 4 | It is always 4 | | of HARQ | | | for FDD, as | | transmission | | | specified in | | | | | TS 36.213 | | | | | [10] clause | | | | | 8 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Redundancy | | {0,1,2,3} for | | | version coding | | QPSK and 16QAM | | | sequence | | | | | | | {0,0,1,2} for | | | | | 64QAM | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of OFDM | OFDM symbols | 4 for 1.4 MHz | The PCFICH | | symbols for | | bandwidth, 3 | carries | | PDCCH | | for 3 MHz and | information | | | | 5 MHz | about the | | | | bandwidths, 2 | number of OFDM | | | | for 10 MHz, 15 | symbols used | | | | MHz and 20 MHz | for | | | | bandwidths | transmission | | | | | of PDCCHs in a | | | | | subframe, as | | | | | specified in | | | | | TS 36.211 | | | | | [9] clause | | | | | 6.7 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cyclic Prefix | | Normal | CP consist of | | | | | the following | | | | | physical | | | | | resource | | | | | blocks (RBs) | | | | | parameters: 12 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | subcarriers at | | | | | a 15 kHz | | | | | spacing and 7 | | | | | OFDM symbols, | | | | | as specified | | | | | in TS 36.211 | | | | | [9] clause | | | | | 6.2.3 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cell ID | | 0 | The Cell ID is | | | | | uniquely | | | | | defined by a | | | | | number in the | | | | | range of 0 to | | | | | 503, | | | | | representing | | | | | the | | | | | physical-layer | | | | | cell identity, | | | | | as specified | | | | | in TS 36.211 | | | | | [9] clause | | | | | 6.11. | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
The parameters specified in Table A.3.1-3 are valid for all TDD tests unless
otherwise stated.
Table A.3.1-3: Common Test Parameters (TDD)
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | Comments | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Uplink | | 2 | | | downlink | | | | | configuration | | | | | (Note 1) | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Special | | 4 | | | subframe | | | | | configuration | | | | | (Note 2) | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Inter-TTI | | 1 | | | Distance | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of HARQ | Processes | 10 | For TDD, 10 | | processes | | | HARQ processes | | | | | in the DL, as | | | | | specified in | | | | | TS 36.213 | | | | | [10] clause | | | | | 7.\ | | | | | All 10 HARQ | | | | | processes are | | | | | used. | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Total number | | UE category | The value | | of soft | | dependent | depends on UE | | channel bits | | value | category as | | | | | specified in | | | | | TS 36.306 | | | | | [16] clause | | | | | 4.1. | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scheduling of | | | 1. | | r | | | R | | etransmissions | | | etransmissions | | | | | use the same | | | | | Transport | | | | | Block Size | | | | | (TBS) as the | | | | | initial | | | | | transmission. | | | | | | | | | | 2. HARQ | | | | | processes are | | | | | scheduled | | | | | consecutively, | | | | | independent of | | | | | the fact, | | | | | whether | | | | | r | | | | | etransmissions | | | | | (for | | | | | negatively | | | | | acknowledged | | | | | HARQ | | | | | processes) or | | | | | new | | | | | transmissions | | | | | (for | | | | | positively | | | | | acknowledged | | | | | HARQ | | | | | processes) | | | | | occur. | | | | | | | | | | 3. In case | | | | | when the | | | | | initial | | | | | transmission | | | | | and the | | | | | r | | | | | etransmissions | | | | | are scheduled | | | | | in subframes | | | | | with a | | | | | different | | | | | _NPRB_ (in | | | | | terms of TS | | | | | 36.213 [10] | | | | | subclause | | | | | 7.1.7)$\te | | | | | xt{29} \leq I_ | | | | | {\text{MCS}} \ | | | | | leq \text{31}$ | | | | | according to | | | | | TS 36.213 | | | | | [10] | | | | | subclause | | | | | 7.1.7.2 and | | | | | the | | | | | appropriate | | | | | modulation is | | | | | used. | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Maximum number | | 4 | It is always 4 | | of HARQ | | | for TDD, as | | transmission | | | specified in | | | | | TS 36.213 | | | | | [10] clause | | | | | 8 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Redundancy | | {0,1,2,3} for | | | version coding | | QPSK and 16QAM | | | sequence | | | | | | | {0,0,1,2} for | | | | | 64QAM | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of OFDM | OFDM symbols | 4 for 1.4 MHz | The PCFICH | | symbols for | | bandwidth, 3 | carries | | PDCCH | | for 3 MHz and | information | | | | 5 MHz | about the | | | | bandwidths, | number of OFDM | | | | | symbols used | | | | 2 for 10 MHz, | for | | | | 15 MHz and 20 | transmission | | | | MHz bandwidths | of PDCCHs in a | | | | | subframe, as | | | | | specified in | | | | | TS 36.211 | | | | | [9] clause | | | | | 6.7 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cyclic Prefix | | Normal | CP consist of | | | | | the following | | | | | physical | | | | | resource | | | | | blocks (RBs) | | | | | parameters: 12 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | subcarriers at | | | | | a 15 kHz | | | | | spacing and 7 | | | | | OFDM symbols, | | | | | as specified | | | | | in TS 36.211 | | | | | [9] clause | | | | | 6.2.3 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cell ID | | 0 | The Cell ID is | | | | | uniquely | | | | | defined by a | | | | | number in the | | | | | range of 0 to | | | | | 503, | | | | | representing | | | | | the | | | | | physical-layer | | | | | cell identity, | | | | | as specified | | | | | in TS 36.211 | | | | | [9] clause | | | | | 6.11. | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: as | | | | | specified in | | | | | Table 4.2-2 in | | | | | TS 36.211 | | | | | [9] | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: as | | | | | specified in | | | | | Table 4.2-1 in | | | | | TS 36.211 | | | | | [9] | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
## A.3.2 LTE / FTP Downlink Performance
### A.3.2.1 LTE / FTP Downlink / PDSCH Single Antenna Port Performance (Cell-
Specific Reference Symbols)
#### A.3.2.1.1 Definition
The UE application layer downlink performance for FTP under different multi-
path fading environments is determined by the UE application layer FTP
throughput T.
#### A.3.2.1.2 Test Purpose
To measure the performance of the UE while downloading TCP based data within
both static and multi path faded environments.
#### A.3.2.1.3 Test Parameters
Test parameters are defined in Table A.3.2.1.3**-1 and** A.3.2.1.3**-2.**
Table A.3.2.1.3-1: Test Parameters for SIMO Downlink Testing
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Unit | All Tests | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Downlink power | {w | | | | | idth="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.1972222 | | | | | 2222222222in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | idth="0.188888 | | | | | 88888888888in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.1972222 | | | | | 2222222222in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ${\ha | dBm/15kHz | -85 **(Note | | | t{E}}_{s}$** at | | 2)**| | | antenna port** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | {w | | | | | idth="0.273611 | | | | | 11111111114in" | | | | | heigh | | | | | t="0.235416666 | | | | | 66666666in"}at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmission | | 1 | | | mode | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reporting | ms | FDD: N~pd~ = 5 | | | periodicity | | | | | | | TDD: N~pd~ = | | | | | 10 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _cqi-pmi-Confi | | FDD: 4 | | | gurationIndex_ | | | | | | | TDD: 8 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CQI delay | ms | 8 for FDD | | | | | | | | | | 10 for TDD | | | | | (Note 3) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reporting mode | | PUCCH 1-0 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | {w | | | | | idth="0.415972 | | | | | 22222222224in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.1972222 | | | | | 2222222222in"} | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | $ | | | | | {\hat{E}}_{s}$ | | | | | is applied to | | | | | only Test | | | | | Number 1 in | | | | | Table | | | | | A.3.2.1.3-2: | | | | | Test points | | | | | for SIMO | | | | | Downlink | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the | | | | | UE reports in | | | | | an available | | | | | uplink | | | | | reporting | | | | | instance at | | | | | subframe SF#n | | | | | based on CQI | | | | | estimation at | | | | | a downlink | | | | | subframe not | | | | | later than | | | | | SF#(n-4), | | | | | this reported | | | | | wideband CQI | | | | | cannot be | | | | | applied at the | | | | | eNB downlink | | | | | before | | | | | SF#(n+4). | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: Not | | | | | applicable to | | | | | tests with | | | | | static | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions | | | | | with no | | | | | interference. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table A.3.2.1.3-2: Test points for SIMO Downlink Testing
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initial | | | | | | conditions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Note1 | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | for each | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test Number | Reference | Propagation | SNR (dB) | Correlation | | | test point | Conditions | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | LTE-1 | Static | No | N/A | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | LTE-2 | EPA5 | 20 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | LTE-3 | EVA5 | 10 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | LTE-4 | ETU70 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | LTE-5 | ETU300 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | **See Annex | | | | | | B.3 for | | | | | | the** | | | | | | recommended | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | test points | | | | | | is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | B.1.2-1 in | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | B.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: In | | | | | | the | | | | | | performance | | | | | | report, the | | | | | | tester | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | for the 'No | | | | | | In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | note: In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | \'no | | | | | | inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | the | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | is expected | | | | | | to be | | | | | | maximal. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | or below. | | | | | | In the | | | | | | latter case | | | | | | it cannot | | | | | | be | | | | | | dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | whether UE | | | | | | l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | or signal | | | | | | generator | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | with | | | | | | respect to | | | | | | EVM, or | | | | | | both | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | to this. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### A.3.2.1.4 Test Description
##### A.3.2.1.4.1 Initial Conditions
Initial conditions are a set of test configurations the UE needs to be tested
in and the steps for the SS to take with the UE to reach the correct
measurement state.
Configurations of PDSCH and PDCCH before measurement are specified in Annex
C.2 of TS 36.521-1 [2].
Test Environment: Normal, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause 4.1.
Frequencies to be tested: Mid Range, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause
4.3.1.1 for FDD and 4.3.1.2 for TDD.
1) Connect the SS, the faders and AWGN noise sources to the UE antenna
connectors as shown in TS 36.508 [11] Annex A, Figure A.9 for antenna
configuration 2x2.
2) Connect an application server to the IP output of the SS configured with a
FTP server.
3) For a tethered configuration, tether the UE to a laptop configured with FTP
client software using the appropriate UE to PC interface Modem or Network
Interface Connection (NIC) drivers. For an embedded configuration, ensure that
the UE has an FTP client test application available.
4) The parameter settings for the cell are set up according to Tables A.3.1-2,
A.3.1-3 and A.3.2.1.3-1 as appropriate.
5) Downlink signals are initially set up according to Annex C0, C.1 and Annex
C.3.2 in TS 36.521-1 [2] and uplink signals according to Annex H.1 and H.3.2
in TS 36.521-1 [2].
6) Propagation conditions are set according to Annex B.0 in TS 36.521-1 [2].
##### A.3.2.1.4.2 Procedure
1) SS transmits PDSCH via PDCCH DCI format 1A for C_RNTI to transmit the DL
data using the transport format and transport block size determined based on
UE reported CQI as described in subclause B.2.2.1.
2) Set the parameters of the bandwidth, MCS, reference channel, the
propagation condition, the correlation matrix, antenna configuration and the
SNR according to Table A.3.2.1.3-2, as appropriate.
3) Using the FTP client, begin FTP download from the application server of a
file sufficient in size for the test duration outlined in Table A.3.1-1 and
record Throughput T result. (This is iteration 1)
4) Repeat transfer for iterations 2-5 within the same call as the first
iteration.
5) Calculate and record the average throughput of the five iterations.
6) Count and record the overall number of ACK and NACK/DTX on the PUSCH/PUCCH
during the test interval.
7) If the RRC connection setup needs to be re-established after the subtest,
perform the initial call setup in accordance with the initial conditions in
clause A.3.2.1.4.1.
8) Repeat steps 1 to 6 for each subtest in Table A.3.2.1.3-2, as appropriate.
9) Record the IP address type (IPv4 or IPv6) used during the file transfers.
### A.3.2.2 LTE / FTP Downlink / PDSCH Transmit Diversity Performance (Cell-
Specific Reference Symbols)
#### A.3.2.2.1 Definition
The UE application layer downlink performance for FTP under different multi-
path fading environments is determined by the UE application layer FTP
throughput T.
#### A.3.2.2.2 Test Purpose
To measure the performance of the UE while downloading TCP based data within
both static and multi path faded environments.
#### A.3.2.2.3 Test Parameters
Test parameters are defined in Table A.3.2.3**-1 and** A.3.2.3**-2.**
Table A.3.2.2.3-1: Test Parameters for TxDiversity Downlink Testing
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Unit | All Tests | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Downlink power | | | | | | {width="0.19722 | | | | | 222222222222in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | | | | {width="0.18888 | | | | | 888888888888in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | ${\h | dBm/15kHz | -85 **(Note | | | at{E}}_{s}$** at | | 2)**| | | antenna port** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | | | {width="0.27361 | | | | | 111111111114in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.23541666 | | | | | 666666666in"}at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Transmission | | 2 | | | mode | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Reporting | ms | FDD: N~pd~ = 5 | | | periodicity | | | | | | | TDD: N~pd~ = 10 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | _cqi-pmi-Conf | | FDD: 4 | | | igurationIndex_ | | | | | | | TDD: 8 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | CQI delay | ms | 8 for FDD | | | | | | | | | | 10 for TDD | | | | | (Note 3) | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Reporting mode | | PUCCH 1-0 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | {width="0.3770 | | | | | 833333333333in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | ${\hat{E}}_{s}$ | | | | | is applied to | | | | | only Test | | | | | Number 1 in | | | | | Table | | | | | A.3.2.2.3-2: | | | | | Test points for | | | | | TxDiversity | | | | | Downlink | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the | | | | | UE reports in | | | | | an available | | | | | uplink | | | | | reporting | | | | | instance at | | | | | subframe SF#n | | | | | based on CQI | | | | | estimation at a | | | | | downlink | | | | | subframe not | | | | | later than | | | | | SF#(n-4), this | | | | | reported | | | | | wideband CQI | | | | | cannot be | | | | | applied at the | | | | | eNB downlink | | | | | before | | | | | SF#(n+4). | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: Not | | | | | applicable to | | | | | tests with | | | | | static | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions with | | | | | no | | | | | interference. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table A.3.2.2.3-2: Test points for TxDiversity Downlink Testing
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initial | | | | | | conditions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Note1 | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | for each | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test Number | Reference | Propagation | SNR (dB) | Correlation | | | test point | Conditions | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | LTE-1 | Static | No | N/A | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | LTE-2 | EPA5 | 20 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | LTE-3 | EVA5 | 10 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | LTE-4 | ETU70 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | LTE-5 | ETU300 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | **See Annex | | | | | | B.3 for | | | | | | the** | | | | | | recommended | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | test points | | | | | | is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | B.1.2-1in | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | B.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: In | | | | | | the | | | | | | performance | | | | | | report, the | | | | | | tester | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | for the 'No | | | | | | In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | note: In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | \'no | | | | | | inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | the | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | is expected | | | | | | to be | | | | | | maximal. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | or below. | | | | | | In the | | | | | | latter case | | | | | | it cannot | | | | | | be | | | | | | dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | whether UE | | | | | | l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | or signal | | | | | | generator | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | with | | | | | | respect to | | | | | | EVM, or | | | | | | both | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | to this. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### A.3.2.2.4 Test Description
##### A.3.2.2.4.1 Initial Conditions
Initial conditions are a set of test configurations the UE needs to be tested
in and the steps for the SS to take with the UE to reach the correct
measurement state.
Configurations of PDSCH and PDCCH before measurement are specified in Annex
C.2 of TS 36.521-1 [2].
Test Environment: Normal, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause 4.1.
Frequencies to be tested: Mid Range, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause
4.3.1.1 for FDD and 4.3.1.2 for TDD.
1) Connect the SS, the faders and AWGN noise sources to the UE antenna
connectors as shown in TS 36.508 [11] Annex A, Figure A.10 for antenna
configuration 2x2.
2) Connect an application server to the IP output of the SS configured with a
FTP server.
3) For a tethered configuration, tether the UE to a laptop configured with FTP
client software using the appropriate UE to PC interface Modem or Network
Interface Connection (NIC) drivers. For an embedded configuration, ensure that
the UE has an FTP client test application available.
4) The parameter settings for the cell are set up according to Tables A.3.1-2,
A.3.1-3 and A.3.2.2.3-1 as appropriate.
5) Downlink signals are initially set up according to Annex C0, C.1 and Annex
C.3.2 in TS 36.521-1 [2] and uplink signals according to Annex H.1 and H.3.2
in TS 36.521-1 [2].
6) Propagation conditions are set according to Annex B.0 in TS 36.521-1 [2].
##### A.3.2.2.4.2 Procedure
1) SS transmits PDSCH via PDCCH DCI format 1A for C_RNTI to transmit the DL
data using the transport format and transport block size determined based on
UE reported CQI as described in subclause B.2.2.1.
2) Set the parameters of the bandwidth, MCS, reference channel, the
propagation condition, the correlation matrix, antenna configuration and the
SNR according to Table A.3.2.2.3-2, as appropriate.
3) Using the FTP client, begin FTP download from the application server of a
file sufficient in size for the test duration outlined in Table A.3.1-1 and
record Throughput T result. (This is iteration 1)
4) Repeat transfer for iterations 2-5 within the same call as the first
iteration.
5) Calculate and record the average throughput of the five iterations.
6) Count and record the overall number of ACK and NACK/DTX on the PUSCH/PUCCH
during the test interval.
7) If the RRC connection setup needs to be re-established after the subtest,
perform the initial call setup in accordance with the initial conditions in
clause A.3.2.2.4.1.
8) Repeat steps 1 to 6 for each subtest in Table A.3.2.2.3-2, as appropriate.
9) Record the IP address type (IPv4 or IPv6) used during the file transfers.
### A.3.2.3 LTE / FTP Downlink / PDSCH Open Loop Spatial Multiplexing
Performance (Cell-Specific Reference Symbols)
#### A.3.2.3.1 Definition
The UE application layer downlink performance for FTP under different multi-
path fading environments is determined by the UE application layer FTP
throughput T.
#### A.3.2.3.2 Test Purpose
To measure the performance of the UE while downloading TCP based data within
both static and multi path faded environments.
#### A.3.2.3.3 Test Parameters
Test parameters are defined in Table A.3.2.3**-1 and** A.3.2.3**-2.**
Table A.3.2.3.3-1: Test Parameters for Open Loop Spatial Multiplexing Downlink
Testing
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Unit | All Tests | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Downlink power | | | | | | {width="0.19722 | | | | | 222222222222in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | | | | {width="0.18888 | | | | | 888888888888in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | ${\h | dBm/15kHz | -85 **(Note | | | at{E}}_{s}$** at | | 2)**| | | antenna port** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | | | {width="0.27361 | | | | | 111111111114in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.23541666 | | | | | 666666666in"}at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Transmission | | 3 | | | mode | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Reporting | ms | FDD: N~pd~ = 5 | | | periodicity | | | | | | | TDD: N~pd~ = 10 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | _cqi-pmi-Conf | | FDD: 4 | | | igurationIndex_ | | | | | | | TDD: 8 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | _ri-Co | | FDD: 1 (Note 4) | | | nfigurationInd_ | | | | | | | TDD: 5 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | CQI delay | ms | 8 for FDD | | | | | | | | | | 10 for TDD | | | | | (Note 3) | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Reporting mode | | PUCCH 1-0 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | CodeBookSu | | 11 | | | bsetRestriction | | | | | bitmap | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | {width="0.3770 | | | | | 833333333333in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | ${\hat{E}}_{s}$ | | | | | is applied to | | | | | only Test | | | | | Number 1 in | | | | | Table | | | | | A.3.2.3.3-2: | | | | | Test points for | | | | | Open Loop | | | | | Spatial | | | | | Multiplexing | | | | | Downlink | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the | | | | | UE reports in | | | | | an available | | | | | uplink | | | | | reporting | | | | | instance at | | | | | subframe SF#n | | | | | based on CQI | | | | | estimation at a | | | | | downlink | | | | | subframe not | | | | | later than | | | | | SF#(n-4), this | | | | | reported | | | | | wideband CQI | | | | | cannot be | | | | | applied at the | | | | | eNB downlink | | | | | before | | | | | SF#(n+4). | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: To | | | | | avoid the | | | | | ambiguity of SS | | | | | behaviour when | | | | | applying CQI | | | | | during rank | | | | | switching, RI | | | | | reports are to | | | | | be applied at | | | | | the SS with one | | | | | subframe delay | | | | | in addition to | | | | | Note 3 to align | | | | | with CQI | | | | | reports. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: Not | | | | | applicable to | | | | | tests with | | | | | static | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions with | | | | | no | | | | | interference. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table A.3.2.3.3-2: Test points for Open Loop Spatial Multiplexing Downlink
Testing
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initial | | | | | | conditions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Note1 | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | for each | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test Number | Reference | Propagation | SNR (dB) | Correlation | | | test point | Conditions | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | LTE-1 | Static | No | N/A | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | LTE-2 | EPA5 | 20 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | LTE-3 | EVA5 | 10 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | LTE-4 | ETU70 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | LTE-5 | ETU300 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | **See Annex | | | | | | B.3 for | | | | | | the** | | | | | | recommended | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | test points | | | | | | is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | B.1.2-1in | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | B.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: In | | | | | | the | | | | | | performance | | | | | | report, the | | | | | | tester | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | for the 'No | | | | | | In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | note: In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | \'no | | | | | | inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | the | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | is expected | | | | | | to be | | | | | | maximal. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | or below. | | | | | | In the | | | | | | latter case | | | | | | it cannot | | | | | | be | | | | | | dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | whether UE | | | | | | l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | or signal | | | | | | generator | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | with | | | | | | respect to | | | | | | EVM, or | | | | | | both | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | to this. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### A.3.2.3.4 Test Description
##### A.3.2.3.4.1 Initial Conditions
Initial conditions are a set of test configurations the UE needs to be tested
in and the steps for the SS to take with the UE to reach the correct
measurement state.
Configurations of PDSCH and PDCCH before measurement are specified in Annex
C.2 of TS 36.521-1 [2].
Test Environment: Normal, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause 4.1.
Frequencies to be tested: Mid Range, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause
4.3.1.1 for FDD and 4.3.1.2 for TDD.
1) Connect the SS, the faders and AWGN noise sources to the UE antenna
connectors as shown in TS 36.508 [11] Annex A, Figure A.10 for antenna
configuration 2x2.
2) Connect an application server to the IP output of the SS configured with a
FTP server.
3) For a tethered configuration, tether the UE to a laptop configured with FTP
client software using the appropriate UE to PC interface Modem or Network
Interface Connection (NIC) drivers. For an embedded configuration, ensure that
the UE has an FTP client test application available.
4) The parameter settings for the cell are set up according to Tables A.3.1-2,
A.3.1-3 and A.3.2.3.3-1 as appropriate.
5) Downlink signals are initially set up according to Annex C0, C.1 and Annex
C.3.2 in TS 36.521-1 [2] and uplink signals according to Annex H.1 and H.3.2
in TS 36.521-1 [2].
6) Propagation conditions are set according to Annex B.0 in TS 36.521-1 [2].
##### A.3.2.3.4.2 Procedure
1) SS transmits PDSCH via PDCCH DCI format 2A for C_RNTI to transmit the DL
data using the transport format and transport block size determined based on
UE reported CQI as described in subclause B.2.2.1.
2) Set the parameters of the bandwidth, MCS, reference channel, the
propagation condition, the correlation matrix, antenna configuration and the
SNR according to Table A. 3.2.3.3-2, as appropriate.
3) Using the FTP client, begin FTP download from the application server of a
file sufficient in size for the test duration outlined in Table A.3.1-1 and
record Throughput T result. (This is iteration 1)
4) Repeat transfer for iterations 2-5 within the same call as the first
iteration.
5) Calculate and record the average throughput of the five iterations.
6) Count and record the overall number of ACK and NACK/DTX on the PUSCH/PUCCH
during the test interval.
7) If the RRC connection setup needs to be re-established after the subtest,
perform the initial call setup in accordance with the initial conditions in
clause A.3.2.3.4.1.
8) Repeat steps 1 to 6 for each subtest in Table A.3.2.3.3-2, as appropriate.
9) Record the IP address type (IPv4 or IPv6) used during the file transfers.
### A.3.2.4 LTE / FTP Downlink / PDSCH Closed Loop Spatial Multiplexing
Performance (Cell-Specific Reference Symbols)
#### A.3.2.4.1 Definition
The UE application layer downlink performance for FTP under different multi-
path fading environments is determined by the UE application layer FTP
throughput T.
#### A.3.2.4.2 Test Purpose
To measure the performance of the UE while downloading TCP based data within
both static and multi path faded environments.
#### A.3.2.4.3 Test Parameters
Test parameters are defined in Table A.3.2.4.3**-1 and** A.3.2.4.3**-2.**
Table A.3.2.4.3-1: Test Parameters for Closed Loop Spatial Multiplexing
Downlink Testing
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Unit | All Tests | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Downlink power | | | | | | {width="0.19722 | | | | | 222222222222in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | | | | {width="0.18888 | | | | | 888888888888in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | ${\h | dBm/15kHz | -85 **(Note | | | at{E}}_{s}$** at | | 2)**| | | antenna port** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | | | {width="0.27361 | | | | | 111111111114in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.23541666 | | | | | 666666666in"}at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Transmission | | 4 | | | mode | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Reporting | ms | FDD: N~pd~ = 5 | | | periodicity | | | | | | | TDD: N~pd~ = 10 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | _cqi-pmi-Conf | | FDD: 4 | | | igurationIndex_ | | | | | | | TDD: 8 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | _ri-Co | | FDD: 1 (Note 4) | | | nfigurationInd_ | | | | | | | TDD: 5 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | CQI delay | ms | 8 for FDD | | | | | | | | | | 10 for TDD | | | | | (Note 3) | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Reporting mode | | PUCCH 1-1 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | CodeBookSu | | 111111 | | | bsetRestriction | | | | | bitmap | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | {width="0.3770 | | | | | 833333333333in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | ${\hat{E}}_{s}$ | | | | | is applied to | | | | | only Test | | | | | Number 1 in | | | | | Table | | | | | A.3.2.4.3-2: | | | | | Test points for | | | | | Closed Loop | | | | | Spatial | | | | | Multiplexing | | | | | Downlink | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the | | | | | UE reports in | | | | | an available | | | | | uplink | | | | | reporting | | | | | instance at | | | | | subframe SF#n | | | | | based on PMI | | | | | and CQI | | | | | estimation at a | | | | | downlink | | | | | subframe not | | | | | later than | | | | | SF#(n-4), this | | | | | reported PMI | | | | | and wideband | | | | | CQI cannot be | | | | | applied at the | | | | | eNB downlink | | | | | before | | | | | SF#(n+4). | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: To | | | | | avoid the | | | | | ambiguity of SS | | | | | behaviour when | | | | | applying CQI | | | | | and PMI during | | | | | rank switching, | | | | | RI reports are | | | | | to be applied | | | | | at the SS with | | | | | one subframe | | | | | delay in | | | | | addition to | | | | | Note 3 to align | | | | | with CQI and | | | | | PMI reports. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: Not | | | | | applicable to | | | | | tests with | | | | | static | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions with | | | | | no | | | | | interference. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table A.3.2.4.3-2: Test points for Closed Loop Spatial Multiplexing Downlink
Testing
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initial | | | | | | conditions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Note1 | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | for each | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test Number | Reference | Propagation | SNR (dB) | Correlation | | | test point | Conditions | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | LTE-1 | Static | No | N/A | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | LTE-2 | EPA5 | 20 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | LTE-3 | EVA5 | 10 | low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | LTE-4 | ETU70 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | LTE-5 | ETU300 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | **See Annex | | | | | | B.3 for | | | | | | the** | | | | | | recommended | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | test points | | | | | | is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | B.1.2-1in | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | B.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: In | | | | | | the | | | | | | performance | | | | | | report, the | | | | | | tester | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | for the 'No | | | | | | In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | note: In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | \'no | | | | | | inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | the | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | is expected | | | | | | to be | | | | | | maximal. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | or below. | | | | | | In the | | | | | | latter case | | | | | | it cannot | | | | | | be | | | | | | dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | whether UE | | | | | | l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | or signal | | | | | | generator | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | with | | | | | | respect to | | | | | | EVM, or | | | | | | both | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | to this. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### A.3.2.4.4 Test Description
##### A.3.2.4.4.1 Initial Conditions
Initial conditions are a set of test configurations the UE needs to be tested
in and the steps for the SS to take with the UE to reach the correct
measurement state.
Configurations of PDSCH and PDCCH before measurement are specified in Annex
C.2 of TS 36.521-1 [2].
Test Environment: Normal, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause 4.1.
Frequencies to be tested: Mid Range, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause
4.3.1.1 for FDD and 4.3.1.2 for TDD.
1) Connect the SS, the faders and AWGN noise sources to the UE antenna
connectors as shown in TS 36.508 [11] Annex A, Figure A.10 for antenna
configuration 2x2.
2) Connect an application server to the IP output of the SS configured with a
FTP server.
3) For a tethered configuration, tether the UE to a laptop configured with FTP
client software using the appropriate UE to PC interface Modem or Network
Interface Connection (NIC) drivers. For an embedded configuration, ensure that
the UE has an FTP client test application available.
4) The parameter settings for the cell are set up according to Tables A.3.1-2,
A.3.1-3 and A.3.2.4.3-1 as appropriate.
5) Downlink signals are initially set up according to Annex C0, C.1 and Annex
C.3.2 in TS 36.521-1 [2] and uplink signals according to Annex H.1 and H.3.2
in TS 36.521-1 [2].
6) Propagation conditions are set according to Annex B.0 in TS 36.521-1 [2].
##### A.3.2.4.4.2 Procedure
1) SS transmits PDSCH via PDCCH DCI format 2 for C_RNTI to transmit the DL
data using the transport format and transport block size determined based on
UE reported CQI as described in subclause B.2.2.1.
2) Set the parameters of the bandwidth, MCS, reference channel, the
propagation condition, the correlation matrix, antenna configuration and the
SNR according to Table A.3.2.4.3-2, as appropriate.
3) Using the FTP client, begin FTP download from the application server of a
file sufficient in size for the test duration outlined in Table A.3.1-1 and
record Throughput T result. (This is iteration 1)
4) Repeat transfer for iterations 2-5 within the same call as the first
iteration.
5) Calculate and record the average throughput of the five iterations.
6) Count and record the overall number of ACK and NACK/DTX on the PUSCH/PUCCH
during the test interval.
7) If the RRC connection setup needs to be re-established after the subtest,
perform the initial call setup in accordance with the initial conditions in
clause A.3.2.4.4.1.
8) Repeat steps 1 to 6 for each subtest in Table A.3.2.3.4-2, as appropriate.
9) Record the IP address type (IPv4 or IPv6) used during the file transfers.
### A.3.2.5 LTE / FTP Downlink / PDSCH Single-layer Spatial Multiplexing
Performance (Port 5, UE-Specific Reference Symbols)
#### A.3.2.5.1 Definition
The UE application layer downlink performance for FTP under different multi-
path fading environments is determined by the UE application layer FTP
throughput T.
#### A.3.2.5.2 Test Purpose
To measure the performance of the UE while downloading TCP based data within
both static and multi path faded environments.
#### A.3.2.5.3 Test Parameters
Test parameters are defined in Table A.3.2.5.3-1 and A.3.2.5.3-2.
Table A.3.2.5.3-1: Test Parameters for Single-layer Spatial Multiplexing
Downlink Testing
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Unit | All Tests | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Downlink power | {w | | | | | idth="0.197916 | | | | | 66666666666in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.1979166 | | | | | 6666666666in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | idth="0.188888 | | | | | 88888888888in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.1979166 | | | | | 6666666666in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | σ | dB | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ${\ha | dBm/15kHz | -85 (Note 2) | | | t{E}}_{s}$**at | | | | | antenna port** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | {w | | | | | idth="0.269444 | | | | | 44444444443in" | | | | | heigh | | | | | t="0.239583333 | | | | | 33333334in"}at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmission | | 7 | | | mode | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Beamforming | | Annex B.4.1 in | | | model | | TS 36.521-1 | | | | | [2] | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Precoder | | Frequency | | | update | | domain: 1 PRB | | | granularity | | | | | | | Time domain: 1 | | | | | ms | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reporting | ms | FDD: N~pd~ = 5 | | | periodicity | | | | | | | TDD: N~pd~ = | | | | | 10 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _cqi-pmi-Confi | | FDD: 4 | | | gurationIndex_ | | | | | | | TDD: 8 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reporting mode | | PUCCH 1-0 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | $P_{B} = 0$ | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | $ | | | | | {\hat{E}}_{s}$ | | | | | is applied to | | | | | only Test | | | | | Number 1 in | | | | | Table | | | | | A.3.2.5.3-2: | | | | | Test points | | | | | for | | | | | Single-layer | | | | | Spatial | | | | | Multiplexing | | | | | Downlink | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the | | | | | UE reports in | | | | | an available | | | | | uplink | | | | | reporting | | | | | instance at | | | | | subframe SF#n | | | | | based on CQI | | | | | estimation at | | | | | a downlink | | | | | subframe not | | | | | later than | | | | | SF#(n-4), | | | | | this reported | | | | | wideband CQI | | | | | cannot be | | | | | applied at the | | | | | eNB downlink | | | | | before | | | | | SF#(n+4). | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: Not | | | | | applicable to | | | | | tests with | | | | | static | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions | | | | | with no | | | | | interference. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table A.3.2.5.3-2: Test points for Single-layer Spatial Multiplexing Downlink
Testing
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initial | | | | | | conditions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Note1 | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | for each | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test Number | Reference | Propagation | SNR (dB) | Correlation | | | test point | Conditions | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | LTE-1 | Static | No | N/A | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | LTE-2 | EPA5 | 20 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | LTE-3 | EVA5 | 10 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | LTE-4 | ETU70 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | LTE-5 | ETU300 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | **See Annex | | | | | | B.3 for | | | | | | the** | | | | | | recommended | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | test points | | | | | | is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | B.1.2-1in | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | B.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: In | | | | | | the | | | | | | performance | | | | | | report, the | | | | | | tester | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | for the 'No | | | | | | In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | note: In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | \'no | | | | | | inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | the | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | is expected | | | | | | to be | | | | | | maximal. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | or below. | | | | | | In the | | | | | | latter case | | | | | | it cannot | | | | | | be | | | | | | dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | whether UE | | | | | | l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | or signal | | | | | | generator | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | with | | | | | | respect to | | | | | | EVM, or | | | | | | both | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | to this. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### A.3.2.5.4 Test Description
##### A.3.2.5.4.1 Initial Conditions
Initial conditions are a set of test configurations the UE needs to be tested
in and the steps for the SS to take with the UE to reach the correct
measurement state.
Configurations of PDSCH and PDCCH before measurement are specified in Annex
C.2 of TS 36.521-1 [2].
Test Environment: Normal, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause 4.1.
Frequencies to be tested: Mid Range, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause
4.3.1.2.
1) Connect the SS, the faders and AWGN noise sources to the UE antenna
connectors as shown in TS 36.508 [11] Annex A, Figure A.10 for antenna
configuration 2x2.
2) Connect an application server to the IP output of the SS configured with a
FTP server.
3) For a tethered configuration, tether the UE to a laptop configured with FTP
client software using the appropriate UE to PC interface Modem or Network
Interface Connection (NIC) drivers. For an embedded configuration, ensure that
the UE has an FTP client test application available.
4) The parameter settings for the cell are set up according to Tables A.3.1-3
and A.3.2.5.3-1 as appropriate.
5) Downlink signals are initially set up according to Annex C0, C.1 and Annex
C.3.2 in TS 36.521-1 [2] and uplink signals according to Annex H.1 and H.3.2
in TS 36.521-1 [2].
6) Propagation conditions are set according to Annex B.0 in TS 36.521-1 [2].
##### A.3.2.5.4.2 Procedure
1) SS transmits PDSCH via PDCCH DCI format 1 for C_RNTI to transmit the DL
data using the transport format and transport block size determined based on
UE reported CQI as described in sub-clause B.2.2.1.
2) Set the parameters of the bandwidth, MCS, reference channel, the
propagation condition, the correlation matrix, antenna configuration and the
SNR according to Table A.3.2.5.3-2, as appropriate.
3) Using the FTP client, begin FTP download from the application server of a
file sufficient in size for the test duration outlined in Table A.3.1-1 and
record Throughput T result. (This is iteration 1)
4) Repeat transfer for iterations 2-5 within the same call as the first
iteration.
5) Calculate and record the average throughput of the five iterations.
6) Count and record the overall number of ACK and NACK/DTX on the PUSCH/PUCCH
during the test interval.
7) If the RRC connection setup needs to be re-established after the subtest,
perform the initial call setup in accordance with the initial conditions in
clause A.3.2.5.4.1.
8) Repeat steps 1 to 6 for each subtest in Table A.3.2.5.3-2, as appropriate.
9) Record the IP address type (IPv4 or IPv6) used during the file transfers.
### A.3.2.6 LTE / FTP Downlink / PDSCH Single-layer Spatial Multiplexing
Performance (Port 7 or 8, UE-Specific Reference Symbols)
#### A.3.2.6.1 Definition
The UE application layer downlink performance for FTP under different multi-
path fading environments is determined by the UE application layer FTP
throughput T.
#### A.3.2.6.2 Test Purpose
To measure the performance of the UE while downloading TCP based data within
both static and multi path faded environments.
#### A.3.2.6.3 Test Parameters
Test parameters are defined in Table A.3.2.6.3-1 and A.3.2.6.3-2.
Table A.3.2.6.3-1: Test Parameters for Single-layer Spatial Multiplexing
Downlink Testing
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Parameter | Unit | All Tests | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Downlink power | | | | | | {width="0.19791 | | | | | 666666666666in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197916 | | | | | 66666666666in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | | | | | | | {width="0.18888 | | | | | 888888888888in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197916 | | | | | 66666666666in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | | σ | dB | -3 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | ${\h | dBm/15kHz | -85 (Note 2) | | | at{E}}_{s}$**at | | | | | antenna port** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | | | | | | {width="0.26944 | | | | | 444444444443in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.23958333 | | | | | 333333334in"}at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Transmission | | 8 | | | mode | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Beamforming | | Annex B.4.1 in | | | model | | TS 36.521-1 | | | | | [2] | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Precoder update | | Frequency | | | granularity | | domain: 1 PRB | | | | | | | | | | Time domain: 1 | | | | | ms | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Reporting | ms | FDD: N~pd~ = 5 | | | periodicity | | | | | | | TDD: N~pd~ = 10 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | _cqi-pmi-Conf | | FDD: 4 | | | igurationIndex_ | | | | | | | TDD: 8 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Reporting mode | | PUCCH 1-0 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | {width="0.3770 | | | | | 833333333333in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.200694 | | | | | 44444444445in"} | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | ${\hat{E}}_{s}$ | | | | | is applied to | | | | | only Test | | | | | Number 1 in | | | | | Table | | | | | A.3.2.6.3-2: | | | | | Test points for | | | | | Single-layer | | | | | Spatial | | | | | Multiplexing | | | | | Downlink | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the | | | | | UE reports in | | | | | an available | | | | | uplink | | | | | reporting | | | | | instance at | | | | | subframe SF#n | | | | | based on PMI | | | | | and CQI | | | | | estimation at a | | | | | downlink | | | | | subframe not | | | | | later than | | | | | SF#(n-4), this | | | | | reported PMI | | | | | and wideband | | | | | CQI cannot be | | | | | applied at the | | | | | eNB downlink | | | | | before | | | | | SF#(n+4). | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: Not | | | | | applicable to | | | | | tests with | | | | | static | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions with | | | | | no | | | | | interference. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+
Table A.3.2.6.3-2: Test points for Single-layer Spatial Multiplexing Downlink
Testing
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initial | | | | | | conditions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Note1 | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | for each | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test Number | Reference | Propagation | SNR (dB) | Correlation | | | test point | Conditions | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | LTE-1 | Static | No | N/A | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | LTE-2 | EPA5 | 20 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | LTE-3 | EVA5 | 10 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | LTE-4 | ETU70 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | LTE-5 | ETU300 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | **See Annex | | | | | | B.3 for | | | | | | the** | | | | | | recommended | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | test points | | | | | | is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | B.1.2-1in | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | B.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: In | | | | | | the | | | | | | performance | | | | | | report, the | | | | | | tester | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | for the 'No | | | | | | In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | note: In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | \'no | | | | | | inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | the | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | is expected | | | | | | to be | | | | | | maximal. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | or below. | | | | | | In the | | | | | | latter case | | | | | | it cannot | | | | | | be | | | | | | dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | whether UE | | | | | | l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | or signal | | | | | | generator | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | with | | | | | | respect to | | | | | | EVM, or | | | | | | both | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | to this. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### A.3.2.6.4 Test Description
##### A.3.2.6.4.1 Initial Conditions
Initial conditions are a set of test configurations the UE needs to be tested
in and the steps for the SS to take with the UE to reach the correct
measurement state.
Configurations of PDSCH and PDCCH before measurement are specified in Annex
C.2 of TS 36.521-1 [2].
Test Environment: Normal, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause 4.1.
Frequencies to be tested: Mid Range, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause
4.3.1.2.
1) Connect the SS, the faders and AWGN noise sources to the UE antenna
connectors as shown in TS 36.508 [11] Annex A, Figure A.10 for antenna
configuration 2x2.
2) Connect an application server to the IP output of the SS configured with a
FTP server.
3) For a tethered configuration, tether the UE to a laptop configured with FTP
client software using the appropriate UE to PC interface Modem or Network
Interface Connection (NIC) drivers. For an embedded configuration, ensure that
the UE has an FTP client test application available.
4) The parameter settings for the cell are set up according to Tables A.3.1-3
and A.3.2.6.3-1 as appropriate.
5) Downlink signals are initially set up according to Annex C0, C.1 and Annex
C.3.2 in TS 36.521-1 [2] and uplink signals according to Annex H.1 and H.3.2
in TS 36.521-1 [2].
6) Propagation conditions are set according to Annex B.0 in TS 36.521-1 [2].
##### A.3.2.6.4.2 Procedure
1) SS transmits PDSCH via PDCCH DCI format 2B for C_RNTI to transmit the DL
data using the transport format and transport block size determined based on
UE reported CQI as described in sub-clause B.2.2.1.
2) Set the parameters of the bandwidth, MCS, reference channel, the
propagation condition, the correlation matrix, antenna configuration and the
SNR according to Table A.3.2.5.3-2, as appropriate.
3) Using the FTP client, begin FTP download from the application server of a
file sufficient in size for the test duration outlined in Table A.3.1-1 and
record Throughput T result. (This is iteration 1)
4) Repeat transfer for iterations 2-5 within the same call as the first
iteration.
5) Calculate and record the average throughput of the five iterations.
6) Count and record the overall number of ACK and NACK/DTX on the PUSCH/PUCCH
during the test interval.
7) If the RRC connection setup needs to be re-established after the subtest,
perform the initial call setup in accordance with the initial conditions in
clause A.3.2.6.4.1.
8) Repeat steps 1 to 6 for each subtest in Table A.3.2.6.3-2, as appropriate.
9) Record the IP address type (IPv4 or IPv6) used during the file transfers.
### A.3.2.7 LTE / FTP Downlink / PDSCH Dual-layer Spatial Multiplexing
Performance (port 7 and 8, User-Specific Reference Symbols)
#### A.3.2.7.1 Definition
The UE application layer downlink performance for FTP under different multi-
path fading environments is determined by the UE application layer FTP
throughput T.
#### A.3.2.7.2 Test Purpose
To measure the performance of the UE while downloading TCP based data within
both static and multi path faded environments.
#### A.3.2.7.3 Test Parameters
Test parameters are defined in Table A.3.2.7.3-1 and A.3.2.7.3-2.
Table A.3.2.7.3-1: Test Parameters for Dual-layer Spatial Multiplexing
Downlink Testing
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Parameter | Unit | All Tests | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Downlink power | | | | | | {width="0.19791 | | | | | 666666666666in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197916 | | | | | 66666666666in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | | | | | | | {width="0.18888 | | | | | 888888888888in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197916 | | | | | 66666666666in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | | σ | dB | -3 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | ${\h | dBm/15kHz | -85 (Note 2) | | | at{E}}_{s}$**at | | | | | antenna port** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | | | | | | {width="0.26944 | | | | | 444444444443in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.23958333 | | | | | 333333334in"}at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Transmission | | 8 | | | mode | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Beamforming | | Annex B.4.2 in | | | model | | TS 36.521-1 | | | | | [2] | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Precoder update | | Frequency | | | granularity | | domain: 1 PRB | | | | | | | | | | Time domain: 1 | | | | | ms | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Reporting | ms | FDD: N~pd~ = 5 | | | periodicity | | | | | | | TDD: N~pd~ = 10 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | _cqi-pmi-Conf | | FDD: 4 | | | igurationIndex_ | | | | | | | TDD: 8 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | _ri-Co | | FDD: 1 (Note 4) | | | nfigurationInd_ | | | | | | | TDD: 5 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Reporting mode | | PUCCH 1-1 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | $P_{B} = 1$ | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | ${\hat{E}}_{s}$ | | | | | is applied to | | | | | only Test | | | | | Number 1 in | | | | | Table | | | | | A.3.2.7.3-2: | | | | | Test points for | | | | | Dual-layer | | | | | Spatial | | | | | Multiplexing | | | | | Downlink | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the | | | | | UE reports in | | | | | an available | | | | | uplink | | | | | reporting | | | | | instance at | | | | | subframe SF#n | | | | | based on PMI | | | | | and CQI | | | | | estimation at a | | | | | downlink | | | | | subframe not | | | | | later than | | | | | SF#(n-4), this | | | | | reported PMI | | | | | and wideband | | | | | CQI cannot be | | | | | applied at the | | | | | eNB downlink | | | | | before | | | | | SF#(n+4). | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: To | | | | | avoid the | | | | | ambiguity of SS | | | | | behaviour when | | | | | applying CQI | | | | | and PMI during | | | | | rank switching, | | | | | RI reports are | | | | | to be applied | | | | | at the SS with | | | | | one subframe | | | | | delay in | | | | | addition to | | | | | Note 3 to align | | | | | with CQI and | | | | | PMI reports. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: Not | | | | | applicable to | | | | | tests with | | | | | static | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions with | | | | | no | | | | | interference. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+------------+
Table A.3.2.7.3-2: Test points for Dual-layer Spatial Multiplexing Downlink
Testing
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initial | | | | | | conditions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Note1 | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | for each | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test Number | Reference | Propagation | SNR (dB) | Correlation | | | test point | Conditions | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | LTE-1 | Static | No | N/A | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | LTE-2 | EPA5 | 20 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | LTE-3 | EVA5 | 10 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | LTE-4 | ETU70 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | LTE-5 | ETU300 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | **See Annex | | | | | | B.3 for | | | | | | the** | | | | | | recommended | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | test points | | | | | | is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | B.1.2-1in | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | B.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: In | | | | | | the | | | | | | performance | | | | | | report, the | | | | | | tester | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | for the 'No | | | | | | In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | note: In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | \'no | | | | | | inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | the | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | is expected | | | | | | to be | | | | | | maximal. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | or below. | | | | | | In the | | | | | | latter case | | | | | | it cannot | | | | | | be | | | | | | dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | whether UE | | | | | | l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | or signal | | | | | | generator | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | with | | | | | | respect to | | | | | | EVM, or | | | | | | both | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | to this. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### A.3.2.7.4 Test Description
##### A.3.2.7.4.1 Initial Conditions
Initial conditions are a set of test configurations the UE needs to be tested
in and the steps for the SS to take with the UE to reach the correct
measurement state.
Configurations of PDSCH and PDCCH before measurement are specified in Annex
C.2 of TS 36.521-1 [2].
Test Environment: Normal, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause 4.1.
Frequencies to be tested: Mid Range, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause
4.3.1.2.
1) Connect the SS, the faders and AWGN noise sources to the UE antenna
connectors as shown in TS 36.508 [11] Annex A, Figure A.10 for antenna
configuration 2x2.
2) Connect an application server to the IP output of the SS configured with a
FTP server.
3) For a tethered configuration, tether the UE to a laptop configured with FTP
client software using the appropriate UE to PC interface Modem or Network
Interface Connection (NIC) drivers. For an embedded configuration, ensure that
the UE has an FTP client test application available.
4) The parameter settings for the cell are set up according to Tables A.3.1-3
and A.3.2.7.3-1 as appropriate.
5) Downlink signals are initially set up according to Annex C0, C.1 and Annex
C.3.2 in TS 36.521-1 [2] and uplink signals according to Annex H.1 and H.3.2
in TS 36.521-1 [2].
6) Propagation conditions are set according to Annex B.0 in TS 36.521-1 [2].
##### A.3.2.7.4.2 Procedure
1) SS transmits PDSCH via PDCCH DCI format 2B for C_RNTI to transmit the DL
data using the transport format and transport block size determined based on
UE reported CQI as described in sub-clause B.2.2.1.
2) Set the parameters of the bandwidth, MCS, reference channel, the
propagation condition, the correlation matrix, antenna configuration and the
SNR according to Table A.3.2.7.3-2, as appropriate.
3) Using the FTP client, begin FTP download from the application server of a
file sufficient in size for the test duration outlined in Table A.3.1-1 and
record Throughput T result. (This is iteration 1)
4) Repeat transfer for iterations 2-5 within the same call as the first
iteration.
5) Calculate and record the average throughput of the five iterations.
6) Count and record the overall number of ACK and NACK/DTX on the PUSCH/PUCCH
during the test interval.
7) If the RRC connection setup needs to be re-established after the subtest,
perform the initial call setup in accordance with the initial conditions in
clause A.3.2.7.4.1.
8) Repeat steps 1 to 6 for each subtest in Table A.3.2.7.3-2, as appropriate.
9) Record the IP address type (IPv4 or IPv6) used during the file transfers.
## A.3.3 LTE / UDP Downlink Performance
### A.3.3.1 LTE / UDP Downlink / PDSCH Single Antenna Port Performance (Cell-
Specific Reference Symbols)
#### A.3.3.1.1 Definition
The UE application layer downlink performance for UDP under different multi-
path fading environments is determined by the UE application layer UDP
throughput T.
#### A.3.3.1.2 Test Purpose
To measure the performance of the UE while downloading TCP based data within
both static and multi path faded environments.
#### A.3.3.1.3 Test Parameters
Test parameters are defined in Table A.3.3.1.3**-1 and** A.3.3.1.3**-2.**
Table A.3.3.1.3-1: Test Parameters for SIMO Downlink Testing
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Unit | All Tests | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Downlink power | {w | | | | | idth="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.1972222 | | | | | 2222222222in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | idth="0.188888 | | | | | 88888888888in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.1972222 | | | | | 2222222222in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ${\ha | dBm/15kHz | -85 (Note 2) | | | t{E}}_{s}$**at | | | | | antenna port** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | {w | | | | | idth="0.273611 | | | | | 11111111114in" | | | | | heigh | | | | | t="0.235416666 | | | | | 66666666in"}at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmission | | 1 | | | mode | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reporting | ms | FDD: N~pd~ = 5 | | | periodicity | | | | | | | TDD: N~pd~ = | | | | | 10 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _cqi-pmi-Confi | | FDD: 4 | | | gurationIndex_ | | | | | | | TDD: 8 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CQI delay | ms | 8 for FDD | | | | | | | | | | 10 for TDD | | | | | (Note 3) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reporting mode | | PUCCH 1-0 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | {w | | | | | idth="0.415972 | | | | | 22222222224in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.1972222 | | | | | 2222222222in"} | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | $ | | | | | {\hat{E}}_{s}$ | | | | | is applied to | | | | | only Test | | | | | Number 1 in | | | | | Table | | | | | A.3.3.1.3-2: | | | | | Test points | | | | | for SIMO | | | | | Downlink | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the | | | | | UE reports in | | | | | an available | | | | | uplink | | | | | reporting | | | | | instance at | | | | | subframe SF#n | | | | | based on CQI | | | | | estimation at | | | | | a downlink | | | | | subframe not | | | | | later than | | | | | SF#(n-4), | | | | | this reported | | | | | wideband CQI | | | | | cannot be | | | | | applied at the | | | | | eNB downlink | | | | | before | | | | | SF#(n+4). | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: Not | | | | | applicable to | | | | | tests with | | | | | static | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions | | | | | with no | | | | | interference. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table A.3.3.1.3-2: Test points for SIMO Downlink Testing
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initial | | | | | | conditions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Note1 | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | for each | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test Number | Reference | Propagation | SNR (dB) | Correlation | | | test point | Conditions | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | LTE-1 | Static | No | N/A | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | LTE-2 | EPA5 | 20 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | LTE-3 | EVA5 | 10 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | LTE-4 | ETU70 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | LTE-5 | ETU300 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | **See Annex | | | | | | B.3 for | | | | | | the** | | | | | | recommended | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | test points | | | | | | is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | B.1.2-1in | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | B.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: In | | | | | | the | | | | | | performance | | | | | | report, the | | | | | | tester | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | for the 'No | | | | | | In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | note: In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | \'no | | | | | | inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | the | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | is expected | | | | | | to be | | | | | | maximal. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | or below. | | | | | | In the | | | | | | latter case | | | | | | it cannot | | | | | | be | | | | | | dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | whether UE | | | | | | l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | or signal | | | | | | generator | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | with | | | | | | respect to | | | | | | EVM, or | | | | | | both | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | to this. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### A.3.3.1.4 Test Description
##### A.3.3.1.4.1 Initial Conditions
Initial conditions are a set of test configurations the UE needs to be tested
in and the steps for the SS to take with the UE to reach the correct
measurement state.
Configurations of PDSCH and PDCCH before measurement are specified in Annex
C.2 of TS 36.521-1 [2].
Test Environment: Normal, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause 4.1.
Frequencies to be tested: Mid Range, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause
4.3.1.1 for FDD and 4.3.1.2 for TDD.
1) Connect the SS, the faders and AWGN noise sources to the UE antenna
connectors as shown in TS 36.508 [11] Annex A, Figure A.9 for antenna
configuration 2x2.
2) Connect an application server to the IP output of the SS configured with a
UDP server.
3) For a tethered configuration, tether the UE to a laptop configured with UDP
client software using the appropriate UE to PC interface Modem or Network
Interface Connection (NIC) drivers. For an embedded configuration, ensure that
the UE has an UDP client test application available.
4) The parameter settings for the cell are set up according to Tables A.3.1-2,
A.3.1-3 and A.3.3.1.3-1 as appropriate.
5) Downlink signals are initially set up according to Annex C0, C.1 and Annex
C.3.2 in TS 36.521-1 [2] and uplink signals according to Annex H.1 and H.3.2
in TS 36.521-1 [2].
6) Propagation conditions are set according to Annex B.0 in TS 36.521-1 [2].
##### A.3.3.1.4.2 Procedure
1) SS transmits PDSCH via PDCCH DCI format 1A for C_RNTI to transmit the DL
data using the transport format and transport block size determined based on
UE reported CQI as described in subclause B.2.2.1.
2) Set the parameters of the bandwidth, MCS, reference channel, the
propagation condition, the correlation matrix, antenna configuration and the
SNR according to Table A.3.3.1.3-2, as appropriate.
3) Using the UDP client, begin UDP download from the application server of a
file sufficient in size for the test duration outlined in Table A.3.1-1 and
record Throughput T result. (This is iteration 1)
4) Repeat transfer for iterations 2-5 within the same call as the first
iteration.
5) Calculate and record the average throughput of the five iterations.
6) Count and record the overall number of ACK and NACK/DTX on the PUSCH/PUCCH
during the test interval.
7) If the RRC connection setup needs to be re-established after the subtest,
perform the initial call setup in accordance with the initial conditions in
clause A.3.3.1.4.1.
8) Repeat steps 1 to 6 for each subtest in Table A.3.3.1.3-2, as appropriate.
9) Record the IP address type (IPv4 or IPv6) used during the file transfers.
### A.3.3.2 LTE / UDP Downlink / PDSCH Transmit Diversity Performance (Cell-
Specific Reference Symbols)
#### A.3.3.2.1 Definition
The UE application layer downlink performance for UDP under different multi-
path fading environments is determined by the UE application layer UDP
throughput T.
#### A.3.3.2.2 Test Purpose
To measure the performance of the UE while downloading TCP based data within
both static and multi path faded environments.
#### A.3.3.2.3 Test Parameters
Test parameters are defined in Table A.3.3.3**-1 and** A.3.3.3**-2.**
Table A.3.3.2.3-1: Test Parameters for TxDiversity Downlink Testing
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Unit | All Tests | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Downlink power | | | | | | {width="0.19722 | | | | | 222222222222in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | | | | {width="0.18888 | | | | | 888888888888in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | ${\h | dBm/15kHz | -85 (Note 2) | | | at{E}}_{s}$**at | | | | | antenna port** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | | | {width="0.27361 | | | | | 111111111114in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.23541666 | | | | | 666666666in"}at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Transmission | | 2 | | | mode | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Reporting | ms | FDD: N~pd~ = 5 | | | periodicity | | | | | | | TDD: N~pd~ = 10 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | _cqi-pmi-Conf | | FDD: 4 | | | igurationIndex_ | | | | | | | TDD: 8 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | CQI delay | Ms | 8 for FDD | | | | | | | | | | 10 for TDD | | | | | (Note 3) | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Reporting mode | | PUCCH 1-0 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | {width="0.3770 | | | | | 833333333333in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | ${\hat{E}}_{s}$ | | | | | is applied to | | | | | only Test | | | | | Number 1 in | | | | | Table | | | | | A.3.3.2.3-2: | | | | | Test points for | | | | | TxDiversity | | | | | Downlink | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the | | | | | UE reports in | | | | | an available | | | | | uplink | | | | | reporting | | | | | instance at | | | | | subframe SF#n | | | | | based on CQI | | | | | estimation at a | | | | | downlink | | | | | subframe not | | | | | later than | | | | | SF#(n-4), this | | | | | reported | | | | | wideband CQI | | | | | cannot be | | | | | applied at the | | | | | eNB downlink | | | | | before | | | | | SF#(n+4). | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: Not | | | | | applicable to | | | | | tests with | | | | | static | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions with | | | | | no | | | | | interference. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table A.3.3.2.3-2: Test points for TxDiversity Downlink Testing
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initial | | | | | | conditions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Note1 | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | for each | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test Number | Reference | Propagation | SNR (dB) | Correlation | | | test point | Conditions | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | LTE-1 | Static | No | N/A | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | LTE-2 | EPA5 | 20 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | LTE-3 | EVA5 | 10 | Mid | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | LTE-4 | ETU70 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | LTE-5 | ETU300 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | **See Annex | | | | | | B.3 for | | | | | | the** | | | | | | recommended | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | test points | | | | | | is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | B.1.2-1in | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | B.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: In | | | | | | the | | | | | | performance | | | | | | report, the | | | | | | tester | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | for the 'No | | | | | | In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | note: In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | \'no | | | | | | inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | the | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | is expected | | | | | | to be | | | | | | maximal. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | or below. | | | | | | In the | | | | | | latter case | | | | | | it cannot | | | | | | be | | | | | | dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | whether UE | | | | | | l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | or signal | | | | | | generator | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | with | | | | | | respect to | | | | | | EVM, or | | | | | | both | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | to this. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### A.3.3.2.4 Test Description
##### A.3.3.2.4.1 Initial Conditions
Initial conditions are a set of test configurations the UE needs to be tested
in and the steps for the SS to take with the UE to reach the correct
measurement state.
Configurations of PDSCH and PDCCH before measurement are specified in Annex
C.2 of TS 36.521-1 [2].
Test Environment: Normal, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause 4.1.
Frequencies to be tested: Mid Range, as defined in TS 36.508 [11] clause
4.3.1.1 for FDD and 4.3.1.2 for TDD.
1) Connect the SS, the faders and AWGN noise sources to the UE antenna
connectors as shown in TS 36.508 [11] Annex A, Figure A.10 for antenna
configuration 2x2.
2) Connect an application server to the IP output of the SS configured with a
UDP server.
3) For a tethered configuration, tether the UE to a laptop configured with UDP
client software using the appropriate UE to PC interface Modem or Network
Interface Connection (NIC) drivers. For an embedded configuration, ensure that
the UE has an UDP client test application available.
4) The parameter settings for the cell are set up according to Tables A.3.1-2,
A.3.1-3 and A.3.3.2.3-1 as appropriate.
5) Downlink signals are initially set up according to Annex C0, C.1 and Annex
C.3.2 in TS 36.521-1 [2] and uplink signals according to Annex H.1 and H.3.2
in TS 36.521-1 [2].
6) Propagation conditions are set according to Annex B.0 in TS 36.521-1 [2].
##### A.3.3.2.4.2 Procedure
1) SS transmits PDSCH via PDCCH DCI format 1A for C_RNTI to transmit the DL
data using the transport format and transport block size determined based on
UE reported CQI as described in subclause B.2.2.1.
2) Set the parameters of the bandwidth, MCS, reference channel, the
propagation condition, the correlation matrix, antenna configuration and the
SNR according to Table A.3.3.2.3-2, as appropriate.
3) Using the UDP client, begin UDP download from the application server of a
file sufficient in size for the test duration outlined in Table A.3.1-1 and
record Throughput T result. (This is iteration 1)
4) Repeat transfer for iterations 2-5 within the same call as the first
iteration.
5) Calculate and record the average throughput of the five iterations.
6) Count and record the overall number of ACK and NACK/DTX on the PUSCH/PUCCH
during the test interval.
7) If the RRC connection setup needs to be re-established after the subtest,
perform the initial call setup in accordance with the initial conditions in
clause A.3.3.2.4.1.
8) Repeat steps 1 to 6 for each subtest in Table A.3.3.2.3-2, as appropriate.
9) Record the IP address type (IPv4 or IPv6) used during the file transfers.
### A.3.3.3 LTE / UDP Downlink / PDSCH Open Loop Spatial Multiplexing
Performance (Cell-Specific Reference Symbols)
#### A.3.3.3.1 Definition
The UE application layer downlink performance for UDP under different multi-
path fading environments is determined by the UE application layer UDP
throughput T.
#### A.3.3.3.2 Test Purpose
To measure the performance of the UE while downloading TCP based data within
both static and multi path faded environments.
#### A.3.3.3.3 Test Parameters
Test parameters are defined in Table A.3.3.3**-1 and** A.3.3.3**-2.**
Table A.3.3.3.3-1: Test Parameters for Open Loop Spatial Multiplexing Downlink
Testing
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Unit | All Tests | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Downlink power | | | | | | {width="0.19722 | | | | | 222222222222in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | | | | {width="0.18888 | | | | | 888888888888in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | ${\h | dBm/15kHz | -85 (Note 2) | | | at{E}}_{s}$**at | | | | | antenna port** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | | | {width="0.27361 | | | | | 111111111114in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.23541666 | | | | | 666666666in"}at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Transmission | | 3 | | | mode | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Reporting | ms | FDD: N~pd~ = 5 | | | periodicity | | | | | | | TDD: N~pd~ = 10 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | _cqi-pmi-Conf | | FDD: 4 | | | igurationIndex_ | | | | | | | TDD: 8 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | _ri-Co | | FDD: 1 (Note 4) | | | nfigurationInd_ | | | | | | | TDD: 5 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | CQI delay | ms | 8 for FDD | | | | | | | | | | 10 for TDD | | | | | (Note 3) | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Reporting mode | | PUCCH 1-0 | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | CodeBookSu | | 11 | | | bsetRestriction | | | | | bitmap | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | {width="0.3770 | | | | | 833333333333in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.197222 | | | | | 22222222222in"} | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | ${\hat{E}}_{s}$ | | | | | is applied to | | | | | only Test | | | | | Number 1 in | | | | | Table | | | | | A.3.3.3.3-2: | | | | | Test points for | | | | | Open Loop | | | | | Spatial | | | | | Multiplexing | | | | | Downlink | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the | | | | | UE reports in | | | | | an available | | | | | uplink | | | | | reporting | | | | | instance at | | | | | subframe SF#n | | | | | based on and | | | | | CQI estimation | | | | | at a downlink | | | | | subframe not | | | | | later than | | | | | SF#(n-4), this | | | | | reported | | | | | wideband CQI | | | | | cannot be | | | | | applied at the | | | | | eNB downlink | | | | | before | | | | | SF#(n+4). | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: To | | | | | avoid the | | | | | ambiguity of SS | | | | | behaviour when | | | | | applying CQI | | | | | and PMI during | | | | | rank switching, | | | | | RI reports are | | | | | to be applied | | | | | at the SS with | | | | | one subframe | | | | | delay in | | | | | addition to | | | | | Note 3 to align | | | | | with CQI | | | | | reports. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: Not | | | | | applicable to | | | | | tests with | | | | | static | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions with | | | | | no | | | | | interference. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table A.3.3.3.3-2: Test points for Open Loop Spatial Multiplexing Downlink
Testing
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initial | | | | | | conditions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Note1 | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | for each | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test Number | Reference | Propagation | SNR (dB) | Correlation | | | test point | Conditions | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | LTE-1 | Static | No | N/A | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | LTE-6 | EVA70 | 20 (Note 4) | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | LTE-7 | EVA200 | 20 (Note 5) | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | LTE-2 | EPA5 | 20 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | LTE-3 | EVA5 | 10 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | LTE-4 | ETU70 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | LTE-5 | ETU300 | 0 | Low | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | **See Annex | | | | | | B.3 for | | | | | | the** | | | | | | recommended | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | test point | | | | | | is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | B.1.2-1i n | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | B.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | > Note 3: | | | | | | > In the | | | | | | > | | | | | | performance | | | | | | > report, | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > tester | | | | | | > shall | | | | | | > indicate | | | | | | > for the | | | | | | > 'No | | | | | | > In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | > | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > following | | | | | | > note: In | | | | | | > case of | | | | | | > \'no | | | | | | > inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | > is | | | | | | > expected | | | | | | > to be | | | | | | > maximal. | | | | | | > This may | | | | | | > be the | | | | | | > maximum | | | | | | > | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | > | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | > or below. | | | | | | > In the | | | | | | > latter | | | | | | > case it | | | | | | > cannot be | | | | | | > dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | > whether | | | | | | > UE | | | | | | > l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | > or signal | | | | | | > generator | | | | | | > | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | > with | | | | | | > respect | | | | | | > to EVM, | | | | | | > or both | | | | | | > | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | > to this. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: The | | | | | | test point | | | | | | to be run | | | | | | on Low | | | | | | freque | | | | | | ncy(\ Note 3: | | | | | | > In the | | | | | | > | | | | | | performance | | | | | | > report, | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > tester | | | | | | > shall | | | | | | > indicate | | | | | | > for the | | | | | | > 'No | | | | | | > In | | | | | | terference' | | | | | | > | | | | | | condition, | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > following | | | | | | > note: In | | | | | | > case of | | | | | | > \'no | | | | | | > inte | | | | | | rference\', | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | > is | | | | | | > expected | | | | | | > to be | | | | | | > maximal. | | | | | | > This may | | | | | | > be the | | | | | | > maximum | | | | | | > | | | | | | theoretical | | | | | | > | | | | | | throughput | | | | | | > or below. | | | | | | > In the | | | | | | > latter | | | | | | > case it | | | | | | > cannot be | | | | | | > dis | | | | | | tinguished, | | | | | | > whether | | | | | | > UE | | | | | | > l | | | | | | imitations, | | | | | | > or signal | | | | | | > generator | | | | | | > | | | | | | limitations | | | | | | > with | | | | | | > respect | | | | | | > to EVM, | | | | | | > or both | | | | | | > | | | | | | contribute | | | | | | > to this. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: The | | | | | | test point | | | | | | to be run | | | | | | on Low | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | (\ C01 IF (D.3.3.1-1/3 OR D.3.3.1-1/4) AND D.3.3.1-2/1 AND | | > (D.3.4.1-1/1 OR D.3.4.1-1/2) THEN R ELSE N/A | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > C02 IF (D.3.3.1-1/3 OR D.3.3.1-1/4) AND D.3.3.1-2/2 AND | | > (D.3.4.1-1/1 OR D.3.4.1-1/2) THEN R ELSE N/A | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > C03 IF D.3.3.1-1/3 AND (D.3.3.1-2/1 AND D.3.3.1-2/2) AND | | > (D.3.4.1-1/1 OR D.3.4.1-1/2) THEN R ELSE N/A | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > C04 IF (D.3.3.1-1/1 OR D.3.3.1-1/2) AND D.3.3.1-2/1 AND | | > (D.3.4.1-1/1 OR D.3.4.1-1/2) THEN R ELSE N/A | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > C05 IF (D.3.3.1-1/1 OR D.3.3.1-1/2) AND D.3.3.1-2/2 AND | | > (D.3.4.1-1/1 OR D.3.4.1-1/2) THEN R ELSE N/A | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > C06 IF (D.3.3.1-1/1 OR D.3.3.1-1/2) AND (D.3.3.1-2/1 AND | | > D.3.3.1-2/2) AND (D.3.4.1-1/1 OR D.3.4.1-1/2) THEN R ELSE N/A | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > C07 IF (D.3.3.1-1/1 OR D.3.3.1-1/2) AND D.3.3.1-2/1 AND | | > (D.3.4.1-1/1 OR D.3.4.1-1/2) AND (NOT D.3.3.3-2/1) THEN R ELSE N/A | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > C08 IF (D.3.3.1-1/1 OR D.3.3.1-1/2) AND (D.3.3.1-2/1 AND | | > D.3.3.1-2/2) AND (D.3.4.1-1/1 OR D.3.4.1-1/2) AND (NOT | | > D.3.3.3-1/1) AND (NOT D.3.3.3-2/1) THEN R ELSE N/A | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Table D.2-1b: Number of TC Executions - Notes
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > Note 1: For HSPA the measurement procedures as specified in Annex | | > A of this TR are transparent to which operating band is used for | | > the measurements therefore it is recommended that the TC is | | > executed once in one supported UTRA Band. See TS 34.121-1 section | | > D.2.2 for any FDD Band related differences that may need to be | | > taken into account. If the UE supports both Tethered and Embedded | | > configuration one execution in each configuration in a chosen band | | > should be performed. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > Note 2: For EPS the measurement procedures as specified in Annex A | | > of this TR are transparent to which operating band and to which | | > channel bandwidth is used for the measurements therefore it is | | > recommended that the TC is executed once in the supported E-UTRA | | > Band with the highest maximum channel bandwidth. If the UE | | > supports both Tethered and Embedded configuration one execution in | | > each configuration in a chosen band should be performed. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
## D.3 ICS / IXIT proforma
### D.3.1 General
#### D.3.1.1 Introduction
The purposes of an ICS and IXIT proformas are to provide mechanism whereby a
supplier of an implementation of the requirements defined in relevant
specifications may provide information about the implementation in regard to
protocol capabilities or extra information needed for testing in a
standardised manner.
Due to the nature of the present document a complete ICS proforma is not
specified and instead only the ICS proforma tables needed for the TC
applicability defined in D.2 are included. If such might be needed by an
implementation supplier or an organisation that may like to conduct UE
Application Layer Data Throughput Performance assessment an example of the
parts of a complete ICS proforma omitted here can be found e.g. in TS
36.523-2.
#### D.3.1.2 Abbreviations and conventions
The partial ICS / IXIT proforma contained in this annex is comprised of
information in tabular form with the meaning of the separate table columns as
follows:
##### Item column {#item-column .H6}
The item column contains a number which identifies the item in the table.
##### Item description column {#item-description-column .H6}
The item description column describes in free text each respective item (e.g.
parameters, timers, etc.). It implicitly means \"is \
supported by the implementation?\".
##### Reference column {#reference-column .H6}
The reference column gives reference to the relevant 3GPP core specifications.
##### Release column {#release-column .H6}
The release column indicates the earliest release from which the capability or
option is relevant.
##### Mnemonic column {#mnemonic-column .H6}
The Mnemonic column contains mnemonic identifiers for each item.
##### Comments column {#comments-column .H6}
This column is left blank for particular use by the reader of the present
document.
##### References to items {#references-to-items .H6}
For each possible item answer (answer in the support column) within the ICS
proforma there exists a unique reference, used, for example, in the
conditional expressions. It is defined as the table identifier, followed by a
solidus character \"/\", followed by the item number in the table. If there is
more than one support column in a table, the columns shall be discriminated by
letters (a, b, etc.), respectively.
#### D.3.1.3 Instructions for completing the ICS proforma
The supplier of the implementation may complete the ICS proforma in each of
the spaces provided. More detailed instructions are given at the beginning of
the different clauses of the ICS proforma.
### D.3.2 Identification of the protocol
This ICS proforma applies to the 3GPP standards listed in the normative
references clause of the present document.
### D.3.3 ICS proforma tables
#### D.3.3.1 UE Implementation Types
Table D.3.3.1-1: UE Radio Technologies
* * *
Item UE Radio Technologies Ref. Release Mnemonics Comments 1 E-UTRA FDD 36.101
Rel-8 pc_eFDD  
2 E-UTRA TDD 36.101 Rel-8 pc_eTDD  
3 UTRA FDD 25.101 Rel-5 pc_FDD  
4 UTRA TDD 25.102 Rel-7 pc_TDD
* * *
Table D.3.3.1-2: UE Internet Protocol Technologies
* * *
Item Internet Protocol Technologies Ref. Release Comments 1 FTP RFC 959 n/a  
2 UDP RFC 768 n/a
* * *
#### D.3.3.2 UE UTRA related capabilities
Table D.3.3.2-1: Layer 1 UE Radio Access Capabilities
* * *
Item Layer 1 UE Radio Access Capabilities Ref. Release Comments 1 Support of
HS-PDSCH 25.306, 4.5.3 Rel-5  
2 UTRA FDD Support of E-DPDCH 25.306, 4.5.4 Rel-6  
3 UTRA TDD Support of E-PUCH 25.306, 4.5.6 Rel-7 Applicable for 3.84 Mcps and
1.28 Mcps and 7.68 Mcps
* * *
Table D.3.3.2-2: UEs HS-DSCH category
* * *
Item UE HS-DSCH Category Ref. Release Comments 1 Category 1 25.306, 5.1 Rel-6  
2 Category 2 25.306, 5.1 Rel-6  
3 Category 3 25.306, 5.1 Rel-6  
4 Category 4 25.306, 5.1 Rel-5  
5 Category 5 25.306, 5.1 Rel-5  
6 Category 6 25.306, 5.1 Rel-5  
7 Category 7 25.306, 5.1 Rel-5  
8 Category 8 25.306, 5.1 Rel-5  
9 Category 9 25.306, 5.1 Rel-5  
10 Category 10 25.306, 5.1 Rel-5  
11 Category 11 25.306, 5.1 Rel-5  
12 Category 12 25.306, 5.1 Rel-5  
13 Category 13 25.306, 5.1 Rel-7  
14 Category 14 25.306, 5.1 Rel-7  
15 Category 15 25.306, 5.1 Rel-7  
16 Category 16 25.306, 5.1 Rel-7  
17 Category 17 25.306, 5.1 Rel-7  
18 Category 18 25.306, 5.1 Rel-7  
19 Category 19 25.306, 5.1 Rel-8  
20 Category 20 25.306, 5.1 Rel-8  
21 Category 21 25.306, 5.1 Rel-8  
22 Category 22 25.306, 5.1 Rel-8  
23 Category 23 25.306, 5.1 Rel-8  
24 Category 24 25.306, 5.1 Rel-8  
25 Category 25 25.306, 5.1 Rel-9  
26 Category 26 25.306, 5.1 Rel-9  
27 Category 27 25.306, 5.1 Rel-9  
28 Category 28 25.306, 5.1 Rel-9
* * *
Table D.3.3.2-3: UEs receiver design type
* * *
Item UEs receiver design type Ref. Release Comments 1 Enhanced performance
requirements type 1 for HSDPA 25.101, 9 Rel-6 **UEs which utilise receiver
diversity** 2 Enhanced performance requirements type 2 25.101, 9 Rel-6 **UEs
which utilise a chip equaliser receiver structure** 3 Enhanced performance
requirements type 3 25.101, 9 Rel-7 **UEs which utilise a chip equaliser
receiver structure with receiver diversity**
* * *
#### D.3.3.3 UE E-UTRA related capabilities
Table D.3.3.3-1: PUSCH physical layer Categories
* * *
Item PUSCH physical layer categories Ref. Release Comments 1 Category 1
36.306, 4.1 Rel-8  
2 Category 2 36.306, 4.1 Rel-8  
3 Category 3 36.306, 4.1 Rel-8  
4 Category 4 36.306, 4.1 Rel-8  
5 Category 5 36.306, 4.1 Rel-8 Support for 64QAM in UL
* * *
Table D.3.3.3-2: PDSCH physical layer Categories
* * *
Item PDSCH physical layer categories Ref. Release Comments 1 Category 1
36.306, 4.1 Rel-8  
2 Category 2 36.306, 4.1 Rel-8  
3 Category 3 36.306, 4.1 Rel-8  
4 Category 4 36.306, 4.1 Rel-8  
5 Category 5 36.306, 4.1 Rel-8
* * *
### D.3.4 IXIT proforma tables
#### D.3.4.1 UE data configuration capabilities types
Table D.3.4.1-1: UE data configuration capabilities types
* * *
Item UE data configuration types Ref. Release Mnemonics Comments 1 Tethered
Data C.2.1 n/a px_Tethered  
2 Embedded data C.2.2 n/a px_Embedded
* * *
###### ## Annex E: Embedded Data Client Automation Recommendations
_Editor's Note: The following aspects are either missing or not yet
determined:_
\- It is for further study to determine if any additional items are required
to be provisioned prior to command interface establishment.
\- The command set and test parameters that are needed for automation of
embedded data throughput performance in TR 37.901 are missing.
\- The fields required to support result reporting are missing.
# E.1 Purpose of annex
This annex identifies the recommendations and details concerning a common
application interface to allow for automation of testing for the UE
Application Layer Data Throughput Performance test procedures that utilize an
embedded data client.
# E.2 Embedded Data Client Automation
## E.2.1 Embedded Data Client Functionality
The following functionality is recommended for the embedded data client to
support automation.
\- The application may start automatically on device power-up or reset. If the
application does not support this feature, the operator manually starts the
application at the beginning of the test campaign.
\- The application automatically sets up a data call using the expected radio
bearer that is used for test and establishes a connection to the test server.
\- The application may periodically poll the test server with the Poll for
Task command when not actively performing a task to determine if the test
server has a new task.
\- The application will be informed by the test server about the task list to
be performed either in response to the Poll for Task command or via a command
that is pushed to the application from the test server.
\- The application should not send, or limits as much as possible, any
commands, responses and status updates during a measurement unless the time-
out period has expired so that the UE application layer data throughput
results are not impacted. If the application does send limited updates, the
downlink and uplink performance loss should be declared in the test results
and should not exceed 0.4 kbps.
\- The application should listen for commands at all times so that the test
server can interrupt the measurement.
## E.2.2 Embedded Data Client Provisioning
The embedded data client may provide a mechanism to provision common
parameters required for interfacing with test systems. The following captures
aspects that should be considered if the application provides for such
provisioning.
\- Provisioning of the data client does not need to be automated.
\- A manual interface or parameter file approach could be used. Instructions
for operation should be provided.
\- The items expected to be provisioned prior to command interface
establishment are as follows:
\- IP address and port number, if necessary, for the test server
\- Poll for Task Command Polling Period (if the polling approach is used, this
may be a configurable item or a hardcoded value)
\- FFS
If certain parameters are hard-coded, these parameters should be documented to
allow for the test systems to be properly configured.
## E.2.3 Embedded Data Client Command Set and Operation
The embedded data client should use the specified command set and follow the
operational structure defined in this clause.
#### E.2.3.1 Poll for Task Command
The embedded data client application may make use of a polling mechanism to
query the test server for tasks to perform. If polling is used, the following
instructions apply.
The Poll for Task command shall be substantiated with FFS.
If there is no task for the application to perform, an FFS error is returned.
The application shall start its Waiting for Task Polling Period timer. When
the timer expires, another Poll for Task command shall be sent.
If there is a task for the application to perform, the test server may return
an FFS.
#### E.2.3.2 Task List
The test server will deliver a task list to the application. The task list
will be delivered over the IP connection using HTTP(S) or raw TCP. The task
list can contain multiple tasks that are listed sequentially for the
application to execute or can also contain a single task. The format for the
task list is XML for ASCII text string.
For each task, the following lists the valid parameters and valid strings for
each parameter. The list of items should be considered as logical
representations of the required parameters and content. The actual syntax may
vary. The instructions for the application should provide the recommended
usage for each particular test type.
\- FFS
If the requested task list is unknown to the application, the application may
ignore it or return an error of FFS. The application will then go back to a
waiting for command state.
#### E.2.3.3 Result Reporting
Upon completion of the specified test sequence, the application shall upload
the test results to the test server over the IP connection using HTTP(S) POST
or raw TCP.
The result files shall be in CSV or XML format. The fields required to support
result reporting are FFS.
###### ## Annex F: Measurement Channels
# F.1 Purpose of annex
FFS.
# F.2 UL reference measurement channels
## F.2.1 FDD
Table F.2.1-1: Reference Channels for maximal UL throughput for FDD
* * *
Parameter Ch BW Allocated RBs DFT-OFDM Symbols per Sub-Frame Mod'n Target
Coding rate Payload size Transport block CRC Number of code blocks per Sub-
Frame (Note 1) Total number of bits per Sub-Frame Total symbols per Sub-Frame
Supported by UE Category Unit MHz Bits Bits Bits  
1.4 6 12 16QAM 3/4 2600 24 1 3456 864 ≥ 1 3 12 12 16QAM 3/4 5160 24 1 6912
1728 ≥ 1 3 15 12 16QAM 3/4 6456 24 2 8640 2160 ≥ 2 5 12 12 16QAM 3/4 5160 24 1
6912 1728 ≥ 1 5 25 12 16QAM 3/4 10680 24 2 14400 3600 ≥ 2 10 12 12 16QAM 3/4
5160 24 1 6912 1728 ≥ 1 10 50 12 16QAM 3/4 21384 24 4 28800 7200 ≥ 2 15 12 12
16QAM 3/4 5160 24 1 6912 1728 ≥ 1 15 60 12 16QAM 3/4 25456 24 5 34560 8640 ≥ 2
15 75 12 16QAM 3/4 32856 24 6 43200 10800 ≥ 3 20 12 12 16QAM 3/4 5160 24 1
6912 1728 ≥ 1 20 60 12 16QAM 3/4 25456 24 5 34560 8640 ≥ 2 20 100 12 16QAM 3/4
43816 24 6 57600 14400 ≥ 3 Note 1: If more than one Code Block is present, an
additional CRC sequence of L = 24 Bits is attached to each Code Block
(otherwise L = 0 Bit)
* * *
## F.2.2 TDD
Table F.2.2-1: Reference Channels for maximal UL throughput for TDD
Parameter | Ch BW | Allocated RBs | DFT-OFDM Symbols per Sub-Frame | Mod’n | Target Coding rate (Note 2) | Payload size (Note 2) | Transport block CRC | Number of code blocks per Sub-Frame (Note 1, 2) | Total number of bits per Sub-Frame (Note 2) | Total symbols per Sub-Frame (Note 2) | Supported by UE Category  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Unit** | **MHz** |  |  |  |  | **Bits** | **Bits** |  | **Bits** |  |   
| 1.4 | 6 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 2600 | 24 | 1 | 3456 | 864 | ≥ 1  
| 3 | 12 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 5160 | 24 | 1 | 6912 | 1728 | ≥ 1  
| 3 | 15 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 6456 | 24 | 2 | 8640 | 2160 | ≥ 2  
| 5 | 12 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 5160 | 24 | 1 | 6912 | 1728 | ≥ 1  
| 5 | 25 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 10680 | 24 | 2 | 14400 | 3600 | ≥ 2  
| 10 | 12 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 5160 | 24 | 1 | 6912 | 1728 | ≥ 1  
| 10 | 50 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 21384 | 24 | 4 | 28800 | 7200 | ≥ 2  
| 15 | 12 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 5160 | 24 | 1 | 6912 | 1728 | ≥ 1  
| 15 | 60 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 25456 | 24 | 5 | 34560 | 8640 | ≥ 2  
| 15 | 75 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 32856 | 24 | 6 | 43200 | 10800 | ≥ 3  
| 20 | 12 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 5160 | 24 | 1 | 6912 | 1728 | ≥ 1  
| 20 | 60 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 25456 | 24 | 5 | 34560 | 8640 | ≥ 2  
| 20 | 100 | 12 | 16QAM | 3/4 | 43816 | 24 | 6 | 57600 | 14400 | ≥ 3  
Note 1: If more than one Code Block is present, an additional CRC sequence of L = 24 Bits is attached to each Code Block (otherwise L = 0 Bit) Note 2: For uplink subframes according to UL-DL configuration as per Table 4.2-2 in TS 36.211 [9] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#