# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This clause is optional. If it exists, it is always the second unnumbered
clause.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report for the Work Item on Base Station
(BS) Radio Frequency (RF) requirements for Active Antenna System (AAS), which
was approved at TSG RAN#59. The present document captures the background and
the decisions on the specification of RF requirements that are applicable to
AAS BS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 37.840: \"Study of Radio Frequency (RF) and Electromagnetic
Compatibility (EMC) requirements for Active Antenna Array System (AAS) base
station".
[3] RP-130373: "Base Station (BS) RF requirements for Active Antenna System
(AAS)"
[4] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"UTRA Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[5] 3GPP TR 36.942: \"E-UTRA Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.104: "Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.104: "E-UTRA Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception".
[8] 3GPP TS 37.104: E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE Multi-Standard Radio (MSR) Base
Station (BS) radio transmission and reception".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.104: "Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.141: "Base Station (BS) conformance testing (FDD)".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.142: "Base Station (BS) conformance testing (TDD)".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.141: "E-UTRA Base Station (BS) conformance testing".
[13] 3GPP TS 37.141: E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE Multi-Standard Radio (MSR) Base
Station (BS) conformance testing".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Active Antenna System:** a BS system which combines an Antenna Array with an
Active Transceiver Unit Array. An AAS may include a Radio Distribution
Network.
**AAS beam** : An AAS beam is a beam created by means of a superposition of
the signals radiated from different parts of the AAS antenna array.
NOTE: For certain AAS BS, there may be more than one main beam.
**AAS Transceiver Unit Array** : an array of transceiver units which generate
radio signals in the transmit direction and accept radio signals in the
receive direction.
**Array Element:** a subdivision of a passive antenna array, consisting of a
single radiating element or a group of radiating elements, with a fixed
radiation pattern.
**Antenna Array** : a group of radiating elements characterized by the
geometry and the properties of the array elements.
**Array Factor: the radiation pattern of an array antenna when each array
element is considered to radiate isotropically.**
NOTE: When the radiation pattern of individual array elements are identical,
and the array elements are congruent under translation, then the product of
the array factor and the array element radiation pattern gives the radiation
pattern of the entire array.
**Angle of Arrival (AoA):** is the direction of propagation of electromagnetic
wave incident on an AAS array antenna.
**Beam:** A beam (of the antenna) is the main lobe of the radiation pattern of
an antenna array.
> NOTE: For certain AAS antenna array, there may be more than one beam.
**Beam centre direction:** the direction equal to the geometric centre of the
-3 dB EIRP contour of the beam.
**Beam direction** : Data set consisting of the beam centre direction and the
related beam peak direction.
**Beam peak direction:** The direction where the maximum EIRP is found.
**Beam steering** is changing the direction of the beam.
**Beamwidth:** For a beam which has a half-power contour that is essentially
elliptical, the half-power beamwidths in the two pattern cuts that
respectively contain the major and minor axis of the ellipse.
**Boresight: Boresight (of a beam) is** the direction of maximum radiation in
a beam.
**Cell Specific AAS Beam:** Cell specific AAS beam is an AAS beam which is
intended to facilitate communication for multiple UEs within a cell.
Cell Partitioning: the division of coverage in a sector into multiple
subsectors. The subsectors may be divided into the vertical and/or horizontal
plane.
**Directions diagram:** A two dimensional Cartesian diagram showing φ on the
horizontal axis and minus θ on the vertical axis.
**Directivity: the ratio of the radiation intensity in a given direction from
the antenna to the radiation intensity averaged over all directions.**
NOTE: **If the direction is not specified, the direction of maximum radiation
intensity is implied.**
**Downtilt Angle: the angle between the direction of the maximum antenna gain
and the horizontal plane.**
**EIRP accuracy compliance directions set** : A declared continuous or
discrete set of all possible beam directions for the AAS beam where the EIRP
accuracy requirement is intended to be met.
**Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power (EIRP):** In a given direction, the
relative gain of a transmitting antenna with respect to the gain of an
isotropic radiating element multiplied by the net power accepted by the
antenna from the connected transmitter**.**
NOTE: For an AAS BS the EIRP can be seen as the **equivalent power radiated
from an isotropic radiating element, producing the same field intensity as the
field intensity radiated in the declared beam pointing direction of the active
antenna system being considered.**
**Equivalent Isotropic Sensitivity (EIS):** power level relative to an
isotropic antenna that is required to be incident on the AAS array from a
specified azimuth/elevation direction in order to meet a specified receiver
sensitivity requirement.
NOTE: EIS is directly related to field-strength via free-space impedance and
effective aperture antenna area. EIS is expressed as the receiver power that
would be collected by an isotropic antenna if it were subject to a uniform
field around the whole sphere as the AAS array experiences in the specified
azimuth/elevation direction.
**Front-to-Back Ratio: the ratio of maximum directivity of an antenna to its
directivity in a specified rearward direction.**
**Gain: the ratio of the radiation intensity, in a given direction, to the
radiation intensity that would be obtained if the power accepted by the
antenna were radiated isotropically.**
NOTE: **If the direction is not specified, the direction of maximum radiation
intensity is implied.**
**Main lobe: Main lobe is the radiation lobe in the direction of the maximum
radiation power.**
**Half Power Beamwidth** : in a radiation pattern cut containing the direction
of the maximum of a lobe, the angle between two directions in which the
radiation intensity is one-half the maximum value.
**Radiating Element** : a basic building block of an array element
characterized by its radiation properties.
**Radiation Pattern** : the angular distribution of the radiated
electromagnetic field or power level in the far field region.
Radio Distribution Network: a passive network which distributes radio signals
generated by the active transceiver unit array to the antenna array, and/or
distributes the radio signals collected by the antenna array to the active
transceiver unit array.
NOTE: In the case when the active transceiver units are physically integrated
with the array elements of the antenna array, the radio distribution network
is a one-to-one mapping.
**OTA Sensitivity Directions Declaration:** A set of manufacturer declarations
comprising an EIS value and the directions where it applies
**Receiver target:** the angles of arrival in which reception is performed
**Receiver target** **redirection range:** the union of all the sensitivity
RoAoA achievable through redirecting the receiver target related to the OSDD
**Receiver target** **reference direction:** **a direction, inside the
receiver target redirection range declared by the manufacturer for conformance
testing. For an OSDD without receiver target redirection range, this is a
direction inside the sensitivity RoAoA.**
**Reference beam direction:** **A declared beam direction associated with the
beam peak direction which has the intended maximum EIRP within the EIRP
accuracy compliance directions set**
**Sensitivity RoAoA:** **a RoAoA within which the declared EIS of an OSDD is
intended to be achieved at any** instance of time **for a specific AAS BS
direction setting.**
**Side lobe: Side lobe is the** radiation lobe in any direction other than
that of the main lobe.
**Transceiver Unit** : the active unit consisting of transmitter and/or
receiver which transmits and/or receives radio signals, and which may include
passive RF filters
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\
\ \
> {width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} The composite
> antenna array pattern in dB.
>
> {width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} The array
> element pattern in dB.
>
> {width="0.17083333333333334in" height="0.2076388888888889in"} The array
> factor.
>
> {width="0.1527777777777778in" height="0.18055555555555555in"} The azimuth
> angle (defined between -180° and 180°).
>
> {width="0.1388888888888889in" height="0.19375in"} Elevation angle of the
> signal direction (defined between -90° and 90°, 0° represents the direction
> perpendicular to the array).
>
> {width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.18055555555555555in"} The signal
> correlation coefficient.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AA Antenna Array
**AAS Active Antenna System**
**AE Array Element**
> **AoA Angle of Arrival**
**AUT Antenna Under Test**
**EIRP Equivalent Isotropical Radiated Power**
**EIS Equivalent Isotropical Sensitivity**
**EMC Electromagnetic compatibility**
**ISD Inter-Site Distance**
**MCL Minimum Coupling Loss**
**OSDD OTA Sensitivity Direction Declaration**
**OTA Over-the-Air**
**RDN Radio Distribution Network**
**RE Radiating Element**
**RoAoA Range of Angles of Arrival**
**RXU Receiver Unit**
**TXRU Transceiver Unit**
**TXRUA Transceiver Unit Array**
**TXU Transmitter Unit**
**ULA Uniform Linear Array**
**URA Uniform Rectangular Array**
# 4 General
\
## 4.1 Work Item scope
This Work Item (WI) is to specify Radio Frequency (RF) requirements for Active
Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS) covering single Radio Access Technology
(RAT) capable BS supporting UTRA or E-UTRA, and multi-RAT capable BS operating
in Band Category (BC) 1 and BC3, for Wide Area (WA), Medium Range (MR), and
Local Area (LA) coverage to ensure necessary coexistence. Wide Area BS will be
prioritized.
## 4.2 Work Item objectives
A Study Item (SI) phase on Active Antenna System was concluded and the
investigation results are captured in [2]. Particularly the SI conclusion is
captured in sub-clause 9 in [2]. A WI was approved in [3] and the objectives
of the Work Item are to firstly decide the list of radiated requirements as
well as the list of conducted requirements based on the identified
representative deployment scenarios, and then to create the specifications for
the requirements that are applicable to AAS BS.
The AAS base station test methods and specification of the conformance
requirements corresponding to the core requirements will be defined.
Detailed WI texts are presented in [3].
## 4.3 AAS BS architecture
The AAS radio architecture is represented by three main functional blocks, the
Transceiver Unit Array (TXRUA), the Radio Distribution Network, (RDN), and the
Antenna Array (AA). The Transceiver Units (TXRU) interface with the base band
processing within the eNodeB.
The Transceiver Unit Array consists of multiple Transmitter Units (TXU) and
Receiver Units (RXU). The Transmitter Unit takes the baseband input from the
AAS Base Station and provides the RF TX outputs. The RF TX outputs may be
distributed to the Antenna Array via a Radio Distribution Network. The
Receiver Unit performs the reverse of the Transmitter Unit operations. The
Radio Distribution Network, if present, performs the distribution of the TX
outputs into the corresponding antenna paths and antenna elements, and a
distribution of RX inputs from antenna paths in the reverse direction. The
transmitter and receiver unit can be separated and can have difference mapping
towards radiating elements.
The transceiver array boundary is the point or points at which the transceiver
array is connected to the RDN in figure 4.3-1. \"Transceiver array boundary\"
may refer to the combination of all of the transceivers or may refer to an
individual transceiver. The point where a Transmitter Unit or a Receiver Unit
connects with the RDN is equivalent to an "antenna connector" of a non-AAS BS
when it is defined as conducted requirement reference point.
> NOTE 1: The RDN may consist of a simple one to one mapping between the
> TXU(s)/RXU(s) and the passive Antenna Array. In this case, the RDN would be
> a logical entity but not necessarily a physical entity.
>
> NOTE 2: The Antenna Array includes various implementations and
> configurations e.g. polarization, spatial separations etc.
>
> **NOTE 3:** The physical location of the Transceiver Unit Array, the Radio
> Distribution Network, and the Antenna Array may differ from this logical
> representation and is implementation dependent.
>
> NOTE 4: No specific mapping between TXU/RXU and antenna elements is assumed.
> Further the number of separate receiver and transmitter units as well as the
> mapping in the RDN between transceivers and radiating elements can differ
> between the transmit and receive directions. The AAS reference architecture
> allows for full asymmetry between receiver path and transmit path.
>
> NOTE 5: For AAS BS capable of supporting applications employing beam-
> forming, all or subgroups of transceivers can be configured with designated
> amplitude and phase weights such that one or more beams are radiated from
> the antenna array.
**Figure 4.3-1: General AAS Radio Architecture**
A BS with AAS, with general radio architecture as shown in Figure 4.3-1, is
generic to all types of AAS structures including diversity, beam-forming,
spatial multiplexing, or any combination of the three.
## 4.4 Specification organization
\
## 4.5 Applicability of requirements
\
# 5 Application and coexistence scenarios
## 5.1 Objectives
A downlink co-existence simulation campaign was performed with the objective
of establishing whether the radiated adjacent channel emissions pattern for an
AAS aggressor system, which differs from a non AAS aggressor system, impact
co-existence KPIs such as mean and 5th percentile throughput losses in the
context of the co-existence simulation framework of TR25.942 [4].
Co-existence characteristics were studied in a macro scenario in which cell
specific beamforming was performed. This scenario is directly comparable with
the simulations performed when deriving the existing ACLR and ACS requirements
as outline in TR36.942 [5].
Cell specific beamforming creates static patterns of interference that differ
between AAS and non AAS. Other types of beamforming, such as user specific
beamforming create patterns which are time varying and are composed of
intermodulations between multiple beams. Cell specific beamforming thus
represents a worst case spatial interference behaviour, since its radiated
pattern is not averaged across multiple beams or in time.
In addition, an uplink simulation was performed with the objective of
establishing blocking levels that are likely to be encountered by an AAS
victim system within the context of the TR36.942 [5] framework. The blocking
simulations were performed using the same system scenario as that used to
derive the existing LTE blocking requirements.
## 5.2 Simulation scenarios
### 5.2.1 Vertical / horizontal cell splitting applications
Based on AAS BS using vertical / horizontal cell splitting applications, the
E-UTRA Macro to E-UTRA Macro coexistence scenario is identified for the
purpose of studying the spatial characteristics of AAS BS. Simulation cases
for both downlink and uplink were made and shown in Table 5.2.1-1 and Table
5.2.1-2 are applied for evaluating ACLR and in-band blocking for AAS BS.
Table 5.2.1-1 Simulation cases for ACLR
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Case** | **Agg | ** |** S | **Stat |** Target | | | ressor**| Victim** | imulated | istics**| RF | | | | | link** | | requi | | | | | | | rement** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1a_1 | AAS | Legacy | Downlink | Th | ACLR | | | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | roughput | | | | Macro | Macro | | loss; | | | | system: | system: | | | | | | Ho | no cell | | | | | | rizontal | sp | | | | | | cell | litting; | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | litting; | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1a_2 | AAS | Legacy | Downlink | Th | ACLR | | | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | roughput | | | | Macro | Macro | | loss; | | | | system : | system: | | | | | | Vertical | no cell | | | | | | cell | sp | | | | | | sp | litting; | | | | | | litting; | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1b_1 | AAS | AAS | Downlink | Th | ACLR | | | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | roughput | | | | Macro | Macro | | loss; | | | | system: | system: | | | | | | Ho | Ho | | | | | | rizontal | rizontal | | | | | | cell | cell | | | | | | sp | sp | | | | | | litting; | litting; | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1b_2 | AAS | AAS | Downlink | Th | ACLR | | | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | roughput | | | | Macro | Macro | | loss; | | | | system : | system: | | | | | | Vertical | Vertical | | | | | | cell | cell | | | | | | sp | sp | | | | | | litting; | litting; | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1c(B | Legacy | Legacy | Downlink | Th | ACLR | | aseline) | | | | roughput | | | | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | loss; | | | | Macro | Macro | | | | | | system | system | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 5.2.1-2 Simulation cases for in-band blocking
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Case** | **Agg | ** |** S | **Stat |** Target | | | ressor**| Victim** | imulated | istics**| RF | | | | | link** | | requi | | | | | | | rement** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2a | Legacy | AAS | Uplink | In | In-band | | | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | terferer | blocking | | | Macro | Macro | | levels | | | | system: | s | | at | | | | | ystem:Ho | | victim | | | | | rizontal | | BS | | | | | cell | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | plitting | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2b(B | Legacy | Legacy | Uplink | In | In-band | | aseline) | | | | terferer | blocking | | | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | levels | | | | Macro | Macro | | at | | | | system | system | | victim | | | | | | | BS | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 5.2.2 UE specific beam forming application
To check the co-exist system performance of AAS using UE beam forming,
simulation cases for downlink were made and shown in Table 5.2.2-1 are applied
for evaluating ACLR for AAS BS.
Table 5.2.2-1 Simulation cases for ACLR
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Case** | **Agg | ** |** S | **Stat |** Target | | | ressor**| Victim** | imulated | istics**| RF | | | | | link** | | requi | | | | | | | rement** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3a | AAS | AAS | Downlink | Th | ACLR | | | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | roughput | | | | Macro | Macro | | loss; | | | | system: | system: | | | | | | UE beam | UE beam | | | | | | forming; | forming; | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3b | AAS | Legacy | Downlink | Th | ACLR | | | E-UTRA | | | roughput | | | | Macro | E-UTRA | | loss; | | | | system: | Macro | | | | | | UE beam | system | | | | | | forming; | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3c | Legacy | AAS | Downlink | Th | ACLR | | | | E-UTRA | | roughput | | | | E-UTRA | Macro | | loss; | | | | Macro | system: | | | | | | system | UE beam | | | | | | | forming; | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3d(B | Legacy | Legacy | Downlink | Th | ACLR | | aseline) | | | | roughput | | | | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | loss; | | | | Macro | Macro | | | | | | system | system | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 5.3 Simulation assumptions
### 5.3.1 Vertical / horizontal cell splitting simulation assumptions
Most of general simulation assumptions are given in Table 5.3.1-1.
Table 5.3.1-1 Deployment parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Simulation Parameters** | > **Values** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cellular layout | > Hexagonal, 3 sectors/site (19 | | | > sites wrap-around), | | | > uncoordinated | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE distribution | > Average 10 UEs per cell. UEs | | | > on flat ground | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | > 2GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | System bandwidth | > 10MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter Site Distance (ISD) | > 750m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum distance UE\BS | > 35m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Log normal shadowing | > Standard Deviation of 10 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadow correlation coefficient | 0.5 (inter site) / 1.0 (intra | | | site) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scheduling algorithm | Round Robin, Full buffer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RB number per active UEs | UL: 16RBs (total: 48 RBs) | | | | | | DL: 50RB for cell split | | | scenarios | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of active UEs | UL: 3 UEs per cell | | | | | | DL: 1 UE per cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE max Tx power | 23 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE min Tx power | - 40 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Active array loss | 1 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Losses of legacy system | 2 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Legacy BS max Tx power | 46dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | AAS BS max Tx power | 46dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power control parameters | (TR36.942 V10.3.0 Section | | | 12.1.4) | | | | | | PC Set 1 (alpha=1; P0=-101dBm) | | | | | | PC Set 2 (alpha=0.8; | | | P0=-92.2dBm) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration at UE | Omni-directional | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | The height of BS | 30 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | The height of UE | 1.5 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna array configuration | 10×1 for vertical cell | | | splitting/10×4 for horizontal | | （Row×Column） | cell splitting | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ACS of LTE UE | 33 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Output statistics (Blocking | CDF of the received interference | | levels) | power in dBm from an aggressor | | | system | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Performance evaluation | > Throughput loss criteria, as | | | > derived from the truncated | | | > Shannon bound approach of 3GPP | | | > TR36.942. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.3.2 UE specific beam forming simulation assumptions
In case of UE specific beam forming, the AAS BS may generate
{width="0.3888888888888889in" height="0.25in"} beams, each pointing to a
specific UE. The overall radiation pattern of the
{width="0.3888888888888889in" height="0.25in"} beams can be derived as
{width="3.7777777777777777in" height="0.5555555555555556in"}
where {width="0.6111111111111112in" height="0.25in"} is the element pattern
defined in Table 5.3.3.1-1, and {width="0.4027777777777778in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"}and {width="0.2777777777777778in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"}are the array factors defined in Table
5.3.3.2.1-1.
Due to the non-linearization characteristics of the transmitters, the 3-rd
order inter-modulation productions generated by the
{width="0.3888888888888889in" height="0.25in"} beams may be pointed to
different directions as the weighting vector for each of the beams are
involved in the inter-modulation process, and combinations of any three of the
weighting vectors generated a different direction for the 3-rd order inter-
modulation product. The overall radiation pattern of the IMD3 products can be
derived as
{width="5.397916666666666in" height="0.5520833333333334in"}
where {width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.2638888888888889in"}is number of
IMD3 beams generated, and {width="1.1388888888888888in" height="0.25in"}.
Please be noted that the triplet (p, q, l) is order sensitive and they
represent any of the three UE specific beams with an inter-modulation relation
of p+q- l. Please also be noted p, q, l can take the same value. Therefore
{width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"}={width="0.3888888888888889in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"}
And {width="0.9402777777777778in" height="0.24027777777777778in"} is the
weighting vector for the IMD3 products generated by the three beams and
{width="0.9402777777777778in" height="0.24027777777777778in"}={width="0.875in"
height="0.5in"}
The weighting factor above is for the IMD3 products
{width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.2638888888888889in"} which is
generated by{width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"}+{width="0.19375in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"}-{width="0.18055555555555555in"
height="0.25in"}, where {width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"}, {width="0.19375in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"}, and {width="0.18055555555555555in"
height="0.25in"} represent any frequency component in beam p, q, l
correspondingly.
Based on the radiation pattern of wanted signal and IMD3 products, the ACLR
pattern can be derived as
{width="4.8375in" height="1.0090277777777779in"}+{width="0.7916666666666666in"
height="0.25in"}
where {width="0.7916666666666666in" height="0.25in"}is the ACLR performance of
each transmitter.
The assumption in Table 5.4.3.1-1 in TR 37.840 was used for UE beam forming
scenarios but the number of UEs activated in each cell is assumed to be 4. A
10x4 antenna array is employed to generate beams pointed directly at each UE
dropped in cell. .
Table 5.3.2-1 Simulation assumptions for UE specific beam forming
* * *
Parameters Values Cellular layout Hexagonal, 3 sectors/cell (19 cell wrap-
around), uncoordinated UE distribution Average 10 UEs per sector. Carrier
frequency 2GHz System bandwidth 10MHz Inter Site Distance (ISD) 750m Minimum
distance UE\BS 35m Log normal shadowing Standard Deviation of 10 dB Shadow
correlation coefficient 0.5 (inter site) / 1.0 (intra site) Scheduling
algorithm Round Robin, Full buffer RB number per active UEs DL: 12RBs Number
of active UEs DL: 4UEs UE max Tx power 23 dBm UE min Tx power - 40 dBm Active
array loss 1 dB Losses of legacy system 2 dB Legacy BS max Tx power 46dBm AAS
BS max Tx power 46dBm Antenna configuration at UE Omni-directional The height
of BS 30 m The height of UE 1.5 m Antenna array configuration (Row×Column)
10×4 ACS of LTE UE 33 dB Performance evaluation Throughput loss criteria, as
derived from the truncated Shannon bound approach of 3GPP TR36.942.
* * *
### 5.3.3 Antenna array model
The AAS antenna array model is determined by array element pattern, array
factor and signals applied to the system. The element pattern and composite
antenna pattern are in the following section.
NOTE: The $\theta$and $\phi$definition in this section is based on the
coordinate system in Section 5.4.4 .1 of TR 37.840.
#### 5.3.3.1 Element pattern
Table 5.3.3.1-1 Element pattern for antenna array model
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Horizontal Radiation Pattern | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Horizontal 3dB bandwidth of | For single column antenna: 65º | | single element / deg | | | | For multi-column antenna: 80º | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Front-to-back ratio | Am = 30dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Vertical Pattern method | $A | | | _{E,V}\left( \theta \right) = - | | | \text{min}\left\lbrack \text{12} | | | \left( \frac{\theta - \text{90}} | | | {\theta_{3\text{dB}}} \right)^{2 | | | },\text{SLA}_{v} \right\rbrack$, | | | SLAv =30 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Vertical 3dB bandwidth of single | 65º | | element / deg | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Element Pattern | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Element Gain without antenna | For single column antenna: | | losses | GE,max= 9 dBi | | | | | | For multi-column antenna: | | | GE,max= 7.5 dBi* | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note: *G~E,max~ is obtained | | | from TR37.840[2] Table | | | 5.4.4.2.1-1. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.3.3.2 Composite antenna pattern
##### 5.3.3.2.1 UE specific beam forming
Table 5.3.3.2.1-1 Composite antenna pattern for UE specific beam forming
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Configuration | Multiple columns (_N~V~_ x _N~H~_ | | | elements) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Composite Array radiation | For beam i: | | pattern in dB | | | $ | the super position vector is | | A_{A}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ | given by: | | | | | | the weighting is given by: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna array configuration | 10×4 | | (Row×Column) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Horizontal radiating element | 0.5 | | spacing d/ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Vertical radiating element | 0.9 | | spacing d/ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Down-tilt angle (deg) | 0 degrees | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power allocated to each beam | 6dB below the maximum | | | transmitted power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 5.3.3.2.2 Vertical cell partitioning
Table 5.3.3.2.2-1 Composite antenna pattern for AAS BS applying vertical cell
partitioning
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Configuration | Single column (N-elements) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Composite Array radiation | For inner cell: | | pattern in dBi | | | $ | For outer cell: | | A_{A}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ | | | | the super position vector is | | | given by: | | | | | | the weighting is given by: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna array configuration | 10×1 | | (Row×Column) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Vertical radiating element | 0.9 | | spacing d/ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power in outer/inner cell | -3dB/-3dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Down-tilt angles for vertical | 9/15 degrees | | cell splitting | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 5.3.3.2.3 Horizontal cell splitting
Table 5.3.3.2.3-1 Composite antenna pattern for AAS BS applying vertical cell
partitioning
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Configuration | Multiple columns (_N~V~_ x _N~H~_ | | | elements) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Composite Array radiation | For Cell 1: | | pattern in dBi | | | $ | For Cell 2: | | A_{A}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ | | | | the super position vector is | | | given by: | | | | | | the weighting is given by: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna array configuration | 10×4 | | (Row×Column) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Horizontal radiating element | 0.5 | | spacing d/ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Vertical radiating element | 0.9 | | spacing d/ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Down-tilt angle (deg) | 9 degrees | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | horizontal electrical steering | ±25 degrees | | for cell splitting | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power split. Cell1/Cell2 | -3dB/-3dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.3.4 Propagation Model
The minimum BS to UE distance in Macro cell scenario is set to 35 meter in the
system simulation with reference to a 70dB Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) in the
worst case where the BS antenna gain (both array gain and element gain) and UE
antenna gain is assumed to be zero. This is also aligned with the parameters
suggested in section 4.1.1.2 in TR25.942[x]. The calculated free space path
loss is about 67dB based on 35 meter minimum distance separation. The MCL
would be around 70dB if 2dB cable loss and 1dB body loss is considered.
Considering that the cable loss for AAS BS would be smaller than 2dB, the
simulation results would imply a little bit tighter requirements.
Nevertheless, MCL is a statistical parameter in nature and the minimum BS to
UE distance separation calculated deterministically using the free space path
loss model doesn't mandate the minimum BS to UE distance separation as a
deployment condition for AAS BS.
The path loss model is defined as below
Path_Loss = max {L(R), Free_Space_Loss}+ shadowfading
where the free space loss is defined as
Free_Space_Loss = 98.46 +20^.^log~10~(R) (R in kilometre)
and L(R) is defined as below
L(R) = 128.1 + 37.6^.^Log~10~(R) (dB)
The shadow fading is modelled as a log-normal distribution.
Then the final coupling loss model is defined as below:
Coupling_Loss_macro= max {Path_Loss, Free_Space_Loss} -- G_Tx -- G_Rx
where G_Tx is the transmitter antenna gain and the G_Rx is the receiver
antenna gain.
## 5.4 Simulation conclusions
In all of the cell and user specific scenarios that were modeled, the spatial
pattern of an AAS aggressor system did not increase the mean or 5th percentile
throughput loss in the victim system beyond what is experienced with a passive
system. Therefore it is concluded that the existence of a different spatial
distribution of adjacent channel interference that arises from an AAS base
station compared to non AAS does not necessitate any additional type of
requirement. Furthermore, the simulations indicated that the existing ACLR
requirement of 45dB can be applied per transceiver, or across all transceivers
for an AAS base station.
# 6 AAS BS classifications
\
## 6.1 Minimum coupling loss
AAS BS is classified according to the deployment scenarios defined in sub-
clause 5.2.1 in TR37.840[2], and those scenarios are the same as for non-AAS
BS. One of the key parameters that characterise each of the deployment
scenarios is the Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) between BS and UE, which includes
the path loss and the antenna gains of both UE and BS.
## 6.2 BS classifications
Wide Area AAS Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from
Macro Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equal to 70 dB.
Medium Range AAS Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from
Micro Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 53 dB.
Local Area AAS Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from
Pico Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equal to 45 dB.
AAS BS classes characterised by other antenna characteristics and/or
deployment scenarios are not precluded and could be considered for future
study if necessary.
> NOTE: In selecting these minimum coupling losses, it has been assumed that
> the antenna aperture for AAS BS is roughly similar to that for non-AAS BS so
> that the methodologies for setting minimum BS to UE distance separation in
> TR36.942 and TR25.942 can be reused.
# 7 Radiated requirements
\
In legacy systems (i.e. passive antenna systems), accuracy (i.e. power
accuracy) can be characterized by means of considering the conducted output
power together with the antenna gain. However, in an AAS basestation there is
an interaction between different subsystems (transceivers, RDN, antennas)
which motivated the need for radiated RF requirements.
OTA requirements are stated in terms of electromagnetic and spatial
parameters. The electromagnetic parameters are specified either in terms of
power (dBm) or field strength (dBμV/m). The spatial parameters are specified
in a Cartesian coordinate system (**_x, y, z_**) using spherical coordinates
(**_r, θ, φ_**). The orientation of these coordinates is depicted in the
following figures. **_φ_** is the angle in the **_x-y_** plane and it is
between the x-axis and the projection of the vector onto the x-y plane and is
defined between －180° and ＋180°, inclusive. **_θ *** is the angle between the
projection of the vector in the_** x-y*** plane and the vector and is defined
between －90° and ＋90°, inclusive.
A point in the Cartesian coordinate system (_x_ ,_y_ ,_z_) can be transformed
to spherical coordinates (_r_ ,Θ,φ) using the following relationships:
$x = r\text{cos}\theta\text{cos}\varphi$ (n)
$y = r\text{cos}\theta\text{sin}\varphi$ (n+1)
$z = - r\text{sin}\theta$ (n+2)
The inverse transformation is given by:
$r = \sqrt{x^{2} + y^{2} + z^{2}}$ (n+3)
$\theta = - \text{arcsin}\frac{z}{\sqrt{x^{2} + y^{2} + z^{2}}}$ (n+4)
$\varphi = \text{arctan}\frac{y}{x}$ (n+5)
Figure n Orthogonal representation of coordinate system
Figure n+1 Definition of the _φ_ angle
Figure n+2 Definition of _θ_ angle
The vendor shall declare the location of this coordinate system origin in
reference to an identifiable physical feature of the base station enclosure.
The vendor shall also declare the orientation of this coordinate system in
reference to an identifiable physical feature of the base station enclosure.
## 7.1 Radiated transmit power requirements
\
The minimum requirements for AAS base station radiated transmit power, shall
be placed on one or more manufacturer declared beam(s) that are intended for
cell-wide coverage.
The characteristics of the manufacturer declared beam and the requirement on
the declared EIRP are defined in the subclause 7.1.1 and 7.1.2 below.
### 7.1.1 Beam definitions
\
A beam is the radiated signal for which the radiated power level varies
according to azimuth and elevation angles of observation. Within a beam, the
power level is greatest at azimuth/elevation angles at which the signal
carried in the beam is intended to be received and is lower at other
azimuth/elevation angles.
An AAS beam is typically characterized by a so-called "main lobe" which is
bounded within a range of angles around the centre of the beam at which the
radiated output beam power is highest. An AAS beam is created by means of a
superposition of the signals radiated from different parts of the AAS antenna
array.
Each beam direction is associated with a beam centre and a beam peak
direction. The EIRP is declared at the beam peak direction.
{width="6.489583333333333in" height="2.8645833333333335in"}
Figure 7.1.1 Example of beam direction data set. Left shows a symmetrical beam
where beam centre direction and beam peak direction are the same. Right shows
and example of a beam with ripple where the beam centre direction and the beam
peak direction are different.
For an AAS beam, the following parameters that belong to the beam are
declared:
  * A declared beam identifier.
  * A declared reference beam direction
  * A maximum EIRP achieved in the beam peak direction when the beam direction is set to the reference beam direction
  * A declared continuous or discrete set of all possible beam directions for the AAS beam where the EIRP accuracy requirement is intended to be met. This area/set of points is termed the EIRP accuracy directions set for the beam.
  * Four further beam directions at the maximum steering directions (selection of these 4 maximum steering directions is described in section 7.1.4)
  * For each of the four further beam directions at the maximum steering directions
    * Maximum EIRP achieved in the beam peak direction (one EIRP per beam peak direction)
    * Beamwidth (One beamwidth per beam peak direction)
The use of the term "maximum steering direction" refers to repositioning of
the main lobe of the beam by any means, and makes no assumption about the type
of implementation.
A Cell specific AAS beam is an AAS beam which is intended to facilitate
communication to all UEs within a cell.
A UE specific AAS beam is an AAS beam which is intended to facilitate
communication to a specific UE or a specific group of UEs.
### 7.1.2 EIRP accuracy requirements
The minimum requirement for radiated transmit power will be on the accuracy
with which declared EIRP level is met.
Impacts of accuracy on network performance: The actual output power levels of
any two AAS BS(s) (or any two transmitting equipments) are not identical. It
should be noted however that the output power of a particular BS is fairly
stable once it's manufactured for shipment. Due to setting the accuracy
requirements on output power, the output power levels of a group of BS(s) will
be relatively consistent around a rated output power. This means that some of
BS(s) may deliver power a little bit higher, but some of them may be a little
bit lower, but all are around the rated power. The impacts on the network of
the variability of output power between different base stations are that the
application coverage of some cells may be a little bit larger, and others may
be a little bit smaller compared with a calculated application coverage based
on nominal output power. In some situations it is difficult to tell whether
consistently large output power is better as large output power also increases
the inter-cell interference. In real network, the coverage is also impacted by
other parameters such as deployment environment. One typical and efficient
approach to tune the cell coverage is by adjusting the antenna tilt which
results in signal strength changes in several decibels. Large deviation of
expected EIRP could impact the estimation of correct tilt angles.
Impacts of accuracy on the manufacturing process: The accuracy requirements on
output power drive the manufacturing process to deliver the output power as
close as possible to the rated output power in order to achieve a reasonable
level of the yield rate. For the same accuracy requirement in specification,
the more accurate of the output power is manufactured, the higher the yield
rate achieved, Therefore, the components in massive manufacturing process need
to be of high precision exceeding the accuracy requirement in specification in
order to achieve an acceptable yield rate, and thus an accuracy value should
be selected that is a good trade-off between network coverage and cost
considerations.
For each beam, the maximum configurable EIRP measured at the beam direction
set corresponding to the main beam shall be declared.
#### 7.1.2.1 The accuracy
EIRP accuracy refers to the maximum deviation of the DUT (i.e. the AAS base
station) to a declared performance requirement.
The AAS base station EIRP accuracy requirement has been determined by taking
into account the following factors; non AAS base station EIRP accuracy and an
estimate of the achievable accuracy by AAS base stations.
The estimated EIRP accuracy of a non-AAS base station is used as the baseline
for the AAS base station, which is then adapted to derive the EIRP accuracy
requirements for AAS base station.
Preliminary investigations of the impact of EIRP accuracy on network
performance indicate that a Wide Area AAS base station EIRP accuracy of around
+/-2.25dB enables throughput to be predicted to within 5% variation.
For an AAS base station, the EIRP accuracy is influenced by a number of
factors that do not linearly combine. Nevertheless, as an approximation, from
the AAS base station radio architecture, the EIRP accuracy of an AAS base
station can be estimated by considering the steering error (translated from
the phase error of the beam) and the inaccuracy of antenna array.
Based on the above the EIRP accuracy can be approximated using root sum square
of the error sources which are all assumed to be Gaussian distributed in the
dB domain and uncorrelated. As a result of these assumptions, the Root sum
square EIRP accuracy can be approximated by:
{width="5.530555555555556in" height="0.22916666666666666in"} (dB)
Transceiveraccuracy -- is the maximum conducted output power error at the
transceiver unit output.
steeringerror -- is the variation in main beam EIRP due to beam forming errors
caused by phase error at the transceiver unit output.
arrayerror -- is the variation due to the error in the passive elements, the
RDN, the antenna array gain errors, mismatch errors and insertion losses
variations.
The inaccuracy of RDN and the aforementioned factors are incorporated in the
arrayerror as defined above.
Using Transcieveraccuracy values = +/- [tbd] dB, arrayerror = +/- [tbd] dB,
and the steeringerror can be estimated [by using a typical simulated beam
pattern with +/- 5 degree of phase error to be +/- [tbd] dB].
It should be noted that the use of a root square sum implies that the 3
factors are independent Gaussian distributed, which may not be the case. This
could potentially be an error source in this model.
Based on the above, the EIRP accuracy requirement for AAS BS shall be +/- [xx]
dB for each declared maximum EIRP per carrier.
Current non-AAS specifications specify same conducted output power accuracy
for all BS classes. We assume same EIRP accuracy for all AAS BS classes. EIRP
accuracy for each AAS BS class (Wide Area, Medium Range and Local Area AAS BS)
could be revised if deviation from this assumption is justified.
### 7.1.3 The core requirements
\
The radiated transmit power of the AAS base station is distributed in the
space by means of radiating and allocation of conducted power to single or
multiple beams. The beam configuration and corresponding power allocated to
each beam is application dependent.
The radiated transmit power per beam of the AAS base station is the maximum
achievable EIRP in a declared beam peak direction] for a manufacturer-declared
AAS beam generated during the transmitter ON period. The minimum requirement
for radiated transmit power shall be specified for one or more manufacturer-
declared AAS beam(s). The AAS beam definition is described in section 7.1.1.
The number of declared AAS beams is for the manufacturer to declare. Some
examples of declarations of beams are illustrated in a directions diagram in
figure 7.1.3-x1.
_Figure 7.1.3-x1, Examples of AAS beam declarations depicted in a directions
diagram. The shaded areas/points represent the declared EIRP directions set,
which may be continuous (top right, bottom right) or not continuous (bottom
left), or be restricted to just the points of maximum steering (top left). The
coloured points represent the compliance test points at which EIRP is
declared._
> The maximum EIRP and its accuracy are defined for the declared beams when
> activated individually on all corresponding Radiated Elements and the
> requirements are placed per individual beam.
The maximum radiated transmit power of the AAS beam is the mean power level
measured at the declared beam peak direction at the RF channels B (bottom), M
(middle) and T (top) when configured for maximum EIRP value for a specific AAS
beam of the supported frequency channels declared by the manufacturer.
In normal condition, when a beam is steered within the maximum EIRP directions
set if a maximum EIRP is claimed by the manufacturer then the AAS base station
maximum EIRP shall remain within +[X~high~] dB and \--[X~low~] dB of the
claimed value.
Intended maximum EIRP is only declared for the reference beam direction and
the beam directions sets at the maximum steering directions; for the remainder
of the EIRP directions set there is no need to declare maximum EIRP as part of
the 3GPP compliance declaration.
### 7.1.4 The conformance requirements
For conformance testing purposes, for each declared AAS beam, the vendor shall
declare four beam directions of maximum steering. These beam directions of
maximum beam peak direction steering shall be defined as follows:
  * The maximum steering from the reference beam direction in the positive **_Φ_** direction while maintaining the reference beam direction **_θ_** _value_.
  * The maximum steering from the reference beam direction in the negative **_Φ_** direction while maintaining the reference beam direction **_θ_** _value_.
  * The maximum steering from the reference beam direction in the positive **_θ_** direction while maintaining the reference beam direction **_Φ_** _value_.
The maximum steering from the reference beam direction in the negative **_θ_**
direction while maintaining the reference beam direction **_Φ_** _value_. (It
should be noted that in some cases, one or more maximum steering directions
may coincide with the reference beam direction).
_Figure 7.1.3-x2 Diagram showing an example of requirement declaration. The
grey shaded area represents an EIRP accuracy compliance directions set The
maximum steering directions are in the positive and negative directions along
each axis from the reference beam direction (marked in red on the figure),
which in this example is offset from the axis centre._
The measured maximum EIRP shall be within +([X~high~]+[TestTolerance]) to
-([X~low~]-[TestTolerance]) dB of the respective declared EIRP values at the
beam peak direction when the beam direction is set to each of the 4 declared
maximum steering directions and to the reference beam direction.
7.2 Uplink OTA requirements
### 7.2.1 OTA sensitivity
> The OTA sensitivity requirement applies to the AAS base station operating as
> a system; i.e. including combining of received signals from all active
> receivers. Hence:
  * Combiners (however implemented) are considered part of the AAS BS
  * Demodulators are considered part of the AAS BS
> The OTA requirement is implementation independent.
7.2.1.1 Requirement definition
The OTA sensitivity requirement is based upon the declaration of one or more
OTA sensitivity direction declarations (OSDD), related to an AAS BS receiver.
The AAS BS receiver may optionally be capable of redirecting/changing the
receiver target by means of adjusting BS settings resulting in multiple
sensitivity RoAoA.
If the AAS BS is capable of redirecting the receiver target related to the
OSDD then the OSDD shall include:
  * A declared minimum EIS level, the OTA sensitivity _,_ applicable to all sensitivity RoAoA in the OSDD.
  * A declared receiver target redirection range, describing all the > angles of arrival that can be addressed for the OSDD through > alternative settings in the AAS BS.
  * Five declared sensitivity RoAoA comprising the conformance testing directions as detailed below.
  * The receiver target reference direction
> Note that some of the declared sensitivity RoAoA may coincide depending on
> the redirection capability.
>
> The sensitivity RoAoA resulting from the current BS settings is referred to
> as the active sensitivity RoAoA. The declared OTA sensitivity applies only
> to the active sensitivity RoAoA inside the receiver target redirection
> range.
>
> Note that several sensitivity RoAoA may be implicitly defined by the
> receiver target redirection range without being explicitly declared in the
> OSDD.
If the AAS BS is not capable of redirecting the receiver target related to the
OSDD, then the OSDD includes only:
  * A declared minimum EIS level, the OTA sensitivity _,_ applicable to the sensitivity RoAoA of the OSDD.
  * One declared sensitivity RoAoA
  * The receiver target reference direction
_Figure 7.2.1.1-x: Directions diagram showing a receiver target redirection
range (green contour) of an OSDD and five (out of many) possible directions of
a sensitivity RoAoA (gray shaded areas). Only one of the sensitivity RoAoA .is
active at a time._
More than one OSDD may be declared. Different OSDD are independent.
For a received signal whose angle of arrival is within the active sensitivity
RoAoA of an OSDD the throughput or error rate criteria (as described below)
shall be met when the level of the arriving signal is equal to the declared
minimum EIS. The angle of arrival can be described as a combination of φ and
θ.
The OTA sensitivity is a received signal level above which a specified
throughput (E-UTRA) or BER (UTRA) shall be met.
For E-UTRA, the requirement is to meet or exceed the throughput when the AAS
BS is presented with a specified stimulus signal transmitted through a
specified channel at the OTA sensitivity level.
It is FFS whether the EIS declarations will be subject to an upper limit to
the value that can be declared.
For UTRA, the requirement is to meet or achieve a lower BER when the AAS BS is
presented with a specified stimulus signal transmitted through a specified
channel at the OTA sensitivity level.The received signal level can be
represented as a field-strength or EIS power level. The relation between
field-strength and EIS is:
{width="1.94375in" height="0.25in"} [dBm]
,where E is the field strength in units of dBμV/m and f is carrier frequency
in MHz of a plane wave incident to the AAS BS antenna from within the active
sensitivity RoAoA.
The _figure of merit (FOM) for OTA sensitivity shall be EIS for all AAS BS
classes._
The stimulus signal is the fixed reference measurement channel (FRC) for
target throughputs or BER as specified in non-AAS requirements in TS25.141 for
UTRA FDD, TS25.142 for UTRA TDD and TS36.141 for E-UTRA. FRC for non-fading
conditions/no multipath will be used.
The OTA sensitivity requirement applies per polarization, under the assumption
of polarization matching. The manufacturer shall declare whether dual
polarization or single polarization reception is supported for each AAS BS
receiver.
#### 7.2.1.x Conformance testing directions
If an OSDD does not include a receiver target redirection range, conformance
testing shall be performed for the following five directions, as depicted in
the example in figure 7.2.1.x-x1.
  * The receiver target reference direction
  * The direction determined by the maximum φ value achievable inside > the sensitivity RoAoA maintaining the receiver target reference > direction θ value.
  * The direction determined by the minimum φ value achievable inside > the sensitivity RoAoA maintaining the receiver target reference > direction θ value.
  * The direction determined by the maximum θ value achievable inside > the sensitivity RoAoA maintaining the receiver target reference > direction φ value.
  * The direction determined by the minimum θ value achievable inside > the sensitivity RoAoA maintaining the receiver target reference > direction φ value.
The manufacturer shall declare the five directions for conformance testing.
_Figure 7.2.1.x-x1: Direction diagram showing a RoAoA without receiver target
redirection capability. The receiver target reference direction and the
extreme directions subject to conformance testing are marked by red crosses._
If an OSDD includes a receiver target redirection range, conformance testing
shall be performed for the following five directions, as depicted in the
example in figure 7.2.1.x-x2.
  * The receiver target reference direction
  * The direction determined by the maximum φ value achievable inside > the receiver target redirection range maintaining the receiver > target reference direction θ value.
  * The direction determined by the minimum φ value achievable inside > the receiver target redirection range maintaining the receiver > target reference direction θ value.
  * The direction determined by the maximum θ value achievable inside > the receiver target redirection range maintaining the receiver > target reference direction φ value.
  * The direction determined by the minimum θ value achievable inside > the receiver target redirection range maintaining the receiver > target reference direction φ value.
The manufacturer shall declare the five directions for conformance testing,
the setting of the AAS BS to achieve conformance at each of the conformance
test directions, and the resulting sensitivity RoAoA for each of these
settings.
_Figure 7.2.1.x-x2, direction diagram showing a receiver target redirection
range (with discrete settings for the sensitivity RoAoA). The receiver target
reference direction and the extreme directions subject to conformance testing
are marked by red crosses. The sensitivity RoAoA for each conformance test
setting is shown as gray shading. Note that each sensitivity RoAoA is
exceptionally small compared to the receiver target redirection range, for
demonstration purposes._
# 8 Conducted requirements
\
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in this clause are expressed for a
single transceiver.
## 8.1 Transmitter
\
### 8.1.1 Time alignment error
The time alignment error is defined in [6] and [9] for UTRA and in [7] for
E-UTRA and [8] for MSR as the largest frame timing difference between any two
signals present at the BS transmitter RF antenna port(s) for a specific set of
signals and/or transmitter configurations.
For AAS BS, the transmitters in the transceiver unit array may be grouped and
associated with different signals corresponding to TX diversity, MIMO
transmission, carrier aggregation etc. In such scenarios, the time alignment
error for AAS BS is the largest frame timing difference between any two
different LTE signals or any two different WCDMA signals belonging to
different transmitter groups at the AAS antenna connectors. The same TAE
requirements specified for the legacy BS in [6], [9], [7], and [8] can then be
applied for AAS BS.
The way transmitter groups are constructed is implementation specific. To
facilitate conformance testing for a UTRA, E-UTRA, or MSR system, the vendor
shall provide a declaration which identifies the transmitters mapped to each
the AAS Equivalent transmitter antenna connector (AAS-ETAC).
As within a [group] the time difference will be very small compared to the
requirement it is acceptable that the timing is measured between a
representative transmitter unit from each [group]. Subjecting the same
[groups] to EIRP accuracy testing verifies intra-group timing.
Details of the vendor declaration are FFS.
### 8.1.2 Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR) requirements
The ACLR is defined in [6], [7], and [8] as the ratio of the filtered mean
power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency. The same definition will be
maintained for AAS BS.
Re-use of this definition was examined in several scenarios in the simulation
study presented in clause 5 and Annex A, which observed that applying the ACLR
requirements as specified in [6], [7], and [8] to each AAS antenna connector
did not increase the mean or 5th percentile throughput loss in the victim
system beyond what is experienced with a passive system. For AAS architectures
and deployment scenarios that can be represented by the simulation study and
analysis, the same ACLR requirements as specified in [6], [9], [7], and [8]
are judged as adequate and can be maintained.
The simulated network performance was shown to be insensitive to the
correlation level of the adjacent channel power. It has been noted in section
5.4 that the simulations indicated the existing ACLR requirement of 45dB can
be applied per transceiver, or across all transceivers for an AAS base
station.
The ACLR requirement may be applied as a requirement per transceiver unit or a
ratio of the power sum of the total wanted signal level to the power sum of
the power on an adjacent frequency from all transceiver units.
### 8.1.3 Error Vector Magnitude
The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the ideal
symbols and the measured symbols after the equalization. For AAS BS, it is
proposed that the reference point for EVM requirements is reused from the
current requirements for EVM in [6], [9], [7], and [8] as a conducted
requirement per transceiver at the AAS antenna connector and using the same
measurement methodology.
### 8.1.4 AAS Base station output power
The objectives of defining conducted output power of the AAS BS are to verify
the capabilities of the transmitter to feed antennas and the accuracy of the
maximum output power.
Regulatory review on output power is presented in [2]. The following
summarises regulatory views and requirements for BS employing antenna arrays.
\- No specific limits for AAS for terrestrial mobile systems are given in
ITU-R Recommendations.
\- For the ECC regulation in Europe there is not output power limit specified
and does not give any additional definitions in the AAS area, however there
are several spurious emissions limits and Block Edge Mask requirements which
impact and limit the maximum transmission power.
\- For the FCC regulation in US, it suggests the transmission limits
applicable to the sum at the antenna connectors.
\- For the MIC regulation in Japan, the measurement and calculation method of
output power from multiple outputs:
> \- For an adaptive array antenna are given as follows: Measure and sum the
> output powers or emissions (which are specified by absolute values in the
> technical conditions) of all the antenna connectors. In this case, the
> output power of one array element shall be configured with the maximum
> output power. Then, the output powers of remaining array elements shall be
> configured as the sum of output powers of all array elements are maximized.
>
> \- For MIMO: Measure the output power or emission on each antenna connector.
Based on the above, the maximum output power shall be declared for each
transceiver as well as the total output power from all transceivers at the
transceiver boundaries.
The rated output power per transceiver per carrier, PRAT of the AAS BS shall
be as specified in Table 8.1.4-1.
Table 8.1.4-1: AAS Base Station rated output power
* * *
AAS BS class PRAT Wide Area AAS BS (note 1) Medium Range AAS BS \ 1\. Co-location transmitter intermodulation in which the interfering signal
> is from a co located BS, and this is analogous to the existing transmitter
> intermodulation requirement in xx.104.
>
> 2\. Intra system transmitter intermodulation in which the interfering signal
> is from the other transmitters within the AAS BS
Both scenarios shall be captured in the AAS specification by the transmitter
intermodulation requirement, where a reverse interference signal is feed to
the transmitter unit, while maintaining emission levels.
The co-location transmitter intermodulation test is considered sufficient if
it represents the greatest interference power at the tested connector. The
Intra AAS Transmitter intermodulation shall only be tested where the maximum
leakage power at the transceiver unit connector exceeds the interference
signal power level at the transceiver unit connector determined for Co-
location transmitter intermodulation.
_Figure_ _8.1.5-x1, set-up for testing Transmitter intermodulation on one
transceiver unit connector._
#### 8.1.5.1 Co-location Transmitter intermodulation
In Non-AAS BS the transmitter inter-modulation requirement is to address the
coexistence between the transmitter from one operator and the transmitter from
another operator in case they are co-located with assumption that the coupling
loss between them is 30dB. The requirement assumes that they transmit the same
level of power, and the transmitted signals are adjacent to each other in the
frequency domain. It is proposed to apply the existing non-AAS requirements
specified at the antenna connector for non-AAS BS to each transmitter unit at
the transceiver array boundary for AAS BS. The wanted signal is the maximum
output power of each transmitter unit [PTRU] and the interference signal power
is 30 dB below the wanted signal.
The interfering signal shall be defined in the same way as for the non-AAS
requirement.
The transmitter unit intermodulation emission level shall not exceed the
unwanted emission limits of the AAS transmitter spurious emissions requirement
and AAS operating band unwanted emission requirement and AAS ACLR requirements
in the presence of the interfering signal defined above.
#### 8.1.5.2 Intra AAS Transmitter intermodulation
In an AAS BS there could be coupling effects occurring in the RDN and the
antenna array, which potentially can generate reverse interferers and
consequently unwanted emissions due to intermodulation. In this case, the
central frequencies of the transmitted signals are aligned in frequency
domain, and they could transmit the same level of power.
The wanted signal and the interfering signal in a corresponding test would
thus be within the bandwidth of the same carriers. The wanted signal and the
interfering signal would have the same waveform characteristics, but they
would be non-coherent. The reference wanted signal and the interference signal
level are FFS.
For intra-system, the transmitter unit intermodulation emission level shall
not exceed the unwanted emission limits of the AAS operating band unwanted
emission requirement and AAS ACLR requirement in the presence of the
interference signal declared by the manufacturer as described below.
The manufacturer shall declare:
  * Either a maximum interference signal level for testing equal to the > maximum intra array leakage power for each transceiver unit > connector in the transceiver array boundary for each operating > band supported by the AAS BS.
  * Or the maximum interference signal level for testing equal to the > leakage power of the transceiver unit experiencing the most > leakage power in the array to be applied for all connectors.
Further alternative declarations under certain circumstances are FFS.
The maximum leakage power at each transceiver unit connector at the
Transceiver Array Boundary is the sum of the leakage power coupled via the
Composite Antenna Array from all the other transceiver units, as depicted in
figure 8.1.5.2-x1, but does not comprise power radiated from the Antenna Array
and reflected back from the environment. All Transceiver Units shall be
transmitting at their maximum output power.
_Figure 8.1.5.2-x1, Transceiver Unit Array and Composite Antenna Array shown,
separated by the Transceiver Array Boundary._
## 8.2 Receiver
\
Provisions for conducted verification of base station receivers with multiple
receivers are present in the core requirement and conformance specifications.
The simulation results presented in clause 5 and analyses show that applying
the existing per receiver requirements to each AAS receiver of an AAS BS is
consistent with the multiple receiver requirements captured in the
requirements specifications for non-AAS base stations, for the AAS deployment
scenarios and AAS BS structure that can be represented by the scenarios and
structure simulated and studied. These requirements are therefore judged
adequate for conducted verification of AAS receivers in these and similar
scenarios.
The requirements placed on the receiver unit connectors are hence based on
those from the non-AAS requirements [6], [9], [7], and [8].
### 8.2.1 Reference sensitivity level
The minimum sensitivity requirements shall be specified to correspond to the
received signal power at the transceiver array boundary using same reference
measurement channels and reference sensitivity power levels for the target
throughputs as the non-AAS sensitivity requirements in [6], [9], [7], and [8].
Fixed conducted reference sensitivity requirements per receiver unit connector
could lead to overall sensitivity being over dimensioned for some AAS base
stations with large antenna apertures.
For AAS base stations in release 13, it has been decided that it is acceptable
to keep the current non-AAS conducted reference sensitivity requirement and
apply it per receiver unit connector at the transceiver array boundary.
### 8.2.2 Dynamic range
The minimum dynamic range requirements shall be specified to correspond to a
wanted signal power and an interfering signal power at the transceiver array
boundary using the same: interfering signal types, interfering signal power
levels, wanted signal power levels, and test configurations for target
throughputs as the non-AAS dynamic range requirements in [6], [9], [7], and
[8].
### 8.2.3 In-channel sensitivity
The minimum in-channel sensitivity requirements shall be specified to
correspond to the wanted signal power and and interfering signal power at the
transceiver array boundary using the same: interfering signal type,
interfering signal power levels, wanted signal power levels, and test
configuration for target throughputs as the non-AAS in-channel sensitivity
requirements in [6], [9], [7], and [8].
### 8.2.4 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) and narrow-band blocking
The minimum adjacent channel selectivity requirements shall be specified to
correspond to the wanted signal power and adjacent channel signal power at the
transceiver array boundary using the same: adjacent channel signal types,
interfering signal power levels, wanted signal power levels, and test
configuration for target throughputs as the non-AAS adjacent channel
selectivity requirements in [6], [9], [7], and [8].
### 8.2.5 Blocking
The minimum blocking requirements shall be specified to correspond to the
wanted signal power and blocking signal power at the transceiver array
boundary using the same: blocking signal types, interfering signal power
levels, wanted signal power levels, and test configurations for target
throughputs as the non-AAS blocking requirements in TS [6], [9], [7], and [8].
#### 8.2.5.1 Co-location with other base stations
Additional minimum co-location blocking requirements may be specified for the
AAS receiver in co-location situation at corresponding to the coupling levels,
wanted and blocking signal powers at the transceiver boundary using the same
blocking signal types, interfering signal power levels, wanted signal power
levels, and test configurations in [6], [9], [7], and [8].
### 8.2.6 Receiver spurious emissions
The minimum spurious emissions requirements shall be specified to correspond
to permissible emissions levels at the transceiver boundary using the same
test configurations as the non-AAS spurious emissions requirements in [6],
[9], [7], and [8]. The actual AAS spurious emissions values are FFS.
### 8.2.7 Receiver Intermodulation
The minimum receiver intermodulation requirements shall be specified to
correspond to the wanted signal power and interfering signal power at the
transceiver boundary using the same interfering signal types, interfering
signal power levels, wanted signal power levels, and test configurations in
[6], [9], [7], and [8].
# 9 Manufacturer declarations
\
# 10 Conformance testing aspects
\
# 11 Other requirements
\
## 11.1 EMC
\
## 11.2 Demodulation performance requirements
\
# Annex A: Simulation results
The simulation results for ACLR and in-band blocking from different companies
have been captured based on the simulation scenarios and assumptions described
in Section 5.
## A.1 Results of cell splitting applications
### A.1.1 Case 1a-1: AAS (horizontal cell splitting) interferes legacy system
for cell splitting
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
### A.1.2 Case 1a-2: AAS (vertical cell splitting) interferes legacy system
for cell splitting
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
{width="207.26597222222222in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
### A.1.3 Case 1b-1: AAS (horizontal cell splitting) interferes AAS
(horizontal cell splitting) for cell splitting
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
### A.1.4 Case 1b-2: AAS (vertical cell splitting) interferes AAS (vertical
cell splitting) for cell splitting
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
### A.1.5 Case 1c: legacy system interferes legacy system for cell splitting
{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}{width="3.232638888888889in"
height="2.1104166666666666in"}
### A.1.6 Case 2a and 2b: AAS receiver blocking simulation results for cell
splitting
* * *
**ZTE (R4-140032)** **PC1** **PC2**  
**Mechanical downtilt** **Electrical downtilt** **Mechanical downtilt**
**Electrical downtilt** case 2a n/a -44.36 n/a -48.24 case 2b n/a -45.91 n/a
-55.68
**Huawei (R4-133716)** **PC1** **PC2**  
**Mechanical downtilt** **Electrical downtilt** **Mechanical downtilt**
**Electrical downtilt** Case 2a -45.9 -46.49 -56.38 -53.52 Case 2b -49.08
-46.6 -55.89 -59.15
**NSN (R4-134061)** **PC1** **PC2**  
**Mechanical downtilt** **Electrical downtilt** **Mechanical downtilt**
**Electrical downtilt** Case 2a n/a -48.14 n/a -57.56 Case 2b n/a -47.41 n/a
-57.58
**NEC (R4-135515)** **PC set 1** **PC set 2**  
**Mechanical downtilt** **Electrical downtilt** **Mechanical downtilt**
**Electrical downtilt** 2a -47 -46.92 -58.7 -54.43 2b (Baseline) -47.45 -47
-60.76 -57.33
* * *
## A.2 Results of UE specific beamforming applications
### A.2.1 Case 1a: AAS E-UTRA Macro system: UE specific beam forming- AAS
E-UTRA Macro system: UE specific beam forming
{width="3.1458333333333335in"
height="3.1458333333333335in"}{width="3.1458333333333335in"
height="3.1458333333333335in"}
### A.2.2 Case 1b: AAS E-UTRA Macro system: UE specific beam forming - Legacy
E-UTRA Macro system
{width="3.15625in" height="3.15625in"}{width="3.1458333333333335in"
height="3.1458333333333335in"}
### A.2.3 Case 1c: Legacy E-UTRA Macro system - AAS E-UTRA Macro system: UE
specific beam forming
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="3.1458333333333335in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="3.1458333333333335in"}
### A.2.4 Case 1d (Baseline): Legacy E-UTRA Macro system - Legacy E-UTRA Macro
system
* * *
                                         **ACLR per element(dBc)**                               
                                         30                          35        40       45       50
**Cell average throughput loss (%)** 5.4787 3.7648 3.0779 2.8370 2.7582 **5%
CDF throughput loss (%)** 18.0000 11.6500 9.3100 8.4600 8.3500
* * *
# Annex B (Informative): Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D |** TSG | **TSG | * | ** |** Su | ** | ** | | ate**| #** | D | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| bject | Old_ _| New_ _| | | | oc.__| | | /Comm | | | | | | | | | ent_ * | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-1 | | | Ske | N/A | 0.0.1 | | 14-02 | 4#70 | 40240 | | | leton | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-1 | | | App | 0.0.1 | 0.1 | | 14-03 | AN4# | 41607 | | | roved | | | | | 70bis | | | | text | | | | | | | | | prop | | | | | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | docu | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | were | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pleme | | | | | | | | | nted: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 0031, | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | prop | | | | | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | oexis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | study | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS WI | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.cde | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 0242, | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | WI | | | | | | | | | objec | | | | | | | | | tives | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 0259, | | | | | | | | | TPs | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | basic | | | | | | | | | ter | | | | | | | | | minol | | | | | | | | | ogies | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 1191, | | | | | | | | | TP: | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | chite | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 1192, | | | | | | | | | Harmo | | | | | | | | | nised | | | | | | | | | MCL | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | asses | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-1 | | | R4-14 | 0.1 | 0.2 | | 14-05 | 4#71 | 43416 | | | 2440, | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | ACLR | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 2441, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | Time | | | | | | | | | Alig | | | | | | | | | nment | | | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS TR | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 2446, | | | | | | | | | New | | | | | | | | | term | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 2460, | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | ucted | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 2462, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .842: | | | | | | | | | Rad | | | | | | | | | iated | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 2470, | | | | | | | | | Fu | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | tails | | | | | | | | | on UE | | | | | | | | | spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | beam | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | rming | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ssump | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 1357, | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | nfirm | | | | | | | | | MCL | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | Cl | | | | | | | | | asses | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS TR | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 2439, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | ector | | | | | | | | | Magn | | | | | | | | | itude | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS TR | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-1 | | | R4-1 | 0.2 | 0.3 | | 14-08 | 4#72 | 44615 | | | 44049 | | | | | | | | | ,Text | | | | | | | | | prop | | | | | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nter- | | | | | | | | | modul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 3983, | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | prop | | | | | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pacts | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | acc | | | | | | | | | uracy | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 3980, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | Cond | | | | | | | | | ucted | | | | | | | | | O | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS TR | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 3971, | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | vised | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | of UE | | | | | | | | | spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | beam | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | rming | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | oexis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RA | RP-1 | | | Pres | 0.3.0 | 1.0.0 | | 14-09 | N#65 | 41259 | | | ented | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RA | | | | | | | | | N#65 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-1 | | | R4-1 | 1.0.0 | 1.1.0 | | 14-10 | AN4# | 46189 | | | 45465 | | | | | 72bis | | | | , TP | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | eclar | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Beams | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | EIRP | | | | | | | | | Acc | | | | | | | | | uracy | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS TR | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 45467 | | | | | | | | | ,TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .842: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | dding | | | | | | | | | text | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 7.1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-1 | | | R4-1 | 1.1.0 | 1.2.0 | | 14-11 | 4#73 | 47653 | | | 46748 | | | | | | | | | , TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 6779, | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | modul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | | | ifica | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 8.1.5 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-1 | | | R4-14 | 1.2.0 | 1.3.0 | | 15-01 | 4#74 | 50926 | | | 7627, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .842: | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | text | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 8031, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .842: | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | text | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 7.2 | | | | | | | | | (re | | | | | | | | | vised | | | | | | | | | R4-14 | | | | | | | | | 7628) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-1 | | | R4-15 | 1.3.0 | 1.4.0 | | 15-03 | AN4# | 51774 | | | 1208, | | | | | 74bis | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .842: | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | backg | | | | | | | | | round | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | modul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 8.1.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 1209, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .842: | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | text | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 8. | | | | | | | | | 1.5.1 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | o-loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | TX IM | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-1 | | | R4-15 | 1.4.0 | 1.5.0 | | 15-05 | 4#75 | 52978 | | | 1793, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | IMD | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-1 | | | R4-15 | 1.5.0 | 1.6.0 | | 15-08 | 4#76 | 55003 | | | 3924, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | Term | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | rad | | | | | | | | | iated | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 3764, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | | | coord | | | | | | | | | inate | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 3310, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | FOM | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | | | Sen | | | | | | | | | sitiv | | | | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 3774, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | ACLR | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | TRX | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-1 | | | R4-15 | 1.6.0 | 1.7.0 | | 15-10 | 4#77 | 5xxxx | | | 4721, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 36 | | | | | | | | | .842: | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | EIRP | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 4923, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Time | | | | | | | | | Alig | | | | | | | | | nment | | | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 4401, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | mbols | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 5037, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Coord | | | | | | | | | inate | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | Fu | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | | | tails | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 5344, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .842: | | | | | | | | | Beam | | | | | | | | | poi | | | | | | | | | nting | | | | | | | | | dire | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 3 and | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 7.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 5009, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | --Rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 5346, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 5426, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .842: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | dding | | | | | | | | | text | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 8. | | | | | | | | | 1.5.2 | | | | | | | | | about | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | ermin | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | intra | | | | | | | | | array | | | | | | | | | le | | | | | | | | | akage | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 5357, | | | | | | | | | TP - | | | | | | | | | IMD | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 4975, | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .842: | | | | | | | | | Sc | | | | | | | | | aling | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | ucted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | BS in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 8.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-15 | | | | | | | | | 5358, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | ucted | | | | | | | | | FFS | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+