# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 3 of a multi-part conformance test specification
for UE. The specification contains a TTCN2 design frame work and the detailed
test specifications in TTCN for UE at the Uu interface.
3GPP TS 34.123-1 [Error: Reference source not found]: \"User Equipment (UE)
conformance specification; Part 1: Protocol conformance specification\".
3GPP TS 34.123-2 [Error: Reference source not found]: \"User Equipment (UE)
conformance specification; Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma specification\".
**3GPP TS 34.123-3: \"Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\" (the present document).**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol conformance testing in TTCN for
the 3GPP User Equipment (UE) at the Uu interface.
The present document is the 3^rd^ part of a multi-part test specification,
3GPP TS 34.123. The following TTCN test specification and design
considerations can be found in the present document:
\- the overall test suite structure;
\- the testing architecture;
\- the test methods and PCO definitions;
\- the test configurations;
\- the design principles, assumptions, and used interfaces to the TTCN tester
(System Simulator);
\- TTCN styles and conventions;
\- the partial PIXIT proforma;
\- the TTCN.MP and TTCN.GR forms for the mentioned protocols tests.
The Abstract Test Suites designed in the document are based on the test cases
specified in prose (3GPP TS 34.123‑1 [Error: Reference source not found]).
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP Release
1999, 3GPP Release 4, 3GPP Release 5, 3GPP Release 6, 3GPP Release 7 or 3GPP
Release 8.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
\- For a Release 1999 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 3.x.y,
when available.
\- For a Release 4 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 4.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 5 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 5.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 6 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 6.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 7 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 7.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 8 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 8.x.y, when
available.
[1] 3GPP TS 34.123-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 1:
Protocol conformance specification\".
[2] 3GPP TS 34.123-2: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 2:
Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\".
[3] to [55] (void)
[56] 3GPP TS 34.123-3 Release 9: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification;Part 3: Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Requirements on the TTCN development
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.123-3
Release 9 [56].
# 5 to 8 Void
###### ## Annex A to I: Void
#