# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the measurement procedures for the conformance
test of the minimum performance requirements for FDD mode of UTRA user
equipment (UE) that supports Assisted Global Positioning System (A-GPS).
Tests are only applicable to those mobiles that are intended to support the
appropriate functionality. To indicate the circumstances in which tests apply,
this is noted in the \"_definition and applicability_ \" part of the test.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
\- For a Release 1999 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 3.x.y.
\- For a Release 4 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 4.x.y.
\- For a Release 5 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 5.x.y.
\- For a Release 6 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 6.x.y.
\- For a Release 7 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 7.x.y.
\- For a Release 8 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 8.x.y.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 25.990: \"Vocabulary for UTRAN\".
[3] to [17] (void)
[18] 3GPP TS 34.171: \"Terminal conformance specification;Assisted Global
Positioning System (A-GPS);Frequency Division Duplex (FDD)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and equations
Void
# 4 General test conditions
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.171
Release 9 [18].
# 5 Void
###### ## Annex A to G: Void
#