# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is 3^rd^ part of a multi-part conformance test
specification for UE and is _valid for 3GPP Release 5 and above_. The
specification contains a TTCN design frame work and the detailed test
specifications in TTCN for the UE conformance at the Gm reference point.
3GPP TS 34.229-1 [5] contains a conformance test description in prose.
3GPP TS 34.229-2 [6] contains a pro-forma for the UE Implementation
Conformance Statement (ICS).
3GPP TS 34.229-3 the current document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol conformance testing in TTCN for
the 3GPP User Equipment (UE) at the Gm interface.
The present document is the 3^rd^ part of a multi-part test specification,
3GPP TS 34.229. The following TTCN test specification and design
considerations can be found in the present document:
\- the overall test suite structure;
\- the testing architecture;
\- the test methods and PCO definitions;
\- the test configurations;
\- the design principles, assumptions, and used interfaces to the TTCN tester
(System Simulator);
\- TTCN styles and conventions;
\- the partial PIXIT proforma;
\- the TTCNfiles for the mentioned protocols tests.
The Abstract Test Suites designed in the document are based on the test cases
specified in prose (3GPP TS 34.229‑1 [5]).
The present document is valid for UE implemented according 3GPP Release X,
where X is the Release indicated on the spec\'s front page.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
\- For a Release 5 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 5.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 6 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 6.x.y, when
available.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] to [31] (void)
[32] 3GPP TS 34.229-3 Release 9: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call
control protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session
Description Protocol (SDP);User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;Part
3: Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Requirements on the TTCN development
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.229-3
Release 9 [32].
# 5 to 8 Void
###### ## Annex A to G: Void
#