# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the E-UTRA UE Radio Access Capability Parameters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) specification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.322: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Radio Link Control (RLC) specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Medium Access Control (MAC) specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Radio Resource Control (RRC) specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
radio transmission and reception\".
[7] IETF RFC 4995: \"The RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Framework\".
[8] IETF RFC 4996: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): A Profile for TCP/IP
(ROHC-TCP)\".
[9] IETF RFC 3095: \"RObust Header Compression (RoHC): Framework and four
profiles: RTP, UDP, ESP and uncompressed\".
[10] IETF RFC 3843: \"RObust Header Compression (RoHC): A Compression Profile
for IP\".
[11] IETF RFC 4815: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Corrections and
Clarifications to RFC 3095\".
[12] IETF RFC 5225: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Version 2: Profiles for
RTP, UDP, IP, ESP and UDP Lite\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.355: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) LTE
Positioning Protocol (LPP)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); UE
Procedures in Idle Mode\".
> [15] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection
> for Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
>
> [16] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
>
> [17] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Physical Channels and Modulation\".
[18] 3GPP TS 25.307: \" Requirement on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a
release-independent frequency band\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**\ **: \.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
1xRTT CDMA2000 1x Radio Transmission Technology
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
DL-SCH Downlink Shared Channel
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HRPD High Rate Packet Data
MAC Medium Access Control
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PHR Power Headroom Reporting
RACH Random Access CHannel
RAT Radio Access Technology
RLC Radio Link Control
ROHC RObust Header Compression
RRC Radio Resource Control
SI System Information
SON Self Organizing Networks
SSAC Service Specific Access Control
TDD Time Division Duplex
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UL-SCH Uplink Shared Channel
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
# 4 UE radio access capability parameters
The following subclauses define the UE radio access capability parameters and
minimum capabilities for MBMS capable UE. Only parameters for which there is
the possibility for UEs to signal different values are considered as UE radio
access capability parameters. Therefore, mandatory capabilities that are the
same for all UEs are not listed here. Also capabilities which are optional or
conditionally mandatory for UEs to implement but do not have UE radio access
capability parameter are listed in this specification.
E-UTRAN needs to respect the signalled UE radio access capability parameters
when configuring the UE and when scheduling the UE.
All parameters shown in italics are signalled and correspond to a field
defined in TS 36.331 [5].
## 4.1 _ue-Category_
The field _ue-Category_ defines a combined uplink and downlink capability. The
parameters set by the UE Category are defined in subclause 4.2. Tables 4.1-1
and 4.1-2 define the downlink and, respectively, uplink physical layer
parameter values for each UE Category. A UE indicating category 6 or 7 shall
also indicate category 4\. A UE indicating category 8 shall also indicate
category 5. Table 4.1-4 defines the minimum capability for the maximum number
of bits of a MCH transport block received within a TTI for an MBMS capable UE.
Table 4.1-1: Downlink physical layer parameter values set by the field _ue-
Category_
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UE Category | Maximum | Maximum | Total | Maximum | | | number of | number of | number of | number of | | | DL-SCH | bits of a | soft | supported | | | transport | DL-SCH | channel | layers for | | | block bits | transport | bits | spatial | | | received | block | | m | | | within a | received | | ultiplexing | | | TTI (Note) | within a | | in DL | | | | TTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Category 1 | 10296 | 10296 | 250368 | 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Category 2 | 51024 | 51024 | 1237248 | 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Category 3 | 102048 | 75376 | 1237248 | 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Category 4 | 150752 | 75376 | 1827072 | 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Category 5 | 299552 | 149776 | 3667200 | 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Category 6 | 301504 | 149776 (4 | 3654144 | 2 or 4 | | | | layers) | | | | | | | | | | | | 75376 (2 | | | | | | layers) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Category 7 | 301504 | 149776 (4 | 3654144 | 2 or 4 | | | | layers) | | | | | | | | | | | | 75376 (2 | | | | | | layers) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Category 8 | 2998560 | 299856 | 35982720 | 8 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: In | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | aggregation | | | | | | operation, | | | | | | the DL-SCH | | | | | | processing | | | | | | capability | | | | | | can be | | | | | | shared by | | | | | | the UE with | | | | | | that of MCH | | | | | | received | | | | | | from a | | | | | | serving | | | | | | cell. If | | | | | | the total | | | | | | eNB | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | for DL-SCH | | | | | | and an MCH | | | | | | in one | | | | | | serving | | | | | | cell at a | | | | | | given TTI | | | | | | is larger | | | | | | than the | | | | | | defined | | | | | | processing | | | | | | capability, | | | | | | the | | | | | | pri | | | | | | oritization | | | | | | between | | | | | | DL-SCH and | | | | | | MCH is left | | | | | | up to UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
_Table 4.1-2: Uplink physical layer parameter values set by the field ue-
Category_
* * *
UE Category Maximum number of UL-SCH transport block bits transmitted within a
TTI Maximum number of bits of an UL-SCH transport block transmitted within a
TTI Support for 64QAM in UL Category 1 5160 5160 No Category 2 25456 25456 No
Category 3 51024 51024 No Category 4 51024 51024 No Category 5 75376 75376 Yes
Category 6 51024 51024 No Category 7 102048 51024 No Category 8 1497760 149776
Yes
* * *
Table 4.1-3: Total layer 2 buffer sizes set by the field _ue-Category_
* * *
UE Category Total layer 2 buffer size [bytes] Category 1 150 000 Category 2
700 000 Category 3 1 400 000 Category 4 1 900 000 Category 5 3 500 000
Category 6 3 300 000 Category 7 3 800 000 Category 8 42 200 000
* * *
Table 4.1-4: Maximum number of bits of a MCH transport block received within a
TTI set by the field _ue-Category_ for an MBMS capable UE
* * *
UE Category Maximum number of bits of a MCH transport block received within a
TTI Category 1 10296 Category 2 51024 Category 3 75376 Category 4 75376
Category 5 75376 Category 6 75376 Category 7 75376 Category 8 75376
* * *
## 4.2 Parameters set by the field _ue-Category_
### 4.2.1 Transport channel parameters in downlink
#### 4.2.1.1 Maximum number of DL-SCH transport block bits received within a
TTI
Defines the maximum number of DL-SCH transport blocks bits that the UE is
capable of receiving within a DL-SCH TTI.
This number does not include the bits of a DL-SCH transport block carrying
BCCH in the same subframe.
#### 4.2.1.2 Maximum number of bits of a DL-SCH transport block received
within a TTI
Defines the maximum number of DL-SCH transport block bits that the UE is
capable of receiving in a single transport block within a DL-SCH TTI.
#### 4.2.1.3 Total number of DL-SCH soft channel bits
Defines the total number of soft channel bits available for HARQ processing.
This number does not include the soft channel bits required by the dedicated
broadcast HARQ process for the decoding of system information.
#### 4.2.1.4 Maximum number of bits of a MCH transport block received within a
TTI
Defines the maximum number of MCH transport block bits that the UE is capable
of receiving within a MCH TTI.
### 4.2.2 Transport channel parameters in uplink
#### 4.2.2.1 Maximum number of bits of an UL-SCH transport block transmitted
within a TTI
Defines the maximum number of UL-SCH transport block bits that the UE is
capable of transmitting in a single transport block within an UL-SCH TTI.
#### 4.2.2.2 Maximum number of UL-SCH transport block bits transmitted within
a TTI
Defines the maximum number of UL-SCH transport blocks bits that the UE is
capable of transmitting within an UL-SCH TTI.
### 4.2.3 Physical channel parameters in downlink (DL)
#### 4.2.3.1 Maximum number of supported layers for spatial multiplexing in DL
This field defines the maximum number of supported layers for spatial
multiplexing per UE. The UE shall support the number of layers according to
its Rel-8/9 category (Cat. 1-5) in all non-CA band combinations. Further
requirements on the number of supported layers for spatial multiplexing are
provided in section 4.3.5.2.
For each bandwidth class per band per band combination specified in
_supportedBandCombination_ , the UE provides the corresponding MIMO
capability.
### 4.2.4 Physical channel parameters in uplink (UL)
#### 4.2.4.1 Support for 64QAM in UL
Defines if 64QAM is supported in UL.
### 4.2.5 Total layer 2 buffer size
This parameter defines the total layer 2 buffer size. The total layer 2 buffer
size is defined as the sum of the number of bytes that the UE is capable of
storing in the RLC transmission windows and RLC reception and reordering
windows for all radio bearers.
## 4.3 Parameters independent of the field _ue-Category_
### 4.3.1 PDCP Parameters
#### 4.3.1.1 _supportedROHC-Profiles_
This field defines which ROHC profiles from the list below are supported by
the UE.
\- 0x0000 ROHC uncompressed (RFC 4995)
\- 0x0001 ROHC RTP (RFC 3095, RFC 4815)
\- 0x0002 ROHC UDP (RFC 3095, RFC 4815)
\- 0x0003 ROHC ESP (RFC 3095, RFC 4815)
\- 0x0004 ROHC IP (RFC 3843, RFC 4815)
\- 0x0006 ROHC TCP (RFC 4996)
\- 0x0101 ROHCv2 RTP (RFC 5225)
\- 0x0102 ROHCv2 UDP (RFC 5225)
\- 0x0103 ROHCv2 ESP (RFC 5225)
\- 0x0104 ROHCv2 IP (RFC 5225)
A UE that supports one or more of the listed ROHC profiles shall support ROHC
profile 0x0000 ROHC uncompressed (RFC 4995).
\'IMS capable UEs supporting voice\' shall support ROHC profiles 0x0000,
0x0001, 0x0002 and be able to compress and decompress headers of PDCP SDUs at
a PDCP SDU rate corresponding to supported IMS voice codecs.
#### 4.3.1.2 _maxNumberROHC-ContextSessions_
This field defines the maximum number of header compression context sessions
supported by the UE, excluding context sessions that leave all headers
uncompressed.
### 4.3.2 RLC parameters
#### 4.3.2.1 Void
### 4.3.3 Void
### 4.3.4 Physical layer parameters
#### 4.3.4.1 _ue-TxAntennaSelectionSupported_
This field defines whether the UE supports transmit antenna selection.
#### 4.3.4.2 _ue-SpecificRefSigsSupported_
This field defines whether the UE supports PDSCH transmission mode 7 for FDD.
#### 4.3.4.3 Void
#### 4.3.4.4 _enhancedDualLayerFDD_
This field defines whether the UE supports enhanced dual layer (PDSCH
transmission mode 8) for FDD.
#### 4.3.4.5 _enhancedDualLayerTDD_
This field defines whether the UE supports enhanced dual layer (PDSCH
transmission mode 8) for TDD. Enhanced dual layer shall be supported by UEs of
this version of the specification supporting TDD.
#### 4.3.4.6 _supportedMIMO-CapabilityUL-r10_
This field defines the maximum number of spatial multiplexing layers in the
uplink direction for a certain band and bandwidth class in a
supportedBandCombination supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.4.7 _supportedMIMO-CapabilityDL-r10_
This field defines the maximum number of spatial multiplexing layers in the
downlink direction for a certain band and bandwidth class in a
supportedBandCombination supported by the UE.
The support for more layers in _supportedMIMO-CapabilityDL_ than given by the
"maximum number of supported layers for spatial multiplexing in DL" derived
from the _ue-Category_ (without suffix) in the _UE-EUTRA-Capability_ IE is
only applicable to transmission mode 9.
#### 4.3.4.8 _two-AntennaPortsForPUCCH-r10_
This field defines whether the UE supports transmit diversity for PUCCH
formats 1/1a/1b/2/2a/2b, and if the UE supports PUCCH format 3, transmit
diversity for PUCCH format 3.
#### 4.3.4.9 _tm9-With-8Tx-FDD-r10_
This field defines whether the UE supports PDSCH transmission mode 9 with 8
CSI reference signal ports for FDD.
#### 4.3.4.10 _pmi-Disabling-r10_
This field defines whether the UE supports PMI disabling.
#### 4.3.4.11 _crossCarrierScheduling-r10_
This field defines whether the UE supports cross carrier scheduling operation
for carrier aggregation, including (if the UE supports carrier aggregation in
UL) the use of PCell as the pathloss reference for a SCell when
_pathlossReference-r10_ within _UplinkPowerControlDedicatedSCell-r10_ is
configured as \"pCell\". The UE supports PDCCH DCI formats with CIF if the UE
indicates support for cross carrier scheduling.
NOTE: Regardless of whether the UE supports cross carrier scheduling operation
or not, it is mandatory for a UE supporting carrier aggregation in UL to
support the configuration where _pathlossReference-r10_ within
_UplinkPowerControlDedicatedSCell-r10_ is set to "sCell".
#### 4.3.4.12 _simultaneousPUCCH-PUSCH-r10_
This field defines whether the UE baseband supports simultaneous transmission
of PUCCH and PUSCH, and is band agnostic. If the UE indicates support of
baseband capability for simultaneous transmission of PUCCH and PUSCH using
this field, and if the UE indicates support of RF capability for non-
contiguous UL resource allocation within a component carrier for a particular
E-UTRA radio frequency band, then the UE supports simultaneous transmission of
PUCCH and PUSCH within each component carrier of the band. If the UE indicates
support of baseband capability for simultaneous transmission of PUCCH and
PUSCH using this field, and if the UE indicates support of carrier aggregation
in UL, then the UE supports simultaneous transmission of PUCCH and PUSCH
across any UL component carriers which the UE can aggregate.
#### 4.3.4.13 _multiClusterPUSCH-WithinCC-r10_
This field defines whether the UE baseband supports multi-cluster PUSCH
transmission within a component carrier (i.e. PUSCH resource allocation type
1), and is band agnostic. If the UE indicates support of baseband capability
for multi-cluster PUSCH transmission within a component carrier using this
field, and if the UE indicates support of RF capability for non-contiguous UL
resource allocation within a component carrier for a particular E-UTRA radio
frequency band, then the UE supports multi-cluster PUSCH transmission within
each component carrier of the band.
NOTE: If the UE indicates support of carrier aggregation in UL, then the UE
supports PUSCH transmissions over non-contiguous resource blocks across any UL
component carriers which the UE can aggregate, regardless of whether or not
the UE indicates support of baseband capability for multi-cluster PUSCH
transmission within a component carrier using this field..
#### 4.3.4.14 _nonContiguousUL-RA-WithinCC-Info-r10_
This field defines whether the UE RF supports non-contiguous UL resource
allocations within a component carrier, and is signalled per E-UTRA radio
frequency band which the UE supports.
#### 4.3.4.15 _Void_
#### 4.3.4.16 _Void_
#### 4.3.4.17 _Void_
#### 4.3.4.18 _Void_
#### 4.3.4.19 _Void_
#### 4.3.4.20 _Void_
#### 4.3.4.21 _Void_
#### 4.3.4.22 _Void_
#### 4.3.4.23 _Void_
#### 4.3.4.24 _tm5-FDD_
This field defines whether the UE supports PDSCH transmission mode 5 for FDD.
#### 4.3.4.25 _tm5-TDD_
This field defines whether the UE supports PDSCH transmission mode 5 for TDD.
### 4.3.5 RF parameters
#### 4.3.5.1 _supportedBandListEUTRA_
This field defines which E-UTRA radio frequency bands [6] are supported by the
UE. For each band, support for either only half duplex operation, or full
duplex operation is indicated. For TDD, the half duplex indication is not
applicable.
#### 4.3.5.2 supportedBandCombination
This field defines the carrier aggregation and MIMO capabilities supported by
the UE for configurations with inter-band, intra-band non-contiguous, intra-
band contiguous carrier aggregation and without carrier aggregation. For each
band in a band combination the UE provides the supported CA bandwidth classes
and the corresponding MIMO capabilities for the downlink. The UE also has to
provide the supported uplink CA bandwidth class and the corresponding MIMO
capability for at least one band in the band combination. A MIMO capability
applies to all carriers of a bandwidth class of a band in a band combination.
In all non-CA band combinations the UE shall indicate a bandwidth class
supporting the maximum channel bandwidth defined for the band.
In all non-CA band combinations the UE shall indicate at least the number of
layers for spatial multiplexing according to the UE's Rel-8/9 category (Cat.
1-5). If the UE provides a Rel-10 category (Cat. 6-8) it shall indicate at
least the number of layers according to that category for at least one band
combination. In all other band combinations a UE indicating a category between
2 and 8 shall indicate support for at least 2 layers for downlink spatial
multiplexing for all bands. The indicated number of layers for spatial
multiplexing may exceed the number of layers required according to the
category indicated by the UE. The carrier aggregation and MIMO capabilities
indicated for at least one band combination shall meet the processing
requirements defined by the physical layer parameter values in the UE category
(i.e., maximum number of DL-SCH/UL-SCH transport block bits
received/transmitted within a TTI, maximum number of bits of a DL-SCH/UL-SCH
transport block received/transmitted within a TTI, and total number of soft
channel bits for downlink).
NOTE: For the purposes of determining whether the carrier aggregation and MIMO
capabilities indicated for a band combination meets the processing
requirements defined by the physical layer parameter values in the UE category
as described above, the carrier aggregation and MIMO capabilities indicated
for a band combination is considered to meet the processing requirements if
the UE supports the maximum processing requirements defined by the UE category
assuming 20MHz channel bandwidth is supported on all bands.
The UE shall support release of any SCell without requiring reconfiguration of
parameters related to UE radio access capabilities for the remaining serving
cells, except for release of an SCell from a contiguous CA band configuration
that results in a non-contiguous CA band configuration, and set the
_supportedBandCombination_ accordingly.
#### 4.3.5.3 Void
#### 4.3.5.4 Void
#### 4.3.5.5 Void
#### 4.3.5.6 Void
#### 4.3.5.7 Void
#### 4.3.5.8 Void
#### 4.3.5.9 Void
#### 4.3.5.10 _modifiedMPR-Behavior-r10_
This field defines whether the UE supports modified MPR/A-MPR behaviours as
specified in TS 36.101 [6].
#### 4.3.5.11 Void
#### 4.3.5.12 Void
#### 4.3.5.13 Void
#### 4.3.5.14 _fourLayerTM3-TM4-r10_
This field defines whether the UE supports 4-layer spatial multiplexing with
transmission mode 3 and transmission mode 4.
#### 4.3.5.15 Void
#### 4.3.5.16 _multiNS-Pmax-r10_
This field defines whether the UE supports the mechanisms defined for cells
broadcasting _NS-PmaxList_ as specified in TS 36.331 [5].
### 4.3.6 Measurement parameters
#### 4.3.6.1 _interFreqNeedForGaps_ and _interRAT-NeedForGaps_
These fields define for each supported E-UTRA band whether measurement gaps
are required to perform measurements on each other supported E-UTRA radio
frequency band and on each supported RAT/band combination. A UE also indicates
for each band combination as in the _supportedBandCombination_ whether
measurement gaps are required to perform measurements on each supported E-UTRA
radio frequency band and on each supported RAT/band combination.
### 4.3.7 Inter-RAT parameters
#### 4.3.7.1 Support of UTRA FDD
This parameter defines whether the UE supports UTRA FDD.
A UE that supports UTRAN FDD shall support inter-RAT PS handover to UTRAN.
#### 4.3.7.2 _supportedBandListUTRA-FDD_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA FDD. This field defines which UTRA FDD
radio frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.3 Support of UTRA TDD 1.28 Mcps
This parameter defines whether the UE supports UTRA TDD 1.28 Mcps.
A UE that supports UTRAN TDD 1.28 Mcps shall support inter-RAT PS handover to
UTRAN.
#### 4.3.7.4 _supportedBandListUTRA-TDD128_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA TDD 1.28 Mcps. This field defines
which UTRA TDD 1.28 Mcps radio frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.5 Support of UTRA TDD 3.84 Mcps
This parameter defines whether the UE supports UTRA TDD 3.84 Mcps.
A UE that supports UTRAN TDD 3.84 Mcps shall support inter-RAT PS handover to
UTRAN.
#### 4.3.7.6 _supportedBandListUTRA-TDD384_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA TDD 3.84 Mcps. This field defines
which UTRA TDD 3.84 Mcps radio frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.7 Support of UTRA TDD 7.68 Mcps
This parameter defines whether the UE supports UTRA TDD 7.68 Mcps.
A UE that supports UTRAN TDD 7.68 Mcps shall support inter-RAT PS handover to
UTRAN.
#### 4.3.7.8 _supportedBandListUTRA-TDD768_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA TDD 7.68 Mcps. This field defines
which UTRA TDD 7.68 Mcps radio frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.9 Support of GERAN
This parameter defines whether the UE supports GERAN.
#### 4.3.7.10 _supportedBandListGERAN_
Only applicable if the UE supports GERAN. This field defines which GERAN radio
frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.11 interRAT-PS-HO-ToGERAN
Only applicable if the UE supports GERAN. This field defines whether the UE
supports inter-RAT PS handover to GERAN.
#### 4.3.7.12 Support of HRPD
This parameter defines whether the UE supports HRPD.
#### 4.3.7.13 _supportedBandListHRPD_
Only applicable if the UE supports HRPD. This field defines which HRPD radio
frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.14 _tx-ConfigHRPD_
Only applicable if the UE supports HRPD. This field defines whether the UE
supports single or dual transmitter. With dual transmitter, UE can transmit
simultaneously on both E-UTRAN and HRPD.
#### 4.3.7.15 _rx-ConfigHRPD_
Only applicable if the UE supports HRPD. This field defines whether the UE
supports single or dual receiver. With dual receiver, UE can receive
simultaneously on both E-UTRAN and HRPD.
#### 4.3.7.16 Support of 1xRTT
This parameter defines whether the UE supports 1xRTT.
#### 4.3.7.17 _supportedBandList1XRTT_
Only applicable if the UE supports 1xRTT. This field defines which 1xRTT radio
frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.18 _tx-Config1XRTT_
Only applicable if the UE supports 1xRTT. This field defines whether the UE
supports single or dual transmitter. With dual transmitter, UE can transmit
simultaneously on both E-UTRAN and 1xRTT.
#### 4.3.7.19 _rx-Config1XRTT_
Only applicable if the UE supports 1xRTT. This field defines whether the UE
supports single or dual receiver. With dual receiver, UE can receive
simultaneously on both E-UTRAN and 1xRTT.
#### 4.3.7.20 _e-CSFB-1XRTT_
Only applicable if the UE supports CDMA2000 1xRTT. This field defines whether
the UE supports enhanced 1xRTT CS fallback.
#### 4.3.7.21 _e-CSFB-ConcPS-Mob1XRTT_
Only applicable if the UE supports CDMA2000 1xRTT and CDMA2000 HRPD
simultaneously. This field defines whether the UE supports concurrent enhanced
CS fallback to CDMA2000 1xRTT and handover/redirection to CDMA2000 HRPD.
#### 4.3.7.22 _e-RedirectionUTRA_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports use of UTRA system information
provided by _RRCConnectionRelease_ upon redirection.
#### 4.3.7.23 e-RedirectionGERAN
This parameter defines whether the UE supports use of GERAN system information
provided by _RRCConnectionRelease_ upon redirection.
A UE that supports CS fallback to GERAN shall support e-Redirection to GERAN.
#### 4.3.7.24 _dtm_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports Dual Transfer Mode (DTM) in
GERAN.
#### 4.3.7.25 _e-CSFB-dual-1XRTT_
Only applicable if the UE supports CDMA2000 1xRTT, dual transmitter (i.e. UE
can transmit simultaneously on both E-UTRAN and 1xRTT) and dual receiver (i.e.
UE can receive simultaneously on both E-UTRAN and 1xRTT). This field defines
whether the UE supports dual receiver/transmitter enhanced 1xRTT CS fallback
(dual Rx/Tx e1xCSFB).
#### 4.3.7.26 _e-RedirectionUTRA-TDD_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports redirection to multiple carrier
frequencies both with and without using UTRA TDD system information for cells
on multiple carrier frequencies provided by _RRCConnectionRelease_.
#### 4.3.7.27 Void
#### 4.3.7.28 _mfbi-UTRA_
This field is only applicable for a UE supporting UTRA FDD. It indicates if
the UE supports the signalling requirements of multiple radio frequency bands
in a UTRA FDD cell, as defined in TS 25.307 [18].
### 4.3.8 General parameters
#### 4.3.8.1 _accessStratumRelease_
This field defines the release of the E-UTRA layer 1, 2, and 3 specifications
supported by the UE e.g. Rel-8, Rel-9, etc.
#### 4.3.8.2 _deviceType_
This field defines whether the device does not benefit from NW-based battery
consumption optimisation.
### 4.3.9 Void
### 4.3.10 CSG Proximity Indication parameters
#### 4.3.10.1 _intraFreqProximityIndication_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports proximity indication for intra-
frequency E-UTRAN cells whose CSG Identities are in the UE's CSG Whitelist.
#### 4.3.10.2 _interFreqProximityIndication_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports proximity indication for inter-
frequency E-UTRAN cells whose CSG Identities are in the UE's CSG Whitelist.
#### 4.3.10.3 _utran-ProximityIndication_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports proximity indication for UTRAN
cells whose CSG IDs are in the UE's CSG Whitelist.
### 4.3.11 Neighbour cell SI acquisition parameters
#### 4.3.11.1 _intraFreqSI-AcquisitionForHO_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports, upon configuration of _si-
RequestForHO_ by the network, acquisition of relevant information from a
neighbouring intra-frequency cell by reading the SI of the neighbouring cell
using autonomous gaps and reporting the acquired information to the network as
specified in [5].
#### 4.3.11.2 _interFreqSI-AcquisitionForHO_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports, upon configuration of _si-
RequestForHO_ by the network, acquisition of relevant information from a
neighbouring inter-frequency cell by reading the SI of the neighbouring cell
using autonomous gaps and reporting the acquired information to the network as
specified in [5].
#### 4.3.11.3 _utran-SI-AcquisitionForHO_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports, upon configuration of _si-
RequestForHO_ by the network, acquisition of relevant information from a
neighbouring UMTS cell by reading the SI of the neighbouring cell using
autonomous gaps and reporting the acquired information to the network as
specified in [5].
### 4.3.12 SON parameters
#### 4.3.12.1 _rach-Report_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports delivery of _rachReport_ upon
request from the network.
### 4.3.13 UE-based network performance measurement parameters
#### 4.3.13.1 _loggedMeasurementsIdle_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports logged measurements in RRC_IDLE
upon request from the network. A UE that supports logged measurements in
RRC_IDLE shall also support a minimum of 64kB memory for log storage.
#### 4.3.13.2 _standaloneGNSS-Location_
This parameter defines whether the UE is equipped with a standalone GNSS
receiver that may be used to provide detailed location information in RRC
measurement report and logged measurements in RRC_IDLE.
### 4.3.14 IMS Voice parameters
#### 4.3.14.1 _voiceOver-PS-HS-UTRA-FDD_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA FDD. This parameter defines whether
the UE supports IMS Voice in UTRA FDD according to GSMA IR.58 profile.
#### 4.3.14.2 _voiceOver-PS-HS-UTRA-TDD128_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA TDD 1.28Mcps. This parameter defines
whether the UE supports IMS Voice in UTRA TDD 1.28Mcps.
#### 4.3.14.3 _srvcc-FromUTRA-FDD-ToGERAN_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA FDD and GERAN. This parameter defines
whether the UE supports SRVCC handover from UTRA FDD PS HS to GERAN CS.
#### 4.3.14.4 _srvcc-FromUTRA-FDD-ToUTRA-FDD_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA FDD. This parameter defines whether
the UE supports SRVCC handover from UTRA FDD PS HS to UTRA FDD CS.
#### 4.3.14.5 _srvcc-FromUTRA-TDD128-ToGERAN_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA TDD 1.28Mcps and GERAN. This parameter
defines whether the UE supports SRVCC handover from UTRA TDD 1.28Mcps PS HS to
GERAN CS.
#### 4.3.14.6 _srvcc-FromUTRA-TDD128-ToUTRA-TDD128_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA TDD 1.28Mcps. This parameter defines
whether the UE supports SRVCC handover from UTRA TDD 1.28Mcps PS HS to UTRA
TDD 1.28Mcps CS.
### 4.3.15 Void
### 4.3.16 Positioning parameters
#### 4.3.16.1 _otdoa-UE-assisted_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports UE-assisted OTDOA positioning
[13].
#### 4.3.16.2 _interFreqRSTDmeasurement_
This parameter defines whether the UE supports inter-frequency RSTD
measurements for OTDOA positioning [13].
# 5 Void
# 6 Optional features without UE radio access capability parameters
The following subclauses list the optional UE features not having UE radio
access capability.
NOTE: This chapter does not yet contain complete analysis of all features of
this release of specification.
## 6.1 CSG features
It is optional for UE to support some parts of CSG cell and hybrid cell
reselection features as specified in [5, B.2].
## 6.2 PWS features
### 6.2.1 ETWS
It is optional for UE to support ETWS reception as specified in [5].
### 6.2.2 CMAS
It is optional for UE to support CMAS reception as specified in [5].
### 6.2.3 KPAS
It is optional for UE to support KPAS reception as specified in [5]. The
Korean Public Alert System (KPAS) uses the same AS mechanisms as defined for
CMAS. Therefore a KPAS-capable UE shall support all behaviour that is included
in [5] and [14] for a CMAS-capable UE.
## 6.3 MBMS features
It is optional for UE to support MBMS procedures as specified in [5].
## 6.4 Void
## 6.5 Positioning features
### 6.5.0 UE Rx -- Tx time difference
It is optional for UE to support ue-RxTxTimeDiffResult as specified in
[5][13].
### 6.5.1 Void
## 6.6 Void
## 6.7 Void
## 6.8 Void
## 6.9 Void
# 7 Conditionally Mandatory features
## 7.1 Access control features
### 7.1.1 SSAC
It is mandatory to support Service Specific Access Control as specified in [5,
5.3.3.10] for UEs which are IMS voice capable in LTE.
### 7.1.2 CSFB Access Barring Control
It is mandatory to support CSFB Access Barring Control as specified in [5,
5.3.3.2] for UEs which are supporting CSFB to UTRA or GERAN.
## 7.2 Emergency call features
### 7.2.1 IMS emergency call
It is mandatory to support IMS emergency call for UEs which are IMS voice
capable in LTE.
## 7.3 MAC features
### 7.3.1 SR mask
It is mandatory to support configuration indicated by _logicalChannelSR-Mask_
for UE which have set bit number 29 of _featureGroupIndicators_ to "1" as
specified in [5].
### 7.3.2 Power Management Indicator in PHR
Power management indicator in PHR is mandatory to support for UE applying
additional power backoff due to power management (as allowed by P-MPR~c~ [6]).
## 7.4 Inter-RAT Mobility features
### 7.4.1 High Priority CSFB redirection
It is mandatory to support the _RRCConnectionRelease_ indicating _\'cs-
FallbackHighPriority\'_ for UEs which are supporting CSFB to UTRA as specified
in [5].
## 7.5 Delay Tolerant Access Features
### 7.5.1 extendedWaitTime
It is mandatory to support the _RRCConnectionRelease_ with _extendedWaitTime_
or _RRCConnectionReject_ with _extendedWaitTime_ for UEs which do support
Delay Tolerant Access as specified in [5].
## 7.6 RRC Connection
### 7.6.1 Void
## 7.7 Positioning features
### 7.7.1 OTDOA Inter-frequency RSTD measurement indication
It is mandatory to support delivery of _InterFreqRSTDMeasurementIndication_ as
specified in [5, 5.5.7] for UEs indicating support for inter-frequency RSTD
measurements for OTDOA [13] and requiring measurement gaps for performing
these measurements.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Guideline on maximum number of DL PDCP SDUs
per TTI
In order to help the dimensioning of the UE design, values for the maximum
number of DL PDCP SDUs per TTI from Table A-1 may be used.
Note: Due to the need for the network buffer data for efficient scheduling,
values for Category 1 and 2 are same. It is not expected that category 1 UE
has to sustain the same rate of PDCP SDUs per TTI as category 2 for prolonged
period of time.
Table A-1: Maximum values for DL PDCP SDUs per TTI
* * *
UE Category Maximum number of PDCP SDUs per TTI Category 1 10 Category 2 10
Category 3 20 Category 4 30 Category 5 50 Category 6 50 Category 7 50
* * *
#