# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies requirements for Rel-10 UEs supporting release
independent features like:
\- additional E-UTRA operating frequency bands on top of Rel-10 of TS 36.101
[2] and TS 36.133 [3];
\- additional E-UTRA CA configurations (intra-band/inter-band) on top of
Rel-10 of TS 36.101 [2] and TS 36.133 [3];
\- additional operating bands and/or CA configurations for specific features;
\- other release independent features (like 4Rx antenna port).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) Radio Transmission and Reception\".
NOTE: The considered release is given in the text of the present document that
uses [2].
[3] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management\".
NOTE: The considered release is given in the text of the present document that
uses [3].
[4] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
NOTE: The considered release is given in the text of the present document that
uses [4].
[5] Void.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**release independent** : applicable to some frozen releases, starting from a
certain release Rel-M
NOTE 1: Normally, a feature is introduced only in the latest open release
Rel-N and future releases are based on the previous one so that future
releases inherit the requirements of this feature. Introducing a feature \"in
a release independent way from Rel-M onwards\" (M\ 64, | | | | | Power Class 3 | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Operating | FDD, TDD | Rel-10 | Table B.2.1-1, | | bands, NS-value | | | Table B.4.1-1 | | > 32 | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Asymmetric | FDD | Rel-10 | Table B.2.1-1, | | operating | | | Table B.4.1-1 | | bands, Power | | | | | Class 3 | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Operating | FDD | Rel-10 | Table B.2.1-1, | | bands, band | | | Table B.4.1-1 | | number \ \- for supporting the | | | > corresponding band in Rel-9 | | | > and below: clause 4.3 | | | > (Minimization of Drive Tests). | | | | | | NOTE 2: All requirements and the | | | corresponding test cases shall | | | apply, except: | | | | | | > \- for supporting the | | | > corresponding band in Rel-8: | | | > clauses 6.3 (RRC Connection | | | > Release with Redirection), 6.4 | | | > (CSG Proximity Indication for | | | > E-UTRAN and UTRAN). | | | | | | NOTE 3: All requirements and | | | corresponding test cases shall | | | apply, except those defined in | | | sections 7.4 and 7.5. | | | | | | NOTE 4: All requirements and | | | corresponding test cases shall | | | apply, except: | | | | | | > \- for supporting the | | | > corresponding band in Rel-8: | | | > clauses 8.1.2.5 (E-UTRAN OTDOA | | | > Intra-Frequency RSTD | | | > Measurements), 8.1.2.6 | | | > (E-UTRAN Inter-Frequency OTDOA | | | > Measurements), 8.1.2.7 | | | > (E-UTRAN E-CID Measurements). | | | | | | NOTE 5: All requirements and | | | corresponding test cases shall | | | apply, except: | | | | | | > \- for supporting the | | | > corresponding band in Rel-8: | | | > clauses 9.1.9 (UE Rx--Tx time | | | > difference), 9.1.10 (Reference | | | > Signal Time Difference). | | | | | | NOTE 6: All requirements and | | | test cases in this table shall | | | apply, except those defined for: | | | carrier aggregation; | | | measurements under time-domain | | | measurement resource | | | restriction, in addition to the | | | exceptions listed above. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## B.2.2 Void
## B.2.3 Void
# B.3 Common UE performance requirements
## B.3.1 Void
## B.3.2 Void
## B.3.3 Void
# B.4 Common UE RF requirements
## B.4.1 Common UE RF requirements for a release independent band
The requirements and test cases listed in Table B.4.1-1 are specified in TS
36.101 Rel-10 [2].
Table B.4.1-1: Common UE RF requirements for a release independent band
Section / Clause Description
* * *
5.5 Operating bands 5.6 Channel bandwidth 5.7 Channel arrangement 6.2 Transmit
power 6.3 Output power dynamics 6.5 Transmit signal quality 6.6 Output RF
spectrum emissions 6.7 Transmit intermodulation 7.3 Reference sensitivity
power level 7.4 Maximum input level 7.5 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) 7.6
Blocking characteristics 7.7 Spurious response 7.8 Intermodulation
characteristics 7.9 RX spurious emissions
## B.4.2 Void
## B.4.3 Void
#