# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Access Stratum (AS) part of the Idle Mode
procedures applicable to a UE. The non-access stratum (NAS) part of Idle mode
procedures and processes is specified in [5].
The present document specifies the model for the functional division between
the NAS and AS in a UE.
The present document applies to all UEs that support at least E-UTRA,
including multi-RAT UEs as described in 3GPP specifications, in the following
cases:
\- When the UE is camped on an E-UTRA cell;
\- When the UE is searching for a cell to camp on;
NOTE: When the UE is camped on or searching for a cell to camp on belonging to
other RATs, the UE behaviour is described in the specifications of the other
RAT.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 25.990: \"Vocabulary for UTRAN\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"E-UTRA and E-UTRAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA; Radio Resource Control (RRC) - Protocol
Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"NAS functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle
mode\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"E-UTRA; Physical layer procedures\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"E-UTRA; Physical layer; Measurements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and
procedures for cell reselection in connected mode\"
[9] 3GPP TS 43.022: \"Functions related to Mobile Station in idle mode and
group receive mode\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resource
Management\".
[11] void
[12] void
[13] void
[14] void
[15] void
[16] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\"
[17] 3GPP2 C.S0024-A: \"cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface
Specification\".
[18] 3GPP2 C.S0005-A: \"Upper Layer (Layer 3) Signalling Standard for cdma2000
Spread Spectrum Systems\".
[19] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and
procedures for cell reselection in connected mode\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols; Stage 3\"
[21] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection for
Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Acceptable Cell:** A cell that satisfies certain conditions as specified in
4.3. A UE can always attempt emergency calls on an acceptable cell, but
restriction as in 5.3.3 apply.
**CSG Whitelist** : A list provided by NAS containing all the CSG identities
and their associated PLMN IDs of the CSGs to which the subscriber belongs.
NOTE: This list is known as Allowed CSG List in Rel-8 Access Stratum
specifications.
**Available PLMN(s):** One or more PLMN(s) for which the UE has found at least
one cell and read its PLMN identity(ies).
**Barred Cell** : A cell a UE is not allowed to camp on.
**Camped on a cell:** UE has completed the cell selection/reselection process
and has chosen a cell. The UE monitors system information and (in most cases)
paging information.
**Camped on any cell** : UE is in idle mode and has completed the cell
selection/reselection process and has chosen a cell irrespective of PLMN
identity.
**Closed Subscriber Group (CSG):** A Closed Subscriber Group identifies
subscribers of an operator who are permitted to access one or more cells of
the PLMN but which have restricted access (CSG cells).
**Commercial Mobile Alert System:** Public Warning System that delivers
_Warning Notifications_ provided by _Warning Notification Providers_ to CMAS
capable UEs.
**CSG cell:** A cell broadcasting a CSG indication that is set to TRUE and a
specific CSG identity.
**CSG identity:** An identifier broadcast by a CSG or hybrid cell/cells and
used by the UE to facilitate access for authorised members of the associated
Closed Subscriber Group.
**DRX cycle:** Individual time interval between monitoring Paging Occasion for
a specific UE.
**EHPLMN:** Any of the PLMN entries contained in the Equivalent HPLMN list
[5].
**Equivalent PLMN list:** List of PLMNs considered as equivalent by the UE for
cell selection, cell reselection, and handover according to the information
provided by the NAS.
**Home PLMN:** A PLMN where the Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile Network
Code (MNC) of the PLMN identity are the same as the MCC and MNC of the IMSI.
**HNB Name** : The Home eNodeB Name is a broadcast string in free text format
that provides a human readable name for the Home eNodeB CSG identity and any
broadcasted PLMN identity.
**Hybrid cell:** A cell broadcasting a CSG Indicator that is set to FALSE and
a specific CSG identity.
**Korean Public Alert System (KPAS):** Public Warning System that delivers
Warning Notifications provided by Warning Notification Providers using the
same AS mechanisms as defined for CMAS.
**Location Registration (LR):** UE registers its presence in a registration
area, for instance regularly or when entering a new tracking area.
**Process:** A local action in the UE invoked by a RRC procedure or an Idle
Mode procedure.
**Radio Access Technology:** Type of technology used for radio access, for
instance E-UTRA, UTRA, GSM, CDMA2000 1xEV-DO (HRPD) or CDMA2000 1x (1xRTT).
**Registered PLMN:** This is the PLMN on which certain Location Registration
outcomes have occurred [5].
**Registration Area** : (NAS) registration area is an area in which the UE may
roam without a need to perform location registration, which is a NAS
procedure.
**Reserved Cell** : A cell on which camping is not allowed, except for
particular UEs, if so indicated in the system information.
**Restricted Cell** : A cell on which camping is allowed, but access attempts
are disallowed for UEs whose access classes are indicated as barred.
**Selected PLMN:** This is the PLMN that has been selected by the NAS, either
manually or automatically.
**Serving cell:** The cell on which the UE is camped.
**Strongest cell:** The cell on a particular carrier that is considered
strongest according to the layer 1 cell search procedure [6], [7].
**Suitable Cell:** This is a cell on which an UE may camp. For a E-UTRA cell,
the criteria are defined in subclause 4.3, for a UTRA cell in [8], and for a
GSM cell the criteria are defined in [9].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
1xRTT CDMA2000 1x Radio Transmission Technology
AS Access Stratum
AC Access Class (of the USIM)
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
CMAS Commercial Mobile Altert System
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DL-SCH Downlink Shared Channel
EHPLMN Equivalent Home PLMN
EPC Evolved Packet Core
EPS Evolved Packet System
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
HPLMN Home PLMN
HRPD High Rate Packet Data
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast-Multicast Service
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network
MCC Mobile Country Code
MCCH Multicast Control Channel
MDT Minimization of Drive Tests
MM Mobility Management
MNC Mobile Network Code
MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel
NAS Non-Access Stratum
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PWS Public Warning System
RAT Radio Access Technology
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
SIBX SystemInformationBlockTypeX
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 General description of Idle mode
## 4.1 Overview
The idle mode tasks can be subdivided into four processes:
\- PLMN selection;
\- Cell selection and reselection;
\- Location registration;
\- Support for manual CSG selection.
The relationship between these processes is illustrated in Figure 1.
Figure 4.1-1: Overall Idle Mode process
When a UE is switched on, a public land mobile network (PLMN) is selected by
NAS. For the selected PLMN, associated RAT(s) may be set [5]. The NAS shall
provide a list of equivalent PLMNs, if available, that the AS shall use for
cell selection and cell reselection.
With the cell selection, the UE searches for a suitable cell of the selected
PLMN and chooses that cell to provide available services, further the UE shall
tune to its control channel. This choosing is known as \"camping on the
cell\".
The UE shall, if necessary, then register its presence, by means of a NAS
registration procedure, in the tracking area of the chosen cell and as outcome
of a successful Location Registration the selected PLMN becomes the registered
PLMN [5].
If the UE finds a more suitable cell, according to the cell reselection
criteria, it reselects onto that cell and camps on it. If the new cell does
not belong to at least one tracking area to which the UE is registered,
location registration is performed.
If necessary, the UE shall search for higher priority PLMNs at regular time
intervals as described in [4] and search for a suitable cell if another PLMN
has been selected by NAS.
Search of available CSGs may be triggered by NAS to support manual CSG
selection.
If the UE loses coverage of the registered PLMN, either a new PLMN is selected
automatically (automatic mode), or an indication of which PLMNs are available
is given to the user, so that a manual selection can be made (manual mode).
Registration is not performed by UEs only capable of services that need no
registration.
The purpose of camping on a cell in idle mode is fivefold:
a) It enables the UE to receive system information from the PLMN.
b) When registered and if the UE wishes to establish an RRC connection, it can
do this by initially accessing the network on the control channel of the cell
on which it is camped.
c) If the PLMN receives a call for the registered UE, it knows (in most cases)
the set of tracking areas in which the UE is camped. It can then send a
\"paging\" message for the UE on the control channels of all the cells in this
set of tracking areas. The UE will then receive the paging message because it
is tuned to the control channel of a cell in one of the registered tracking
areas and the UE can respond on that control channel.
d) It enables the UE to receive ETWS and CMAS notifications.
e) It enables the UE to receive MBMS services.
If the UE is unable to find a suitable cell to camp on or if the location
registration failed (except for LR rejected with cause #12, cause #14, cause
#15 or cause #25, see [5] and [16]), it attempts to camp on a cell
irrespective of the PLMN identity, and enters a \"limited service\" state.
## 4.2 Functional division between AS and NAS in Idle mode
Table 1 presents the functional division between UE non-access stratum (NAS)
and UE access stratum (AS) in idle mode. The NAS part is specified in [5] and
the AS part in the present document.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Idle Mode Process | UE Non-Access | UE Access Stratum | | | Stratum | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PLMN Selection | Maintain a list of | Search for available | | | PLMNs in priority | PLMNs. | | | order according to | | | | [5]. Select a PLMN | If associated RAT(s) | | | using automatic or | is (are) set for the | | | manual mode as | PLMN, search in this | | | specified in [5] | (these) RAT(s) and | | | and request AS to | other RAT(s) for | | | select a cell | that PLMN as | | | belonging to this | specified in [5]. | | | PLMN. For each PLMN, | | | | associated RAT(s) | Perform measurements | | | may be set. | to support PLMN | | | | selection. | | | Evaluate reports of | | | | available PLMNs from | Synchronise to a | | | AS for PLMN | broadcast channel to | | | selection. | identify found | | | | PLMNs. | | | Maintain a list of | | | | equivalent PLMN | Report available | | | identities. | PLMNs with | | | | associated RAT(s) to | | | | NAS on request from | | | | NAS or autonomously. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell\ | Control cell | Perform measurements | | Selection | selection for | needed to support | | | example by | cell selection. | | | indicating RAT(s) | | | | associated with the | Detect and | | | selected PLMN to be | synchronise to a | | | used initially in | broadcast channel. | | | the search of a cell | Receive and handle | | | in the cell | broadcast | | | selection. NAS is | information. Forward | | | also maintaining | NAS system | | | lists of forbidden | information to NAS. | | | registration areas | | | | and a list of CSG | Search for a | | | IDs and their | suitable cell. The | | | associated PLMN ID | cells broadcast one | | | on which the UE is | or more \'PLMN | | | allowed (**CSG | identity\' in the | | | whitelist**) and | system information. | | | provide these lists | Respond to NAS | | | to AS. | whether such cell is | | | | found or not. | | | | | | | | If associated RATs | | | | is (are) set for the | | | | PLMN, perform the | | | | search in this | | | | (these) RAT(s) and | | | | other RATs for that | | | | PLMN as specified in | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | If such a cell is | | | | found, the cell is | | | | selected to camp on. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell\ | Control cell | Perform measurements | | Reselection | reselection by for | needed to support | | | example, maintaining | cell reselection. | | | lists of forbidden | | | | registration areas. | Detect and | | | | synchronise to a | | | Maintain a list of | broadcast channel. | | | equivalent PLMN | Receive and handle | | | identities and | broadcast | | | provide the list to | information. Forward | | | AS. | NAS system | | | | information to NAS. | | | Maintain a list of | | | | forbidden | Change cell if a | | | registration areas | more suitable cell | | | and provide the list | is found. | | | to AS. | | | | | | | | Maintain a list of | | | | CSG IDs and their | | | | associated PLMN ID | | | | on which the UE is | | | | allowed (**CSG | | | | whitelist**) to camp | | | | and provide the list | | | | to AS. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Location | Register the UE as | Report registration | | registration | active after power | area information to | | | on. | NAS. | | | | | | | Register the UE\'s | | | | presence in a | | | | registration area, | | | | for instance | | | | regularly or when | | | | entering a new | | | | tracking area. | | | | | | | | Maintain lists of | | | | forbidden | | | | registration areas. | | | | | | | | Deregister UE when | | | | shutting down. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Support for manual | Provide request to | Search for cells | | CSG selection | search for available | with a CSG ID. | | | CSGs. | | | | | Read the HNB name | | | Evaluate reports of | from BCCH on SIB9 if | | | available CSGs from | a cell with a CSG ID | | | AS for CSG | is found. | | | selection. | | | | | Report CSG ID of the | | | Select a CSG and | found cell | | | request AS to select | broadcasting a CSG | | | a cell belonging to | ID together with the | | | this CSG. | HNB name and PLMN(s) | | | | to NAS. | | | | | | | | On selection of a | | | | CSG by NAS, select | | | | any cell belonging | | | | to the selected CSG | | | | fulfilling the cell | | | | selection criteria | | | | and not barred or | | | | reserved for | | | | operator use for UEs | | | | not belonging to AC | | | | 11 or 15 and give an | | | | indication to NAS | | | | that access is | | | | possible (for the | | | | registration | | | | procedure). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 4.2-1: Functional division between AS and NAS in idle mode
## 4.3 Service types in Idle Mode
This clause defines the level of service that may be provided by the network
to a UE in Idle mode.
The action of camping on a cell is necessary to get access to some services.
Three levels of services are defined for UE:
\- Limited service (emergency calls, ETWS and CMAS on an acceptable cell)
\- Normal service (for public use on a suitable cell)
\- Operator service (for operators only on a reserved cell)
Furthermore, the cells are categorised according to which services they offer:
**[acceptable cell:]{.underline}**
An \"acceptable cell\" is a cell on which the UE may camp to obtain limited
service (originate emergency calls and receive ETWS and CMAS notifications).
Such a cell shall fulfil the following requirements, which is the minimum set
of requirements to initiate an emergency call and to receive ETWS and CMAS
notification in a E-UTRAN network:
\- The cell is not barred, see subclause 5.3.1;
\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see subclause 5.2.3.2;
**[suitable cell:]{.underline}**
A \"suitable cell\" is a cell on which the UE may camp on to obtain normal
service. The UE shall have a valid USIM and such a cell shall fulfil all the
following requirements.
\- The cell is part of either:
\- the selected PLMN, or:
\- the registered PLMN, or:
\- a PLMN of the Equivalent PLMN list
\- For a CSG cell, the CSG ID broadcast by the cell is present in the CSG
whitelist associated with the PLMN for which the above condition is satisfied;
According to the latest information provided by NAS:
\- The cell is not barred, see subclause 5.3.1;
\- The cell is part of at least one TA that is not part of the list of
\"forbidden tracking areas for roaming\" [4], which belongs to a PLMN that
fulfils the first bullet above;
\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see subclause 5.2.3.2;
If more than one PLMN identity is broadcast in the cell, the cell is
considered to be part of all TAs with TAIs constructed from the PLMN
identities and the TAC broadcast in the cell.
**[barred cell:]{.underline}**
A cell is barred if it is so indicated in the system information [3].
**[reserved cell:]{.underline}**
A cell is reserved if it is so indicated in system information [3].
Following exceptions to these definitions are applicable for UEs:
\- camped on a cell that belongs to a registration area that is forbidden for
regional provision of service; a cell that belongs to a registration area that
is forbidden for regional provision service ([5], [16]) is suitable but
provides only limited service.
\- as an outcome of the manual CSG selection procedure the UE is allowed to
access an acceptable cell which fulfils the cell selection criteria and is not
barred or reserved for operator use for UEs not belonging to AC 11 or 15 and
inform NAS that access is possible (for location registration procedure).
NOTE: UE is not required to support manual search and selection of PLMN or
CSGs while in RRC CONNECTED state. The UE may use local release of RRC
connection to perform manual search if it is not possible to perform the
search while RRC connected.
\- if a UE has an ongoing emergency call, all acceptable cells of that PLMN
are treated as suitable for the duration of the emergency call.
# 5 Process and procedure descriptions
## 5.1 PLMN selection
In the UE, the AS shall report available PLMNs to the NAS on request from the
NAS or autonomously.
During PLMN selection, based on the list of PLMN identities in priority order,
the particular PLMN may be selected either automatically or manually. Each
PLMN in the list of PLMN identities is identified by a \'PLMN identity\'. In
the system information on the broadcast channel, the UE can receive one or
multiple \'PLMN identity\' in a given cell. The result of the PLMN selection
performed by NAS (see 3GPP TS 23.122 [5]) is an identifier of the selected
PLMN.
### 5.1.1 Void
### 5.1.2 Support for PLMN selection
#### 5.1.2.1 General
On request of the NAS the AS shall perform a search for available PLMNs and
report them to NAS.
#### 5.1.2.2 E-UTRA case
The UE shall scan all RF channels in the E-UTRA bands according to its
capabilities to find available PLMNs. On each carrier, the UE shall search for
the strongest cell and read its system information, in order to find out which
PLMN(s) the cell belongs to. If the UE can read one or several PLMN identities
in the strongest cell, each found PLMN (see the PLMN reading in [3]) shall be
reported to the NAS as a high quality PLMN (but without the RSRP value),
provided that the following high quality criterion is fulfilled:
1\. For an E-UTRAN cell, the measured RSRP value shall be greater than or
equal to -110 dBm.
Found PLMNs that do not satisfy the high quality criterion, but for which the
UE has been able to read the PLMN identities are reported to the NAS together
with the RSRP value. The quality measure reported by the UE to NAS shall be
the same for each PLMN found in one cell.
The search for PLMNs may be stopped on request of the NAS. The UE may optimise
PLMN search by using stored information e.g. carrier frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters from previously received
measurement control information elements.
Once the UE has selected a PLMN, the cell selection procedure shall be
performed in order to select a suitable cell of that PLMN to camp on.
If a CSG ID is provided by NAS as part of PLMN selection, the UE shall search
for an acceptable or suitable cell belonging to the provided CSG ID to camp
on. When the UE is no longer camped on a cell with the provided CSG ID, AS
shall inform NAS.
#### 5.1.2.3 UTRA case
Support for PLMN selection in UTRA is described in [8].
#### 5.1.2.4 GSM case
Support for PLMN selection in GERAN is described in [9].
#### 5.1.2.5 CDMA2000 case
For CDMA2000 the network determination for HRPD and 1xRTT is described in [17]
and [18] respectively.
## 5.2 Cell selection and reselection
### 5.2.1 Introduction
UE shall perform measurements for cell selection and reselection purposes as
specified in [10].
The NAS can control the RAT(s) in which the cell selection should be
performed, for instance by indicating RAT(s) associated with the selected
PLMN, and by maintaining a list of forbidden registration area(s) and a list
of equivalent PLMNs. The UE shall select a suitable cell based on idle mode
measurements and cell selection criteria.
In order to speed up the cell selection process, stored information for
several RATs may be available in the UE.
When camped on a cell, the UE shall regularly search for a better cell
according to the cell reselection criteria. If a better cell is found, that
cell is selected. The change of cell may imply a change of RAT. Details on
performance requirements for cell reselection can be found in [10].
The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection results in changes
in the received system information relevant for NAS.
For normal service, the UE shall camp on a suitable cell, tune to that cell\'s
control channel(s) so that the UE can:
\- Receive system information from the PLMN; and
\- receive registration area information from the PLMN, e.g., tracking area
information; and
\- receive other AS and NAS Information; and
\- if registered:
\- receive paging and notification messages from the PLMN; and
\- initiate transfer to connected mode.
### 5.2.2 States and state transitions in Idle Mode
Figure 2 shows the states and state transitions and procedures in RRC_IDLE.
Whenever a new PLMN selection is performed, it causes an exit to number 1.
Figure 5.2.2-1: RRC_IDLE Cell Selection and Reselection
### 5.2.3 Cell Selection process
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
The UE shall use one of the following two cell selection procedures:
a) Initial Cell Selection
This procedure requires no prior knowledge of which RF channels are E-UTRA
carriers. The UE shall scan all RF channels in the E-UTRA bands according to
its capabilities to find a suitable cell. On each carrier frequency, the UE
need only search for the strongest cell. Once a suitable cell is found this
cell shall be selected.
b) Stored Information Cell Selection
This procedure requires stored information of carrier frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters, from previously received
measurement control information elements or from previously detected cells.
Once the UE has found a suitable cell the UE shall select it. If no suitable
cell is found the Initial Cell Selection procedure shall be started.
NOTE: Priorities between different frequencies or RATs provided to the UE by
system information or dedicated signalling are not used in the cell selection
process.
#### 5.2.3.2 Cell Selection Criterion
The cell selection criterion S is fulfilled when:
* * *
Srxlev > 0 AND Squal > 0
* * *
where:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Srxlev = Q~rxlevmeas~ -- (Q~rxlevmin~ + Q~rxlevminoffset~) -- | | Pcompensation | | | | Squal = Q~qualmeas~ -- (Q~qualmin~ + Q~qualminoffset~) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
where:
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Srxlev | Cell selection RX level value (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Squal | Cell selection quality value (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevmeas~ | Measured cell RX level value (RSRP) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualmeas~ | Measured cell quality value (RSRQ) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevmin~ | Minimum required RX level in the cell (dBm) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualmin~ | Minimum required quality level in the cell | | | (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevminoffset~ | Offset to the signalled Q~rxlevmin~ taken into | | | account in the Srxlev evaluation as a result | | | of a periodic search for a higher priority | | | PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN [5] | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualminoffset~ | Offset to the signalled Q~qualmin~ taken into | | | account in the Squal evaluation as a result of | | | a periodic search for a higher priority PLMN | | | while camped normally in a VPLMN [5] | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Pcompensation | If the UE supports the _additionalPmax_ in the | | | _NS-PmaxList_ , if present, in SIB1, SIB3 and | | | SIB5: | | | | | | max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) -- | | | (min(P~EMAX2~, P~PowerClass~) -- min(P~EMAX1~, | | | P~PowerClass~)) (dB); | | | | | | else: | | | | | | max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) (dB); | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | P~EMAX1,~ P~EMAX2~ | Maximum TX power level an UE may use when | | | transmitting on the uplink in the cell (dBm) | | | defined as P~EMAX~ in [TS 36.101]. P~EMAX1~ | | | and P~EMAX2~ are obtained from the _p-Max_ and | | | the _NS-PmaxList_ respectively in SIB1, SIB3 | | | and SIB5 as specified in TS 36.331 [3]. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | P~PowerClass~ | Maximum RF output power of the UE (dBm) | | | according to the UE power class as defined in | | | [TS 36.101] | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
The signalled values Q~rxlevminoffset~ and Q~qualminoffset~ are only applied
when a cell is evaluated for cell selection as a result of a periodic search
for a higher priority PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN [5]. During this
periodic search for higher priority PLMN the UE may check the S criteria of a
cell using parameter values stored from a different cell of this higher
priority PLMN.
#### 5.2.3.3 CSG cells and Hybrid cells in Cell Selection
In addition to normal cell selection rules a manual selection of CSGs shall be
supported by the UE upon request from higher layers as defined in subclause
5.5.
#### 5.2.3.4 GSM case in Cell Selection
The cell selection criteria and procedures in GSM are specified in [9].
#### 5.2.3.5 UTRAN case in Cell Selection
The cell selection criteria and procedures in UTRAN are specified in [8].
### 5.2.4 Cell Reselection evaluation process
#### 5.2.4.1 Reselection priorities handling
Absolute priorities of different E-UTRAN frequencies or inter-RAT frequencies
may be provided to the UE in the system information, in the
_RRCConnectionRelease_ message, or by inheriting from another RAT at inter-RAT
cell (re)selection. In the case of system information, an E-UTRAN frequency or
inter-RAT frequency may be listed without providing a priority (i.e. the field
_cellReselectionPriority_ is absent for that frequency). If priorities are
provided in dedicated signalling, the UE shall ignore all the priorities
provided in system information. If UE is in _camped on any cell_ state, UE
shall only apply the priorities provided by system information from current
cell, and the UE preserves priorities provided by dedicated signalling unless
specified otherwise. When the UE in _camped normally_ state, has only
dedicated priorities other than for the current frequency, the UE shall
consider the current frequency to be the lowest priority frequency (i.e. lower
than the eight network configured values). While the UE is camped on a
suitable CSG cell, the UE shall always consider the current frequency to be
the highest priority frequency (i.e. higher than the eight network configured
values), irrespective of any other priority value allocated to this frequency.
If the UE has knowledge on which frequency an MBMS service of interest is
provided, it may consider that frequency to be the highest priority during the
MBMS session [2] as long as it reselects cells broadcasting SIB13.
If the UE has knowledge on which downlink only frequency an MBMS service of
interest is provided, it may consider cell reselection candidate frequencies
at which it can not receive the MBMS service to be of the lowest priority
during the MBMS session [2] as long as the cell on the MBMS frequency which
the UE monitors is broadcasting SIB13.
NOTE: An example scenario in which the previous down-prioritisation may be
needed concerns the case the MBMS frequency is a downlink only carrier on
which camping is not possible, while the UE can only receive this MBMS
frequency when camping on a subset of cell reselection candidate frequencies.
NOTE: The UE may determine that the MBMS session is ongoing using the session
start and end times as provided by upper layers in the MBMS User Service
Description [22].
The UE shall delete priorities provided by dedicated signalling when:
  * the UE enters RRC_CONNECTED state; or
  * the optional validity time of dedicated priorities (T320) expires; or
  * a PLMN selection is performed on request by NAS [5].
NOTE: Equal priorities between RATs are not supported.
The UE shall only perform cell reselection evaluation for E-UTRAN frequencies
and inter-RAT frequencies that are given in system information and for which
the UE has a priority provided.
The UE shall not consider any black listed cells as candidate for cell
reselection.
The UE shall inherit the priorities provided by dedicated signalling and the
remaining validity time (i.e., T320 in E-UTRA, T322 in UTRA and T3230 in
GERAN), if configured, at inter-RAT cell (re)selection.
NOTE: The network may assign dedicated cell reselection priorities for
frequencies not configured by system information.
#### 5.2.4.2 Measurement rules for cell re-selection
When evaluating Srxlev and Squal of non-serving cells for reselection
purposes, the UE shall use parameters provided by the serving cell.
Following rules are used by the UE to limit needed measurements:
\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev > S~IntraSearchP~ and Squal >
S~IntraSearchQ~, the UE may choose not to perform intra-frequency
measurements.
\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform intra-frequency measurements.
\- The UE shall apply the following rules for E-UTRAN inter-frequencies and
inter-RAT frequencies which are indicated in system information and for which
the UE has priority provided as defined in 5.2.4.1:
\- For an E-UTRAN inter-frequency or inter-RAT frequency with a reselection
priority higher than the reselection priority of the current E-UTRA frequency
the UE shall perform measurements of higher priority E-UTRAN inter-frequency
or inter-RAT frequencies according to [10].
\- For an E-UTRAN inter-frequency with an equal or lower reselection priority
than the reselection priority of the current E-UTRA frequency and for inter-
RAT frequency with lower reselection priority than the reselection priority of
the current E-UTRAN frequency:
\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev > S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal >
S~nonIntraSearchQ~, the UE may choose not to perform measurements of E-UTRAN
inter-frequencies or inter-RAT frequency cells of equal or lower priority.
\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform measurements of E-UTRAN inter-frequencies
or inter-RAT frequency cells of equal or lower priority according to [10].
#### 5.2.4.3 Mobility states of a UE
Besides Normal-mobility state a High-mobility and a Medium-mobility state are
applicable if the parameters (T~CRmax~, N~CR_H~, N~CR_M~ and T~CRmaxHyst~) are
sent in the system information broadcast of the serving cell.
**State detection criteria:**
Medium-mobility state criteria:
  * If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ exceeds N~CR_M~ and not exceeds N~CR_H~
High-mobility state criteria:
  * If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ exceeds N~CR_H~
The UE shall not count consecutive reselections between same two cells into
mobility state detection criteria if same cell is reselected just after one
other reselection.
**State transitions:**
The UE shall:
\- if the criteria for High-mobility state is detected:
\- enter High-mobility state.
\- else if the criteria for Medium-mobility state is detected:
\- enter Medium-mobility state.
\- else if criteria for either Medium- or High-mobility state is not detected
during time period T~CRmaxHys**t** ~:
\- enter Normal-mobility state.
If the UE is in High- or Medium-mobility state, the UE shall apply the speed
dependent scaling rules as defined in subclause 5.2.4.3.1.
##### 5.2.4.3.1 Scaling rules
UE shall apply the following scaling rules:
\- If neither Medium- nor Highmobility state is detected:
\- no scaling is applied.
\- If High-mobility state is detected:
\- Add the _sf-High_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Q~hyst~" to
Q~hyst~ if sent on system information
\- For E-UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~EUTRA~** by the _sf-High_ of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~" if sent on system
information
\- For UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~UTRA~** by the _sf-High_ of \"Speed
dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~UTRA~" if sent on system information
\- For GERAN cells multiply **Treselection~GERA~** by the _sf-High_ of \"Speed
dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~GERA~ state" if sent on system
information
\- For CDMA2000 HRPD cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~** by the _sf-
High_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for **Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~** " if
sent on system information
\- For CDMA2000 1xRTT cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~** by the _sf-
High_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for **Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~** " if
sent on system information
\- If Medium-mobility state is detected:
\- Add the _sf-Medium_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Q~hyst~ for
medium mobility state\" to Q~hyst~ if sent on system information
\- For E-UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~EUTRA~** by the _sf-Medium_ of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~\" if sent on system
information
\- For UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~UTRA~** by the _sf-Medium_ of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~UTRA~\" if sent on system
information
\- For GERAN cells multiply **Treselection~GERA~** by the _sf-Medium_ of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~GERA~\" if sent on system
information
\- For CDMA2000 HRPD cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~** by the _sf-
Medium_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for **Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~** \"
if sent on system information
\- For CDMA2000 1xRTT cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~** by the _sf-
Medium_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for **Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~** \"
if sent on system information
In case scaling is applied to any **Treselection~RAT~** parameter the UE shall
round up the result after all scalings to the nearest second.
#### 5.2.4.4 Cells with cell reservations, access restrictions or unsuitable
for normal camping
For the highest ranked cell (including serving cell) according to cell
reselection criteria specified in subclause 5.2.4.6, for the best cell
according to absolute priority reselection criteria specified in subclause
5.2.4.5, the UE shall check if the access is restricted according to the rules
in subclause 5.3.1.
If that cell and other cells have to be excluded from the candidate list, as
stated in subclause 5.3.1, the UE shall not consider these as candidates for
cell reselection. This limitation shall be removed when the highest ranked
cell changes.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an intra-frequency or inter-frequency cell which is not
suitable due to being part of the \"list of forbidden TAs for roaming\" or
belonging to a PLMN which is not indicated as being equivalent to the
registered PLMN, the UE shall not consider this cell and other cells on the
same frequency, as candidates for reselection for a maximum of 300s. If the UE
enters into state _any cell selection_ , any limitation shall be removed. If
the UE is redirected under E-UTRAN control to a frequency for which the timer
is running, any limitation on that frequency shall be removed.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an inter-RAT cell which is not suitable due to being part
of the \"list of forbidden TAs for roaming\" or belonging to a PLMN which is
not indicated as being equivalent to the registered PLMN, the UE shall not
consider this cell as a candidate for reselection for a maximum of 300s. In
case of UTRA further requirements are defined in the [8]. If the UE enters
into state _any cell selection_ , any limitation shall be removed. If the UE
is redirected under E-UTRAN control to a frequency for which the timer is
running, any limitation on that frequency shall be removed.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is a CSG cell which is not suitable due to the CSG ID and
associated PLMN identity not being present in the CSG whitelist of the UE, the
UE shall not consider this cell as candidate for cell reselection but shall
continue considering other cells on the same frequency for cell reselection.
#### 5.2.4.5 E-UTRAN Inter-frequency and inter-RAT Cell Reselection criteria
If **_threshServingLowQ_** is provided in _SystemInformationBlockType3_ , cell
reselection to a cell on a higher priority E-UTRAN frequency or inter-RAT
frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- A cell of a higher priority EUTRAN or UTRAN FDD RAT/ frequency fulfils
Squal > Thresh~X,\ HighQ~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; or
\- A cell of a higher priority UTRAN TDD, GERAN or CDMA2000 RAT/ frequency
fulfils Srxlev > Thresh~X,\ HighP~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~;
and
  * More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current > serving cell.
Otherwise, cell reselection to a cell on a higher priority E-UTRAN frequency
or inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- A cell of a higher priority RAT/ frequency fulfils Srxlev > Thresh~X,\
HighP~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; and
  * More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current > serving cell.
Cell reselection to a cell on an equal priority E-UTRAN frequency shall be
based on ranking for Intra-frequency cell reselection as defined in sub-clause
5.2.4.6.
If **_threshServingLowQ_** is provided in _SystemInformationBlockType3_ , cell
reselection to a cell on a lower priority E-UTRAN frequency or inter-RAT
frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- The serving cell fulfils Squal \ Thresh~X,\
LowQ~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; or
\- The serving cell fulfils Squal \
Thresh~X,\ LowP~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; and
\- More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell.
Otherwise, cell reselection to a cell on a lower priority E-UTRAN frequency or
inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- The serving cell fulfils Srxlev \ Thresh~X,\ LowP~ during a time
interval Treselection~RAT~; and
> \- More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
> cell.
Cell reselection to a higher priority RAT/ frequency shall take precedence
over a lower priority RAT/ frequency, if multiple cells of different
priorities fulfil the cell reselection criteria.
For cdma2000 RATs, Srxlev is equal to -FLOOR(-2 x 10 x log10 Ec/Io) in units
of 0.5 dB, as defined in [18], with Ec/Io referring to the value measured from
the evaluated cell.
For cdma2000 RATs, Thresh~X,\ HighP~ and Thresh~X,\ LowP~ are equal to -1
times the values signalled for the corresponding parameters in the system
information.
In all the above criteria the value of Treselection~RAT~ is scaled when the UE
is in the medium or high mobility state as defined in subclause 5.2.4.3.1. If
more than one cell meets the above criteria, the UE shall reselect a cell as
follows:
\- If the highest-priority frequency is an E-UTRAN frequency, a cell ranked as
the best cell among the cells on the highest priority frequency(ies) meeting
the criteria according to section 5.2.4.6;
\- If the highest-priority frequency is from another RAT, a cell ranked as the
best cell among the cells on the highest priority frequency(ies) meeting the
criteria of that RAT.
Cell reselection to another RAT, for which Squal based cell reselection
parameters are broadcast in system information, shall be performed based on
the Squal criteria if the UE supports Squal (RSRQ) based cell reselection to
E-UTRAN from all the other RATs provided by system information which UE
supports. Otherwise, cell reselection to another RAT shall be performed based
on Srxlev criteria.
#### 5.2.4.6 Intra-frequency and equal priority inter-frequency Cell
Reselection criteria
The cell-ranking criterion R~s~ for serving cell and R~n~ for neighbouring
cells is defined by:
where:
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | Q~meas~ | RSRP measurement quantity used in cell reselections. | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | Qoffset | For intra-frequency: Equals to Qoffset~s,n~, if | | | Qoffset~s,n~ is valid, otherwise this equals to zero. | | | | | | For inter-frequency: Equals to Qoffset~s,n~ plus | | | Qoffset~frequency~, if Qoffset~s,n~ is valid, otherwise | | | this equals to Qoffset~frequency~. | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
The UE shall perform ranking of all cells that fulfil the cell selection
criterion S, which is defined in 5.2.3.2, but may exclude all CSG cells that
are known by the UE to be not allowed.
The cells shall be ranked according to the R criteria specified above,
deriving Q~meas,n~ and Q~meas,s~ and calculating the R values using averaged
RSRP results.
If a cell is ranked as the best cell the UE shall perform cell reselection to
that cell. If this cell is found to be not-suitable, the UE shall behave
according to subclause 5.2.4.4.
In all cases, the UE shall reselect the new cell, only if the following
conditions are met:
\- the new cell is better ranked than the serving cell during a time interval
Treselection~RAT~;
\- more than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell.
#### 5.2.4.7 Cell reselection parameters in system information broadcasts
Cell reselection parameters are broadcast in system information and are read
from the serving cell as follows:
**cellReselectionPriority**
This specifies the absolute priority for E-UTRAN frequeny or UTRAN frequency
or group of GERAN frequencies or band class of CDMA2000 HRPD or band class of
CDMA2000 1xRTT.
**Qoffset~s,n~**
This specifies the offset between the two cells.
**Qoffset~frequency~**
Frequency specific offset for equal priority E-UTRAN frequencies.
**Q~hyst~**
This specifies the hysteresis value for ranking criteria.
**Q~qualmin~**
This specifies the minimum required quality level in the cell in dB.
**Q~rxlevmin~**
This specifies the minimum required Rx level in the cell in dBm.
**Treselection~RAT\ ~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value. For each target E-UTRA
frequency and for each RAT (other than E-UTRA) a specific value for the cell
reselection timer is defined, which is applicable when evaluating reselection
within E-UTRAN or towards other RAT (i.e. Treselection~RAT~ for E-UTRAN is
Treselection~EUTRA~, for UTRAN Treselection~UTRA~ for GERAN
Treselection~GERA~, for Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~, and for
Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~).
> Note: Treselection~RAT~ is not sent on system information, but used in
> reselection rules by the UE for each RAT.
**Treselection~EUTRA~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for E-UTRAN.
The parameter can be set per E-UTRAN frequency [3].
**Treselection~UTRA~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for UTRAN.
**Treselection~GERA~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for GERAN.
**Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for CDMA
HRPD.
**Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for CDMA
1xRTT.
**Thresh~X,\ HighP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a higher priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of E-UTRAN and UTRAN, each group of GERAN frequencies, each
band class of CDMA2000 HRPD and CDMA2000 1xRTT might have a specific
threshold.
**Thresh~X,\ HighQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a higher priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of E-UTRAN and UTRAN FDD might have a specific threshold.
**Thresh~X,\ LowP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of E-UTRAN and UTRAN, each group of GERAN frequencies, each
band class of CDMA2000 HRPD and CDMA2000 1xRTT might have a specific
threshold.
**Thresh~X,\ LowQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of E-UTRAN and UTRAN FDD might have a specific threshold.
**Thresh~Serving,\ LowP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE on the serving cell
when reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency.
**Thresh~Serving,\ LowQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE on the serving cell
when reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency.
**S~IntraSearchP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for intra-frequency measurements.
**S~IntraSearchQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for intra-frequency measurements.
**S~nonIntraSearchP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for E-UTRAN inter-frequency and
inter-RAT measurements.
**S~nonIntraSearchQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for E-UTRAN inter-frequency and
inter-RAT measurements.
##### 5.2.4.7.1 Speed dependant reselection parameters
**T~CRmax~**
This specifies the duration for evaluating allowed amount of cell
reselection(s).
**N~CR_M~**
This specifies the maximum number of cell reselections to enter Medium-
mobility state.
**N~CR_H~**
This specifies the maximum number of cell reselections to enter High-mobility
state.
**T~CRmaxHyst~**
This specifies the additional time period before the UE can enter Normal-
mobility state.
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Qhyst**
This specifies scaling factor for Qhyst in _sf-High_ for High-mobility state
and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA\ ~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~EUTRA~ in _sf-High_ for High-
mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~UTRA\ ~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~UTRA~ in _sf-High_ for High-
mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~GERA\ ~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~GERA~ in H _sf-High_ for High-
mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~CDMA_HRPD\ ~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~ in _sf-High_ for
High mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT\ ~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~ in _sf-High_ for
High mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
#### 5.2.4.8 Cell reselection with CSG cells
##### 5.2.4.8.1 Cell reselection from a non-CSG cell to a CSG cell
In addition to normal cell reselection, the UE shall use an autonomous search
function to detect at least previously visited allowed CSG cells on non-
serving frequencies, including inter-RAT frequencies, according to the
performance requirements specified in [10], when at least one CSG ID with
associated PLMN identity is included in the UE's CSG whitelist. The UE may
also use autonomous search on the serving frequency. The UE shall disable the
autonomous search function for CSG cells if the UE's CSG whitelist is empty.
NOTE: The UE autonomous search function, per UE implementation, determines
when and/or where to search for allowed CSG cells.
If the UE detects one or more suitable CSG cells on different frequencies,
then the UE shall reselect to one of the detected cells irrespective of the
frequency priority of the cell the UE is currently camped on, if the concerned
CSG cell is the highest ranked cell on that frequency.
If the UE detects a suitable CSG cell on the same frequency, it shall reselect
to this cell as per normal reselection rules (5.2.4.6.).
If the UE detects one or more suitable CSG cells on another RAT, the UE shall
reselect to one of them according to [19].
##### 5.2.4.8.2 Cell reselection from a CSG cell
While camped on a suitable CSG cell, the UE shall apply the normal cell
reselection rules as defined in subclause 5.2.4.
To search for suitable CSG cells on non-serving frequencies, the UE may use an
autonomous search function. If the UE detects a CSG cell on a non-serving
frequency, the UE may reselect to the detected CSG cell if it is the highest
ranked cell on its frequency.
If the UE detects one or more suitable CSG cells on another RAT, the UE may
reselect to one of them if allowed according to [19].
#### 5.2.4.9 Cell reselection with Hybrid cells
In addition to normal cell reselection rules, the UE shall use an autonomous
search function to detect at least previously visited hybrid cells whose CSG
ID and associated PLMN identity is in the UE\'s CSG whitelist according to the
performance requirements specified in [10]. The UE shall treat detected hybrid
cells as CSG cells if the CSG ID and associated PLMN identity of the hybrid
cell is in the UE's CSG whitelist and as normal cells otherwise.
### 5.2.5 Void
### 5.2.6 Camped Normally state
When camped normally, the UE shall perform the following tasks:
\- select and monitor the indicated Paging Channels of the cell as specified
in clause 7 according to information sent in system information;
\- monitor relevant System Information as specified in [3];
\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;
\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:
1) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in [10];
2) When information on the BCCH used for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure has been modified.
### 5.2.7 Cell Selection when leaving RRC_CONNECTED state
On transition from RRC_CONNECTED to RRC_IDLE, UE shall attempt to camp on a
suitable cell according to _redirectedCarrierInfo_ , if included in the
_RRCConnectionRelease_ message. If the UE cannot find a suitable cell, the UE
is allowed to camp on any suitable cell of the indicated RAT. If the
_RRCConnectionRelease_ message does not contain the _redirectedCarrierInfo_ UE
shall attempt to select a suitable cell on an EUTRA carrier. If no suitable
cell is found according to the above, the UE shall perform a cell selection
starting with Stored Information Cell Selection procedure in order to find a
suitable cell to camp on.
When returning to RRC_IDLE after UE moved to RRC_CONNECTED state from _camped
on any cell_ state, UE shall attempt to camp on an acceptable cell according
to _redirectedCarrierInfo_ , if included in the _RRCConnectionRelease_
message. If the UE cannot find an acceptable cell, the UE is allowed to camp
on any acceptable cell of the indicated RAT. If the _RRCConnectionRelease_
message does not contain _redirectedCarrierInfo_ UE shall attempt to select an
acceptable cell on an EUTRA carrier. If no acceptable cell is found according
to the above, the UE shall continue to search for an acceptable cell of any
PLMN in state _any cell selection_.
### 5.2.8 Any Cell Selection state
In this state, the UE shall attempt to find an acceptable cell of any PLMN to
camp on, trying all RATs that are supported by the UE and searching first for
a high quality cell, as defined in subclause 5.1.2.2.
The UE, which is not camped on any cell, shall stay in this state until an
acceptable cell is found.
### 5.2.9 Camped on Any Cell state
In this state, the UE shall perform the following tasks:
\- select and monitor the indicated paging channels of the cell as specified
in clause 7;
\- monitor relevant System Information as specified in [3];
\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;
\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:
1) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in [10];
2) When information on the BCCH used for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure has been modified;
  * regularly attempt to find a suitable cell trying all frequencies of all RATs that are supported by the UE. If a suitable cell is found, UE shall move to _camped normally_ state;
  * if the UE supports voice services and the current cell does not support emergency call as indicated in System information specified in [3], the UE should perform cell selection/ reselection to an acceptable cell of any supported RAT regardless of priorities provided in system information from current cell, if no suitable cell is found.
NOTE1: The UE is allowed to not perform reselection to an inter-frequency
E-UTRAN cell in order to prevent camping on a cell on which it cannot initiate
an IMS emergency call.
## 5.3 Cell Reservations and Access Restrictions
There are two mechanisms which allow an operator to impose cell reservations
or access restrictions. The first mechanism uses indication of cell status and
special reservations for control of cell selection and reselection procedures.
The second mechanism, referred to as Access Control, shall allow preventing
selected classes of users from sending initial access messages for load
control reasons. At subscription, one or more Access Classes are allocated to
the subscriber and stored in the USIM [4], which are employed for this
purpose.
### 5.3.1 Cell status and cell reservations
Cell status and cell reservations are indicated in the
_SystemInformationBlockType1_ message [3] by means of two fields:
\- **_cellBarred_** (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\ In case of
multiple PLMNs indicated in SIB1, this field is common for all PLMNs
\- **_cellReservedForOperatorUse_** (IE type: \"reserved\" or \"not
reserved\")\ In case of multiple PLMNs indicated in SIB1, this field is
specified per PLMN.
When cell status is indicated as \"not barred\" and \"not reserved\" for
operator use,
\- All UEs shall treat this cell as candidate during the cell selection and
cell reselection procedures.
When cell status is indicated as \"not barred\" and \"reserved\" for operator
use for any PLMN,
\- UEs assigned to Access Class 11 or 15 operating in their HPLMN/EHPLMN shall
treat this cell as candidate during the cell selection and reselection
procedures if the field **_cellReservedForOperatorUse for that PLMN set to
"reserved"._**
**_\- UEs assigned to an_** Access Class **_in the range of 0 to 9, 12 to 14
shall behave as if the cell status is \"barred\" in case the cell is
\"reserved for operator use\" for the registered PLMN or the selected PLMN._**
NOTE 1: ACs 11, 15 are only valid for use in the HPLMN/ EHPLMN; ACs 12, 13, 14
are only valid for use in the home country [4].
When cell status \"barred\" is indicated or to be treated as if the cell
status is \"barred\",
\- The UE is not permitted to select/reselect this cell, not even for
emergency calls.
\- The UE shall select another cell according to the following rule:
\- If the cell is a CSG cell:
\- the UE may select another cell on the same frequency if the
selection/reselection criteria are fulfilled.
\- else
\- If the field _intraFreqReselection_ in field _cellAccessRelatedInfo_ in
_SystemInformationBlockType1_ message is set to \"allowed\", the UE may select
another cell on the same frequency if re-selection criteria are fulfilled.
\- The UE shall exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for 300 seconds.
\- If the field _intraFreqReselection_ in field _cellAccessRelatedInfo_ in
_SystemInformationBlockType1_ message is set to \"not allowed\" the UE shall
not re-select a cell on the same frequency as the barred cell;
\- The UE shall exclude the barred cell and the cells on the same frequency as
a candidate for cell selection/reselection for 300 seconds.
The cell selection of another cell may also include a change of RAT.
### 5.3.2 Access control
Information on cell access restrictions associated with the Access Classes is
broadcast as system information, [3].
The UE shall ignore Access Class related cell access restrictions when
selecting a cell to camp on, i.e. it shall not reject a cell for camping on
because access on that cell is not allowed for any of the Access Classes of
the UE. A change of the indicated access restriction shall not trigger cell
reselection by the UE.
Access Class related cell access restrictions shall be checked by the UE when
starting RRC connection establishment procedure as specified in [3].
### 5.3.3 Emergency call
A restriction on emergency calls, if needed, is indicated by the field _ac-
BarringForEmergency_ [3]. If access class 10 is indicated as barred in a cell,
UEs with access class 0 to 9 or without an IMSI are not allowed to initiate
emergency calls in this cell. For UEs with access classes 11 to 15, emergency
calls are not allowed if both access class 10 and the relevant access class
(11 to 15) are barred. Otherwise, emergency calls are allowed for those UEs.
Full details of operation under \"Access class barred list\" are described in
[4].
## 5.4 Tracking Area registration
In the UE, the AS shall report tracking area information to the NAS.
If the UE reads more than one PLMN identity in the current cell, the UE shall
report the found PLMN identities that make the cell suitable in the tracking
area information to NAS.
The NAS part of the location registration process is specified in [5].
Actions for the UE AS upon reception of Location Registration reject are
specified in [4] and [16].
## 5.5 Support for manual CSG selection
### 5.5.1 E-UTRA case
In the UE on request of NAS, the AS shall scan all RF channels in the E-UTRA
bands according to its capabilities to find available CSGs. On each carrier,
the UE shall at least search for the strongest cell, read its system
information and report available CSG ID(s) together with their "HNB name" (if
broadcast) and PLMN(s) to the NAS. The search for available CSGs may be
stopped on request of the NAS.
If NAS has selected a CSG and provided this selection to AS, the UE shall
search for an acceptable or suitable cell belonging to the selected CSG to
camp on.
### 5.5.2 UTRA case
Support for manual CSG selection in UTRA is described in [8].
# 6 Reception of broadcast information
## 6.1 Reception of system information
The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection results in changes
in the received NAS system information.
UE shall monitor PCH as described in chapter 7.1 to receive System Information
change notifications in RRC_IDLE. Changes in the system information are
indicated by the network using a _Paging_ message. When the _Paging_ message
indicates system information changes then UE shall re-acquire all system
information as specified in [3].
## 6.2 Reception of MBMS
A UE interested to receive MBMS services shall apply the MCCH information
acquision procedure as specified in [3] to receive the MCCH information upon
entering the corresponding MBSFN area and upon receiving a notification that
the MCCH information has changed. A UE interested to receive MBMS services
identifies if a service that it is interested to receive is started or ongoing
by receiving the MCCH information, and then receives a MTCH corresponding to
the identified service.
# 7 Paging
## 7.1 Discontinuous Reception for paging
The UE may use Discontinuous Reception (DRX) in idle mode in order to reduce
power consumption. One Paging Occasion (PO) is a subframe where there may be
P-RNTI transmitted on PDCCH addressing the paging message. One Paging Frame
(PF) is one Radio Frame, which may contain one or multiple Paging Occasion(s).
When DRX is used the UE needs only to monitor one PO per DRX cycle.
PF and PO is determined by following formulae using the DRX parameters
provided in System Information:
> PF is given by following equation:
SFN mod T= (T div N)*(UE_ID mod N)
> Index i_s pointing to PO from subframe pattern defined in 7.2 will be
> derived from following calculation:
i_s = floor(UE_ID/N) mod Ns
System Information DRX parameters stored in the UE shall be updated locally in
the UE whenever the DRX parameter values are changed in SI. If the UE has no
IMSI, for instance when making an emergency call without USIM, the UE shall
use as default identity UE_ID = 0 in the PF and i_s formulas above.
The following Parameters are used for the calculation of the PF and i_s:
\- T: DRX cycle of the UE. T is determined by the shortest of the UE specific
DRX value, if allocated by upper layers, and a default DRX value broadcast in
system information. If UE specific DRX is not configured by upper layers, the
default value is applied.
\- nB: 4T, 2T, T, T/2, T/4, T/8, T/16, T/32.
\- N: min(T,nB)
\- Ns: max(1,nB/T)
\- UE_ID: IMSI mod 1024.
IMSI is given as sequence of digits of type Integer (0..9), IMSI shall in the
formulae above be interpreted as a decimal integer number, where the first
digit given in the sequence represents the highest order digit.
For example:
IMSI = 12 (digit1=1, digit2=2)
In the calculations, this shall be interpreted as the decimal integer \"12\",
not \"1x16+2 = 18\".
## 7.2 Subframe Patterns
FDD:
* * *
Ns PO when i_s=0 PO when i_s=1 PO when i_s=2 PO when i_s=3 1 9 N/A N/A N/A 2 4
9 N/A N/A 4 0 4 5 9
* * *
TDD (all UL/DL configurations):
* * *
Ns PO when i_s=0 PO when i_s=1 PO when i_s=2 PO when i_s=3 1 0 N/A N/A N/A 2 0
5 N/A N/A 4 0 1 5 6
* * *
# 8 Logged measurements
The UE may be configured to perform logging of measurement results in RRC_IDLE
mode with the _LoggedMeasurementsConfiguration_ message as specified in TS
36.331 [3]_._ This configuration _is valid while the logging duration timer is
running._
If the configuration of logged measurements is valid, _the UE shall perform
logging of measurement results if all of the following conditions are met:_
\- The UE is in _camped normally_ state in RRC_IDLE mode;
\- RPLMN of the UE is the same as the RPLMN at the point of time of
_LoggedMeasurementConfiguration message reception;_
_\- The UE is_ camped on a cell belonging to the _areaConfiguration_ (see TS
36.331 [3]), if configured;
\- The UE is camped on the RAT where the logged measurement configuration was
received.
Otherwise, the logging of measurement results shall be suspended.
NOTE: Even if logging of measurement results is suspended, the logging
duration timer and time stamp will continue, and the logged measurement
configuration and corresponding log are kept.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
#