# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope.
The present document is an introduction to the TSG RAN TS 36.42x series of
UMTS Technical Specifications that define the X2 interface. It is an interface
for the interconnection of two E-UTRAN NodeB (eNB) components within the
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) architecture (TS
36.401 [2]).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.401: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Architecture description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.421: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 layer 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.422: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 signaling transport\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 application protocol (X2AP)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.424: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 data transport\".
[7] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**E-RAB: Defined in TS 36.401 [2].**
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ECM EPS Connection Management
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
X2-C X2 Control plane
# 4 General aspects
## 4.1 Introduction
The interface allowing to interconnect eNBs with each other is referred to as
the X2 interface.
## 4.2 X2 interface general principles
The general principles for the specification of the X2 interface are as
follows:
\- the X2 interface should be open;
\- the X2 interface shall support the exchange of signalling information
between two eNBs, in addition the interface shall support the forwarding of
PDUs to the respective tunnel endpoints;
\- from a logical standpoint, the X2 is a point-to-point interface between two
eNBs within the E-UTRAN. A point-to-point logical interface should be feasible
even in the absence of a physical direct connection between the two eNBs.
## 4.3 X2 interface specification objectives
### 4.3.1 General
The X2 interface specifications shall facilitate the following:
\- inter-connection of eNBs supplied by different manufacturers;
\- support of continuation between eNBs of the E-UTRAN services offered via
the S1 interface;
\- separation of X2 interface Radio Network functionality and Transport
Network functionality to facilitate introduction of future technology.
### 4.3.2 Addressing of eNBs over the X2 interface
-
## 4.4 X2 interface capabilities
### 4.4.1 Radio application related signalling
The X2 interface provides capability to support radio interface mobility
between eNBs, of UEs having a connection with E-UTRAN.
### 4.4.2 X2 tunnels
## 4.5 X2 interface characteristics
### 4.5.1 Uses of SCTP
#### 4.5.1.1 General
The SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [7]) is used to support the exchange of X2 Application
Protocol (X2AP) signalling messages between two eNBs
A single SCTP association per X2-C interface instance shall be used with one
pair of stream identifiers for X2-C common procedures. Only a few pairs of
stream identifiers should be used for X2-C dedicated procedures.
Source-eNB communication context identifiers that are assigned by the source-
eNB for X2-C dedicated procedures, and target-eNB communication context
identifiers that are assigned by the target-eNB for X2-C dedicated procedures,
shall be used to distinguish UE specific X2-C signalling transport bearers.
The communication context identifiers are conveyed in the respective X2AP
messages.
# 5 Functions of the X2 interface
## 5.1 Function list
The list of functions on the X2 interface is the following:
\- Intra LTE-Access-System Mobility Support for ECM-CONNECTED UE:
\- Context transfer from source eNB to target eNB;
\- Control of user plane transport bearers between source eNB and target eNB;
\- Handover cancellation;
\- UE context release in source eNB.
> \- Load Management
\- Inter-cell Interference Coordination
\- Uplink Interference Load Management;
\- Downlink interference avoidance.
\- General X2 management and error handling functions:
\- Error indication;
\- Reset.
\- Application level data exchange between eNBs
\- Trace functions
\- Data exchange for self-optimisation
### 5.2 Function description
### 5.2.1 Intra LTE-Access-System mobility support for ECM-CONNECTED UE
This function allows the eNB to handover the control of a certain UE to
another eNB.
#### 5.2.1.1 Context transfer from source eNB to target eNB
This function allows transferring information required to maintain the E-UTRAN
services for an UE in ECM-CONNECTED from source to target eNB.
#### 5.2.1.2 Control of user plane transport bearers between source eNB and
target eNB
This function allows establishing and releasing transport bearers between
source and target eNB to allow for data forwarding. At most one user plane
transport bearer per E-RAB allocated to the UE may be established for relaying
DL data received from the EPC from the source eNB to the target eNB. At most
one user plane transport bearer per E-RAB allocated to the UE may be
established for relaying the UL data received from the UE from the source eNB
to the target eNB.
#### 5.2.1.3 Handover cancellation
This function allows informing an already prepared target eNB that a prepared
handover will not take place. It allows releasing the resources allocated
during a preparation.
#### 5.2.1.4 UE context release in source eNB
This function allows the target eNB to trigger the release of the resources
allocated to the UE in the source eNB.
### 5.2.2 Load management
This function allows exchanging overload and traffic load information between
eNBs, such that the eNBs can control the traffic load appropriately. This
information may be spontaneously sent to selected neighbour eNBs, or reported
as configured by a neighbour eNB.
### 5.2.3 Inter-cell interference coordination
This function allows keeping inter-cell interference under control. For this
neighbouring eNBs exchange appropriate information allowing that eNBs make
radio resource assignments such that interference is mitigated.
#### 5.2.3.1 Uplink interference load management
This function allows indicating an uplink interference overload and resource
blocks especially sensitive to inter-cell interference between neighbouring
eNBs, such that neighbour eNBs can co-ordinate with each other such that the
mutual interference caused by their uplink radio resource allocations is
mitigated.
#### 5.2.3.2 Downlink interference avoidance
This function allows an eNB to inform its neighbour eNBs about downlink power
restrictions in its own cells, per resource block or per subframe for
interference aware scheduling by the neighbour eNBs.
### 5.2.4 General X2 management and error handling functions
These functions allow for managing of signalling associations between eNBs,
surveying X2 interface and recovering from errors.
#### 5.2.4.1 Error indication
This function allows the reporting of general error situations on application
level.
#### 5.2.4.2 Reset
This function allows an eNB~1~ to inform another eNB~2~ that it has recovered
from an abnormal failure and that all the contexts (except the application
level data -- see section 5.2.6) related to eNB~1~ and stored in eNB~2~ shall
be deleted, and the associated resources released.
### 5.2.5 Trace functions
Trace recoding sessions on E-UTRAN interfaces for a particular UE is initiated
by the EPC. The trace initiation information is also propagated to the Target
eNB during handover, attached to certain handover messages on X2.
### 5.2.6 Application level data exchange between eNBs
This function allows two eNBs to exchange application level data when an X2
connection is setup, and to update this information at any time.
### 5.2.7 Data exchange for self-optimisation
This function allows two eNBs to exchange information in order to support
self-optimization functionality.
# 6 X2 interface protocols and protocol structure
## 6.1 General
There shall exist a clear separation between the Radio Network Layer and the
Transport Layer. Therefore, the radio network signaling and X2 data streams
are separated from the data transport resource and traffic handling as shown
in Figure 6.1.1.
Figure 6.1.1: Separation of Radio Network Protocols and transport over X2
## 6.2 Radio signalling protocols
### 6.2.1 X2AP protocol
The protocol responsible for providing signalling information across the X2
interface is called the X2 Application Protocol (X2AP). The X2AP is terminated
by the two eNBs inter-connected via the X2 interface X2AP Procedure Modules.
## 6.3 User plane protocol
### 6.3.1 Tunnelling protocol GTP-U
6.4 X2 interface protocol structure
The X2 interface protocol architecture consists of two functional layers:
\- Radio Network Layer, defines the procedures related to the interaction
between eNBs. The radio network layer consists of a Radio Network Control
Plane and a Radio Network User Plane.
\- The transport network layer provides services for user plane and signaling
transport.
Figure 6.4.1: X2 Interface protocol structure
# 7 Other X2 interface specifications
## 7.1 E-UTRAN X2 interface: X2 layer 1 (TS 36.421)
TS 36.421 [3] specifies the range of physical layer technologies that may be
used to support the X2 interface.
## 7.2 E-UTRAN X2 interface: X2 signaling transport (TS 36.422)
TS 36.422 [4] specifies how the X2AP signaling messages are transported over
X2.
## 7.3 E-UTRAN X2 interface: X2 application protocol (X2AP) (TS 36.423)
TS 36.423 [5] specifies the radio network layer signaling procedures of the
control plane between eNBs in E-UTRAN.
## 7.4 E-UTRAN X2 interface: X2 data transport (TS 36.424)
TS 36.424 [6] specifies the standards for user data transport protocols over
the E-UTRAN X2 interface.
## 7.5 Summary of E-UTRAN X2 interface Technical Specifications
The relationship between the technical specifications that define the E-UTRAN
X2 interface is shown in Figure 7.5.1.
Figure 7.5.1: X2 Interface Technical Specifications
#