# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the E-UTRAN radio network layer signalling
protocol for the M2 interface. The M2 Application Protocol (M2AP) supports the
functions of the M2 interface by signalling procedures defined in this
document. M2AP is developed in accordance to the general principles stated in
TS 36.401 [2] and TS 36.300 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.401: \"E-UTRAN Architecture Description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.413: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation X.691 (07/2002): \"Information technology - ASN.1
encoding rules - Specification of Packed Encoding Rules (PER) \".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (07/2002): \"Information technology - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of basic notation\".
[7] Void
[8] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.061 \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[10] Void
[11] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN);
Radio Resource Control (RRC) Protocol Specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN);
Physical Channels and Modulation\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.445: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); M1 Data Transport\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Tunnelling
Protocol User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Elementary Procedure:** M2AP consists of Elementary Procedures (EPs). An
Elementary Procedure is a unit of interaction between eNBs and the MCE. These
Elementary Procedures are defined separately and are intended to be used to
build up complete sequences in a flexible manner. If the independence between
some EPs is restricted, it is described under the relevant EP description.
Unless otherwise stated by the restrictions, the EPs may be invoked
independently of each other as stand alone procedures, which can be active in
parallel. The usage of several M2AP EPs together or together with EPs from
other interfaces is specified in stage 2 specifications (e.g. TS 36.300 [3]
and TS 23.246 [8]).
An EP consists of an initiating message and possibly a response message. Two
kinds of EPs are used:
\- **Class 1:** Elementary Procedures with response (success and/or failure).
\- **Class 2:** Elementary Procedures without response.
For Class 1 EPs, the types of responses can be as follows:
Successful:
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the elementary procedure
successfully completed with the receipt of the response.
Unsuccessful:
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the EP failed.
\- On time supervision expiry (i.e. absence of expected response).
Successful and Unsuccessful:
\- One signalling message reports both successful and unsuccessful outcome for
the different included requests. The response message used is the one defined
for successful outcome.
Class 2 EPs are considered always successful.
**eNB MBMS M2AP ID:** Unique identity, referencing the MBMS-service-associated
logical M2-connection within an eNB.
**MCE MBMS M2AP ID:** Unique identity, referencing the MBMS-service-associated
logical M2-connection within an MCE.
**MBMS E-RAB:** denotes both, the data bearer established between the eNB and
the UE(s) to transport MBMS data and the MBMS M1 data bearer.
**MBMS-service-associated signalling:** When M2AP messages associated to one
MBMS service uses the MBMS-service-associated logical M2-connection for
association of the message to the respective MBMS service in eNB and EPC.
**MBMS-service-associated logical M2-connection: The MBMS-service-associated
logical M2-connection uses the identities _eNB MBMS M2AP ID_** and _MCE MBMS
M2AP ID_**. For a received M2AP message the** MCE identifies **the**
associated MBMS E-RAB based on the _MCE_ _MBMS M2AP ID_**IE and** the**eNB
identifies** the**associated MBMS-RAB based on the** _eNB MBMS M2AP ID_
__IE_._
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
MCCH Multicast Control CHannel
PMCH Physical Multicast CHannel
# 4 General
## 4.1 Procedure Specification Principles
The principle for specifying the procedure logic is to specify the functional
behaviour of the terminating node exactly and completely. Any rule that
specifies the behaviour of the originating node shall be possible to be
verified with information that is visible within the system.
The following specification principles have been applied for the procedure
text in clause 8:
\- The procedure text discriminates between:
1) Functionality which \"shall\" be executed
The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall\" perform a
certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports
procedure X but cannot perform functionality Y requested in the REQUEST
message of a Class 1 EP, the receiving node shall respond with the message
used to report unsuccessful outcome for this procedure, containing an
appropriate cause value.
2) Functionality which \"shall, if supported\" be executed
The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall, if supported,\"
perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node
supports procedure X, but does not support functionality Y, the receiving node
shall proceed with the execution of the EP, possibly informing the requesting
node about the not supported functionality.
\- Any required inclusion of an optional IE in a response message is
explicitly indicated in the procedure text. If the procedure text does not
explicitly indicate that an optional IE shall be included in a response
message, the optional IE shall not be included. For requirements on including
_Criticality Diagnostics_ IE, see section 10 in TS 36.413 [4].
## 4.2 Forwards and Backwards Compatibility
The forwards and backwards compatibility of the protocol is assured by
mechanism where all current and future messages, and IEs or groups of related
IEs, include ID and criticality fields that are coded in a standard format
that will not be changed in the future. These parts can always be decoded
regardless of the standard version.
## 4.3 Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
Procedure When referring to an elementary procedure in the specification the
Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case
characters followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. E-RAB procedure.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. MESSAGE NAME message.
IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification the
_Information Element Name_ is written with the first letters in each word in
upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the
abbreviation \"IE\", e.g. _Information Element_ IE.
Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in
the specification the \"Value\" is written as it is specified in subclause 9.2
enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. \"Value\".
# 5 M2AP Services
The present clause describes the services an eNB offers to its associated MCE.
## 5.1 M2AP procedure modules
The M2 interface M2AP procedures may be sub-divided as follows:
1\. M2AP MBMS session control procedures;
2\. M2AP global procedures;
The M2AP session control procedures are related to MBMS services.
The Global Procedures module contains procedures that are not related to a
specific MBMS service.
## 5.2 Parallel transactions
Unless explicitly indicated in the procedure specification, at any instance in
time one protocol peer shall have a maximum of one ongoing M2AP procedure
related to a certain MBMS service.
# 6 Services Expected from Signalling Transport
The signalling connection shall provide in sequence delivery of M2AP messages.
M2AP shall be notified if the signalling connection breaks.
# 7 Functions of M2AP
The M2AP protocol provides the following functions:
\- MBMS Session Handling. This function supports start, stop and modify of an
MBMS session, as well as configuration and modification of basic radio
transmission parameters related to that service.
\- MBMS Scheduling Information. This function provides MCCH related
information to the eNB.
\- Reporting of General Error Situations. This function allows reporting of
general error situations, for which function specific error messages have not
been defined.
\- Resetting the M2. This function is used to reset the M2 interface.
\- Setting up the M2. This function is used to exchange necessary data for the
eNB for setup the M2 interface, provides basic configuration of radio
parameters for transmission of MBMS data and implicitly perform an M2 Reset.
\- eNB and MCE Configuration Update functions are to update configuration data
exchanged during setup of M2.
\- MBMS Service Counting. This function enables the MCE to perform counting
and to receive the counting results for the MBMS service(s) per MBSFN area.
The mapping between the above functions and M2 EPs is shown in the table
below.
Table 1: Mapping between M2AP functions and M2AP EPs
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Function | Elementary Procedure(s) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MBMS Session Handling | a) MBMS Session Start\ | | | b) MBMS Session Stop\ | | | c) MBMS Session Update | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MBMS Scheduling Information | MBMS Scheduling Information | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Reporting of General Error | Error Indication | | Situations | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Resetting the M2 | Reset | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Setting up the M2 | M2 Setup | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Configuration Update | a) eNB Configuration Update | | | | | | b) MCE Configuration Update | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MBMS Service Counting | a) MBMS Service Counting | | | | | | b) MBMS Service Counting | | | Results Report | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 8 M2AP Procedures
## 8.1 List of M2AP Elementary procedures
In the following tables, all EPs are divided into Class 1 and Class 2 EPs (see
subclause 3.1 for explanation of the different classes):
Table 2: Class 1 procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Initiating Message Successful Outcome Unsuccessful
Outcome Response message Response message MBMS Session Start MBMS SESSION
START REQUEST MBMS SESSION START RESPONSE MBMS SESSION START FAILURE MBMS
Session Stop MBMS SESSION STOP REQUEST MBMS SESSION STOP RESPONSE  
MBMS Session Update MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST MBMS SESSION UPDATE RESPONSE
MBMS SESSION UPDATE FAILURE MBMS Scheduling Information MBMS SCHEDULING
INFORMATION MBMS SCHEDULING INFORMATION RESPONSE  
Reset RESET RESET ACKNOWLEDGE  
M2 Setup M2 SETUP REQUEST M2 SETUP RESPONSE M2 SETUP FAILURE eNB Configuration
Update ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE ENB
CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE MCE Configuration Update MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE
MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE MBMS
Service Counting MBMS SERVICE COUNTING REQUEST MBMS SERVICE COUNTING RESPONSE
MBMS SERVICE COUNTING FAILURE
* * *
Table 3: Class 2 procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Message Error Indication ERROR INDICATION MBMS Service
Counting Results Report MBMS SERVICE COUNTING RESULTS REPORT
* * *
The following applies concerning interference between Elementary Procedures:
\- The Reset procedure takes precedence over all other EPs.
## 8.2 MBMS Session Start
### 8.2.1 General
The purpose of the MBMS Session Start procedure is to request the eNB to
notify UEs about an upcoming MBMS Session of a given MBMS Bearer Service and
to establish an MBMS E-RAB and an MBMS-service-associated logical
M2-connection. The MBMS Session Start procedure is triggered by the MCE.
The procedure uses MBMS-Service-associated signalling.
### 8.2.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.2.2-1. MBMS Session Start procedure. Successful operation.
The MCE initiates the procedure by sending an MBMS SESSION START REQUEST
message. If the eNB accepts the MBMS session start request, the eNB responds
with the MBMS SESSION START RESPONSE message. The eNB shall join the transport
network IP multicast address (including the IP address of the multicast
source) as described by the _TNL Information_ IE to enable the reception of
MBMS data.
If the MBMS SESSION START REQUEST message contains the _MBMS Session Identity_
IE, the eNB shall notify the UEs about the information for the MBMS session.
### 8.2.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.2.3-1. MBMS Session Start procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
If the eNB is not capable of correctly processing the request (e.g. the MBMS
resources could not be established at all in any cell), the MCE shall be
informed by the MBMS SESSION START FAILURE message.
### 8.2.4 Abnormal Conditions
Void.
## 8.3 MBMS Session Stop
### 8.3.1 General
The purpose of the MBMS Session Stop procedure is to request the eNB to notify
UEs about the end of a given MBMS Session of a given MBMS Bearer Service and
to release the corresponding MBMS E-RAB and the MBMS-service-associated
logical M2-connection. The MBMS Session Stop procedure is triggered by the
MCE.
The procedure uses MBMS-Service-associated signalling.
### 8.3.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.3.2-1. MBMS Session Stop procedure. Successful operation.
The MCE initiates the procedure by sending a MBMS SESSION STOP REQUEST
message. Upon receipt of the MBMS SESSION STOP REQUEST message, the eNB shall
respond with the MBMS SESSION STOP RESPONSE message. The eNB shall disable the
reception from the IP backbone of the particular MBMS bearer service, release
the affected resources and remove the MBMS bearer context.
### 8.3.3 Abnormal Conditions
Void.
## 8.4 MBMS Scheduling Information
### 8.4.1 General
The purpose of the MBMS Scheduling Information Procedure is to provide MCCH
related information to the eNB.
The procedure uses non MBMS-Service-associated signalling.
### 8.4.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.4.2-1. MBMS Scheduling Information procedure. Successful operation.
The MCE initiates the procedure by sending the MBMS SCHEDULING INFORMATION
message to the eNB. If PMCH configuration information is contained in this
message, the eNB shall do PMCH transmission according to the PMCH
configuration information. If PMCH configuration information for an existing
PMCH is not contained in this message, the eNB should stop PMCH transmission
for the PMCH. The eNB shall store the _MBSFN Area Configuration Item_ IE, and
apply the MCCH update from the modification period defined in the _MCCH Update
Time_ IE. The eNB shall schedule the MBMS services in the MCCH according to
the order defined in the _MBMS Session List per PMCH_ IE.
### 8.4.3 Abnormal Conditions
Void.
## 8.5 Reset
### 8.5.1 General
The purpose of the Reset procedure is to initialise or re-initialise the eNB
or part of eNB M2AP MBMS-service-related contexts, in the event of a failure
in the MCE or vice versa. This procedure doesn't affect the application level
configuration data exchanged during, e.g., the M2 Setup procedure.
The procedure uses non MBMS-service-associated signalling.
### 8.5.2 Successful Operation
#### 8.5.2.1 Reset Procedure Initiated from the MCE
Figure 8.5.2.1-1. Reset procedure initiated from the MCE. Successful
operation.
In the event of a failure at the MCE, which has resulted in the loss of some
or all transaction reference information, a RESET message shall be sent to the
eNB.
At reception of RESET message the eNB shall release all allocated resources on
M2 and M1/Uu related to MBMS-service association(s) indicated explicitly or
implicitly in the RESET message and remove the indicated MBMS-service contexts
including MBMS M2AP IDs.
After the eNB has released all assigned M2 and M1 resources and MBMS-service
contexts for all indicated MBMS-service association(s), the eNB shall respond
with the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message. The eNB does not need to wait for the
release of radio resources to be completed before returning the RESET
ACKNOWLEDGE message.
_If the RESET message contains the MBMS-Service-associated logical
M2-connection list IE, then:_
\- _The eNB shall use the MCE MBMS M2AP ID_ IE and/or the _eNB MBMS M2AP ID_
IE to explicitly identify the MBMS service association(s) to be reset.
\- The eNB shall in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message include, for each MBMS
service association to be reset, the _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M2-connection Item_ IE in the _MBMS-Service-associated logical M2-connection
list_ IE. The _MBMS-Service-associated logical M2-connection Item_ IEs shall
be in the same order as received in the RESET message and shall include also
unknown MBMS-Service-associated logical M2-connections. Empty _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M2-connection Item_ IEs, received in the RESET message, may
be omitted in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
\- If the _MCE MBMS M2AP ID_ IE is included in the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M2-connection Item_ IE for an MBMS service association, the eNB shall
include the _MCE MBMS M2AP ID_ IE in the corresponding _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M2-connection Item_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
\- If the **_eNB MBMS M2AP ID_** IE is included in an _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M2-connection Item_ IE for an MBMS service association, the eNB shall
include the _eNB MBMS M2AP ID_ IE in the corresponding _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M2-connection Item_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
**Interactions with other procedures:**
If the RESET message is received, any other ongoing procedure (except another
Reset procedure) on the same M2 interface related to a MBMS service
association, indicated explicitly or implicitly in the RESET message, shall be
aborted.
#### 8.5.2.2 Reset Procedure Initiated from the eNB
Figure 8.5.2.2-1. Reset procedure initiated from the eNB. Successful
operation.
In the event of a failure at the eNB, which has resulted in the loss of some
or all transaction reference information, a RESET message shall be sent to the
MCE.
At reception of RESET message the MCE shall release all allocated resources on
M2 related to MBMS-service association(s) indicated explicitly or implicitly
in the RESET message and the indicated MBMS-service contexts on M2 for the
eNB.
After the MCE has released all assigned M2 resources and MBMS-service contexts
for all the eNB indicated MBMS-service association(s), the MCE shall respond
with the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
_If the RESET message contains the MBMS-Service-associated logical
M2-connection list IE, then:_
\- _The MCE shall use the MCE MBMS M2AP ID_ IE and/or the _eNB MBMS M2AP ID_
IE to explicitly identify the MBMS service association(s) to be reset.
\- The MCE shall in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message include, for each MBMS
service association to be reset, the _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M2-connection Item_ IE in the _MBMS-Service-associated logical M2-connection
list_ IE. The _MBMS-Service-associated logical M2-connection Item_ IEs shall
be in the same order as received in the RESET message and shall include also
unknown MBMS-Service-associated logical M2-connections. Empty _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M2-connection Item_ IEs, received in the RESET message, may
be omitted in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
\- If the _MCE MBMS M2AP ID_ IE is included in the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M2-connection Item_ IE for an MBMS service association, the MCE shall
include the _MCE MBMS M2AP ID_ IE in the corresponding _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M2-connection Item_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
\- If the **_eNB MBMS M2AP ID_** IE is included in an _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M2-connection Item_ IE for an MBMS service association, the MCE shall
include the _eNB MBMS M2AP ID_ IE in the corresponding _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M2-connection Item_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
**Interactions with other procedures:**
If the RESET message is received, any other ongoing procedure (except another
Reset procedure) on same M2 interface related to a MBMS service association,
indicated explicitly or implicitly in the RESET message, shall be aborted.
### 8.5.3 Abnormal Conditions
#### 8.5.3.1 Abnormal Condition at the MCE
If the RESET message includes the _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M2-connection list_ IE, but neither the _MCE MBMS M2AP ID_ IE nor the _eNB
MBMS M2AP ID_ IE is present for a _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M2-connection Item_ IE, then the MCE shall ignore the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M2-connection Item_ IE. The MCE may return the empty _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M2-connection Item_ IE in the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M2-connection list_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
#### 8.5.3.2 Abnormal Condition at the eNB
If the RESET message includes the _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M2-connection list_ IE, but neither the _MCE MBMS M2AP ID_ IE nor the _eNB
MBMS M2AP ID_ IE is present for a _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M2-connection Item_ IE, then the eNB shall ignore the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M2-connection Item_ IE. The eNB may return the empty _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M2-connection Item_ IE in the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M2-connection list_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
#### 8.5.3.3 Crossing of Reset Messages
If Reset procedure is ongoing in eNB and the eNB receives a RESET message from
the peer entity on the same M2 interface related to one or several MBMS
service associations previously requested to be reset, indicated explicitly or
implicitly in the received RESET message, the eNB shall respond with RESET
ACKNOWLEDGE message as described in 8.5.2.1.
If Reset procedure is ongoing in MCE and the MCE receives a RESET message from
the peer entity on the same M2 interface related to one or several MBMS
service associations previously requested to be reset, indicated explicitly or
implicitly in the received RESET message, the MCE shall respond with RESET
ACKNOWLEDGE message as described in 8.5.2.2.
## 8.6 M2 Setup
### 8.6.1 General
The purpose of the M2 Setup procedure is to exchange application level data
needed for the eNB and MCE to interoperate correctly on the M2 interface and
to configure MCCH related content on the BCCH for each of the cells controlled
by the eNB which is foreseen to participate in MBMS service data transmission.
This procedure shall be the first M2AP procedure triggered after the TNL
association has become operational. The procedure uses non MBMS-service-
associated signalling.
This procedure erases any existing application level configuration data in the
eNB and the MCE and MCCH related BCCH data in all cells served by the eNB.
This procedure also re-initialises the E-UTRAN M2AP MBMS service related
contexts (if any) and erases all related signalling connections in the two
nodes like a Reset procedure would do.
### 8.6.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.6.2-1. M2 Setup procedure. Successful operation.
The eNB initiates the procedure by sending a M2 SETUP REQUEST message
including the appropriate data to the MCE. The eNB shall include in the M2
SETUP REQUEST message the cell(s) which is(are) foreseen to participate in
MBMS service data transmission.
The MCE responds with M2 SETUP RESPONSE message including the appropriate
data. The MCE shall provide the MCCH related BCCH configuration for all cells
indicated in the M2 SETUP REQUEST message.
The exchanged data shall be stored in the respective node, MCCH related BCCH
configuration broadcasted as provided by the MCE in the respective cell(s),
and used for the duration of the TNL association or until any further
configuration update procedure is performed..
When this procedure is finished the M2 interface is operational, all affected
cells are ready for MBMS service data transmission and other M2 messages can
be exchanged.
If the M2 SETUP REQUEST message contains the _eNB Name_ IE the MCE may use
this IE as a human readable name of the eNB.
If the M2 SETUP RESPONSE message contains the _MCE Name_ IE the eNB may use
this IE as a human readable name of the MCE.
The eNB shall broadcast the MCCH related BCCH configuration only in those
cells indicated in the _Cell Information List_ IE contained in the M2 SETUP
RESPONSE message for which the _Cell Reservation Info_ IE within the _MCCH
related BCCH Configuration Item_ IE is not set to \"reserved Cell\".
### 8.6.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.6.2-1. M2 Setup procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
If the MCE can not accept the setup it should respond with a M2 SETUP FAILURE
message and appropriate cause value.
If the M2 SETUP FAILURE messages includes the _Time To Wait_ IE the eNB shall
wait at least for the indicated time before reinitiating the M2 setup towards
the same MCE.
### 8.6.4 Abnormal Conditions
Void.
## 8.7 eNB Configuration Update
### 8.7.1 General
The purpose of the eNB Configuration Update procedure is to update application
level configuration data needed for the eNB and MCE to interoperate correctly
on the M2 interface. This procedure does not affect existing MBMS-service-
related contexts, if any.
The procedure uses non MBMS-service-associated signalling.
### 8.7.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.7.2-1. eNB Configuration Update procedure. Successful operation.
The eNB initiates the procedure by sending an ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE message
to the MCE including an appropriate set of updated configuration data that it
has just taken into operational use. The eNB CONFIGURATION UPDATE message may
contain:
\- the _Global eNB ID_ IE,
\- the _eNB Name_ IE,
\- the _eNB MBMS Configuration data per cell_ IE.
If the _Global eNB ID_ IE is not included in the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE
message, the MCE shall interpret that the existing eNB ID is not changed.
If the _eNB Name_ IE is not included in the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE message,
the MCE shall interpret that the existing eNB name, if any, is not changed.
The MCE responds with the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message to
acknowledge that it successfully updated the configuration data. If the ENB
CONFIGURATION UPDATE message does not contain the information for an existing
cell, the MCE shall interpret that the corresponding configuration data for
that cell is not changed and shall continue to operate the M2 with the
existing related configuration data for that cell.
If the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message contains the _Cell
Information List_ IE within the _MCCH related BCCH Configuration Item_ IE, the
eNB shall broadcast that MCCH related BCCH configuration only in those cells
indicated in the IE for which the _Cell Reservation Info_ IE is not set to
\"reservedCell\". If the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message does not
contain the _Cell Information List_ IE within the _MCCH related BCCH
Configuration Item_ IE, the eNB shall not broadcast that MCCH related BCCH
configuration in any cell. If the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message
does not contain the _MCCH related BCCH Configuration Item_ IE for an existing
MBSFN area, the eNB shall interpret that the corresponding configuration data
for that MBSFN area is not changed and shall continue to operate the M2 with
the existing related configuration data for that MBSFN area.
The eNB may update the configured MBMS Services Areas and the MBSFN
Synchronisation Area per cell:
\- If the eNB includes the _E-UTRAN CGI_ IE for a cell within the ENB
CONFIGURATION UPDATE message, the MCE shall assume that the eNB does neither
broadcast MCCH related configuration in the BCCH nor any MBMS service data in
that cell any more.
\- If the eNB includes the _eNB MBMS Configuration data Item_ IE for a cell
within the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE message, the MCE may decide to include in
the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message the MCCH related BCCH
configuration for the related MBSFN area(s).
If the eNB CONFIGURATION UPDATE message contains the _eNB Name_ IE, the MCE
may use this IE as a human readable name of the eNB.
The updated configuration data shall be stored in both eNB and MCE and used
for the duration of the TNL association or until any further update is
triggered by the eNB or the MCE.
The eNB may initiate a further eNB Configuration Update procedure only after a
previous eNB Configuration Update procedure has been completed.
### 8.7.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.7.3-1. eNB Configuration Update procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
If the MCE can not accept the update it shall respond with an ENB
CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message and appropriate cause value.
If the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message includes the _Time To Wait_ IE
the eNB shall wait at least for the indicated time before reinitiating the ENB
Configuration Update procedure towards the MCE. Both nodes shall continue to
operate the M2 interface with their respective configuration data.
### 8.7.4 Abnormal Conditions
If the eNB after initiating eNB Configuration Update procedure receives
neither an ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKOWLEDGE nor an ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE
FAILURE message, the eNB may reinitiate a further eNB Configuration Update
procedure towards the same MCE, provided that the content of the new ENB
CONFIGURATION UPDATE message is identical to the content of the previously
unacknowledged ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE message.
## 8.8 MCE Configuration Update
### 8.8.1 General
The purpose of the MCE Configuration Update procedure is to update application
level configuration data needed for the eNB and MCE to interoperate correctly
on the M2 interface and to re-configure MCCH related content on the BCCH for
the MBSFN areas contributed by the eNB which is foreseen to participate in
MBMS service data transmission. The procedure uses non MBMS-service-associated
signalling. This procedure does not affect existing MBMS-service-related
contexts, if any.
### 8.8.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.8.2-1. MCE Configuration Update procedure. Successful operation.
The MCE initiates the procedure by sending an MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message
to the eNB including an appropriate set of updated configuration data. The MCE
CONFIGURATION UPDATE message may contain:
\- the _Global MCE ID_ IE,
\- the _MCE Name_ IE,
\- the _MCCH related BCCH Configuration data per MBSFN area_ IE.
If the _Global MCE ID_ IE is not included in the MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE
message, the eNB shall interpret that the existing MCE ID is not changed.
If the _MCE Name_ IE is not included in the MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message,
the eNB shall interpret that the existing MCE name, if any, is not changed.
The eNB responds with the MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message to
acknowledge that it successfully updated the configuration data.
If the MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message contains the _Cell Information List_
IE within the _MCCH related BCCH Configuration Item_ IE, the eNB shall
broadcast that MCCH related BCCH configuration only in those cells indicated
in the IE for which the Cell Reservation Info IE is not set to "reservedCell".
If the MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message does not contain the _Cell Information
List_ IE within the _MCCH related BCCH Configuration Item_ IE, the eNB shall
not broadcast that MCCH related BCCH configuration in any cell. If the MCE
CONFIGURATION UPDATE message does not contain the _MCCH related BCCH
Configuration Item_ IE for an existing MBSFN area, the eNB shall interpret
that the corresponding configuration data for that MBSFN area is not changed
and shall continue to operate the M2 with the existing related configuration
data for that MBSFN area.
If the MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message contains the _MCE Name_ IE, the eNB
may use this IE as a human readable name of the MCE.
The updated configuration data shall be stored in both eNB and MCE and used
for the duration of the TNL association or until any further update is
triggered by the MCE or the eNB.
The MCE may initiate a further MCE Configuration Update procedure only after a
previous MCE Configuration Update procedure has been completed.
### 8.8.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.78.3-1. MCE Configuration Update procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
If the eNB can not accept the update it shall respond with an MCE
CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message and appropriate cause value.
If the MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message includes the _Time To Wait_ IE
the MCE shall wait at least for the indicated time before reinitiating the MCE
Configuration Update procedure towards the eNB. Both nodes shall continue to
operate the M2 interface with their respective configuration data.
### 8.8.4 Abnormal Conditions
If the MCE neither receives an MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE nor an MCE
CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message, the MCE may reinitiate MCE Configuration
Update procedure towards the same eNB provided that the content of the new MCE
CONFIGURATION UPDATE message is identical to the content of the previously
unacknowledged MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message.
## 8.9 Error Indication
### 8.9.1 General
The Error Indication procedure is initiated by a node to report detected
errors in one incoming message, provided they cannot be reported by an
appropriate failure message.
If the error situation arises due to reception of a message utilising MBMS-
service-associated signalling, then the Error Indication procedure uses MBMS-
service-associated signalling. Otherwise the procedure uses non MBMS-service-
associated signalling.
### 8.9.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.9.2-1. Error Indication procedure, MCE originated. Successful
operation.
Figure 8.9.2.1-2. Error Indication procedure, eNB originated. Successful
operation.
When the conditions defined in clause 10 are fulfilled, the Error Indication
procedure is initiated by an ERROR INDICATION message sent from the receiving
node.
The ERROR INDICATION message shall contain at least either the _Cause_ IE or
the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE.
In case the Error Indication procedure is triggered by utilising MBMS-service-
associated signalling the _MCE MBMS M2AP ID_ IE and the _eNB MBMS M2AP ID_ IE
shall be included in the ERROR INDICATION message. If one or both of _MCE MBMS
M2AP ID_ IE and the _eNB MBMS M2AP ID_ IE are not correct, the cause shall be
set to appropriate value e.g. \"Unknown or already allocated MCE MBMS M2AP
ID\", \"Unknown or already allocated eNB MBMS M2AP ID\" or \"Unknown or
inconsistent pair of MBMS M2AP ID\".
### 8.9.3 Abnormal Conditions
Void.
## 8.10 MBMS Session Update
### 8.10.1 General
The purpose of the MBMS Session Update procedure is to inform the eNB about
changing characteristics of the MBMS session e.g. change in the service area.
The procedure uses MBMS-Service-associated signalling.
### 8.10.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.10.2-1. MBMS Session Update procedure. Successful operation.
The MCE initiates the procedure by sending a MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST
message.
If the _MBMS Service Area_ IE is included in the MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST
message, the eNB shall check the involvement of its cells in the new service
area, update correspondingly the MBMS context and resources, join or leave the
IP multicast if needed and send the MBMS SESSION UPDATE RESPONSE message.
If the _TNL Information_ IE is included in the MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST
message, the eNB shall use the contained information to join the IP multicast
when needed.
If the MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST message contains the _MBMS Session
Identity_ IE for an MBMS service, the eNB shall use it for broadcast of the
MBMS Session Identity on air interface.
### 8.10.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.10.3-1. MBMS Session Update procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
If the eNB fails to update the MBMS session, it shall return a MBMS SESSION
UPDATE FAILURE message.
### 8.10.4 Abnormal Conditions
Void.
## 8.11 MBMS Service Counting
### 8.11.1 General
The purpose of the MBMS Service Counting procedure is to request the eNB to
report the number of connected mode UEs that either are receiving the MBMS
service(s) or are interested in the reception of the MBMS service(s).
The procedure uses non MBMS-Service-associated signalling.
### 8.11.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.11.2-1. MBMS Service Counting procedure. Successful operation.
The MCE initiates the procedure by sending the MBMS SERVICE COUNTING REQUEST
message to the eNB.
After receiving the MBMS SERVICE COUNTING REQUEST message successfully, the
eNB shall respond the MCE with the MBMS SERVICE COUNTING RESPONSE message.
### 8.11.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.11.3-1. MBMS Service Counting procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
If the eNB is not capable of correctly processing the request, it shall return
a MBMS SERVICE COUNTING FAILURE message.
### 8.11.4 Abnormal Conditions
If the eNB has received a MBMS SERVICE COUNTING REQUEST message for a MBSFN
Area ID and MCCH Update Time pair, the eNB shall ignore subsequent MBMS
SERVICE COUNTING REQUEST messages containing the same MBSFN Area ID and MCCH
Update Time, and a different _MBMS Counting Request Session_ IE.
## 8.12 MBMS Service Counting Results Report
### 8.12.1 General
The purpose of the MBMS Service Counting Results Report procedure is for the
eNB to provide the counting results to the MCE.
The procedure uses non MBMS-Service-associated signalling.
### 8.12.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.12.2-1. MBMS Service Counting Results Report procedure. Successful
operation.
The eNB initiates the procedure by sending an MBMS SERVICE COUNTING RESULTS
REPORT message.
The MBMS SERVICE COUNTING RESULTS REPORT message contains the counting results
according to the counting configuration in the respective MBMS SERVICE
COUNTING REQUEST message.
### 8.12.3 Abnormal Conditions
If, for a given MBSFN area, the MBMS SERVICE COUNTING RESULTS REPORT message
contains one or more TMGIs corresponding to the configuration of one MBMS
SERVICE COUNTING REQUEST message and some other TMGIs not part of this
configuration, the MCE shall ignore the result corresponding to those other
TMGIs.
# 9 Elements for M2AP Communication
## 9.1 Message Functional Definition and Content
### 9.1.1 General
Sub clauses 9.1 and 9.2 describe the structure of the messages and information
elements required for the M2AP protocol in tabular format. Sub clause 9.3
provides the corresponding ASN.1 definition.
The following attributes are used for the tabular description of the messages
and information elements: Presence, Range Criticality and Assigned
Criticality.
### 9.1.1 Message Contents
#### 9.1.1.1 Presence
All information elements in the message descriptions below are marked
mandatory, optional or conditional according to table 4.
Table 4. Meaning of abbreviations used in M2AP messages
* * *
Abbreviation Meaning M IEs marked as Mandatory (M) shall always be included in
the message. O IEs marked as Optional (O) may or may not be included in the
message. C IEs marked as Conditional (C) shall be included in a message only
if the condition is satisfied. Otherwise the IE shall not be included.
* * *
#### 9.1.1.2 Criticality
Each Information Element or Group of Information Elements may have criticality
information applied to it.\ Following cases are possible:
Table 5. Meaning of content within \"Criticality\" column
* * *
Abbreviation Meaning \-- No criticality information is applied explicitly. YES
Criticality information is applied. This is usable only for non-repeatable IEs
GLOBAL The IE and all its repetitions together have one common criticality
information. This is usable only for repeatable IEs. EACH Each repetition of
the IE has its own criticality information. It is not allowed to assign
different criticality values to the repetitions. This is usable only for
repeatable IEs.
* * *
#### 9.1.1.3 Range
The Range column indicates the allowed number of copies of repetitive IEs/IE
groups.
#### 9.1.1.4 Assigned Criticality
This column provides the actual criticality information as defined in
subclause 10.3.2 in TS 36.413 [4], if applicable.
### 9.1.2 MBMS SESSION START REQUEST
This message is sent by the MCE to establish an MBMS-service-associated
logical M2-connection.
Direction: MCE → eNB.
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MCE | M | | 9.2.3.1 | | YES | reject | | MBMS | | | | | | | | M2AP ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | TMGI | M | | 9.2.3.3 | | YES | reject | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | O | | 9.2.3.4 | | YES | ignore | | Session | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | dentity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | M | | 9.2.3.6 | | YES | reject | | Service | | | | | | | | Area | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **TNL | |_1_ | | | YES | reject | | Inform | | | | | | | | ation** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >IP | M | | IP | | - | | | > Mu | | | Address | | | | | lticast | | | | | | | | > | | | 9.2.2.1 | | | | | Address | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >IP | M | | IP | | - | | | > | | | Address | | | | | Source | | | | | | | | > | | | 9.2.2.1 | | | | | Address | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >GTP | M | | GT | | - | | | > DL | | | P-TEID\ | | | | | > TEID | | | 9.2.2.2 | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 9.1.3 MBMS SESSION START RESPONSE
This message is sent by the eNB to report the successful outcome of the
request from the MBMS SESSION START REQUEST message.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MCE MBMS
M2AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES ignore eNB MBMS M2AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES ignore Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.4 MBMS SESSION START FAILURE
This message is sent by the eNB to report the unsuccessful outcome of the
request from the MBMS SESSION START REQUEST message.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MCE MBMS
M2AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES ignore Cause M 9.2.1.2 YES ignore Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.5 MBMS SESSION STOP REQUEST
This message is sent by the MCE to release the corresponding MBMS E-RAB and
the MBMS-service-associated logical M2-connection.
Direction: MCE → eNB.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MCE MBMS
M2AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES reject eNB MBMS M2AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES reject
* * *
### 9.1.6 MBMS SESSION STOP RESPONSE
This message is sent by the eNB to acknowledge the MBMS SESSION STOP message.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MCE MBMS
M2AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES ignore eNB MBMS M2AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES ignore Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.7 MBMS SCHEDULING INFORMATION
This message is sent by the MCE to provide MCCH related information to the
eNB.
Direction: MCE → eNB.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MCCH | M | | 9 | | YES | reject | | Update | | | .2.1.19 | | | | | Time | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **MBSFN | |_1_ | | | YES | reject | | Area | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | List** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | | _1 to | | | EACH | reject | | >MBSFN | | \ | | | | | | > Area | |  | | fMBSFNa | | | | | | Config | | reas>_ | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | | > IEs**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **\ | | _1_ | | | YES | reject | | >>PMCH | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | List**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **>\ | | _0 to | | | EACH | reject | | >>PMCH | | \ | | | | | | > | |  Item | | area>_ | | | | | | > IEs**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >>\ | M | | 9.2.1.8 | | - | | | >>PMCH | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >>\ | M | | 9.2.1.9 | | - | | | >>MBMS | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | | > List | | | | | | | | > per | | | | | | | | > PMCH | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > * | | _1_ | | | YES | reject | | *>>Su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | List** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **\ | |_1 to | | | EACH | reject | | >>>Su | | \ | | allocat | | | | | | Config | | ions>_ | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | | > IEs** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | M | | 9 | | - | | | >>> | | | .2.1.17 | | | | | >MBSFN | | | | | | | | > S | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >\ | M | | 9 | | YES | reject | | >Common | | | .2.1.18 | | | | | > S | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | > All | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Period | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > > | M | | 9 | | YES | reject | | >MBSFN | | | .2.1.14 | | | | | > Area | | | | | | | | > ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofMBSFNareas Maximum no. of MBSFN areas served by
a single eNB. The value for maxnoofMBSFNareas is 256. maxnoofPMCHsperMBSFNarea
Maximum no. of PMCHs possible per MBSFN .The value for maxnoofMCHsperMBSFNarea
is 15. maxnoofMBSFNallocations Maximum no. of MBSFN frame allocations with
different offset. The value for maxnoofMBSFNallocations is 8.
* * *
### 9.1.8 MBMS SCHEDULING INFORMATION RESPONSE
This message is sent by the eNB to acknowledge the MBMS SCHEDULING INFORMATION
message.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.9 RESET
This message is either sent by the eNB or the MCE and is used to request the
M2 interface or part of M2 interface to be reset.
Direction: eNB → MCE, MCE → eNB
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cause | M | | 9.2.1.2 | | YES | ignore | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | CHOICE | M | | | | YES | reject | | _Reset | | | | | | | | Type_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >_M2 | | | | | | | | > int | | | | | | | | erface_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > > | M | | ENU | | -- | -- | | >Reset | | | MERATED | | | | | > All | | | (Reset | | | | | | | | all, | | | | | | | | ...) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | | | | | | | >_Part | | | | | | | | > of M2 | | | | | | | | > int | | | | | | | | erface_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | _1_ | | | -- | -- | | >>MB | | | | | | | | MS-Serv | | | | | | | | ice-ass | | | | | | | | ociated | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | logical | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | M2-con | | | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | > list | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | _1 to | | | EACH | reject | |__> > | | \MBMS- | | ma | | | | | | Service | | xNrOfIn | | | | | | > -ass | | dividua | | | | | | ociated | | lM2Conn | | | | | | > | | ections | | | | | | logical | | ToReset | | | | | | > | | >_ | | | | | | M2-con | | | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Item** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >> | O | | 9.2.3.2 | | -- | -- | | >>eNB | | | | | | | | > MBMS | | | | | | | | > M2AP | | | | | | | | > ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >> | O | | 9.2.3.1 | | -- | -- | | >>MCE | | | | | | | | > MBMS | | | | | | | | > M2AP | | | | | | | | > ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnNrOfIndividualM2ConnectionsToReset Maximum no. of
MBMS-Service-associated logical M2-connections allowed to reset in one
message. Value is 256.
* * *
### 9.1.10 RESET ACKNOWLEDGE
This message is sent as a response to the RESET message.
Direction: MCE → eNB, eNB → MCE.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **MB | |_0..1_ | | | YES | ignore | | MS-Serv | | | | | | | | ice-ass | | | | | | | | ociated | | | | | | | | logical | | | | | | | | M2-con | | | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | list** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | | _1 to | | | EACH | ignore | | >MBMS- | | \ -ass | | xNrOfIn | | | | | | ociated | | dividua | | | | | | > | | lM2Conn | | | | | | logical | | ections | | | | | | > | | ToReset | | | | | | M2-con | | >_ | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Item** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | O | | 9.2.3.2 | | -- | -- | | >>eNB | | | | | | | | > MBMS | | | | | | | | > M2AP | | | | | | | | > ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | O | | 9.2.3.1 | | -- | -- | | >>MCE | | | | | | | | > MBMS | | | | | | | | > M2AP | | | | | | | | > ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Crit | O | | 9.2.1.7 | | YES | ignore | | icality | | | | | | | | Diag | | | | | | | | nostics | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxNrOfIndividualM2ConnectionsToReset Maximum no. of
MBMS-Service-associated logical M2-connections allowed to reset in one
message. Value is 256.
* * *
### 9.1.11 M2 SETUP REQUEST
This message is sent by the eNB to initiate the M2 interface instance.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Global | M | | 9 | | YES | reject | | eNB ID | | | .2.1.10 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | eNB | O | | Pr | | YES | ignore | | Name | | | intable | | | | | | | | String | | | | | | | | (1..15 | | | | | | | | 0,...) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **eNB | |_1_ | | | YES | reject | | MBMS | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | cell** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | _1 to | | | EACH | reject | |__> eNB | | \ MBMS | | axnoofC | | | | | | > | | ells>_ | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > data | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | | > IEs** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | M | | 9 | | - | | | >>eNB | | | .2.1.12 | | | | | > MBMS | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > data | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofCells Maximum no. of cells that may be served
by an eNB. The value for maxnoofCells is 256.
* * *
### 9.1.12 M2 SETUP RESPONSE
This message is sent by the MCE to complete the initiation of an M2 interface
instance, providing MCCH related BCCH information.
Direction: MCE → eNB.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Global | M | | 9 | | YES | reject | | MCE ID | | | .2.1.16 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MCE | O | | Pr | | YES | ignore | | Name | | | intable | | | | | | | | String | | | | | | | | (1..15 | | | | | | | | 0,...) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **MCCH | |_1_ | | | YES | reject | | related | | | | | | | | BCCH | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | MBSFN | | | | | | | | area** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > * | | _1 to | | | EACH | reject | |_ >MCCH | | \ | | | | | | > | |  BCCH | | reas>_| | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > data | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | | > IEs_* | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >> | M | | 9 | | - | | | > MCCH | | | .2.1.13 | | | | | > | | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | | > BCCH | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Crit | O | | 9.2.1.7 | | YES | ignore | | icality | | | | | | | | Diag | | | | | | | | nostics | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofMBSFNareas Maximum no. of MBSFN areas served by
a single eNB. The value for maxnoofMBSFNareas is 256.
* * *
### 9.1.13 M2 SETUP FAILURE
This message is sent by the MCE to indicate non acceptance of the M2 Setup
Request.
Direction: MCE → eNB.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Cause M
9.2.1.2 YES ignore Time To Wait O 9.2.1.15 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics
O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.14 ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE
This message is sent by the eNB to indicate that application level
configuration data has changed in the eNB.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Global | O | | 9 | | YES | reject | | eNB ID | | | .2.1.10 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | eNB | O | | Pr | | YES | ignore | | Name | | | intable | | | | | | | | String | | | | | | | | (1..15 | | | | | | | | 0,...) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **eNB | |_0..1_ | | | YES | reject | | MBMS | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | cell** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | _1 to | | | EACH | reject | |__> eNB | | \ MBMS | | axnoofC | | | | | | > | | ells>_ | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > data | | | | | | | | > per | | | | | | | | > cell | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | | > IEs __| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >\ | M | | | | | | | >CHOICE | | | | | | | | > _MBMS | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Update_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | | | | | | | >>> | | | | | | | | _Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > Data_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >> | | | 9 | | | | | >>eNB | | | .2.1.12 | | | | | > MBMS | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > data | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | | | | | | | >>> | | | | | | | | _E-CGI_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > \ | | | 9 | | | | | >>>> | | | .2.1.11 | | | | | E-UTRAN | | | | | | | | > CGI | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofCells Maximum no. of cells that may be served
by an eNB. The value for maxnoofCells is 256.
* * *
### 9.1.15 ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE
This message acknowledges the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE message.
Direction: MCE → eNB.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **MCCH | |_0..1_ | | | YES | reject | | related | | | | | | | | BCCH | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | MBSFN | | | | | | | | area** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > * | | _1 to | | | EACH | reject | |_ >MCCH | | \ | | | | | | > | |  BCCH | | reas>_| | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > data | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | | > IEs_* | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > \ | M | | 9 | | - | | | >>MCCH | | | .2.1.13 | | | | | > | | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | | > BCCH | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Crit | O | | 9.2.1.7 | | YES | ignore | | icality | | | | | | | | Diag | | | | | | | | nostics | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofMBSFNareas Maximum no. of MBSFN areas served by
a single eNB. The value for maxnoofMBSFNareas is 256.
* * *
### 9.1.16 ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE
This message is sent by the MCE to indicate non acceptance of the eNB
Configuration Update.
Direction: MCE → eNB.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Cause M
9.2.1.2 YES ignore Time To Wait O 9.2.1.15 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics
O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.17 MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE
This message is sent by the MCE to indicate that application level
configuration data has changed in the MCE.
Direction: MCE → eNB.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Global | O | | 9 | | YES | reject | | MCE ID | | | .2.1.16 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MCE | O | | Pr | | YES | ignore | | Name | | | intable | | | | | | | | String | | | | | | | | (1..15 | | | | | | | | 0,...) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **MCCH | |_0..1_ | | | YES | reject | | related | | | | | | | | BCCH | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | MBSFN | | | | | | | | area** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > * | | _1 to | | | EACH | reject | |_ >MCCH | | \ | | | | | | > | |  BCCH | | reas>_| | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > data | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | | > IEs_* | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > \ | M | | 9 | | - | | | >>MCCH | | | .2.1.13 | | | | | > | | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | | > BCCH | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofMBSFNareas Maximum no. of MBSFN areas served by
a single eNB. The value for maxnoofMBSFNareas is 256.
* * *
### 9.1.18 MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE
This message acknowledges the MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.19 MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE
This message is sent by the eNB to indicate non acceptance of the MCE
Configuration Update.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Cause M
9.2.1.2 YES ignore Time To Wait O 9.2.1.15 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics
O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.20 ERROR INDICATION
This message is sent by both the MCE and the eNB and is used to indicate that
some error has been detected in the node.
Direction: MCE → eNB and eNB → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES ignore MCE MBMS
M2AP ID O 9.2.3.1 YES ignore eNB MBMS M2AP ID O 9.2.3.2 YES ignore Cause O
9.2.1.2 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.21 MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST
This message is sent by the MCE to the eNB in order to inform of the change of
session characteristics e.g. service area of one MBMS service session.
Direction: MCE → eNB.
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MCE | M | | 9.2.3.1 | | YES | reject | | MBMS | | | | | | | | M2AP ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | eNB | M | | 9.2.3.2 | | YES | reject | | MBMS | | | | | | | | M2AP ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | TMGI | M | | 9.2.3.3 | | YES | reject | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | O | | 9.2.3.4 | | YES | ignore | | Session | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | dentity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | O | | 9.2.3.6 | | YES | ignore | | Service | | | | | | | | Area | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **TNL | O | | | | YES | reject | | Inform | | | | | | | | ation** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >IP | M | | 9.2.2.1 | | - | | | > Mu | | | | | | | | lticast | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Address | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >IP | M | | IP | | - | | | > | | | Address | | | | | Source | | | | | | | | > | | | 9.2.2.1 | | | | | Address | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >GTP | M | | GT | | - | | | > DL | | | P-TEID\ | | | | | > TEID | | | 9.2.2.2 | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 9.1.22 MBMS SESSION UPDATE RESPONSE
This message is sent by the eNB to report the successful outcome of the
request from the MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST message.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MCE MBMS
M2AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES ignore eNB MBMS M2AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES ignore Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.23 MBMS SESSION UPDATE FAILURE
This message is sent by the eNB to report the unsuccessful outcome of the
request from the MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST message.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MCE MBMS
M2AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES ignore eNB MBMS M2AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES ignore Cause M
9.2.1.2 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.24 MBMS SERVICE COUNTING REQUEST
This message is sent by the MCE to request the eNB to report the number of
connected mode UEs that are receiving or interested in the MBMS service(s).
Direction: MCE → eNB.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MCCH | M | | 9 | | YES | reject | | Update | | | .2.1.19 | | | | | Time | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **MBSFN | M | | 9 | | YES | reject | | Area | | | .2.1.14 | | | | | ID** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **_MBMS | M | | | | YES | reject | | C | | | | | | | | ounting | | | | | | | | Request | | | | | | | | Ses | | | | | | | | sion_** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > * | | _1 to | | | EACH | reject | |_ >MBMS | | \ C | | oofcoun | | | | | | ounting | | tingser | | | | | | > | | vice>_| | | | | | Request | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Item_* | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > \ | M | | 9.2.3.3 | | - | - | | >>TMGI | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofcountingservice Maximum no. of the services
that are counted by RAN. The value for maxnoofcountingservice is 16.
* * *
### 9.1.25 MBMS SERVICE COUNTING RESPONSE
This message is sent by the eNB to acknowledge the MBMS SERVICE COUNTING
REQUEST message.
Direction: eNB→MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.26 MBMS SERVICE COUNTING FAILURE
This message is sent by the eNB to report the unsuccessful outcome of the
request from the MBMS SERVICE COUNTING REQUEST message.
Direction: eNB → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Cause M
9.2.1.2 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.27 MBMS SERVICE COUNTING RESULTS REPORT
This message is sent by the eNB to report the number of connected mode UEs
that are receiving or interested in the MBMS service(s) as indicated in the
MBMS SERVICE COUNTING REQUEST message.
Direction: eNB→MCE.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **MBSFN | M | | 9 | | YES | reject | | Area | | | .2.1.14 | | | | | ID** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **_MBMS | M | | | | YES | reject | | C | | | | | | | | ounting | | | | | | | | Result | | | | | | | | List_** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > * | | _1 to | | | EACH | reject | |_ >MBMS | | \ C | | oofcoun | | | | | | ounting | | tingser | | | | | | > | | vice>_| | | | | | Result | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Item_* | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > \ | M | | 9.2.3.3 | | - | | | >>TMGI | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >>C | M | | 9 | | - | | | ounting | | | .2.1.21 | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Result | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation Maxnoofcountingservice Maximum no. of the services
that are counted by RAN. The value for maxnoofcountingservice is 16.
* * *
## 9.2 Information Element Definitions
### 9.2.1 Radio Network Layer Related IEs
#### 9.2.1.1 Message Type
The _Message Type_ IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is
mandatory for all messages.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **Message | | | | Assumed max no | | Type** | | | | of messages is | | | | | | 256. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Procedure | M | | (Session | | | > Code | | | Start, | | | | | | | | | | | | Session Stop, | | | | | | | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | | Information, | | | | | | | | | | | | Reset, | | | | | | | | | | | | M2 Setup, | | | | | | | | | | | | eNB | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | Update, | | | | | | | | | | | | MCE | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | Update, | | | | | | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication, | | | | | | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | Update, | | | | | | | | | | | | MBMS Service | | | | | | Counting, | | | | | | | | | | | | MBMS Service | | | | | | Counting | | | | | | Results | | | | | | Report, | | | | | | | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Type of | M | | CHOICE | | | > Message | | | (Initi | | | | | | ating Message, | | | | | | Succe | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | Unsucce | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#### 9.2.1.2 Cause
The purpose of the _Cause_ IE is to indicate the reason for a particular event
for the M2AP protocol.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | CHOICE _Cause | M | | | | | Group_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >_Radio | | | | | | > Network | | | | | | > Layer_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Radio | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | > Network | | | (Unknown or | | | > Layer Cause | | | already | | | | | | allocated MCE | | | | | | MBMS M2AP ID,\ | | | | | | Unknown or | | | | | | already | | | | | | allocated eNB | | | | | | MBMS M2AP ID,\ | | | | | | Unknown or | | | | | | inconsistent | | | | | | pair of MBMS | | | | | | M2AP IDs,\ | | | | | | Radio | | | | | | resources not | | | | | | available,\ | | | | | | Interaction | | | | | | with other | | | | | | procedure, | | | | | | | | | | | | Unspecified,\ | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >_Transport | | | | | | > Layer_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | >>Transport | | | (Transport | | | > Layer Cause | | | Resource | | | | | | Unavailable,\ | | | | | | Unspecified,\ | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >_NAS_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>NAS | M | | ENUMERATED | | | > Cause | | | | | | | | | (Unspecified,\ | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >_Protoco_ l | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Protocol | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | > Cause | | | (Transfer | | | | | | Syntax Error,\ | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Reject),\ | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Ignore and | | | | | | Notify),\ | | | | | | Message not | | | | | | Compatible | | | | | | with Receiver | | | | | | State,\ | | | | | | Semantic | | | | | | Error,\ | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Falsely | | | | | | Constructed | | | | | | Message),\ | | | | | | Unspecified,\ | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >_Misc_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >\ | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | >Miscellaneous | | | (Control | | | > Cause | | | Processing | | | | | | Overload,\ | | | | | | Hardware | | | | | | Failure,\ | | | | | | O&M | | | | | | Intervention,\ | | | | | | Unspecified,\ | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
The meaning of the different cause values is described in the following table.
In general, \"not supported\" cause values indicate that the related
capability is missing. On the other hand, \"not available\" cause values
indicate that the related capability is present, but insufficient resources
were available to perform the requested action.
* * *
Radio Network Layer cause Meaning Unknown or already allocated MCE MBMS M2AP
ID The action failed because the MCE MBMS M2AP ID is either unknown, or (for a
first message received at the eNB) is known and already allocated to an
existing MBMS service related context. Unknown or already allocated eNB MBMS
M2AP ID The action failed because the eNB MBMS M2AP ID is either unknown, or
(for a first message received at the MCE) is known and already allocated to an
existing context. Unknown or inconsistent pair of MBMS M2AP IDs The action
failed because both MBMS M2AP IDs are unknown, or are known but do not define
a single MBMS context. Radio resources not available No requested radio
resources are available Interaction with other procedure The action is due to
an ongoing interaction with another procedure Unspecified Sent for radio
network layer cause when none of the specified cause values applies
* * *
* * *
Transport Layer cause Meaning Transport Resource Unavailable The required
transport resources are not available Unspecified Sent for transport network
layer cause when none of the specified cause values applies.
* * *
* * *
NAS cause Meaning Unspecified Sent for NAS cause when none of the specified
cause values applies.
* * *
* * *
Protocol cause Meaning Transfer Syntax Error The received message included a
transfer syntax error. Abstract Syntax Error (Reject) The received message
included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated
\"reject\". Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore And Notify) The received message
included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated
\"ignore and notify\". Message Not Compatible With Receiver State The received
message was not compatible with the receiver state. Semantic Error The
received message included a semantic error. Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely
Constructed Message) The received message contained IEs or IE groups in wrong
order or with too many occurrences. Unspecified Sent for protocol cause when
none of the specified cause values applies.
* * *
* * *
Miscellaneous cause Meaning Control Processing Overload Control processing
overload Hardware Failure Action related to hardware failure O&M Intervention
The action is due to O&M intervention. Unspecified Sent when none of the above
cause values applies and the cause is not related to any of the categories
Radio Network Layer, Transport Network Layer, NAS or Protocol.
* * *
#### 9.2.1.3 Void
#### 9.2.1.4 Void
#### 9.2.1.5 Void
#### 9.2.1.6 Void
#### 9.2.1.7 Criticality Diagnostics
The _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE is sent by the eNB or the MCE when parts of a
received message have not been comprehended or were missing, or if the message
contained logical errors. When applicable, it contains information about which
IEs were not comprehended or were missing.
For further details on how to use the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE, (see
section 10 in TS 36.413 [4]).
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Procedure | O | | INTEGER | Procedure | | Code | | | (0..255) | Code is to | | | | | | be used if | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Diagnostics | | | | | | is part of | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure, | | | | | | and not | | | | | | within the | | | | | | response | | | | | | message of | | | | | | the same | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | that caused | | | | | | the error | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Triggering | O | | ENUMERATED | The | | Message | | | (initiating | Triggering | | | | | message, | Message is | | | | | successful | used only | | | | | outcome, | if the | | | | | u | Criticality | | | | | nsuccessful | Diagnostics | | | | | outcome) | is part of | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Procedure | O | | ENUMERATED | This | | Criticality | | | (reject, | Procedure | | | | | ignore, | Criticality | | | | | notify) | is used for | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Triggering | | | | | | message | | | | | | ( | | | | | | Procedure). | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | | *0 to | | | | Information | | \* | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Di | | | | | | agnostics** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE | M | | ENUMERA | The IE | | > | | | TED(reject, | Criticality | | Criticality | | | ignore, | is used for | | | | | notify) | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | triggering | | | | | | IE. The | | | | | | value | | | | | | \'ignore\' | | | | | | shall not | | | | | | be used. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE ID | M | | INTEGER | The IE ID | | | | | (0..65535) | of the not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | or missing | | | | | | IE | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Type of | M | | ENU | | | > Error | | | MERATED(not | | | | | | understood, | | | | | | missing, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnooferrors Maximum no. of IE errors allowed to be
reported with a single message. The value for maxnooferrors is 256.
* * *
#### 9.2.1.8 PMCH Configuration
This information element provided PMCH configuration related content for MCCH.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Allocated | M | | INTEGER | Encoded as the | | Subframes End | | | (0..1535) | *** | | | | | | sf-AllocEnd** _| | | | | | | | | | | | IE in TS | | | | | | 36.331 [11] | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Modulation and | M | | INTEGER | Encoded as the | | Coding Scheme | | | (0..28) |_** dataMCS*__| | | | | | | | | | | | IE in TS | | | | | | 36.331 [11] | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | MCH Scheduling | M | | ENUMERATED | Encoded as the | | Period | | | (rf8, rf16, |_ mch-Sch | | | | | rf32, rf64, | edulingPeriod_ | | | | | rf128, rf256, | IE in TS | | | | | rf512, rf1024) | 36.331 [11] | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#### 9.2.1.9 MBMS Session List per PMCH
This information element provided PMCH configuration related content for MCCH.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | *_MBMS | |_ 1 to | | | | Session | | \* | | | | IEs** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >MBMS | M | | TMGI\ | | | > Service | | | 9.2.3.3 | | | > Identity | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >LCID | M | | INTEGER | Logical | | | | | (0..28) | Channel | | | | | | Identity | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofSessionsPerPMCH Maximum no. of Sessions per
PMCH. The value for maxnoofSessionsPerPMCH is 29.
* * *
#### 9.2.1.10 Global eNB ID
This information element is used to globally identify an eNB (see TS 36.401
[2]).
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | PLMN Identity | M | | 9.2.3.7 | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | CHOICE _eNB | M | | | | | ID_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >_eNB ID_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Macro | | | BIT STRING | Equal to the | | > eNB ID | | | (20) | 20 leftmost | | | | | | bits of the | | | | | | Cell Identity | | | | | | IE contained | | | | | | in the E-UTRAN | | | | | | CGI IE (see | | | | | | section | | | | | | 9.2.1.11) of | | | | | | each cell | | | | | | served by the | | | | | | eNB. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#### 9.2.1.11 E-UTRAN CGI
This information element is used to globally identify a cell (see TS 36.401
[2]).
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description PLMN
Identity M 9.2.3.7  
Cell Identity M BIT STRING (28) The 20 leftmost bits of the Cell Identity
correspond to the eNB ID (_Global eNB ID_ IE defined in section 9.2.1.10).
* * *
#### 9.2.1.12 eNB MBMS Configuration data Item
This information element provides MBMS related configuration information from
the eNB.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRAN CGI | M | | 9.2.1.11 | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MBSFN | M | | * | | | Sync | | | _9.2.1.20_ _| | | hronisation | | | | | | Area Id | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |__MBMS | |_ 1 _| | | | Service | | | | | | Area List_ _| | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > __> MBMS | | _1 to | | | | > Service | | \ Area | | maxnoofMBMS | | | | > Item**| | ServiceArea | | | | | | sPerCell >* | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >>MBMS | M | | **9.2.3.6** | | | > Service | | | | | | > Area | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofMBMSServiceAreasPerCell Maximum no. of Service
Areas per cell. The value for maxnoofMBMSServiceAreasPerCell is 256.
* * *
#### 9.2.1.13 MCCH related BCCH Configuration Item
This information element provides MCCH related BCCH configuration information
to the eNB.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MBSFN Area | M | | 9.2.1.14 | | | Id | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PDCCH | M | | ENUMERATED | This IE is | | Length | | | (s1, | encoded | | | | | s2,...) | along the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | OFDM | | | | | | symbols for | | | | | | PDCCH as of | | | | | | table | | | | | | 6.7-1. in | | | | | | TS 36.211 | | | | | | [12]. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Repetition | M | | * | The same | | Period | | | _ENUMERATED | encoding as | | | | | (rf_ _32, | the | | | | | rf64, | * | | | | | rf128, | mcch-Repeti | | | | | rf256_ _)__| tionPeriod_ | | | | | | IE in the | | | | | | _m | | | | | | cch-Config_ | | | | | | IE as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | 36.331 | | | | | | [11] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Offset | M | | **INTEGER | The same | | | | | (0..10)** | encoding as | | | | | | the | | | | | | _m | | | | | | cch-Offset_ | | | | | | in | | | | | | _m | | | | | | cch-Config_ | | | | | | IE as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | 36.331 | | | | | | [11] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | M | M | | * | The same | | odification | | | _ENUMERATED | encoding as | | Period | | | (rf512, | the | | | | | rf1024)__|_ mc | | | | | | ch-Modifica | | | | | | tionPeriod _| | | | | | IE in the | | | | | |_ m | | | | | | cch-Config _| | | | | | IE as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | 36.331 | | | | | | [11] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Subframe | M | |__BIT | The same | | Allocation | | | STRING | encoding as | | Info | | | (SIZE(6))__| the | | | | | |_ sf | | | | | | -AllocInfo _| | | | | | IE | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | 36.331 | | | | | | [11] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Modulation | M | | * | The same | | and Coding | | |_ ENUMERATED | encoding as | | Scheme | | | (n2, n7, | the | | | | | n13, n19)**|_sig | | | | | | nallingMCS_ | | | | | | IE | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | 36.331 | | | | | | [11] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Cell | | _0..1_ | | | | Information | | | | | | List**| | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > **>Cell | | _1 to | | | | > In | | \* | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | * | | | >>E-UTRAN | | | _9.2.1.11**| | | > CGI | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >>Cell | M | | * | | | > | | | *ENUMERATED | | | Reservation | | | (re | | | > Info | | | servedCell, | | | | | | nonRe | | | | | | servedCell, | | | | | | ...)** | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofCells Maximum no. of cells that may be served
by an eNB. The value for maxnoofCells is 256.
* * *
#### 9.2.1.14 MBSFN Area Id
This IE defines the MBSFN Area Id.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MBSFN
Area Id M **INTEGER (0..255)** The same encoding as the _mbsfn-AreaId_ IE
specified in TS 36.331 [11].
* * *
#### 9.2.1.15 Time to Wait
This IE defines the minimum allowed waiting time.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Time
to Wait M ENUMERATED(1s, 2s, 5s, 10s, 20s, 60s,...)
* * *
#### 9.2.1.16 Global MCE ID
This IE is used to globally identify an MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description PLMN
Identity M 9.2.3.8  
MCE ID M OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))
* * *
#### 9.2.1.17 MBSFN Subframe Configuration
This IE indicates the MBSFN Subframe Configuration, as defined in TS 36.331
[11].
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Radio Frame | M | | ENUMERATED | Semantics | | Allocation | | | (n1, n2, n4, | along the IE | | Period | | | n8, n16, n32) | definition in | | | | | | TS 36.331 | | | | | | [11] | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Radio Frame | M | | INTEGER (0..7) | Semantics | | Allocation | | | | along the IE | | Offset | | | | definition in | | | | | | TS 36.331 | | | | | | [11] | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | CHOICE | M | | | | | _Subframe | | | | | | Allocation_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >_One | | | | | | > Frame_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>One | M | | BIT STRING | Semantics | | > Frame Item | | | (SIZE(6)) | along the IE | | | | | | definition in | | | | | | TS 36.331 | | | | | | [11] | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >_Four | | | | | | > Frames_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Four | M | | BIT STRING | Semantics | | > Frame Item | | | (SIZE(24)) | along the IE | | | | | | definition in | | | | | | TS 36.331 | | | | | | [11] | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#### 9.2.1.18 Common Subframe Allocation Period
This IE defines the period during which allocated subframes are divided
between PMCHs configured for the MBSFN area, see TS 36.331 [11].
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Common Subframe Allocation Period M ENUMERATED (rf4, rf8, rf16, rf32, rf64,
rf128, rf256) The same encoding as the _commonSF-AllocPeriod_ IE as specified
in TS 36.331 [11]
* * *
#### 9.2.1.19 MCCH Update Time
This IE indicates the time at which the eNB shall apply the update of the MCCH
as specified in TS 36.300 [3].
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
MCCH Update Time M INTEGER (0..255) This IE indicates the modification period,
as an absolute value, from when the MCCH update should be applied.\ Note: The
duration of the modification period is configured in eNB and MCE:
* * *
#### 9.2.1.20 MBSFN Synchronisation Area Id
This IE defines the MBSFN Synchronisation Area Identity as specified in TS
36.300 [3].
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MBSFN
Synchronisation Area Id M **INTEGER (0..65535)** The MBSFN Synchronisation
Area is defined in TS 36.300 [3]
* * *
#### 9.2.1.21 Counting Result
This IE defines the number of connected mode UEs that are receiving or
interested in a MBMS service.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Counting Result M INTEGER(0..1023) This IE indicates the number of connected
mode UEs that are receiving or interested in a MBMS service. The value 1023 is
used if the UE number is equal to or more than 1023.
* * *
### 9.2.2 Transport Network Layer Related IEs
#### 9.2.2.1 IP Address
This information element is an IP address.
+---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IP Address | M | | OCTET STRING | The Radio | | | | | (4..16) | Network Layer | | | | | | is not | | | | | | supposed to | | | | | | interpret the | | | | | | address | | | | | | information. | | | | | | It should pass | | | | | | it to the | | | | | | transport | | | | | | layer for | | | | | | i | | | | | | nterpretation. | | | | | | | | | | | | For details on | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | Address, see | | | | | | ref. TS 36.445 | | | | | | [13]. | +---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#### 9.2.2.2 GTP-TEID
This information element is the GTP Tunnel Endpoint Identifier to be used for
the user plane transport between eNB and the MBMS-GW.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description GTP
TEID M OCTET STRING (4) For details and range, see TS 29.281 [14]
* * *
### 9.2.3 NAS Related IEs
#### 9.2.3.1 MCE MBMS M2AP ID
The MCE MBMS M2AP ID uniquely identifies the MBMS Service association over the
M2 interface within the MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MCE
MBMS M2AP ID M INTEGER (0 .. 2^24^ -1)
* * *
#### 9.2.3.2 eNB MBMS M2AP ID
The eNB MBMS M2AP ID uniquely identifies the MBMS Service association over the
M2 interface within the eNB.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description eNB
MBMS M2AP ID M INTEGER (0 .. 65535)
* * *
#### 9.2.3.3 TMGI
The TMGI uniquely identifies the MBMS Bearer Service.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **TMGI** | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >PLMN | M | | 9.2.3.7 | | | > identity | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Service ID | M | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | (SIZE (3)) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#### 9.2.3.4 MBMS Session Identity
The MBMS Session Identity identifies the session of an MBMS Bearer Service in
E-UTRAN and is used by the UE to recognise repetitions of the session.
This IE is transparent to RAN.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MBMS
Session Identity M OCTET STRING (SIZE (1)) Coded same way as the MBMS Session
Identity IE as defined in TS 29.061 [9].
* * *
#### 9.2.3.5 Void
#### 9.2.3.6 MBMS Service Area
The MBMS Service Area IE consists of a list of one or several MBMS Service
Area Identities where each MBMS Service Area Identity is frequency agnostic
and can be mapped onto one or more cells.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MBMS
Service Area M OCTET STRING Value part coded per MBMS Service Area AVP as
defined in TS 29.061 [9].
* * *
#### 9.2.3.7 PLMN Identity
This information element indicates the PLMN Identity.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
PLMN _identity_ M OCTET STRING (SIZE (3)) - digits 0 to 9, encoded 0000 to
1001,\ \- 1111 used as filler digit,\ two digits per octet,\ \- bits 4 to 1 of
octet n encoding digit 2n-1\ \- bits 8 to 5 of octet n encoding digit 2n\ \
-The Selected PLMN identity consists of 3 digits from MCC followed by either\
-a filler digit plus 2 digits from MNC (in case of 2 digit MNC) or\ -3 digits
from MNC (in case of a 3 digit MNC).
* * *
## 9.3 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax (with ASN.1)
### 9.3.1 General
M2AP ASN.1 definition conforms with ITU-T Rec. X.691 [5] and ITU-T Rec. X.680
[6].
Sub clause 9.3 presents the Abstract Syntax of the M2AP protocol with ASN.1.
In case there is contradiction between the ASN.1 definition in this sub clause
and the tabular format in sub clause 9.1 and 9.2, the ASN.1 shall take
precedence, except for the definition of conditions for the presence of
conditional elements, in which the tabular format shall take precedence.
The ASN.1 definition specifies the structure and content of M2AP messages.
M2AP messages can contain any IEs specified in the object set definitions for
that message without the order or number of occurrence being restricted by
ASN.1. However, for this version of the standard, a sending entity shall
construct an M2AP message according to the PDU definitions module and with the
following additional rules (Note that in the following IE means an IE in the
object set with an explicit id. If one IE needed to appear more than once in
one object set, then the different occurrences have different IE ids):
\- IEs shall be ordered (in an IE container) in the order they appear in
object set definitions.
\- Object set definitions specify how many times IEs may appear. An IE shall
appear exactly once if the presence field in an object has value
\"mandatory\". An IE may appear at most once if the presence field in an
object has value \"optional\" or \"conditional\". If in a tabular format there
is multiplicity specified for an IE (i.e. an IE list) then in the
corresponding ASN.1 definition the list definition is separated into two
parts. The first part defines an IE container list in which the list elements
reside. The second part defines list elements. The IE container list appears
as an IE of its own. For this version of the standard an IE container list may
contain only one kind of list elements.
If an M2AP message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this
shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled
as defined for Abstract Syntax Error in clause 10.
### 9.3.2 Usage of Private Message Mechanism for Non-standard Use
The private message mechanism for non-standard use may be used:
\- for special operator (and/or vendor) specific features considered not to be
part of the basic functionality, i.e. the functionality required for a
complete and high-quality specification in order to guarantee multivendor
inter-operability.
\- by vendors for research purposes, e.g. to implement and evaluate new
algorithms/features before such features are proposed for standardisation.
The private message mechanism shall not be used for basic functionality. Such
functionality shall be standardised.
### 9.3.3 Elementary Procedure Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedure definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-PDU-Descriptions {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m2ap (4) version1 (1) m2ap-PDU-Descriptions (0) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
ProcedureCode
FROM M2AP-CommonDataTypes
SessionStartRequest,
SessionStartResponse,
SessionStartFailure,
SessionStopRequest,
SessionStopResponse,
SessionUpdateRequest,
SessionUpdateResponse,
SessionUpdateFailure,
MbmsSchedulingInformation,
MbmsSchedulingInformationResponse,
ErrorIndication,
Reset,
ResetAcknowledge,
M2SetupRequest,
M2SetupResponse,
M2SetupFailure,
ENBConfigurationUpdate,
ENBConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge,
ENBConfigurationUpdateFailure,
MCEConfigurationUpdate,
MCEConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge,
MCEConfigurationUpdateFailure,
MbmsServiceCountingRequest,
MbmsServiceCountingResponse,
MbmsServiceCountingFailure,
MbmsServiceCountingResultsReport,
PrivateMessage
FROM M2AP-PDU-Contents
id-sessionStart,
id-sessionStop,
id-sessionUpdate,
id-mbmsServiceCounting,
id-mbmsServiceCountingResultsReport,
id-mbmsSchedulingInformation,
id-errorIndication,
id-reset,
id-m2Setup,
id-eNBConfigurationUpdate,
id-mCEConfigurationUpdate,
id-privateMessage
FROM M2AP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure Class
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= CLASS {
&InitiatingMessage ,
&SuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&UnsuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&procedureCode ProcedureCode UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore
}
WITH SYNTAX {
INITIATING MESSAGE &InitiatingMessage
[SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &SuccessfulOutcome]
[UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &UnsuccessfulOutcome]
PROCEDURE CODE &procedureCode
[CRITICALITY &criticality]
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface PDU Definition
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-PDU ::= CHOICE {
initiatingMessage InitiatingMessage,
successfulOutcome SuccessfulOutcome,
unsuccessfulOutcome UnsuccessfulOutcome,
...
}
InitiatingMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({M2AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({M2AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&InitiatingMessage ({M2AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
SuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({M2AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({M2AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&SuccessfulOutcome ({M2AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
UnsuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({M2AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({M2AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&UnsuccessfulOutcome ({M2AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure List
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 \|
M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 ,
...
}
M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
sessionStart \|
sessionStop \|
sessionUpdate \|
mbmsSchedulingInformation \|
reset \|
m2Setup \|
eNBConfigurationUpdate \|
mCEConfigurationUpdate \|
mbmsServiceCounting \|
mbmsServiceCountingResultsReport ,
...
}
M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
errorIndication \|
privateMessage ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedures
\--
\-- **************************************************************
sessionStart M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE SessionStartRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME SessionStartResponse
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME SessionStartFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-sessionStart
CRITICALITY reject
}
sessionStop M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE SessionStopRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME SessionStopResponse
PROCEDURE CODE id-sessionStop
CRITICALITY reject
}
sessionUpdate M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE SessionUpdateRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME SessionUpdateResponse
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME SessionUpdateFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-sessionUpdate
CRITICALITY reject
}
mbmsSchedulingInformation M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE MbmsSchedulingInformation
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MbmsSchedulingInformationResponse
PROCEDURE CODE id-mbmsSchedulingInformation
CRITICALITY reject
}
errorIndication M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE ErrorIndication
PROCEDURE CODE id-errorIndication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
reset M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Reset
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME ResetAcknowledge
PROCEDURE CODE id-reset
CRITICALITY reject
}
m2Setup M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE M2SetupRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME M2SetupResponse
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME M2SetupFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-m2Setup
CRITICALITY reject
}
eNBConfigurationUpdate M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE ENBConfigurationUpdate
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME ENBConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME ENBConfigurationUpdateFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-eNBConfigurationUpdate
CRITICALITY reject
}
mCEConfigurationUpdate M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE MCEConfigurationUpdate
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MCEConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MCEConfigurationUpdateFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-mCEConfigurationUpdate
CRITICALITY reject
}
mbmsServiceCounting M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE MbmsServiceCountingRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MbmsServiceCountingResponse
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MbmsServiceCountingFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-mbmsServiceCounting
CRITICALITY reject
}
mbmsServiceCountingResultsReport M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE MbmsServiceCountingResultsReport
PROCEDURE CODE id-mbmsServiceCountingResultsReport
CRITICALITY reject
}
privateMessage M2AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE PrivateMessage
PROCEDURE CODE id-privateMessage
CRITICALITY ignore
}
END
### 9.3.4 PDU Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PDU definitions for M2AP.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-PDU-Contents {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m2ap (4) version1 (1) m2ap-PDU-Contents (1) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Cause,
CriticalityDiagnostics,
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-Item,
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-ConfigUpdate-Item,
ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID,
ENBname,
GlobalENB-ID,
GlobalMCE-ID,
MBSFN-Area-ID,
MBMS-Service-Area,
MBMS-Session-ID,
MBMSsessionListPerPMCH-Item,
MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItem,
MBSFN-Subframe-Configuration,
MCCH-Update-Time,
MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea-Item,
MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID,
MCEname,
PMCH-Configuration,
Common-Subframe-Allocation-Period,
TimeToWait,
TMGI,
TNL-Information
FROM M2AP-IEs
PrivateIE-Container{},
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
ProtocolIE-Container{},
ProtocolIE-ContainerList{},
ProtocolIE-ContainerPair{},
ProtocolIE-ContainerPairList{},
ProtocolIE-Single-Container{},
M2AP-PRIVATE-IES,
M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION,
M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES,
M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR
FROM M2AP-Containers
id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID,
id-ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID,
id-TMGI,
id-MBMS-Session-ID,
id-MBMS-Service-Area,
id-TNL-Information,
id-CriticalityDiagnostics,
id-Cause,
id-MBSFN-Area-Configuration-List,
id-MBSFN-Subframe-Configuration-Item,
id-MBSFN-Subframe-Configuration-List,
id-MCCH-Update-Time,
id-PMCH-Configuration-List,
id-PMCH-Configuration-Item,
id-Common-Subframe-Allocation-Period,
id-GlobalENB-ID,
id-ENBname,
id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-List,
id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-Item,
id-GlobalMCE-ID,
id-MCEname,
id-MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea,
id-MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea-Item,
id-TimeToWait,
id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-List-ConfigUpdate,
id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-ConfigUpdate-Item,
id-MBSFN-Area-ID,
id-ResetType,
id-_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItem,_
id-MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionListResAck,
id-MBMS-Counting-Request-Session,
id-MBMS-Counting-Request-Session-Item,
id-MBMS-Counting-Result-List,
id-MBMS-Counting-Result-Item,
maxnoofMBSFN-Allocations,
maxnoofMBSFNareas,
maxnoofPMCHsperMBSFNarea,
maxnoofCells,
maxnoofMBMSServiceAreasPerCell,
maxnoofSessionsPerPMCH,
maxnooferrors,
maxNrOfIndividualM2ConnectionsToReset,
maxnoofCountingService
FROM M2AP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- SESSION START REQUEST
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SessionStartRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{SessionStartRequest-IEs}},
...
}
SessionStartRequest-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-TMGI CRITICALITY reject TYPE TMGI PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-MBMS-Session-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MBMS-Session-ID PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-MBMS-Service-Area CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-Service-Area PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-TNL-Information CRITICALITY reject TYPE TNL-Information PRESENCE
mandatory } ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- SESSION START RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SessionStartResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ SessionStartResponse-IEs}},
...
}
SessionStartResponse-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- SESSION START FAILURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SessionStartFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ SessionStartFailure-IEs}},
...
}
SessionStartFailure-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- SESSION STOP REQUEST
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SessionStopRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{SessionStopRequest-IEs}},
...
}
SessionStopRequest-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- SESSION STOP RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SessionStopResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ SessionStopResponse-IEs}},
...
}
SessionStopResponse-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional } ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- SESSION UPDATE REQUEST
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SessionUpdateRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{SessionUpdateRequest-IEs}},
...
}
SessionUpdateRequest-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-TMGI CRITICALITY reject TYPE TMGI PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-MBMS-Session-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MBMS-Session-ID PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-MBMS-Service-Area CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MBMS-Service-Area PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-TNL-Information CRITICALITY reject TYPE TNL-Information PRESENCE
optional } ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- SESSION UPDATE RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SessionUpdateResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ SessionUpdateResponse-IEs}},
...
}
SessionUpdateResponse-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- SESSION UPDATE FAILURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SessionUpdateFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ SessionUpdateFailure-IEs}},
...
}
SessionUpdateFailure-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SCHEDULING INFORMATION
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MbmsSchedulingInformation ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MbmsSchedulingInformation-IEs}},
...
}
MbmsSchedulingInformation-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCCH-Update-Time CRITICALITY reject TYPE MCCH-Update-Time PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-MBSFN-Area-Configuration-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBSFN-Area-
Configuration-List PRESENCE mandatory } ,
...
}
MBSFN-Area-Configuration-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofMBSFNareas)) OF
ProtocolIE-Container { { MBSFN-Area-Configuration-Item } }
MBSFN-Area-Configuration-Item M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-PMCH-Configuration-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE PMCH-Configuration-
List PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-MBSFN-Subframe-Configuration-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBSFN-
Subframe-ConfigurationList PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Common-Subframe-Allocation-Period CRITICALITY reject TYPE Common-
Subframe-Allocation-Period PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-MBSFN-Area-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBSFN-Area-ID PRESENCE mandatory
},
...
}
PMCH-Configuration-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(0.. maxnoofPMCHsperMBSFNarea)) OF
ProtocolIE-Single-Container { { PMCH-Configuration-ItemIEs } }
PMCH-Configuration-ItemIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-PMCH-Configuration-Item CRITICALITY reject TYPE PMCH-Configuration-
Item PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
PMCH-Configuration-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
pmch-Configuration PMCH-Configuration,
mbms-Session-List MBMSsessionListPerPMCH-Item,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { PMCH-Configuration-ItemExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
PMCH-Configuration-ItemExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
MBSFN-Subframe-ConfigurationList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofMBSFN-
Allocations)) OF ProtocolIE-Single-Container { { MBSFN-Subframe-
ConfigurationItem } }
MBSFN-Subframe-ConfigurationItem M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MBSFN-Subframe-Configuration-Item CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBSFN-
Subframe-Configuration PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SCHEDULING INFORMATION RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MbmsSchedulingInformationResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MbmsSchedulingInformationResponse-IEs}},
...
}
MbmsSchedulingInformationResponse-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- M2 SETUP REQUEST
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2SetupRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{M2SetupRequest-IEs}},
...
}
M2SetupRequest-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-GlobalENB-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE GlobalENB-ID PRESENCE mandatory }
\|
{ ID id-ENBname CRITICALITY ignore TYPE ENBname PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE ENB-MBMS-
Configuration-data-List PRESENCE mandatory} ,
...
}
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofCells)) OF
ProtocolIE-Single-Container { { ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-ItemIEs } }
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-ItemIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-Item CRITICALITY reject TYPE ENB-MBMS-
Configuration-data-Item PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- M2 SETUP RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2SetupResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ M2SetupResponse-IEs}},
...
}
M2SetupResponse-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-GlobalMCE-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE GlobalMCE-ID PRESENCE mandatory }
\|
{ ID id-MCEname CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCEname PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea CRITICALITY reject TYPE
MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional } ,
...
}
MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofMBSFNareas))
OF ProtocolIE-Single-Container { { MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea-ItemIEs
} }
MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea-ItemIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea-Item CRITICALITY reject TYPE
MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea-Item PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- M2 SETUP FAILURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2SetupFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ M2SetupFailure-IEs}},
...
}
M2SetupFailure-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory} \|
{ ID id-TimeToWait CRITICALITY ignore TYPE TimeToWait PRESENCE optional} \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ENBConfigurationUpdate ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ENBConfigurationUpdate-IEs}},
...
}
ENBConfigurationUpdate-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-GlobalENB-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE GlobalENB-ID PRESENCE optional }
\|
{ ID id-ENBname CRITICALITY ignore TYPE ENBname PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-List-ConfigUpdate CRITICALITY reject TYPE
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-List-ConfigUpdate PRESENCE optional } ,
...
}
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-List-ConfigUpdate ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..
maxnoofCells)) OF ProtocolIE-Single-Container { { ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-
ConfigUpdate-ItemIEs } }
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-ConfigUpdate-ItemIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-ConfigUpdate-Item CRITICALITY reject TYPE
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-ConfigUpdate-Item PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ENBConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ ENBConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge-IEs}},
...
}
ENBConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea CRITICALITY reject TYPE
MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ENBConfigurationUpdateFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ ENBConfigurationUpdateFailure-IEs}},
...
}
ENBConfigurationUpdateFailure-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory} \|
{ ID id-TimeToWait CRITICALITY ignore TYPE TimeToWait PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MCEConfigurationUpdate ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{MCEConfigurationUpdate-IEs}},
...
}
MCEConfigurationUpdate-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-GlobalMCE-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE GlobalMCE-ID PRESENCE optional }
\|
{ ID id-MCEname CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCEname PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea CRITICALITY reject TYPE
MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea PRESENCE optional } ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MCEConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MCEConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge-IEs}},
...
}
MCEConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MCEConfigurationUpdateFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MCEConfigurationUpdateFailure-IEs}},
...
}
MCEConfigurationUpdateFailure-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory} \|
{ ID id-TimeToWait CRITICALITY ignore TYPE TimeToWait PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- ERROR INDICATION
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ErrorIndication ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ErrorIndication-IEs}},
...
}
ErrorIndication-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional } ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- RESET
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Reset ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Reset-IEs}},
...
}
Reset-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory }\|
{ ID id-_ResetType_ CRITICALITY reject TYPE _ResetType_ PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
ResetType ::= CHOICE {
m2-Interface ResetAll,
partOfM2-Interface _MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionListRes_ ,
...
}
ResetAll ::= ENUMERATED {
reset-all,
...
}
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionListRes_ ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..
maxNrOfIndividualM2ConnectionsToReset)) OF ProtocolIE-Single-Container { {
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItemRes_ } }
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItemRes_ M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItem_ CRITICALITY reject
TYPE _MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItem_ PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- RESET ACKNOWLEDGE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ResetAcknowledge ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ResetAcknowledge-IEs}},
...
}
ResetAcknowledge-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionListResAck CRITICALITY
ignore TYPE MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionListResAck PRESENCE
optional }\|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionListResAck_ ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..
maxNrOfIndividualM2ConnectionsToReset)) OF ProtocolIE-Si _ngle-Cont_ ainer { {
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItemResAck_ } }
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItemResAck_ M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::=
{
{ ID id-_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItem_ CRITICALITY ignore
TYPE _MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItem_ PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PRIVATE MESSAGE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
PrivateMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
privateIEs PrivateIE-Container {{PrivateMessage-IEs}},
...
}
PrivateMessage-IEs M2AP-PRIVATE-IES ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SERVICE COUNTING REQUEST
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MbmsServiceCountingRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{MbmsServiceCountingRequest-IEs}},
...
}
MbmsServiceCountingRequest-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MCCH-Update-Time CRITICALITY reject TYPE MCCH-Update-Time PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-MBSFN-Area-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBSFN-Area-ID PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-MBMS-Counting-Request-Session CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-Counting-
Request-Session PRESENCE mandatory } ,
...
}
MBMS-Counting-Request-Session ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofCountingService))
OF ProtocolIE-Container { { MBMS-Counting-Request-Session-Item } }
MBMS-Counting-Request-Session-Item M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MBMS-Counting-Request-Session-Item CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-
Counting-Request-SessionIE PRESENCE mandatory } ,
...
}
MBMS-Counting-Request-SessionIE ::= SEQUENCE{
tmgi TMGI,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { MBMS-Counting-Request-SessionIE-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
MBMS-Counting-Request-SessionIE-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SERVICE COUNTING RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MbmsServiceCountingResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{MbmsServiceCountingResponse-IEs}},
...
}
MbmsServiceCountingResponse-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SERVICE COUNTING FAILURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MbmsServiceCountingFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MbmsServiceCountingFailure-IEs}},
...
}
MbmsServiceCountingFailure-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory} \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SERVICE COUNTING RESULTS REPORT
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MbmsServiceCountingResultsReport ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MbmsServiceCountingResultsReport-IEs}},
...
}
MbmsServiceCountingResultsReport-IEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MBSFN-Area-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBSFN-Area-ID PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-MBMS-Counting-Result-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-Counting-
Result-List PRESENCE mandatory } ,
...
}
MBMS-Counting-Result-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofCountingService)) OF
ProtocolIE-Container { { MBMS-Counting-Result-Item } }
MBMS-Counting-Result-Item M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MBMS-Counting-Result-Item CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-Counting-Result
PRESENCE mandatory } ,
...
}
MBMS-Counting-Result ::= SEQUENCE{
tmgi TMGI,
countingResult CountingResult,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { MBMS-Counting-Result-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
MBMS-Counting-Result-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CountingResult ::= INTEGER (0..1023)
END
### 9.3.5 Information Element definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Information Element Definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-IEs {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m2ap (4) version1 (1) m2ap-IEs (2) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
maxnoofMBSFNareas,
maxnoofPMCHsperMBSFNarea,
maxnoofCells,
maxnoofMBMSServiceAreasPerCell,
maxnoofSessionsPerPMCH,
maxnooferrors
FROM M2AP-Constants
Criticality,
ProcedureCode,
ProtocolIE-ID,
TriggeringMessage
FROM M2AP-CommonDataTypes
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
ProtocolIE-Single-Container{},
M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION,
M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES
FROM M2AP-Containers;
\-- A
AllocatedSubframesEnd ::= INTEGER (0..1535)
\-- B
\-- C
Cause ::= CHOICE {
radioNetwork CauseRadioNetwork,
transport CauseTransport,
nAS CauseNAS,
protocol CauseProtocol,
misc CauseMisc,
...
}
CauseMisc ::= ENUMERATED {
control-processing-overload,
hardware-failure,
om-intervention,
unspecified,
...
}
CauseNAS ::= ENUMERATED {
unspecified,
...
}
CauseProtocol ::= ENUMERATED {
transfer-syntax-error,
abstract-syntax-error-reject,
abstract-syntax-error-ignore-and-notify,
message-not-compatible-with-receiver-state,
semantic-error,
abstract-syntax-error-falsely-constructed-message,
unspecified,
...
}
CauseRadioNetwork ::= ENUMERATED {
unknown-or-already-allocated-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID,
unknown-or-already-allocated-eNB-MBMS-M2AP-ID,
unknown-or-inconsistent-pair-of-MBMS-M2AP-IDs,
radio-resources-not-available,
interaction-with-other-procedure,
unspecified,
...
}
CauseTransport ::= ENUMERATED {
transport-resource-unavailable,
unspecified,
...
}
Cell-Information ::= SEQUENCE {
eCGI ECGI,
cellReservationInfo ENUMERATED {reservedCell, nonReservedCell, ...},
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { Cell-Information-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
Cell-Information-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
Cell-Information-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCells)) OF Cell-Information
CriticalityDiagnostics ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode ProcedureCode OPTIONAL,
triggeringMessage TriggeringMessage OPTIONAL,
procedureCriticality Criticality OPTIONAL,
iEsCriticalityDiagnostics CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnooferrors)) OF
SEQUENCE {
iECriticality Criticality,
iE-ID ProtocolIE-ID,
typeOfError TypeOfError,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- D
\-- E
ECGI ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMN-Identity PLMN-Identity,
eUTRANcellIdentifier EUTRANCellIdentifier,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {ECGI-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
ECGI-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
ENB-ID ::= CHOICE {
macro-eNB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE (20)),
...
}
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
eCGI ECGI,
mbsfnSynchronisationArea MBSFN-SynchronisationArea-ID,
mbmsServiceAreaList MBMS-Service-Area-ID-List,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-Item-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-Item-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-ConfigUpdate-Item ::= CHOICE {
mBMSConfigData ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-Item,
eCGI ECGI,
...
}
ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
ENBname ::= PrintableString (SIZE (1..150,...))
EUTRANCellIdentifier ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (28))
\-- F
\-- G
GlobalENB-ID ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMN-Identity PLMN-Identity,
eNB-ID ENB-ID,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {GlobalENB-ID-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
GlobalENB-ID-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
GlobalMCE-ID ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMN-Identity PLMN-Identity,
mCE-ID MCE-ID,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {GlobalMCE-ID-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
GlobalMCE-ID-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
GTP-TEID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))
\-- H
\-- I
IPAddress ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4..16))
\-- J
\-- K
\-- L
LCID ::= INTEGER (0..28)
\-- M
MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItem ::= SEQUENCE {
eNB-MBMS-M2AP-ID ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID OPTIONAL,
mCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { MBMS-Service-
associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItemExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItemExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION
::= {
...
}
MBMS-Service-Area ::= OCTET STRING
MBMS-Service-Area-ID-List ::= SEQUENCE
(SIZE(1..maxnoofMBMSServiceAreasPerCell)) OF MBMS-Service-Area
MBMS-Session-ID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
MBMSsessionListPerPMCH-Item ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofSessionsPerPMCH)) OF
SEQUENCE {
tmgi TMGI,
lcid LCID,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { MBMSsessionListPerPMCH-Item-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
MBMSsessionListPerPMCH-Item-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
MBSFN-Area-ID ::= INTEGER (0..255)
MBSFN-SynchronisationArea-ID ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
MBSFN-Subframe-Configuration ::= SEQUENCE {
radioframeAllocationPeriod ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32},
radioframeAllocationOffset INTEGER (0..7),
subframeAllocation CHOICE {
oneFrame BIT STRING (SIZE (6) ),
fourFrames BIT STRING (SIZE (24) ) },
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { MBSFN-Subframe-Configuration-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
MBSFN-Subframe-Configuration-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
MCCH-Update-Time ::= INTEGER (0..255)
MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
mbsfnArea MBSFN-Area-ID,
pdcchLength ENUMERATED {s1, s2, ...},
repetitionPeriod ENUMERATED {rf32, rf64, rf128, rf256},
offset INTEGER (0..10),
modificationPeriod ENUMERATED {rf512, rf1024},
subframeAllocationInfo BIT STRING (SIZE(6)),
modulationAndCodingScheme ENUMERATED {n2, n7, n13, n19},
cellInformationList Cell-Information-List OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { MCCHrelatedBCCH-
ConfigPerMBSFNArea-Item-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea-Item-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
MCE-ID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))
MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID ::= INTEGER (0.. 16777215)
MCEname ::= PrintableString (SIZE (1..150,...))
MCH-Scheduling-Period ::= ENUMERATED {rf8, rf16, rf32, rf64, rf128, rf256,
rf512, rf1024}
\-- N
\-- O
\-- P
PLMN-Identity ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))
PMCH-Configuration ::= SEQUENCE {
allocatedSubframesEnd AllocatedSubframesEnd,
dataMCS INTEGER (0..28),
mchSchedulingPeriod MCH-Scheduling-Period,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {PMCH-Configuration-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
PMCH-Configuration-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
Common-Subframe-Allocation-Period ::= ENUMERATED {rf4, rf8, rf16, rf32, rf64,
rf128, rf256}
PriorityLevel ::= INTEGER { spare (0), highest (1), lowest (14), no-priority
(15) } (0..15)
\-- Q
\-- R
\-- S
\-- T
TimeToWait ::= ENUMERATED {v1s, v2s, v5s, v10s, v20s, v60s, ...}
TMGI ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMNidentity PLMN-Identity,
serviceID OCTET STRING (SIZE (3)),
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {TMGI-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
TMGI-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
TNL-Information ::= SEQUENCE {
iPMCAddress IPAddress,
iPSourceAddress IPAddress,
gTP-TEID GTP-TEID,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {TNL-Information-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
TNL-Information-ExtIEs M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
TypeOfError ::= ENUMERATED {
not-understood,
missing,
...
}
\-- U
\-- V
\-- W
\-- X
\-- Y
\-- Z
END
### 9.3.6 Common definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-CommonDataTypes {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m2ap (4) version1 (1) m2ap-CommonDataTypes (3) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Extension constants
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxPrivateIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolExtensions INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common Data Types
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Criticality ::= ENUMERATED { reject, ignore, notify }
Presence ::= ENUMERATED { optional, conditional, mandatory }
PrivateIE-ID ::= CHOICE {
local INTEGER (0.. maxPrivateIEs),
global OBJECT IDENTIFIER
}
ProcedureCode ::= INTEGER (0..255)
ProtocolIE-ID ::= INTEGER (0..maxProtocolIEs)
TriggeringMessage ::= ENUMERATED { initiating-message, successful-outcome,
unsuccessful-outcome}
END
### 9.3.7 Constant definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Constant definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-Constants {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m2ap (4) version1 (1) m2ap-Constants (4) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
ProcedureCode,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM M2AP-CommonDataTypes;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedures
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-sessionStart ProcedureCode ::= 0
id-sessionStop ProcedureCode ::= 1
id-mbmsSchedulingInformation ProcedureCode ::= 2
id-errorIndication ProcedureCode ::= 3
id-reset ProcedureCode ::= 4
id-m2Setup ProcedureCode ::= 5
id-eNBConfigurationUpdate ProcedureCode ::= 6
id-mCEConfigurationUpdate ProcedureCode ::= 7
id-privateMessage ProcedureCode ::= 8
id-sessionUpdate ProcedureCode ::= 9
id-mbmsServiceCounting ProcedureCode ::= 10
id-mbmsServiceCountingResultsReport ProcedureCode ::= 11
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Lists
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxnoofMBSFNareas INTEGER ::= 256
maxnoofMBSFN-Allocations INTEGER ::= 8
maxnoofPMCHsperMBSFNarea INTEGER ::= 15
maxnoofCells INTEGER ::= 256
maxnoofMBMSServiceAreasPerCell INTEGER ::= 256
maxnoofSessionsPerPMCH INTEGER ::= 29
maxnooferrors INTEGER ::= 256
maxNrOfIndividualM2ConnectionsToReset INTEGER ::= 256
maxnoofCountingService INTEGER ::= 16
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-MCE-MBMS-M2AP-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 0
id-ENB-MBMS-M2AP-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 1
id-TMGI ProtocolIE-ID ::= 2
id-MBMS-Session-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 3
id-MBMS-Service-Area ProtocolIE-ID ::= 6
id-TNL-Information ProtocolIE-ID ::= 7
id-CriticalityDiagnostics ProtocolIE-ID ::= 8
id-Cause ProtocolIE-ID ::= 9
id-MBSFN-Area-Configuration-List ProtocolIE-ID ::= 10
id-PMCH-Configuration-List ProtocolIE-ID ::= 11
id-PMCH-Configuration-Item ProtocolIE-ID ::= 12
id-GlobalENB-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 13
id-ENBname ProtocolIE-ID ::= 14
id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-List ProtocolIE-ID ::= 15
id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-Item ProtocolIE-ID ::= 16
id-GlobalMCE-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 17
id-MCEname ProtocolIE-ID ::= 18
id-MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea ProtocolIE-ID ::= 19
id-MCCHrelatedBCCH-ConfigPerMBSFNArea-Item ProtocolIE-ID ::= 20
id-TimeToWait ProtocolIE-ID ::= 21
id-MBSFN-Subframe-Configuration-List ProtocolIE-ID ::= 22
id-MBSFN-Subframe-Configuration-Item ProtocolIE-ID ::= 23
id-Common-Subframe-Allocation-Period ProtocolIE-ID ::= 24
id-MCCH-Update-Time ProtocolIE-ID ::= 25
id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-List-ConfigUpdate ProtocolIE-ID ::= 26
id-ENB-MBMS-Configuration-data-ConfigUpdate-Item ProtocolIE-ID ::= 27
id-MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionItem ProtocolIE-ID ::= 28
id-MBSFN-Area-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 29
id-ResetType ProtocolIE-ID ::= 30
id-MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM2-ConnectionListResAck ProtocolIE-ID ::= 31
id-MBMS-Counting-Request-Session ProtocolIE-ID ::= 32
id-MBMS-Counting-Request-Session-Item ProtocolIE-ID ::= 33
id-MBMS-Counting-Result-List ProtocolIE-ID ::= 34
id-MBMS-Counting-Result-Item ProtocolIE-ID ::= 35
END
### 9.3.8 Container definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-Containers {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m2ap (4) version1 (1) m2ap-Containers (5) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
maxPrivateIEs,
maxProtocolExtensions,
maxProtocolIEs,
Criticality,
Presence,
PrivateIE-ID,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM M2AP-CommonDataTypes;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&firstCriticality Criticality,
&FirstValue,
&secondCriticality Criticality,
&SecondValue,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
FIRST CRITICALITY &firstCriticality
FIRST TYPE &FirstValue
SECOND CRITICALITY &secondCriticality
SECOND TYPE &SecondValue
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality,
&Extension,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
EXTENSION &Extension
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Private IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M2AP-PRIVATE-IES ::= CLASS {
&id PrivateIE-ID,
&criticality Criticality,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-Container {M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxProtocolIEs)) OF
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Single-Container {M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Field {M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol IE Pairs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-ContainerPair {M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxProtocolIEs)) OF
ProtocolIE-FieldPair {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-FieldPair {M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
firstCriticality M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&firstCriticality
({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
firstValue M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&FirstValue ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
secondCriticality M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&secondCriticality
({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
secondValue M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&SecondValue ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container Lists for Protocol IE Containers
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-ContainerList {INTEGER : lowerBound, INTEGER : upperBound, M2AP-
PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (lowerBound..upperBound)) OF
ProtocolIE-Container {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-ContainerPairList {INTEGER : lowerBound, INTEGER : upperBound,
M2AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (lowerBound..upperBound)) OF
ProtocolIE-ContainerPair {{IEsSetParam}}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolExtensionContainer {M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxProtocolExtensions)) OF
ProtocolExtensionField {{ExtensionSetParam}}
ProtocolExtensionField {M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE {
id M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&id ({ExtensionSetParam}),
criticality M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&criticality ({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id}),
extensionValue M2AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&Extension ({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Private IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
PrivateIE-Container {M2AP-PRIVATE-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPrivateIEs)) OF
PrivateIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
PrivateIE-Field {M2AP-PRIVATE-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id M2AP-PRIVATE-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality M2AP-PRIVATE-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value M2AP-PRIVATE-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
END
## 9.4 Message Transfer Syntax
M2AP shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned
Variant as transfer syntax as specified in ref. ITU-T Rec. X.691 [5].
## 9.5 Timers
# 10 Handling of Unknown, Unforeseen and Erroneous Protocol Data
Section 10 of TS 36.413 [4] is applicable for the purposes of the present
document.
#