# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the control plane radio network layer
signalling procedures between eNB and E-SMLC. LPPa supports the concerned
functions by signalling procedures defined in this document. LPPa is developed
in accordance with the general principles stated in TS 36.401 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.401: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Architecture Description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation X.691 (2002-07): \"Information technology - ASN.1
encoding rules - Specification of Packed Encoding Rules (PER) \".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Physical Channels and Modulation\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Elementary Procedure:** LPPa protocol consists of Elementary Procedures
(EPs). An LPPa Elementary Procedure is a unit of interaction between the eNB
and the E-SMLC. An EP consists of an initiating message and possibly a
response message. Two kinds of EPs are used:
**\- Class 1:** Elementary Procedures with response (success or failure),
**\- Class 2:** Elementary Procedures without response.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CID Cell-ID (positioning method)
DL Downlink
E-CID Enhanced Cell-ID (positioning method)
eNB E-UTRAN NodeB
EP Elementary Procedure
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-SMLC Evolved Serving Mobile Location Centre
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
IE Information Element
LCS LoCation Services
LPP LTE Positioning Protocol
LPPa LTE Positioning Protocol Annex
MME Mobility Management Entity
NW Network
OTDOA Observed Time Difference of Arrival
S1AP S1 Application Protocol
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 General
## 4.1 Procedure specification principles
The principle for specifying the procedure logic is to specify the functional
behaviour of the terminating eNB exactly and completely. Any rule that
specifies the behaviour of the originating eNB shall be possible to be
verified with information that is visible within the system.
The following specification principles have been applied for the procedure
text in clause 8:
\- The procedure text discriminates between:
1) Functionality which \"shall\" be executed
The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall\" perform a
certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports
procedure X but cannot perform functionality Y requested in the initiating
message of a Class 1 EP, the receiving node shall respond with the message
used to report unsuccessful outcome for this procedure, containing an
appropriate cause value.
2) Functionality which \"shall, if supported\" be executed
The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall, if supported,\"
perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node
supports procedure X, but does not support functionality Y, the receiving node
shall proceed with the execution of the EP, possibly informing the requesting
node about the not supported functionality.
\- Any required inclusion of an optional IE in a response message is
explicitly indicated in the procedure text. If the procedure text does not
explicitly indicate that an optional IE shall be included in a response
message, the optional IE shall not be included. For requirements on including
_Criticality Diagnostics_ IE, see section 10.
## 4.2 Forwards and backwards compatibility
The forwards and backwards compatibility of the protocol is assured by a
mechanism where all current and future messages, and IEs or groups of related
IEs, include ID and criticality fields that are coded in a standard format
that will not be changed in the future. These parts can always be decoded
regardless of the standard version.
## 4.3 Specification notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
Procedure When referring to an elementary procedure in the specification the
Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case
characters followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. Handover Preparation
procedure.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. ERROR INDICATION message.
IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification the
_Information Element Name_ is written with the first letters in each word in
upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the
abbreviation \"IE\", e.g. _Cause_ IE.
Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in
the specification the \"Value\" is written as it is specified in sub clause
9.2 enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. \"Value\".
# 5 LPPa services
The present clause describes the services an eNB offers to the E-SMLC.
## 5.1 LPPa procedure modules
The procedures are divided into two modules as follows:
1\. LPPa Location Information Transfer Procedures;
2\. LPPa Management Procedures;
The LPPa Location Information Transfer Procedures module contains procedures
used to handle the transfer of positioning related information between eNB and
E-SMLC.
The Management Procedures module contains procedures that are not related
specifically to positioning, i.e. error handling.
## 5.2 Parallel transactions
Unless explicitly indicated in the procedure specification, at any instance in
time one protocol peer may have more than one ongoing LPPa procedure.
# 6 Services expected from lower layer
Within E-UTRAN, LPPa protocol uses the services provided by the S1AP protocol.
An LPPa message is carried inside an S1AP message.
S1AP signalling is described in TS 36.413 [3].
# 7 Functions of LPPa
The LPPa protocol provides the following functions:
\- E-CID Location Information Transfer. This function allows the eNB to
exchange location information with the E-SMLC for the purpose of E-CID
positioning.
\- OTDOA Information Transfer. This function allows the eNB to exchange
information with the E-SMLC for the purpose of OTDOA positioning.
\- Reporting of General Error Situations. This function allows reporting of
general error situations, for which function specific error messages have not
been defined.
The mapping between the above functions and LPPa EPs is shown in the table
below.
Table 7-1: Mapping between LPPa functions and LPPa EPs
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Function | Elementary Procedure(s) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | E-CID Location Information | a) E-CID Measurement Initiation | | Transfer | | | | b) E-CID Measurement Failure | | | Indication | | | | | | c) E-CID Measurement Report | | | | | | d) E-CID Measurement | | | Termination | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | OTDOA Information Transfer | OTDOA Information Exchange | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Reporting of General Error | Error Indication | | Situations | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 8 LPPa procedures
## 8.1 Elementary procedures
In the following tables, all EPs are divided into Class 1 and Class 2 EPs.
Table 8.1-1: Class 1 Elementary Procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Initiating Message Successful Outcome Unsuccessful
Outcome Response message Response message E-CID Measurement Initiation E-CID
MEASUREMENT INITIATION REQUEST E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION RESPONSE E-CID
MEASUREMENT INITIATION FAILURE OTDOA Information Exchange OTDOA INFORMATION
REQUEST OTDOA INFORMATION RESPONSE OTDOA INFORMATION FAILURE
* * *
Table 8.1-2: Class 2 Elementary Procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Initiating Message E-CID Measurement Failure Indication
E-CID MEASUREMENT FAILURE INDICATION E-CID Measurement Report E-CID
MEASUREMENT REPORT E-CID Measurement Termination E-CID MEASUREMENT TERMINATION
COMMAND Error Indication ERROR INDICATION
* * *
## 8.2 Location Information Transfer Procedures
### 8.2.1 E-CID Measurement Initiation
#### 8.2.1.1 General
The purpose of E-CID Measurement Initiation procedure is to allow the E-SMLC
to request the eNB to report E-CID measurements used by E-SMLC to compute the
location of the UE.
#### 8.2.1.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.2.1.2-1: E-CID Measurement Initiation procedure, successful operation
The E-SMLC initiates the procedure by sending an E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION
REQUEST message. If the eNB is able to initiate the requested E-CID
measurements, it shall reply with the E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION RESPONSE
message.
The _Measured Results_ IE shall be included in the _E-CID Measurement Result_
IE of the E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION RESPONSE message when measurement
results other than the \"Cell-ID\" have been requested.
If the _Report Characteristics_ IE is set to \"OnDemand\", the eNB shall
return the result of the measurement in the E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION
RESPONSE message including, if available, the _E-UTRAN Access Point Position_
IE in the _E-CID Measurement Result_ IE, and the E-SMLC shall consider that
the E-CID measurements for the UE has been terminated by the eNB.
If the _Report Characteristics_ IE is set to \"Periodic\", the eNB shall
initiate the requested measurements and shall reply with the E-CID MEASUREMENT
INITIATION RESPONSE message without including the _E-CID Measurement Result_
IE in this message. The eNB shall then periodically initiate the E-CID
Measurement Report procedure for the measurements, with the requested
reporting periodicity.
#### 8.2.1.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.2.1.3-1: E-CID Measurement Initiation procedure, unsuccessful
operation
If the eNB is not able to initiate at least one of the requested E-CID
measurements, the eNB shall respond with an E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION
FAILURE message.
#### 8.2.1.4 Abnormal Conditions
Void
### 8.2.2 E-CID Measurement Failure Indication
#### 8.2.2.1 General
The purpose of the E-CID Measurement Failure Indication procedure is for the
eNB to notify the E-SMLC that the E-CID measurements previously requested with
the E-CID Measurement Initiation procedure can no longer be reported.
#### 8.2.2.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.2.2.2-1: E-CID Measurement Failure Indication, successful operation
Upon reception of the E-CID MEASUREMENT FAILURE INDICATION message, the E-SMLC
shall consider that the E-CID measurements for the UE have been terminated by
the eNB.
#### 8.2.2.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Not applicable.
#### 8.2.2.4 Abnormal Conditions
Void.
### 8.2.3 E-CID Measurement Report
#### 8.2.3.1 General
The purpose of E-CID Measurement Report procedure is for the eNB to provide
the E-CID measurements for the UE to the E-SMLC.
#### 8.2.3.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.2.3.2-1: E-CID Measurement Report procedure, successful operation
The eNB initiates the procedure by sending an E-CID MEASUREMENT REPORT
message. The E-CID MEASUREMENT REPORT message contains the E-CID measurement
results according to the measurement configuration in the respective E-CID
MEASUREMENT INITIATION REQUEST message.
The _Measured Results_ IE shall be included in the _E-CID Measurement Result_
IE of the E-CID MEASUREMENT REPORT message when measurement results other than
the \"Cell-ID\" have been requested.
If available, the eNB shall include the _E-UTRAN Access Point Position_ IE
which is the configured estimated serving antenna position in the _E-CID
Measurement Result_ IE within the E-CID MEASUREMENT REPORT message. Upon
reception of this _E-UTRAN Access Point Position_ IE, the E-SMLC may use the
value as the geographical position of the E-UTRAN access point.
#### 8.2.3.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Not applicable.
#### 8.2.3.4 Abnormal Conditions
Void.
### 8.2.4 E-CID Measurement Termination
#### 8.2.4.1 General
The purpose of E-CID Measurement Termination procedure is to terminate
periodical E-CID measurements for the UE performed by the eNB.
#### 8.2.4.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.2.4.2-1: E-CID Measurement Termination procedure, successful
operation
The E-SMLC initiates the procedure by generating an E-CID MEASUREMENT
TERMINATION COMMAND message.
#### 8.2.4.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Not applicable.
#### 8.2.4.4 Abnormal Conditions
Void.
### 8.2.5 OTDOA Information Exchange
#### 8.2.5.1 General
The purpose of the OTDOA Information Exchange procedure is to allow the E-SMLC
to request the eNB to transfer OTDOA information to the E-SMLC.
#### 8.2.5.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.2.5.2-1: OTDOA Information Exchange procedure, successful operation
The E-SMLC initiates the procedure by sending an OTDOA INFORMATION REQUEST
message. The eNB responds with OTDOA INFORMATION RESPONSE message that
contains OTDOA information related to the relevant cells.
#### 8.2.5.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.2.5.3-1: OTDOA Information Exchange procedure, unsuccessful operation
If the eNB does not have any OTDOA information to report, the eNB shall
respond with an OTDOA INFORMATION FAILURE message.
#### 8.2.5.4 Abnormal Conditions
Void.
### 8.3 Management Procedures
#### 8.3.1 Error Indication
#### 8.3.1.1 General
The Error Indication procedure is initiated by a node to report detected
errors in one incoming message, provided they cannot be reported by an
appropriate failure message.
#### 8.3.1.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.3.1.2-1: Error Indication procedure, E-SMLC originated, successful
operation
Figure 8.3.1.2-2: Error Indication procedure, eNB originated, successful
operation
When the conditions defined in clause 10 are fulfilled, the Error Indication
procedure is initiated by an ERROR INDICATION message sent from the receiving
node.
The ERROR INDICATION message shall contain at least either the _Cause_ IE or
the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE.
#### 8.3.1.3 Abnormal Conditions
Not applicable.
# 9 Elements for LPPa Communication
## 9.0 General
Sub clauses 9.1 and 9.2 describe the structure of the messages and information
elements required for the LPPa protocol in tabular format. Sub clause 9.3
provides the corresponding ASN.1 definition.
The following attributes are used for the tabular description of the messages
and information elements: Presence, Range Criticality and Assigned
Criticality. Their definition and use can be found in TS 36.413 [3].
## 9.1 Message Functional Definition and Content
### 9.1.1 Messages for Location Information Transfer Procedures
#### 9.1.1.1 E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION REQUEST
This message is sent by E-SMLC to initiate E-CID measurements.
Direction: E-SMLC → eNB.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.3 YES reject LPPa
Transaction ID M 9.2.4 -  
E-SMLC Measurement ID M INTEGER(1..15,...) YES reject Report Characteristics M
ENUMERATED(OnDemand, Periodic,...) YES reject Measurement Periodicity
C-ifReportCharacteristicsPeriodic ENUMERATED(120ms, 240ms, 480ms, 640ms,
1024ms, 2048ms, 5120ms, 10240ms, 1min, 6min, 12min, 30min, 60min,...) YES
reject **Measurement Quantities** _1 .. \ _ EACH reject
>Measurement Quantities Item M ENUMERATED (Cell-ID, Angle of Arrival, Timing
Advance Type 1, Timing Advance Type 2, RSRP, RSRQ,...) - -
* * *
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoMeas Maximum no. of measured quantities that can
be configured and reported with one message. Value is 63.
* * *
* * *
Condition Explanation ifReportCharacteristicsPeriodic This IE shall be present
if the _Report Characteristics_ IE is set to the value "Periodic".
* * *
#### 9.1.1.2 E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION RESPONSE
This message is sent by eNB to indicate that the requested E-CID measurement
is successfully initiated.
Direction: eNB → E-SMLC.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.3 YES reject LPPa
Transaction ID M 9.2.4 -  
E-SMLC UE Measurement ID M INTEGER(1..15,...) YES reject eNB UE Measurement ID
M INTEGER(1..15,...) YES reject E-CID Measurement Result O 9.2.5 YES ignore
Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.2 YES ignore
* * *
#### 9.1.1.3 E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION FAILURE
This message is sent by eNB to indicate that the requested E-CID measurement
cannot be initiated.
Direction: eNB → E-SMLC.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.3 YES reject LPPa
Transaction ID M 9.2.4 -  
E-SMLC UE Measurement ID M INTEGER(1..15,...) YES reject Cause M 9.2.1 YES
ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.2 YES ignore
* * *
#### 9.1.1.4 E-CID MEASUREMENT FAILURE INDICATION
This message is sent by eNB to indicate that the previously requested E-CID
measurement can no longer be reported.
Direction: eNB → E-SMLC.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.3 YES ignore LPPa
Transaction ID M 9.2.4 -  
E-SMLC UE Measurement ID M INTEGER(1..15,...) YES reject eNB UE Measurement ID
M INTEGER(1..15,...) YES reject Cause M 9.2.1 YES ignore
* * *
#### 9.1.1.5 E-CID MEASUREMENT REPORT
This message is sent by eNB to report the results of the requested E-CID
measurement.
Direction: eNB → E-SMLC.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.3 YES ignore LPPa
Transaction ID M 9.2.4 -  
E-SMLC UE Measurement ID M INTEGER(1..15,...) YES reject eNB UE Measurement ID
M INTEGER(1..15,...) YES reject E-CID Measurement Result M 9.2.5 YES ignore
* * *
#### 9.1.1.6 E-CID MEASUREMENT TERMINATION COMMAND
This message is sent by the E-SMLC to terminate the requested E-CID
measurement.
Direction: E-SMLC → eNB.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.3 YES ignore LPPa
Transaction ID M 9.2.4 -  
E-SMLC UE Measurement ID M INTEGER(1..15,...) YES reject eNB UE Measurement ID
M INTEGER(1..15,...) YES reject
* * *
#### 9.1.1.7 OTDOA INFORMATION REQUEST
This message is sent by E-SMLC to request OTDOA information.
Direction: E-SMLC → eNB.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.3 YES reject LPPa
Transaction ID M 9.2.4 -  
**OTDOA Information Type** _1 .. \ _ EACH reject >OTDOA
Information Item M ENUMERATED (pci, cellid, tac, earfcn, prsBandwidth,
prsConfigIndex, cpLength, noDlFrames, noAntennaPorts, sFNInitTime, ...,
e-UTRANAccessPointPosition, prsmutingconfiguration) - -
* * *
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoOTDOAtypes Maximum no. of OTDOA information types
that can be requested and reported with one message. Value is 63.
* * *
#### 9.1.1.8 OTDOA INFORMATION RESPONSE
This message is sent by eNB to provide OTDOA information.
Direction: eNB → E-SMLC.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.3 YES reject LPPa
Transaction ID M 9.2.4 -  
OTDOA Cells _1 .. \ _ Served cells that broadcast PRS GLOBAL
ignore >OTDOA Cell Information M 9.2.7 - - Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.2 YES
ignore
* * *
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxCellineNB Maximum no. cells that can be served by
an eNB. Value is 256.
* * *
#### 9.1.1.9 OTDOA INFORMATION FAILURE
This message is sent by eNB to indicate that the OTDOA information cannot be
provided.
Direction: eNB → E-SMLC.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.3 YES reject LPPa
Transaction ID M 9.2.4 -  
Cause M 9.2.1 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.2 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.2 Messages for Management Procedures
#### 9.1.2.1 ERROR INDICATION
This message is used to indicate that some error has been detected in the eNB
or in the E-SMLC.
Direction: E-SMLC → eNB and eNB → E-SMLC.
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | > Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.3 | | YES | ignore | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | LPPa | M | | 9.2.4 | | -- | | | Tran | | | | | | | | saction | | | | | | | | ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cause | O | | 9.2.1 | | YES | ignore | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Crit | O | | 9.2.2 | | YES | ignore | | icality | | | | | | | | Diag | | | | | | | | nostics | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 9.2 Information Element definitions
### 9.2.0 General
When specifying information elements which are to be represented by bit
strings, if not otherwise specifically stated in the semantics description of
the concerned IE or elsewhere, the following principle applies with regards to
the ordering of bits:
\- The first bit (leftmost bit) contains the most significant bit (MSB);
\- The last bit (rightmost bit) contains the least significant bit (LSB);
\- When importing bit strings from other specifications, the first bit of the
bit string contains the first bit of the concerned information.
### 9.2.1 Cause
The purpose of the cause information element is to indicate the reason for a
particular event for the whole protocol.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | CHOICE _Cause | M | | | | | Group_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Radio | | | | | | > Network | | | | | | > Layer_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>Radio | M | | ENUMERATED | | | Network Layer | | | | | | Cause | | | (Unspecified, | | | | | | Requested Item | | | | | | not Supported, | | | | | | Requested Item | | | | | | Temporarily | | | | | | not Available, | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | | | | | | ) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >Protocol | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>Protocol | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | Cause | | | (Transfer | | | | | | Syntax Error,\ | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Reject),\ | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Ignore and | | | | | | Notify),\ | | | | | | Message not | | | | | | Compatible | | | | | | with Receiver | | | | | | State, | | | | | | | | | | | | Semantic | | | | | | Error,\ | | | | | | Unspecified, | | | | | | | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Falsely | | | | | | Constructed | | | | | | Message),...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Misc_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >\ | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | >Miscellaneous | | | (Unspecified, | | | Cause | | | | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
The meaning of the different cause values is described in the following table.
In general, \"not supported\" cause values indicate that the concerned
capability is missing. On the other hand, \"not available\" cause values
indicate that the concerned capability is present, but insufficient resources
were available to perform the requested action.
* * *
Radio Network Layer cause Meaning Unspecified Sent when none of the above
cause values applies but still the cause is Radio Network Layer related
Requested Item not Supported The eNB does not support the requested
measurement object, or cannot provide the requested information item.
Requested Item Temporarily not Available The eNB can temporarily not provide
the requested measurement object or information item.
* * *
* * *
Protocol cause Meaning Abstract Syntax Error (Reject) The received message
included an abstract syntax error and the concerned criticality indicated
\"reject\" (see sub clause 10.3) Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore and Notify) The
received message included an abstract syntax error and the concerned
criticality indicated \"ignore and notify\" (see sub clause 10.3) Abstract
syntax error (falsely constructed message) The received message contained IEs
or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences (see sub clause 10.3)
Message not Compatible with Receiver State The received message was not
compatible with the receiver state (see sub clause 10.4) Semantic Error The
received message included a semantic error (see sub clause 10.4) Transfer
Syntax Error The received message included a transfer syntax error (see sub
clause 10.2) Unspecified Sent when none of the above cause values applies but
still the cause is Protocol related
* * *
* * *
Miscellaneous cause Meaning Unspecified Sent when none of the above cause
values applies and the cause is not related to any of the categories Radio
Network Layer, Transport Network Layer or Protocol.
* * *
### 9.2.2 Criticality Diagnostics
The _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE is sent by the eNB or E-SMLC when parts of a
received message have not been comprehended or were missing, or if the message
contained logical errors. When applicable, it contains information about which
IEs were not comprehended or were missing. The conditions for inclusion of the
_LPPa Transaction ID_ IE are described in clause 10.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Procedure | O | | INTEGER | Procedure | | Code | | | (0..255) | Code is to | | | | | | be used if | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Diagnostics | | | | | | is part of | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure, | | | | | | and not | | | | | | within the | | | | | | response | | | | | | message of | | | | | | the same | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | that caused | | | | | | the error | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Triggering | O | | ENUMERATED | The | | Message | | | (initiating | Triggering | | | | | message, | Message is | | | | | successful | used only | | | | | outcome, | if the | | | | | u | Criticality | | | | | nsuccessful | Diagnostics | | | | | outcome) | is part of | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Procedure | O | | ENUMERA | This | | Criticality | | | TED(reject, | Procedure | | | | | ignore, | Criticality | | | | | notify) | is used for | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Triggering | | | | | | message | | | | | | ( | | | | | | Procedure). | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LPPa | O | | 9.2.4 | | | Transaction | | | | | | ID | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | | *0 .. | | | | Information | | \* | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Di | | | | | | agnostics** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \>IE | M | | ENUMERA | The IE | | Criticality | | | TED(reject, | Criticality | | | | | ignore, | is used for | | | | | notify) | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | triggering | | | | | | IE. The | | | | | | value | | | | | | \ | | | | | | "ignore\'\" | | | | | | shall not | | | | | | be used. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \>IE ID | M | | INTEGER | The IE ID | | | | | (0..65535) | of the not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | or missing | | | | | | IE | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Type Of | M | | ENU | | | > Error | | | MERATED(not | | | | | | understood, | | | | | | missing, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxNrOfErrors Maximum no. of IE errors allowed to be
reported with a single message. The value for maxNroOfErrors is 256.
* * *
### 9.2.3 Message Type
The _Message Type_ IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is
mandatory for all messages.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Procedure Code | M | | INTEGER | \"0\" = Error | | | | | (0..255) | Indication | | | | | | | | | | | | \"1\" = | | | | | | Private | | | | | | Message | | | | | | | | | | | | \"2\" = E-CID | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | Initiation | | | | | | | | | | | | \"3\" = E-CID | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | | | | | | | \"4\" = E-CID | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | Report | | | | | | | | | | | | \"5\" = E-CID | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | Termination | | | | | | | | | | | | \"6\" = OTDOA | | | | | | Information | | | | | | Exchange | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **Type of | M | | CHOICE | | | Message** | | | (Initi | | | | | | ating Message, | | | | | | Succe | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | Unsucce | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 9.2.4 LPPa Transaction ID
The _LPPa_ _Transaction ID_ IE is used to associate all the messages belonging
to the same procedure. Messages belonging to the same procedure shall use the
same LPPa Transaction ID.
The LPPa Transaction ID is determined by the initiating peer of a procedure.
The LPPa Transaction ID shall uniquely identify a procedure among all ongoing
parallel procedures using the same procedure code, and initiated by the same
protocol peer.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Reference Semantics Description _LPPa
Transaction ID_ M INTEGER (0..32767)
* * *
### 9.2.5 E-CID Measurement Result
The purpose of the E-CID Measurement Result information element is to provide
the E-CID measurement result.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE Type and | Semantics | | Name | | | Reference | Description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Serving | M | | ECGI | **E-UTRAN | | Cell ID | | | | Cell | | | | | 9.2.6 | Identifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | | serving | | | | | | cell** | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Serving | M | | OCTET | **Tracking | | Cell TAC | | | STRING(2) | Area Code | | | | | | of the | | | | | | serving | | | | | | cell** | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRAN | O | | 9.2.8 | **The | | Access | | | | configured | | Point | | | | estimated | | Position | | | | g | | | | | | eographical | | | | | | position of | | | | | | the antenna | | | | | | of the | | | | | | cell.** | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Measured | |**_0 .. | | | | Results_ _| | \ *** | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \>CHOICE | M | | | | | *Measured | | | | | | Results | | | | | | Value* | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \>\>Value | M | | INTEGER | According | | Angle of | | | * | to mapping | | Arrival | | | *(0..719)** | in TS | | | | | | 36.133 | | | | | | \\[8\\] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \>\>Value | M | | INTEGER | According | | Timing | | | ** | to mapping | | Advance | | | (0..7690)** | in TS | | Type 1 | | | | 36.133 | | | | | | \\[8\\] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \>\>Value | M | | INTEGER | According | | Timing | | | ** | to mapping | | Advance | | | (0..7690)** | in TS | | Type 2 | | | | 36.133 | | | | | | \\[8\\] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \ | | ***1 .. | | | | >>__Result | | \ _ | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>>PCI | M | | **INTEGER |** Physical | | | | | (0..503, | Cell | | | | | ...)**| Identifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | | reported | | | | | | cell** | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \ | M | | INTEGER | Corresponds | | >>>EARFCN | | | (0..65535, | to NDL for | | | | | ...) | FDD and | | | | | | NDL/UL for | | | | | | TDD in ref. | | | | | | TS 36.104 | | | | | | [5] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>>ECGI | O | | ECGI | **E-UTRAN | | | | | | Cell Global | | | | | 9.2.6 | Identifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | | reported | | | | | | cell** | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>>Value | M | | INT | | | RSRP | | | EGER(0..97, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \ | | **_1 . | | | | >>_*Result | | \* | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>>PCI | M | | **INTEGER | **Physical | | | | | (0..503, | Cell | | | | | ...)** | Identifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | | reported | | | | | | cell**| +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \ | M | | INTEGER | Corresponds | | >>>EARFCN | | | (0..65535, | to NDL for | | | | | ...) | FDD and | | | | | | NDL/UL for | | | | | | TDD in ref. | | | | | | TS 36.104 | | | | | | [5] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>>ECGI | O | | ECGI | **E-UTRAN | | | | | | Cell Global | | | | | 9.2.6 | Identifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | | reported | | | | | | cell** | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>>Value | M | | INT | | | RSRQ | | | EGER(0..34, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoMeas Maximum no. of measured quantities that can
be configured and reported with one message. Value is 63. maxCellReport
Maximum no. of cells that can be reported with one message. Value is 9.
* * *
### 9.2.6 ECGI
The E-UTRAN Cell Global Identifier (ECGI) is used to globally identify a cell.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | PLMN identity | M | | OCTET STRING | PLMN identity | | | | | (SIZE (3)) | | | | | | | - digits 0 to | | | | | | 9, encoded | | | | | | 0000 to 1001, | | | | | | | | | | | | - 1111 used | | | | | | as filler | | | | | | digit, | | | | | | | | | | | | two digits per | | | | | | octet, | | | | | | | | | | | | - bits 4 to 1 | | | | | | of octet n | | | | | | encoding digit | | | | | | 2n-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | - bits 8 to 5 | | | | | | of octet n | | | | | | encoding digit | | | | | | 2n | | | | | | | | | | | | -The Selected | | | | | | PLMN identity | | | | | | consists of 3 | | | | | | digits from | | | | | | MCC followed | | | | | | by either\ | | | | | | -a filler | | | | | | digit plus 2 | | | | | | digits from | | | | | | MNC (in case | | | | | | of 2 digit | | | | | | MNC) or\ | | | | | | -3 digits from | | | | | | MNC (in case | | | | | | of a 3 digit | | | | | | MNC). | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | E-UTRAN Cell | M | | BIT STRING | | | Identifier | | | (28) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 9.2.7 OTDOA Cell Information
This IE contains OTDOA information of a cell.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **OTDOA | |_1 .. | | | | Cell | | \ _ | | | | formation** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >CHOICE | M | | | | | _OTDOA Cell | | | | | | Information | | | | | | Item_ | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>PCI | M | | INTEGER | Physical | | | | | (0..503, | Cell ID | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>Cell ID | M | | ECGI | | | | | | | | | | | | 9.2.6 | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>TAC | M | | OCTET | Tracking | | | | | STRING(2) | Area Code | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>EARFCN | M | | INTEGER | Corresponds | | | | | (0..65535, | to N~DL~ | | | | | ...) | for FDD and | | | | | | N~DL/UL~ | | | | | | for TDD in | | | | | | ref. TS | | | | | | 36.104 | | | | | | [5] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>PRS | M | | ENUMERATED | T | | Bandwidth | | | (bw6, bw15, | ransmission | | | | | bw25, bw50, | bandwidth | | | | | bw75, | of PRS | | | | | bw100, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>PRS | M | | INTEGER | PRS | | Co | | | (0..4095, | Co | | nfiguration | | | ...) | nfiguration | | Index | | | | Index, ref | | | | | | TS 36.211 | | | | | | [6] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>CP | M | | ENUMERATED | Cyclic | | Length | | | (Normal, | prefix | | | | | Ext | length of | | | | | ended,...) | the PRS | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>Number | M | | ENUMERATED | _Number of | | of DL | | | (sf1, sf2, | consecutive | | Frames | | | sf4, | downlink | | | | | sf6,...) | subframes | | | | | | N~PRS~ with | | | | | | PRS, ref_ | | | | | | TS 36.211 | | | | | | [6] | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>Number | M | | ENUMERATE | Number of | | of Antenna | | | D(n1-or-n2, | used | | Ports | | | n4,...) | antenna | | | | | | ports, | | | | | | where | | | | | | n1-or-n2 | | | | | | corresponds | | | | | | to 1 or 2 | | | | | | ports, n4 | | | | | | corresponds | | | | | | to 4 ports | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>SFN | M | | BIT STRING | Time in | | Ini | | | (64) | seconds | | tialisation | | | | relative to | | Time | | | | 00:00:00 on | | | | | | 1 January | | | | | | 1900 | | | | | | (calculated | | | | | | as | | | | | | continuous | | | | | | time | | | | | | without | | | | | | leap | | | | | | seconds and | | | | | | traceable | | | | | | to a common | | | | | | time | | | | | | reference) | | | | | | where | | | | | | binary | | | | | | encoding of | | | | | | the integer | | | | | | part is in | | | | | | the first | | | | | | 32 bits and | | | | | | binary | | | | | | encoding of | | | | | | the | | | | | | fraction | | | | | | part in the | | | | | | last 32 | | | | | | bits. The | | | | | | fraction | | | | | | part is | | | | | | expressed | | | | | | with a | | | | | | granularity | | | | | | of 1 | | | | | | /2**32 | | | | | | second. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>E-UTRAN | M | | 9.2.8 | The | | Access | | | | * | | Point | | | | _configured | | Position | | | | estimated_ _| | | | | | g | | | | | | eographical | | | | | | position of | | | | | |__the | | | | | | antenna of | | | | | | the cell_ *. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>PRS | M | | 9.2.9 | The | | Muting | | | | co | | Co | | | | nfiguration | | nfiguration | | | | of | | | | | | positioning | | | | | | reference | | | | | | signals | | | | | | muting | | | | | | pattern, | | | | | | when | | | | | | applicable | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoOTDOAtypes Maximum no. of OTDOA information types
that can be requested and reported with one message. Value is 63.
* * *
### 9.2.8 E-UTRAN Access Point Position
E-UTRAN Access Point Position IE is used to identify the geographical position
of an E-UTRAN Access Point. It is expressed as ellipsoid point with altitude
and uncertainty ellipsoid according to TS 23.032 [7].
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Latitude Sign | M | | ENUMERATED | | | | | | (North, South) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Degrees Of | M | | INTEGER ( | The IE value | | Latitude | | | | (N) is derived | | | | | 0..2^23^-1) | by this | | | | | | formula: | | | | | | | | | | | | N≤2^23^ X /90 | | | | | | \ Two_ M BIT STRING (2) **If a bit is set to** \"0\", it indicates that the
PRS is muted in the corresponding PRS positioning occasion (numbering from any
sub frame for which SFN=0) in a periodic cycle of length equal to the length
of the bit string _> Four_ M BIT STRING (4) **Same as above** _> Eight_ M BIT
STRING (8) **Same as above** _> Sixteen_ M BIT STRING (16) **Same as above**
* * *
## 9.3 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax (with ASN.1)
### 9.3.1 General
Sub clause 9.3 presents the Abstract Syntax of the LPPa protocol with ASN.1.
In case there is contradiction between the ASN.1 definition in this sub clause
and the tabular format in sub clause 9.1 and 9.2, the ASN.1 shall take
precedence, except for the definition of conditions for the presence of
conditional elements, in which the tabular format shall take precedence.
The ASN.1 definition specifies the structure and content of LPPa messages.
LPPa messages can contain any IEs specified in the object set definitions for
that message without the order or number of occurrence being restricted by
ASN.1. However, for this version of the standard, a sending entity shall
construct a LPPa message according to the PDU definitions module and with the
following additional rules (Note that in the following IE means an IE in the
object set with an explicit id. If one IE needed to appear more than once in
one object set, then the different occurrences have different IE ids):
\- IEs shall be ordered (in an IE container) in the order they appear in
object set definitions.
\- Object set definitions specify how many times IEs may appear. An IE shall
appear exactly once if the presence field in an object has value
\"mandatory\". An IE may appear at most once if the presence field in an
object has value \"optional\" or \"conditional\". If in a tabular format there
is multiplicity specified for an IE (i.e. an IE list) then in the
corresponding ASN.1 definition the list definition is separated into two
parts. The first part defines an IE container list in which the list elements
reside. The second part defines list elements. The IE container list appears
as an IE of its own. For this version of the standard an IE container list may
contain only one kind of list elements.
If a LPPa message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this
shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled
as defined for Abstract Syntax Error in clause 10.
### 9.3.2 Usage of Private Message Mechanism for Non-standard Use
The private message mechanism for non-standard use may be used:
\- for special operator (and/or vendor) specific features considered not to be
part of the basic functionality, i.e. the functionality required for a
complete and high-quality specification in order to guarantee multivendor
inter-operability.
\- by vendors for research purposes, e.g. to implement and evaluate new
algorithms/features before such features are proposed for standardisation.
The private message mechanism shall not be used for basic functionality. Such
functionality shall be standardised.
### 9.3.3 Elementary Procedure Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedure definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-PDU-Descriptions {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) lppa (6) version1 (1) lppa-PDU-Descriptions (0) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
ProcedureCode,
LPPATransactionID
FROM LPPA-CommonDataTypes
ErrorIndication,
PrivateMessage,
E-CIDMeasurementInitiationRequest,
E-CIDMeasurementInitiationResponse,
E-CIDMeasurementInitiationFailure,
E-CIDMeasurementFailureIndication,
E-CIDMeasurementReport,
E-CIDMeasurementTerminationCommand,
OTDOAInformationRequest,
OTDOAInformationResponse,
OTDOAInformationFailure
FROM LPPA-PDU-Contents
id-errorIndication,
id-privateMessage,
id-e-CIDMeasurementInitiation,
id-e-CIDMeasurementFailureIndication,
id-e-CIDMeasurementReport,
id-e-CIDMeasurementTermination,
id-oTDOAInformationExchange
FROM LPPA-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure Class
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= CLASS {
&InitiatingMessage ,
&SuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&UnsuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&procedureCode ProcedureCode UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore
}
WITH SYNTAX {
INITIATING MESSAGE &InitiatingMessage
[SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &SuccessfulOutcome]
[UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &UnsuccessfulOutcome]
PROCEDURE CODE &procedureCode
[CRITICALITY &criticality]
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface PDU Definition
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-PDU ::= CHOICE {
initiatingMessage InitiatingMessage,
successfulOutcome SuccessfulOutcome,
unsuccessfulOutcome UnsuccessfulOutcome,
...
}
InitiatingMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({LPPA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({LPPA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
lppatransactionID LPPATransactionID,
value LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&InitiatingMessage ({LPPA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
SuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({LPPA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({LPPA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
lppatransactionID LPPATransactionID,
value LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&SuccessfulOutcome ({LPPA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
UnsuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({LPPA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({LPPA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
lppatransactionID LPPATransactionID,
value LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&UnsuccessfulOutcome ({LPPA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure List
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 \|
LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 ,
...
}
LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
e-CIDMeasurementInitiation \|
oTDOAInformationExchange ,
...
}
LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
e-CIDMeasurementFailureIndication \|
e-CIDMeasurementReport \|
e-CIDMeasurementTermination \|
errorIndication \|
privateMessage ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedures
\--
\-- **************************************************************
e-CIDMeasurementInitiation LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE E-CIDMeasurementInitiationRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME E-CIDMeasurementInitiationResponse
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME E-CIDMeasurementInitiationFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-e-CIDMeasurementInitiation
CRITICALITY reject
}
e-CIDMeasurementFailureIndication LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE E-CIDMeasurementFailureIndication
PROCEDURE CODE id-e-CIDMeasurementFailureIndication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
e-CIDMeasurementReport LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE E-CIDMeasurementReport
PROCEDURE CODE id-e-CIDMeasurementReport
CRITICALITY ignore
}
e-CIDMeasurementTermination LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE E-CIDMeasurementTerminationCommand
PROCEDURE CODE id-e-CIDMeasurementTermination
CRITICALITY reject
}
oTDOAInformationExchange LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE OTDOAInformationRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME OTDOAInformationResponse
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME OTDOAInformationFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-oTDOAInformationExchange
CRITICALITY reject
}
errorIndication LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE ErrorIndication
PROCEDURE CODE id-errorIndication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
privateMessage LPPA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE PrivateMessage
PROCEDURE CODE id-privateMessage
CRITICALITY ignore
}
END
### 9.3.4 PDU Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PDU definitions for LPPa.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-PDU-Contents {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) lppa (6) version1 (1) lppa-PDU-Contents (1) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Cause,
CriticalityDiagnostics,
E-CID-MeasurementResult,
OTDOACells,
OTDOA-Information-Item,
Measurement-ID,
MeasurementPeriodicity,
MeasurementQuantities,
ReportCharacteristics
FROM LPPA-IEs
PrivateIE-Container{},
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
ProtocolIE-Container{},
ProtocolIE-ContainerList{},
ProtocolIE-ContainerPair{},
ProtocolIE-ContainerPairList{},
ProtocolIE-Single-Container{},
LPPA-PRIVATE-IES,
LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION,
LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES,
LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR
FROM LPPA-Containers
maxnoOTDOAtypes,
id-Cause,
id-CriticalityDiagnostics,
id-E-SMLC-UE-Measurement-ID,
id-OTDOACells,
id-OTDOA-Information-Type-Group,
id-OTDOA-Information-Type-Item,
id-ReportCharacteristics,
id-MeasurementPeriodicity,
id-MeasurementQuantities,
id-eNB-UE-Measurement-ID,
id-E-CID-MeasurementResult
FROM LPPA-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION REQUEST
\--
\-- **************************************************************
E-CIDMeasurementInitiationRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{E-CIDMeasurementInitiationRequest-IEs}},
...
}
E-CIDMeasurementInitiationRequest-IEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-E-SMLC-UE-Measurement-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Measurement-ID
PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-ReportCharacteristics CRITICALITY reject TYPE ReportCharacteristics
PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MeasurementPeriodicity CRITICALITY reject TYPE MeasurementPeriodicity
PRESENCE conditional}\|
\-- The IE shall be present if the _Report Characteritics_ IE is set to
"periodic" --
{ ID id-MeasurementQuantities CRITICALITY reject TYPE MeasurementQuantities
PRESENCE mandatory},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
E-CIDMeasurementInitiationResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{E-CIDMeasurementInitiationResponse-IEs}},
...
}
E-CIDMeasurementInitiationResponse-IEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-E-SMLC-UE-Measurement-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Measurement-ID
PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-eNB-UE-Measurement-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Measurement-ID PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-E-CID-MeasurementResult CRITICALITY ignore TYPE E-CID-
MeasurementResult PRESENCE optional}\|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION FAILURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
E-CIDMeasurementInitiationFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{E-CIDMeasurementInitiationFailure-IEs}},
...
}
E-CIDMeasurementInitiationFailure-IEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-E-SMLC-UE-Measurement-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Measurement-ID
PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- E-CID MEASUREMENT FAILURE INDICATION
\--
\-- **************************************************************
E-CIDMeasurementFailureIndication ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{E-CIDMeasurementFailureIndication-IEs}},
...
}
E-CIDMeasurementFailureIndication-IEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-E-SMLC-UE-Measurement-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Measurement-ID
PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-eNB-UE-Measurement-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Measurement-ID PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- E-CID MEASUREMENT REPORT
\--
\-- **************************************************************
E-CIDMeasurementReport ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{E-CIDMeasurementReport-IEs}},
...
}
E-CIDMeasurementReport-IEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-E-SMLC-UE-Measurement-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Measurement-ID
PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-eNB-UE-Measurement-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Measurement-ID PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-E-CID-MeasurementResult CRITICALITY ignore TYPE E-CID-
MeasurementResult PRESENCE mandatory},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- E-CID MEASUREMENT TERMINATION
\--
\-- **************************************************************
E-CIDMeasurementTerminationCommand ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{E-CIDMeasurementTerminationCommand-IEs}},
...
}
E-CIDMeasurementTerminationCommand-IEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-E-SMLC-UE-Measurement-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Measurement-ID
PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-eNB-UE-Measurement-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Measurement-ID PRESENCE
mandatory},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- OTDOA INFORMATION REQUEST
\--
\-- **************************************************************
OTDOAInformationRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{OTDOAInformationRequest-IEs}},
...
}
OTDOAInformationRequest-IEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-OTDOA-Information-Type-Group CRITICALITY reject TYPE OTDOA-
Information-Type PRESENCE mandatory},
...
}
OTDOA-Information-Type ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoOTDOAtypes)) OF ProtocolIE-
Single-Container { { OTDOA-Information-TypeIEs} }
OTDOA-Information-TypeIEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-OTDOA-Information-Type-Item CRITICALITY reject TYPE OTDOA-Information-
Type-Item PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
OTDOA-Information-Type-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
oTDOA-Information-Type-Item OTDOA-Information-Item,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { OTDOA-Information-Type-
ItemExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
OTDOA-Information-Type-ItemExtIEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- OTDOA INFORMATION RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
OTDOAInformationResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{OTDOAInformationResponse-IEs}},
...
}
OTDOAInformationResponse-IEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-OTDOACells CRITICALITY ignore TYPE OTDOACells PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- OTDOA INFORMATION FAILURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
OTDOAInformationFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{OTDOAInformationFailure-IEs}},
...
}
OTDOAInformationFailure-IEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- ERROR INDICATION
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ErrorIndication ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ErrorIndication-IEs}},
...
}
ErrorIndication-IEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE optional} \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional} ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PRIVATE MESSAGE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
PrivateMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
privateIEs PrivateIE-Container {{PrivateMessage-IEs}},
...
}
PrivateMessage-IEs LPPA-PRIVATE-IES ::= {
...
}
END
### 9.3.5 Information Element definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Information Element Definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-IEs {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) lppa (6) version1 (1) lppa-IEs (2) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
id-MeasurementQuantities-Item,
maxCellineNB,
maxCellReport,
maxNrOfErrors,
maxNoMeas,
maxnoOTDOAtypes
FROM LPPA-Constants
Criticality,
LPPATransactionID,
ProcedureCode,
ProtocolIE-ID,
TriggeringMessage
FROM LPPA-CommonDataTypes
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
ProtocolIE-Single-Container{},
LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION,
LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES
FROM LPPA-Containers;
\-- A
\-- B
\-- C
Cause ::= CHOICE {
radioNetwork CauseRadioNetwork,
protocol CauseProtocol,
misc CauseMisc,
...
}
CauseMisc ::= ENUMERATED {
unspecified,
...
}
CauseProtocol ::= ENUMERATED {
transfer-syntax-error,
abstract-syntax-error-reject,
abstract-syntax-error-ignore-and-notify,
message-not-compatible-with-receiver-state,
semantic-error,
unspecified,
abstract-syntax-error-falsely-constructed-message,
...
}
CauseRadioNetwork ::= ENUMERATED {
unspecified,
requested-item-not-supported,
requested-item-temporarily-not-available,
...
}
CPLength ::= ENUMERATED {
normal,
extended,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode ProcedureCode OPTIONAL,
triggeringMessage TriggeringMessage OPTIONAL,
procedureCriticality Criticality OPTIONAL,
lppatransactionID LPPATransactionID OPTIONAL,
iEsCriticalityDiagnostics CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfErrors)) OF
SEQUENCE {
iECriticality Criticality,
iE-ID ProtocolIE-ID,
typeOfError TypeOfError,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List-ExtIEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- D
\-- E
E-CID-MeasurementResult ::= SEQUENCE {
servingCell-ID ECGI,
servingCellTAC TAC,
e-UTRANAccessPointPosition E-UTRANAccessPointPosition OPTIONAL,
measuredResults MeasuredResults OPTIONAL,
...
}
ECGI ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMN-Identity PLMN-Identity,
eUTRANcellIdentifier EUTRANCellIdentifier,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {ECGI-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
ECGI-ExtIEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
EUTRANCellIdentifier ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (28))
EARFCN ::= INTEGER (0..65535, ...)
E-UTRANAccessPointPosition ::= SEQUENCE {
latitudeSign ENUMERATED {north, south},
latitude INTEGER (0..8388607),
longitude INTEGER (-8388608..8388607),
directionOfAltitude ENUMERATED {height, depth},
altitude INTEGER (0..32767),
uncertaintySemi-major INTEGER (0..127),
uncertaintySemi-minor INTEGER (0..127),
orientationOfMajorAxis INTEGER (0..179),
uncertaintyAltitude INTEGER (0..127),
confidence INTEGER (0..100),
...
}
\-- F
\-- G
\-- H
\-- I
\-- J
\-- K
\-- L
\-- M
Measurement-ID ::= INTEGER (1..15, ...)
MeasurementPeriodicity ::= ENUMERATED {
ms120,
ms240,
ms480,
ms640,
ms1024,
ms2048,
ms5120,
ms10240,
min1,
min6,
min12,
min30,
min60,
...
}
MeasurementQuantities ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNoMeas)) OF ProtocolIE-
Single-Container { {MeasurementQuantities-ItemIEs} }
MeasurementQuantities-ItemIEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MeasurementQuantities-Item CRITICALITY reject TYPE
MeasurementQuantities-Item PRESENCE mandatory }
}
MeasurementQuantities-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
measurementQuantitiesValue MeasurementQuantitiesValue,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { MeasurementQuantitiesValue-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
MeasurementQuantitiesValue-ExtIEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
MeasurementQuantitiesValue ::= ENUMERATED {
cell-ID,
angleOfArrival,
timingAdvanceType1,
timingAdvanceType2,
rSRP,
rSRQ,
...
}
MeasuredResults ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNoMeas)) OF MeasuredResultsValue
MeasuredResultsValue ::= CHOICE {
valueAngleOfArrival INTEGER (0..719),
valueTimingAdvanceType1 INTEGER (0..7690),
valueTimingAdvanceType2 INTEGER (0..7690),
resultRSRP ResultRSRP,
resultRSRQ ResultRSRQ,
...
}
\-- N
NumberOfAntennaPorts ::= ENUMERATED {
n1-or-n2,
n4,
...
}
NumberOfDlFrames ::= ENUMERATED {
sf1,
sf2,
sf4,
sf6,
...
}
\-- O
OTDOACells ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxCellineNB)) OF SEQUENCE {
oTDOACellInfo OTDOACell-Information,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {OTDOACells-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
OTDOACells-ExtIEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
OTDOACell-Information ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoOTDOAtypes)) OF OTDOACell-
Information-Item
OTDOACell-Information-Item ::= CHOICE {
pCI PCI,
cellId ECGI,
tAC TAC,
eARFCN EARFCN,
pRS-Bandwidth PRS-Bandwidth,
pRS-ConfigurationIndex PRS-Configuration-Index,
cPLength CPLength,
numberOfDlFrames NumberOfDlFrames,
numberOfAntennaPorts NumberOfAntennaPorts,
sFNInitialisationTime SFNInitialisationTime,
e-UTRANAccessPointPosition E-UTRANAccessPointPosition,
...,
pRSMutingConfiguration PRSMutingConfiguration
}
OTDOA-Information-Item ::= ENUMERATED {
pci,
cellid,
tac,
earfcn,
prsBandwidth,
prsConfigIndex,
cpLength,
noDlFrames,
noAntennaPorts,
sFNInitTime,
...,
e-UTRANAccessPointPosition,
prsmutingconfiguration
}
\-- P
PCI ::= INTEGER (0..503, ...)
PLMN-Identity ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))
PRS-Bandwidth ::= ENUMERATED {
bw6,
bw15,
bw25,
bw50,
bw75,
bw100,
...
}
PRS-Configuration-Index ::= INTEGER (0..4095, ...)
PRSMutingConfiguration ::= CHOICE {
two BIT STRING (SIZE (2)),
four BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
eight BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
sixteen BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
...
}
\-- Q
\-- R
ReportCharacteristics ::= ENUMERATED {
onDemand,
periodic,
...
}
ResultRSRP ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxCellReport)) OF ResultRSRP-Item
ResultRSRP-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
pCI PCI,
eARFCN EARFCN,
eCGI ECGI OPTIONAL,
valueRSRP ValueRSRP,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { ResultRSRP-Item-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
ResultRSRP-Item-ExtIEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
ResultRSRQ ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxCellReport)) OF ResultRSRQ-Item
ResultRSRQ-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
pCI PCI,
eARFCN EARFCN,
eCGI ECGI OPTIONAL,
valueRSRQ ValueRSRQ,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { ResultRSRQ-Item-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
ResultRSRQ-Item-ExtIEs LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- S
SFNInitialisationTime ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
\-- T
TAC ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))
TypeOfError ::= ENUMERATED {
not-understood,
missing,
...
}
\-- U
\-- V
ValueRSRP ::= INTEGER (0..97, ...)
ValueRSRQ ::= INTEGER (0..34, ...)
\-- W
\-- X
\-- Y
\-- Z
END
### 9.3.6 Common definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-CommonDataTypes {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) lppa (6) version1 (1) lppa-CommonDataTypes (3) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Extension constants
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxPrivateIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolExtensions INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common Data Types
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Criticality ::= ENUMERATED { reject, ignore, notify }
LPPATransactionID ::= INTEGER (0..32767)
Presence ::= ENUMERATED { optional, conditional, mandatory }
PrivateIE-ID ::= CHOICE {
local INTEGER (0.. maxPrivateIEs),
global OBJECT IDENTIFIER
}
ProcedureCode ::= INTEGER (0..255)
ProtocolIE-ID ::= INTEGER (0..maxProtocolIEs)
TriggeringMessage ::= ENUMERATED { initiating-message, successful-outcome,
unsuccessful-outcome}
END
### 9.3.7 Constant definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Constant definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-Constants {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) lppa (6) version1 (1) lppa-Constants (4) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
ProcedureCode,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM LPPA-CommonDataTypes;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedures
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-errorIndication ProcedureCode ::= 0
id-privateMessage ProcedureCode ::= 1
id-e-CIDMeasurementInitiation ProcedureCode ::= 2
id-e-CIDMeasurementFailureIndication ProcedureCode ::= 3
id-e-CIDMeasurementReport ProcedureCode ::= 4
id-e-CIDMeasurementTermination ProcedureCode ::= 5
id-oTDOAInformationExchange ProcedureCode ::= 6
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Lists
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxNrOfErrors INTEGER ::= 256
maxCellineNB INTEGER ::= 256
maxNoMeas INTEGER ::= 63
maxCellReport INTEGER ::= 9
maxnoOTDOAtypes INTEGER ::= 63
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-Cause ProtocolIE-ID ::= 0
id-CriticalityDiagnostics ProtocolIE-ID ::= 1
id-E-SMLC-UE-Measurement-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 2
id-ReportCharacteristics ProtocolIE-ID ::= 3
id-MeasurementPeriodicity ProtocolIE-ID ::= 4
id-MeasurementQuantities ProtocolIE-ID ::= 5
id-eNB-UE-Measurement-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 6
id-E-CID-MeasurementResult ProtocolIE-ID ::= 7
id-OTDOACells ProtocolIE-ID ::= 8
id-OTDOA-Information-Type-Group ProtocolIE-ID ::= 9
id-OTDOA-Information-Type-Item ProtocolIE-ID ::= 10
id-MeasurementQuantities-Item ProtocolIE-ID ::= 11
END
### 9.3.8 Container definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-Containers {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) lppa (6) version1 (1) lppa-Containers (5) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
maxPrivateIEs,
maxProtocolExtensions,
maxProtocolIEs,
Criticality,
Presence,
PrivateIE-ID,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM LPPA-CommonDataTypes;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&firstCriticality Criticality,
&FirstValue,
&secondCriticality Criticality,
&SecondValue,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
FIRST CRITICALITY &firstCriticality
FIRST TYPE &FirstValue
SECOND CRITICALITY &secondCriticality
SECOND TYPE &SecondValue
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality,
&Extension,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
EXTENSION &Extension
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Private IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
LPPA-PRIVATE-IES ::= CLASS {
&id PrivateIE-ID,
&criticality Criticality,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-Container { LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxProtocolIEs)) OF
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Single-Container { LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Field { LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol IE Pairs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-ContainerPair { LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxProtocolIEs)) OF
ProtocolIE-FieldPair {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-FieldPair { LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
firstCriticality LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&firstCriticality
({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
firstValue LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&FirstValue ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
secondCriticality LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&secondCriticality
({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
secondValue LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&SecondValue ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container Lists for Protocol IE Containers
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-ContainerList {INTEGER : lowerBound, INTEGER : upperBound, LPPA-
PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (lowerBound..upperBound)) OF
ProtocolIE-Container {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-ContainerPairList {INTEGER : lowerBound, INTEGER : upperBound,
LPPA-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (lowerBound..upperBound)) OF
ProtocolIE-ContainerPair {{IEsSetParam}}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolExtensionContainer { LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxProtocolExtensions)) OF
ProtocolExtensionField {{ExtensionSetParam}}
ProtocolExtensionField { LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE {
id LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&id ({ExtensionSetParam}),
criticality LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&criticality ({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id}),
extensionValue LPPA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&Extension ({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Private IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
PrivateIE-Container { LPPA-PRIVATE-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPrivateIEs)) OF
PrivateIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
PrivateIE-Field { LPPA-PRIVATE-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id LPPA-PRIVATE-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality LPPA-PRIVATE-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value LPPA-PRIVATE-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
END
## 9.4 Message transfer syntax
LPPa shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned
Variant as transfer syntax as specified in ref. ITU-T Rec. X.691 [4].
## 9.5 Timers
Void.
# 10 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data
Section 10 of TS 36.413 [3] is applicable for the purposes of the present
document, with the following additions:
  * In case of Abstract Syntax Error, when reporting the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for not comprehended IE/IEgroups or missing IE/IE groups, the _LPPa_ _Transaction ID_ IE shall also be included;
  * In case of Logical Error, when reporting the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE, the _LPPa_ _Transaction ID_ IE shall also be included.
#