# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
User Equipment (UE) Test Loop functionality is a mandatory feature to support
E-UTRA / EPC conformance testing. It forms part of the core requirements and
thus has a direct impact on the design of the UE.
The test methods applied in RF Conformance Test Specification TS 36.521-1 [27]
and the test models used in Protocol Conformance Test Specifications TS
36.523-1 [30] and TS 36.523-3 [32] define the corresponding UE Test Loop
functionality. The present specification describes the location of the data
loop in the protocol stack as well as the procedure and specific messages to
activate/deactivate the Test Loop functionality in the UE.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines for User Equipment (UE) in E-UTRA FDD or TDD mode
those special functions and their activation/deactivation methods that are
required in UE for conformance testing purposes.
This document also describes the operation of these special functions for UEs
supporting E-UTRA FDD or TDD mode, when operating in UTRA FDD and TDD mode, in
GSM/GPRS mode, and in CDMA2000 mode.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, Addressing and Identification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum functions related to Mobile Station
(MS) in idle mode\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution; GPRS enhancements
for E-UTRAN access\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols; Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TR 24.801: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution; CT WG1 Aspects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 27.007: \"AT command set for User Equipment (UE)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 31.101: \"UICC-Terminal Interface; Physical and Logical
Characteristics\".
[10] 3GPP TS 34.108: \"Common Test Environments for User Equipment (UE)
Conformance Testing\".
[11] 3GPP TS 34.109: \"Terminal logical test interface; Special conformance
testing functions\".
[12] 3GPP TS 34.123-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
1: Protocol conformance specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 34.123-2: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\".
[14] 3GPP TS 34.123-3: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
3: Abstract Test Suites (ATS)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Requirements for support of Radio Resource
Management\".
[16] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Physical Channels and Modulation\".
[17] 3GPP TS 36.212: \"Multiplexing and Channel Coding\".
[18] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.302: \"Services provided by the physical layer for E-UTRA\".
[20] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (EUTRA) User
Equipment (UE) Procedures in idle mode \".
[21] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (EUTRA) User
Equipment (UE) Radio Access capabilities \".
[22] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (EUTRA)
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[23] 3GPP TS 36.322: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (EUTRA)
Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol specification\".
[24] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (EUTRA)
Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) specification\".
[25] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (EUTRA)
Radio Resource Control (RRC) Protocol Specification\".
[26] 3GPP TS 36.508: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Packet Core (EPC); Common test environments for User Equipment (UE);
Conformance Testing\".
[27] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Conformance Testing\".
[28] 3GPP TS 36.521-2: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)\".
[29] 3GPP TS 36.521-3: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Radio Resource Management Conformance Testing\".
[30] 3GPP TS 36.523-1: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Protocol conformance specification\".
[31] 3GPP TS 36.523-2: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\".
[32] 3GPP TS 36.523-3: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Packet Core (EPC)); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 3: Abstract Test Suites (ATS)\".
[33] 3GPP TS 44.014: \"Individual equipment type requirements and
interworking; Special conformance testing functions\".
[34] 3GPP TS 51.010-1: \"Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification; Part
1: Conformance specification \".
[35] ISO/IEC 9646 (all parts): \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Conformance testing methodology and framework\".
[36] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
[37] 3GPP TS 36.355: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); LTE
Positioning Protocol (LPP)".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply, unless specified below:
**Uni-directional Data Radio Bearer** : Data radio bearer identified by a data
radio bearer identifier capable to deliver data only in downlink or uplink
**Bi-directional Data Radio Bearer** : Data radio bearer identified by a data
radio bearer identifier capable to deliver data in both downlink and uplink
**Logical Test Interface:** interface which provides the logical service to
interwork and to communicate between UE and System Simulator during the test
of a UE
**SS (System Simulator):** test system (or equipment) that drives the test
process with UE, like eNB (evolved Node B) simulator
**TC (Test Control):** UE protocol entity used by the SS to control the UE
specific testing functions
**UE (User Equipment):** user equipment as defined in [1] that is under test
**User:** test user, who handles the test and measurement process via the
logical test interface
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations specified in TR
21.905 [1] apply, with any additional abbreviations specified below:
DRB Data Radio Bearer
EMM EPS Mobility Management
E-MBMS Evolved Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
ENB Evolved Node B
EPS Bearer Evolved Packet System Bearer
ESM EPS Session Management
LB Loop Back
MAC Media Access Control
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MTC Main Test Component
RAB Radio Access Bearer
RMC Reference Measurement Channel
ROHC Robust Header Compression
SDF Service Data Flow
SS System Simulator
TC Test Control
# 4 UE special conformance test functions
## 4.1 General description
The SS performs activation and deactivation of the conformance test functions
in the UE by sending Security Protected NAS Layer 3 messages. Apart from
sending the appropriate deactivation command to the UE the functions shall be
deactivated by:
switching off the UE; or
by removing the USIM.
The following special UE conformance testing functions can be activated (and
deactivated):
\- UE test loop function;
\- Electrical Man Machine Interface (EMMI).
The following Test Control (TC) procedures are used to control the UE test
loop function:
\- Close UE test loop;
\- Open UE test loop.
No specific TC procedures are associated with EMMI.
# 5 Test Control (TC) protocol procedures and test loop operation
## 5.1 General description
The UE test loop function provides access to isolated functions of the UE via
the radio interface without introducing new physical interfaces just for the
reason of conformance testing.
NOTE: It should be emphasised that the UE test loop function only describes
the functional behaviour of the UE with respect to its external interfaces;
physical implementation of the UE test loop function is completely left open
to the manufacturer.
The UE test loop function is activated by transmitting the appropriate TC
message to the UE, see clause 6.
The UE test loop function can be operated in two different loopback modes:
\- UE test loop mode A;
\- UE test loop mode B; and
\- UE test loop mode C.
UE test loop mode A provides loopback of PDCP SDUs for bi-directional data
radio bearers while UE is operating in E-UTRA mode. The downlink PDCP SDUs
received by the UE on each bi-directional data radio bearer are returned on
the same radio bearer regardless of the PDCP SDU contents and of the TFT of
the associated EPS bearer context [36].
UE test loop mode B provides loopback of PDCP SDUs (E-UTRA and UTRA), SNDCP
PDUs (GSM/GPRS) and RLP PDUs (CDMA2000) for bi-directional EPS bearers while
UE is operated in E-UTRA, UTRA, GSM/GPRS or CDMA2000 modes. UE test loop mode
B can not be used when more than one PDN connection is established or more
than one primary PDP context is active. When operating in E-UTRA, UTRA or
GSM/GPRS then the downlink PDCP SDUs or SNDCP PDUs received by the UE on all
bi-directional data radio bearers are returned by the UE on the data radio
bearer associated with an EPS bearer context with a TFT matching the
TCP/UDP/IP protocol information within the PDCP SDU or SNDCP SDU [36]. When
operating in CDMA2000 modes, the downlink RLP PDUs received by the UE on all
bi-directional data radio bearers are returned by the UE on the data radio
bearer with the smallest identity, regardless of the RLP PDU content and of
the TFT of the associated EPS bearer context.
UE test loop mode C provides counting of successfully received MBMS Packets on
a given MTCH while UE is operating in E-MBMS/E-UTRA mode. For E-MBMS then one
or more MTCHs are multiplexed on a MCH. MBMS packets for a MTCH are delivered
as one RLC SDU per MBMS packet segmented into one or more RLC UMD PDUs.
UE test loop mode A is mandatory to all E-UTRA UEs.
UE test loop mode B for operation in E-UTRA mode is mandatory to all E-UTRA
UEs.
UE test loop mode B for operation in UTRA mode is mandatory to all E-UTRA UEs
supporting UTRA radio access.
UE test loop mode B for operation in GSM/GPRS mode is mandatory to all E-UTRA
UEs supporting GSM/GPRS radio access.
UE test loop mode B for operation in CDMA2000 mode is mandatory to all E-UTRA
UEs supporting CDMA2000 radio access.
UE test loop mode C is mandatory for E-UTRA UEs supporting E-MBMS.
Support of UPDATE UE LOCATION INFORMATION is optional for the UE.
For E-UTRA UE supporting multiple radio access technologies then UE reception
of Test Control messages is limited to UE operating in E-UTRA mode, while
continuation of loopback of user data is provided over the change to other UE
supported radio access technologies.
UE test loop mode B for operation in UTRA, GSM/GPRS and CDMA2000 mode is only
applicable for loopback of user data in PS domain.
The TC entity may be seen as a L3 or a NAS entity.
Figure 5.1-1 shows a functional block diagram of UE test loop function for TC
entity and UE test loop mode A. The loopback of PDCP SDUs for UE test loop
mode A is specified in sub clause 5. 4.3.
Figure 5.1-2 shows a functional block diagram of UE test loop function for TC
entity and UE test loop mode B. The loopback of IP PDUs/PDCP SDUs for UE test
loop mode B and UE in E-UTRA mode is specified in subclauses 5.4.4.2 and
5.3.4.3.
Figure 5.1-3 shows a functional block diagram of UE test loop function for UE
test loop mode B and UE operating in UTRA mode. The loopback of IP PDUs/PDCP
SDUs for UE test loop mode B and UE in UTRA mode is specified in subclauses
5.4.4.4 and 5.4.4.5.
Figure 5.1-4 shows a functional block diagram of UE test loop function for UE
test loop mode B for UE operating in GSM/GPRS mode. The loopback of IP
PDUs/SNDCP SDUs for UE test loop mode B and UE in GSM/GPRS mode is specified
in subclauses 5.4.4.6 and 5.4.4.7.
Figure 5.1-5 shows a functional block diagram of UE test loop function for UE
test loop mode B for UE operating in CDMA2000 mode. The loopback of IP
PDUs/RLP SDUs for UE test loop mode B and UE in CDMA2000 mode is specified in
subclauses 5.4.4.8 and 5.4.4.9.
Figure 5.1-6 shows a functional block diagram of UE test loop function for TC
entity and UE test loop mode C. The MBMS Packet Counter function for UE test
loop mode C is specified in sub clause 5.4.4.a. The MBMS Packet Counter
function is limited to count successfully received MBMS packets on one MTCH
configured by the SS when UE test loop mode C is activated.
NOTE: ROHC functionality in PDCP Layer 2 is optional for UE implementations.
Figure 5.1-1: Model for Test Control and UE Test Loop Mode A on UE side for
E-UTRA
Figure 5.1-2: Model for Test Control and UE Test Loop Mode B on UE side for
E-UTRA
Figure 5.1-3: Model for UE Test Loop Mode B on UE side for UTRA
Figure 5.1-4: Model for UE Test Loop Mode B on UE side for GSM/GPRS
{width="3.0097222222222224in" height="3.8333333333333335in"}
Figure 5.1-5: Model for UE Test Loop Mode B on UE side for CDMA2000
Figure 5.1-6: Model for UE test loop mode C on UE side
## 5.2 Security protection of test control messages
The test control messages, i.e. ACTIVATE TEST MODE, DEACTIVATE TEST MODE,
CLOSE UE TEST LOOP, and OPEN UE TEST LOOP, are integrity protected and
ciphered according to TS 24.301 clause 4.4.
## 5.3 UE test mode procedures
### 5.3.1 General
The UE test mode procedures are intended for setting the UE into a test mode
where the SS can set up data radio bearers (UE test loop mode A) or EPS
bearers (UE test loop mode B) or MTCH data radio bearers (UE test loop mode C)
to be terminated in the UE test loop function; as well as, for making UE leave
the test mode if it has previously been set into it and return to normal
operation.
### 5.3.2 Activate UE test mode
Figure 5.3.2-1: Activate UE test mode procedure
#### 5.3.2.1 General
The SS uses the activate UE test mode procedure to get the UE into a test mode
where the SS can set up one or more sets of data radio bearers with an
associated EPS bearer context (UE test loop mode A) or EPS bearers (UE test
loop mode B) or MTCH data radio bearers (UE test loop mode C) before
commanding the UE to terminate them in the UE test loop function. The
activation of the UE test loop function in UE test loop mode A, UE test loop
mode B or UE Test loop mode C will control if the UE is terminating the data
radio bearers, the EPS bearers or the MTCH data radio bearer in the UE test
loop function.
#### 5.3.2.2 Initiation
The SS can activate the UE test mode when UE is in E-UTRA connected state.
NOTE: Refer to TS 36.508 [28] subclause 4.5.1 for more details on UE states.
The SS requests the UE to activate the UE test mode by transmitting an
ACTIVATE TEST MODE message.
#### 5.3.2.3 Reception of ACTIVATE TEST MODE message by UE
Upon receiving the ACTIVATE TEST MODE message the UE shall:
1> if a default EPS bearer context is already activated:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
  1. else:
2> activate the UE test mode;
2> send ACTIVATE TEST MODE COMPLETE message.
When the UE test mode is active:
1> the UE shall accept any request to establish a data radio bearer with an
associated EPS bearer context, both included in the same RRC message, and
within the radio access capabilities of the UE;
1> optionally, if the UE supports CSG Proximity Indication;
2> the UE shall ignore any non 3GPP radio signals which are normally used in
determining proximity to a CSG (closed subscriber group) cell and delete any
previously stored cell information for proximity detection.
NOTE: The UE may provide other means which would guarantee that the UE ignores
any non 3GPP radio signals which are normally used in determining proximity to
a CSG (closed subscriber group) cell and deletes any previously stored cell
information for proximity detection. For such UEs the above mentioned CSG
requirements in UE test mode may not apply.
1> if neither test loop mode A operation, test loop mode B operation nor test
loop mode C operation is ongoing:
2> if the UE is operating in E-UTRAN mode:
3> if the UE hasn\'t received the ACTIVATE DEFAULT EPS BEARER CONTEXT REQUEST
message in response to the PDN CONNECTIVITY REQUEST message included in an
ATTACH REQUEST message; or
3> if the UE has received the response message with the PDN type IE set to
\'IPv4\' and an IPv4 address value different from \'0.0.0.0\':
4> the UE may not transmit any uplink PDCP SDU on any DRB:
4> the UE may discard any received downlink PDCP SDU on any DRB is.
NOTE: If the UE has requested the use of DHCPv4 signalling for allocation of
an IPv4 address, the UE may either accept the IPv4 address provided via NAS
signalling and may not transmit any uplink PDCP SDU on any DRB and may discard
downlink PDCP SDUs on any DRB, or the UE may transmit and receive DHCPv4
messages to obtain an IPv4 address, according to the procedure described in TS
36.508 clause 4.5.2A.
3> if the UE has received the response message with the PDN type IE set to a
value different from \'IPv4\' or with the IPv4 address equal to \'0.0.0.0\';
4> the UE may transmit uplink PDCP SDUs on any DRB.
### 5.3.3 Deactivate UE test mode
Figure 5.3.3-1: Deactivate UE test mode procedure
#### 5.3.3.1 General
The purpose of this procedure is to deactivate the UE test mode and return UE
to normal operation.
NOTE: Deactivation of the UE test loop mode may occur as well as a result of
other events. For further details see e.g. 4.1, 5.4.2.1.
#### 5.3.3.2 Initiation
The SS can deactivate the UE test mode when UE is in E-UTRA connected state
and the UE test mode is active.
NOTE: Refer to TS 36.508 [28] subclause 4.5.1 for more details on UE states.
The SS requests the UE to deactivate the UE test mode by transmitting a
DEACTIVATE TEST MODE message.
#### 5.3.3.3 Reception of DEACTIVATE TEST MODE message by UE
Upon receiving the DEACTIVATE TEST MODE message the UE shall:
1> deactivate the UE test mode;
1> send a DEACTIVATE TEST MODE COMPLETE message.
## 5.4 UE test loop procedures
### 5.4.1 General
The UE test loop function is intended for:
\- E-UTRA RF receiver and transmitter testing to generate data transfer in
downlink and uplink.
\- E-UTRA layer 2 (MAC, RLC, PDCP) and data radio bearer testing to generate
data transfer in downlink and uplink.
\- EPC and E-UTRA layer 3 testing to verify data transfer continuation over
RRC and EPC procedures.
\- EPC NAS user-plane testing to verify uplink TFT handling.
\- E-UTRA/EPC Inter-system testing to verify data transfer continuation over
Inter-system change procedures to and from UTRA, GSM/GPRS and CDMA2000.
\- E-UTRA/E-MBMS MCH performance testing
\- E-UTRA/E-MBMS layer 2 (MAC, RLC) and MTCH data radio bearer testing.
### 5.4.2 Close UE test loop
{width="3.7402777777777776in" height="1.6465277777777778in"}
Figure 5.4.2-1: Close UE test loop procedure
#### 5.4.2.1 General
The SS uses the close UE test loop procedure to start the UE Test Loop
function in the UE while in E-UTRA mode.
A prerequisite for UE test loop mode A is that at least one bi-directional
data radio bearer has been established between SS and UE.
A prerequisite for UE test loop mode B is that at least one EPS bearer context
has been established between SS and UE. A prerequisite for UE test loop mode C
is that at least one MTCH data radio bearer has been established between SS
and UE.
The UE shall provide for normal layer 1, layer 2, RRC, EMM and ESM
functionality while the UE test loop function is active. This includes (but is
not limited to) handover procedures and normal disconnection of the data radio
bearer.
For UE test loop mode A the loopback shall be maintained across handovers
within E-UTRA, but after data radio bearer release, the loopback shall cease
to exist.
For UE test loop mode B the loopback shall be maintained across handovers
within E-UTRA and between radio access system (E-UTRA to/from UTRA, E-UTRA
to/from GSM/GPRS and E-UTRA to/from CDMA2000). This means that any buffered IP
PDUs in the UE test loop function at the time of the intra- or inter-system
change shall be kept in the UE test loop function and being scheduled for
transmission transparently to the intra- or inter-system change.
For UE test loop mode A or B, UE shall not transmit any uplink U-plane data
other than the data returned by the loopback entity.
#### 5.4.2.1a UE test loop mode A PDCP SDU and UE test loop mode B IP PDU
buffer size requirement
The minimum UE loopback buffer size for PDCP SDUs (UE test loop mode A) and IP
PDUs (UE test loop mode B), when UE is operated in RLC AM or UM mode, shall be
according to table 5.4.2.1-1a. The UE behaviour, when the loopback buffer
capacity is exceeded, is unspecified.
Table 5.4.2.1-1a: Minimum loopback buffer size for different UE categories.
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+ | UE Category | Minimum loopback buffer size | | | | | | [byte] | | | | | | (note 1) | +--------------------------------------+------------------------------+ | Category 1 | 60000 | +--------------------------------------+------------------------------+ | Category 2 | 60000 | +--------------------------------------+------------------------------+ | Category 3 | 60000 | +--------------------------------------+------------------------------+ | Category 4 | 60000 | +--------------------------------------+------------------------------+ | Category 5 | 60000 | +--------------------------------------+------------------------------+ | Note 1: Minimum loopback buffer size | | | has been selected 1) for each UE | | | category such that the UE shall be | | | able to forward all data received in | | | one TTI when the applicable maximum | | | transport block size of the UE is | | | used, and 2) to allow execution of | | | MAC test case 7.1.4.3 in TS 36.523-1 | | | [30], which requires a minimum | | | loopback buffer size of 56922 bytes | | | for all UE categories. | | +--------------------------------------+------------------------------+
#### 5.4.2.2 Initiation
The SS can request the UE to close a test loop in mode A if at least one bi-
directional data radio bearer is established and the UE test mode is active.
The SS can request the UE to close a test loop in mode B if at least one EPS
bearer is established and the UE test mode is active. The SS can request the
UE to close a test loop in mode C if at least one MTCH data radio bearer is
established and the UE test mode is active.
The SS requests the UE to close its UE test loop mode A,UE test loop mode B or
UE test loop mode C test loop(s) by transmitting a CLOSE UE TEST LOOP message.
#### 5.4.2.3 Reception of CLOSE UE TEST LOOP message by the UE
Upon receiving the CLOSE UE TEST LOOP message the UE shall:
1> if UE test loop mode A has been selected;
2> if no bi-directional data radio bearers are established or if the UE test
mode is not active; or
2> if UE test loop mode A or UE test loop mode B operation is already closed
on one or more data radio bearers; or
2> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE = TRUE:
3> the UE behaviour is unspecified
2> else:
3> for LB_ID=0 MAX_ModeA_LB_entities -1:
4> set DRB_ID(LB_ID) to 0 (indicate no DRB mapped)
4> set UL_PDCP_SDU_scaling(LB_ID) to FALSE
3> set LB_ID to 0
3> for each established bi-directional data radio bearer in ascending order
and starting with the data radio bearer with the lowest configured Data Radio
bearer identity number:
4> if LB_ID is less than MAX_ModeA_LB_entities:
5> set DRB_ID(LB_ID) to the Data Radio bearer identity number
5> increment LB_ID by 1
4> else:
5> the UE behaviour is unspecified
3> if the UE test loop mode A setup IE is included:
4> for each LB Setup DRB IE in the LB setup list of the UE test loop mode A
setup IE:
5> for LB_ID=0 to MAX_ModeA_LB_entities-1:
> 6> if DRB_ID(LB_ID) is equal to the Data Radio bearer identity number
> parameter of the LB Setup DRB IE:
>
> 7> if the LB Setup DRB(LB_ID) IE is included:
>
> 7> set UL_PDCP_SDU_scaling(LB_ID) to TRUE
>
> 7> set UL_PDCP_SDU_size(LB_ID) to UL PDCP SDU size parameter of the LB Setup
> DRB(LB_ID) IE
3> perform the UE actions for UE Test Loop Mode A operation as specified in
subclause 5.4.3; and
3> send CLOSE UE TEST LOOP COMPLETE message (the loopback shall be operational
prior to the sending of the acknowledgement).
1> else if UE test loop mode B has been selected;
2> if no EPS bearer is established or if the UE test mode is not active; or
2> if the test loop is already active on one or more EPS bearers; or
2> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE = TRUE:
3> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
2> otherwise:
3> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_B_ACTIVE to TRUE
3> set timer T_delay_modeB to the value of IP PDU delay timer parameter of the
UE test loop mode B IE;
3> if the IP PDU delay timer parameter of the UE test loop mode B IE has a
value larger than zero:
4> set BUFFER_IP_PDUs to TRUE
3> else:
4> set BUFFER_IP_PDUs to FALSE
3> set CDMA2000_INITIATED to FALSE
3> perform the UE actions for UE Test Loop Mode B operation as specified in
subclause 5.4.4 and 5.4.4.1 to 5.4.4.11; and
3> send CLOSE UE TEST LOOP COMPLETE message (the loopback shall be operational
prior to the sending of the acknowledgement).
1> else if UE test loop mode C has been selected;
2> if no MTCH data radio bearer is established or if the UE test mode is not
active; or
2> if UE test loop mode A or UE test loop mode B operation is already closed
on one or more data radio bearers; or
2> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE = TRUE:
3> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
2> otherwise:
3> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE to TRUE
3> set ´state variable MBMS_PACKET_COUNTER to zero;
3> perform the UE actions for UE Test Loop Mode B operation as specified in
subclause 5.4.4a; and
3> send CLOSE UE TEST LOOP COMPLETE message (the loopback shall be operational
prior to the sending of the acknowledgement).
1> else;
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
### 5.4.3 UE test loop mode A operation
Upon receiving a PDCP SDU identified by LB_ID when operating in E-UTRA mode
with UE Test Loop Mode A active the UE shall:
1> if UL_PDCP_SDU_scaling(LB_ID) is FALSE:
2> take the PDCP SDU from the output of the PDCP Service Access Point (SAP)
and provide it as input to the correspondent PDCP SAP in uplink and transmit,
see Figure 5.4.3-1.
1> else:
2> if UL_PDCP_SDU_size(LB_ID) = 0:
3> discard the PDCP SDU (no data is returned).
2> else:
3> if the size of the received PDCP SDU in downlink is equal to
UL_PDCP_SDU_size(LB_ID):
4> take the PDCP SDU from the output of the PDCP SAP and provide it as input
to the correspondent PDCP SAP in uplink and transmit, see Figure 5.4.3-1.
3>else if the size of the received PDCP SDU in downlink is bigger than
UL_PDCP_SDU_size(LB_ID):
4> create a UL PDCP SDU of size UL_PDCP_SDU_size(LB_ID) by taking the first K
bits of the received PDCP SDU in downlink PDCP SAP, where K is equal to
UL_PDCP_SDU_size(LB_ID) and provide it as input to the correspondent PDCP SAP
in uplink and transmit, see Figure 5.4.3-2.
3> else if the size of the received PDCP SDU in downlink is less than
UL_PDCP_SDU_size(LB_ID):
4> create a UL PDCP SDU of size UL_PDCP_SDU_size(LB_ID) by repeating the data
received in downlink PDCP SDU in downlink to fill the UL PDCP SDU (truncating
the last block if necessary), provide it as input to the correspondent PDCP
SAP in uplink and transmit, see Figure 5.4.3-3.
Note: Size of the received PDCP SDUs in downlink shall be bit strings that are
byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) according to TS 36.323 [24] clause
6.2.1.
{width="4.302083333333333in" height="2.2083333333333335in"}
Figure 5.4.3-1: Loop back of PDCP SDU\ (DL PDCP SDU size = UL PDCP SDU size =
N)
{width="3.8854166666666665in" height="2.3333333333333335in"}
Figure 5.4.3-2: DL > UL PDCP SDU block size\ (DL PDCP SDU size = N, UL PDCP
SDU size = K)
{width="4.552083333333333in" height="2.25in"}
Figure 5.4.3-3: DL \ if T_delay_modeB timer is running:
2> buffer the received PDCP SDU
1> else
2> if BUFFER_IP_PDUs is TRUE
3> buffer the received PDCP SDU
3> Start T_delay_modeB timer
2> else
3> submit the received PDCP SDU without any modification of the IP header to
the UL TFT handling SAP for transmission in uplink. See note.
Note 1: The UL TFT function in the UE is mapping IP PDUs received from SDF to
EPS bearer/radio bearer as configured by SS in the UL TFT IE sent as part of
the EPS bearer establishment procedures. See figure 5.1-2.
Note 2: Size of the received PDCP SDUs in downlink shall be bit strings that
are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) according to TS 36.323 [24] clause
6.2.1. The PDCP SDUs themselves shall contain a valid IPv4 or IPv6 Header in
accordance with the PDN type (Ref. TS 24.301 [36]) accepted by the UE.
#### 5.4.4.3 Expiry of T_delay_modeB timer when UE is in E-UTRA mode
When timer T_delay_modeB expires when UE is operating in E-UTRA mode and has
UE Test Loop Mode B active then the UE shall:
1> submit the buffered PDCP SDUs in the same order as received (first-in-
first-out) and without any modification of the IP header to the UL TFT
handling SAP for transmission in uplink. See note 1.
1> set BUFFER_IP_PDUs to FALSE
Note 1: The UL TFT function in the UE is mapping IP PDUs received from SDF to
EPS bearer/radio bearer as configured by SS in the UL TFT IE sent as part of
the EPS bearer establishment procedures. See figure 5.1-2.
NOTE 2: After the PDCP SDU buffer becomes empty the loopback will return any
received PDCP SDU in uplink directly as specified in clause 5.4.4.2. In order
to reactivate the loopback delay and PDCP SDU buffering the SS shall
deactivate UE test loop B function first.
#### 5.4.4.4 Reception of IP PDUs when UE is in UTRA mode
When UE receives a PDCP SDU when UE is operating in UTRA mode and has UE Test
Loop Mode B active then the UE shall:
1> if T_delay_modeB timer is running:
2> buffer the received PDCP SDU
1> else
2> if BUFFER_IP_PDUs is TRUE
3> buffer the received PDCP SDU
3> Start T_delay_modeB timer
2> else
3> submit the received PDCP SDU without any modification of the IP header to
the UL TFT handling SAP for transmission in uplink.
#### 5.4.4.5 Expiry of T_delay_modeB timer when UE is in UTRA mode
When timer T_delay_modeB expires when UE is operating in UTRA mode and has UE
Test Loop Mode B active the then UE shall:
1> submit the buffered IP PDUs in the same order as received (first-in-first-
out) and without any modification of the IP header to the UL TFT handling SAP
for transmission in uplink.
1> set BUFFER_IP_PDUs to FALSE.
NOTE: After the IP PDU buffer becomes empty the loopback will return any
received PDCP SDU in uplink directly as specified in clause 5.4.4.4. In order
to reactivate the loopback delay and PDCP SDU buffering the SS shall
deactivate UE test loop B function and UE shall return to E-UTRA mode first.
#### 5.4.4.6 Reception of IP PDUs when UE is in GSM/GPRS mode
When UE receives a SNDCP SDU when UE is operating in GSM/GPRS mode and has UE
Test Loop Mode B active then the UE shall:
1> if T_delay_modeB timer is running:
2> buffer the received SNDCP SDU.
1> else
2> if BUFFER_IP_PDUs is TRUE;
3> buffer the received SNDCP SDU;
3> Start T_delay_modeB timer.
2> else
3> submit the received SNDCP SDU without any modification of the IP header to
the UL TFT handling SAP for transmission in uplink.
#### 5.4.4.7 Expiry of T_delay_modeB timer when UE is in GSM/GPRS mode
When timer T_delay_modeB expires when UE is operating in GSM/GPRS mode and has
UE Test Loop Mode B active then the UE shall:
1> submit the buffered IP PDUs without any modification of the IP header in
the same order as received (first-in-first-out), to the UL TFT handling SAP
for transmission in uplink.
1> set BUFFER_IP_PDUs to FALSE
NOTE: After the IP PDU buffer becomes empty the loopback will return any
received SNDCP SDU in uplink directly as specified in clause 5.4.4.6. In order
to reactivate the loopback delay and SNDCP SDU buffering the SS shall
deactivate UE test loop B function and UE shall return to E-UTRA mode first.
#### 5.4.4.8 Reception of IP PDUs when UE is in CDMA2000 mode
When UE receives a RLP SDU when UE is operating in CDMA2000 mode and has UE
Test Loop Mode B active then the UE shall:
1> if CDMA2000_INITIATED is FALSE:
2> if T_delay_modeB is running:
3> restart T_delay_modeB
2> else:
3> start T_delay_modeB
2> set CDMA2000_INITIATED to TRUE;
1> if T_delay_modeB is running;
2> deliver the received RLP SDU to upper layers;
1> else
2> submit the received RLP SDU without any modification of the IP header to
the UL TFT handling SAP for transmission in uplink.
NOTE: When CDMA2000_INITIATED is FALSE or when T_delay_modeB is running, the
UE may send RLP SDUs in uplink upon initiation from upper layers.
#### 5.4.4.9 Expiry of T_delay_modeB timer when UE is in CDMA2000 mode
When timer T_delay_modeB expires when UE is operating in CDMA2000 mode and has
UE Test Loop Mode B active then the UE shall not take any action.
#### 5.4.4.10 Establishment of the RRC/RR connection in E-UTRA, UTRA, GSM/GPRS
and CDMA2000 mode
When the RRC or the RR connection and one or more EPS bearers are is
established, in E-UTRA, UTRA, GSM/GPRS and CDMA2000 mode then the UE shall:
1> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_B_ACTIVE is set to TRUE;
2> perform the UE actions for UE Test Loop Mode B operation as specified in
subclause 5.4.4 and 5.4.4.1 to 5.4.4.11.
#### 5.4.4.11 Release of RRC/RR connection in E-UTRA, UTRA, GSM/GPRS and
CDMA2000 mode after T_delay_modeB timer has expired
When the RRC or the RR connection is released in E-UTRA, UTRA, GSM/GPRS and
CDMA2000 mode then the UE shall:
1> if UE test loop mode B is active; and
1> if BUFFER_IP_PDUs is TRUE or T_delay_modeB timer is running:
2> keep UE test loop mode B active
1> else
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
### 5.4.4a UE test loop mode C operation
#### 5.4.4a.1 Reception of MBMS packets
Upon receiving a MBMS packet on the MTCH identified by MTCH_ID when operating
in E-UTRA idle or connected mode with UE test loop mode C active the UE shall:
1> if UE test loop mode C is active;
2> increment MBMS_PACKET_COUNTER by 1:
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
#### 5.4.4a.2 Release of RRC/RR connection
When the RRC or the RR connection is released in E-UTRA mode then the UE
shall:
1> if UE test loop mode C is active:
2> keep UE test loop mode C active
### 5.4.5 Open UE test loop
{width="3.7402777777777776in" height="1.6465277777777778in"}
Figure 5.4.5-1: Open UE test loop procedure
#### 5.4.5.1 General
The SS uses the procedure open UE test loop to deactivate the UE test loop
function in the UE.
#### 5.4.5.2 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to open all closed test loops by transmitting an OPEN
UE TEST LOOP message.
#### 5.4.5.3 Reception of OPEN UE TEST LOOP message by the UE
When UE receives the OPEN UE TEST LOOP message then the UE shall:
1> If no test loops are closed:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified;
1> else if one or more test loops are closed:
2> open all test loops;
2> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_B_ACTIVE is TRUE
3> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_B_ACTIVE to FALSE
2> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE is TRUE
3> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE to FALSE
2> send OPEN UE TEST LOOP COMPLETE message;
NOTE: The UE test mode is still active so the UE continues behaving as
described in 5.3.2.3
## 5.5 UE Positioning test mode procedures
### 5.5.1 Reset UE Positioning Stored Information
{width="3.7402777777777776in" height="1.2in"}
Figure 5.5.1-1: Reset UE Positioning Stored Information procedure
#### 5.5.1.1 General
The SS uses the reset UE positioning stored information procedure to command
the UE to reset the already acquired UE positioning information in preparation
for subsequent test procedures.
#### 5.5.1.2 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to reset the stored UE positioning information mode by
transmitting a RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION message.
#### 5.5.1.3 Reception of RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION message by
UE
When UE receives RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION message then the UE
shall:
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'AGNSS':
2> discard any stored GNSS reference time, reference position, and any other
aiding data obtained or derived during the previous test instance (e.g.
expected ranges and Doppler);
2> temporarily disable any sensor data (if applicable) that can aid the
positioning for the duration of the subsequent positioning procedure.
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'OTDOA':
2> discard any stored OTDOA reference and neighbour cell info assistance data;
2> use the reference cell in the provided OTDOA assistance data as reference
cell for reporting RSTD measurements in the subsequent positioning procedure.
1> otherwise:
2> ignore the message.
### 5.5.2 Update UE Location Information
Figure 5.5.2-1: Update UE Location Information procedure
#### 5.5.2.1 General
The SS uses the Update UE Location information procedure to send positioning
information to the UE and command it to store positioning information in
preparation for subsequent test procedures.
#### 5.5.2.2 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to store the positioning information contained in the
message by transmitting a UPDATE UE LOCATION INFORMATION message.
#### 5.5.2.3 Reception of UPDATE UE LOCATION INFORMATION message by UE
When UE receives UPDATE UE LOCATION INFORMATION message then the UE shall:
> 1> if the UE has location information values stored:
>
> 2> discard the stored location information:
>
> 1> store the received location information (ellipsoidPointWithAltitude,
> horizontalVelocity and gnss-TOD-msec) and maintain it until reception of
> RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION or UPDATE UE LOCATION INFORMATION
> message. Information not supported by the UE may be discarded.
## 5.6 MBMS Packet Counter reporting procedure
### 5.6.1 Request MBMS Packet Counter value
Figure 5.6.1: MBMS Packet Counter reporting procedure
#### 5.6.1.1 General
The SS uses the MBMS Packet Counter reporting procedure to request reporting
of current value of the state variable MBMS_PACKET_COUNTER.
#### 5.6.1.2 Initiation
The SS can activate the UE test mode when UE is in E-UTRA connected state.
NOTE: Refer to TS 36.508 [28] subclause 4.5.1 for more details on UE states.
The SS requests the UE to report its current value of the state variable
MBMS_PACKET_COUNTER by transmitting an UE TEST LOOP MODE C MBMS PACKET COUNTER
REQUEST message.
#### 5.6.1.3 Reception of UE TEST LOOP MODE C MBMS PACKET COUNTER REQUEST by
the UE
Upon receiving the UE TEST LOOP MODE C MBMS PACKET COUNTER REQUEST message the
UE shall:
1> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE is TRUE:
2> set the IE MBMS Packet Counter Value in the UE TEST LOOP MODE C MBMS PACKET
COUNTER RESPONSE message to the value of the state variable
MBMS_PACKET_COUNTER;
2> send the UE TEST LOOP MODE C MBMS PACKET COUNTER RESPONSE message.
  1. else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
# 6 Message definitions and contents
In this clause, only TC protocol messages are described. TC messages are
intended to be sent using the _DLInformationTransfer_ and
_ULInformationTransfer_ procedures, see TS 36.331 [25], sub clause 5.6.1 and
5.6.2.
NOTE 1: A message received with skip indicator different from 0 will be
ignored.
NOTE 2: For general definition of Layer 3 message format see TS 24.007 [5],
clause 11.
NOTE 3: E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/GPRS test control messages uses the same protocol
discriminator value (\"1111\"). Following message type value series are
reserved for GSM/GPRS testing commands as specified by TS 44.014 [33]:
0000xxxx, 0001xxxx and 0010xxxx where x represent 0 or 1. Following message
type value series are reserved for UTRA testing commands as specified by TS
34.109 [11]: 0100xxxx where x represent 0 or 1. For E-UTRA test commands the
message type value series 1000xxxx and 1001xxxx are reserved, where the
message type values 10010000, 10010001, 10010010 and 10010011 are reserved for
possible future use by the antenna test function defined in TR 36.978 for use
by the two-stage MIMO OTA test method. Should MIMO OTA conformance tests be
defined in the future which are applicable to the two-stage method then the
message definitions in TR 36.978 may be moved to this specification.
## 6.1 CLOSE UE TEST LOOP
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 UE test loop mode M V 1 UE test
loop mode A LB setup CV-ModeA LV 1-25 UE test loop mode B LB setup CV-ModeB V
1 UE test loop mode C setup CV-ModeC V 3
* * *
* * *
Condition Explanation CV-ModeA This IE is mandatory present if the IE \"UE
test loop mode \" is set to UE test loop Mode A. Else it shall be absent. CV-
ModeB This IE is mandatory present if the IE \"UE test loop mode \" is set to
UE test loop Mode B. Else it shall be absent. CV-ModeC This IE is mandatory
present if the IE \"UE test loop mode \" is set to UE test loop Mode C. Else
it shall be absent.
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 octet 1
* * *
where UE test loop mode is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 0 X2 X1 octet 1
* * *
X2=0 and X1=0 then UE test loop mode A is selected.
X2=0 and X1=1 then UE test loop mode B is selected.
X2=1 and X1=0 then UE test loop mode C is selected.
Other combinations of X1 and X2 are reserved for future versions of the
protocol.
where UE test loop mode A LB setup is:
+---+------------------------------------------------------+--------------+ | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | +---+------------------------------------------------------+--------------+ | | Length of UE test loop mode A LB setup list in bytes | Octet 1 | +---+------------------------------------------------------+--------------+ | | LB setup list | Octet 2 | | | | | | | | Octet N*3+1 | +---+------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
N is the number of LB entities in the LB setup list and is less than or equal
to MAX_ModeA_LB_entities.
where LB setup list is:
+---+--------------------+--------------+ | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | +---+--------------------+--------------+ | | LB setup DRB IE#1 | Octet 2 | | | | | | | | Octet 3 | | | | | | | | Octet 4 | +---+--------------------+--------------+ | | LB setup DRB IE#2 | Octet 5 | | | | | | | | Octet 6 | | | | | | | | Octet 7 | +---+--------------------+--------------+ | | ... | | +---+--------------------+--------------+ | | LB setup DRB IE#N | Octet N*3-1 | | | | | | | | Octet N*3 | | | | | | | | Octet N*3+1 | +---+--------------------+--------------+
where LB Setup DRB#k IE is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. Z15 Z14 Z13 Z12 Z11 Z10 Z9 Z8 octet 1 Z7 Z6 Z5 Z4 Z3
Z2 Z1 Z0 octet 2 Reserved Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q0 octet 3
* * *
Z15..Z0 = Uplink PDCP SDU size in bits 0.. 12160 (binary coded, Z15 is most
significant bit and Z0 least significant bit). See Note 1.
Q4..Q0 = Data Radio Bearer identity number, 1..32 (binary coded value of 'DRB-
Identity' -1, Q4 is most significant bit and Q0 least significant bit), where
Data Radio Bearer identity identifies the radio bearer, see TS 36.331 [25].
NOTE 1: The UL PDCP SDU size is limited to 12160 bits (1520 octets).
NOTE 2: A \"LB Setup DRB IE\" is only needed for a DRB if UL PDCP SDU scaling
is needed. If there is no \"LB Setup DRB IE\" associated with a DRB in the
CLOSE UE TEST LOOP message then the same size of the PDCP SDU received in
downlink is returned in uplink.
NOTE 3: The UL PDCP SDU size shall be byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits)
according to TS 36.323 [24] clause 6.2.1.
And where UE test loop mode B setup is:
* * *
     8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1   
     IP PDU delay      Octet 1
* * *
Where IP PDU delay is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. T7 T6 T5 T4 T3 T2 T1 T0 octet 1
* * *
T7..T0 = value of T_delay_modeB timer 0..255 seconds (binary coded, T7 is most
significant bit and T0 least significant bit).
NOTE: For E-UTRAN to CDMA2000 test cases, the SS should not sent any downlink
U-plane data in E-UTRAN after sending a CLOSE UE TEST LOOP message with an IP
PDU delay parameter set to value different from zero. In CDMA2000, the
T_delay_modeB timer is not used to buffer downlink U-plane data, and at expiry
of this timer, if there are buffered data received while in E-UTRAN, it is not
specified what the UE will do with these data. See clause 7.3 for the
definition of the T_delay_modeB timer.
And where UE test loop mode C setup is:
+---+-----------------+---------+ | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | +---+-----------------+---------+ | | MTCH ID | octet 1 | | | | | | | | octet 2 | | | | | | | | octet 3 | +---+-----------------+---------+
Where MTCH ID is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. A7 A6 A5 A4 A3 A2 A1 A0 Octet 1 Reserved M3 M2 M1 M0
octet 2  
Reserved L4 L3 L2 L1 L0 octet 3
* * *
A7..A0 = MBSFN area identity 0.. 255 (binary coded, A7 is most significant bit
and A0 least significant bit). See Note.
M3..M0 = MCH identity 0.. 14 (binary coded, M3 is most significant bit and M0
least significant bit). See Note.
L4..L0 = Logical channel identity 0..28 (binary coded, L4 is most significant
bit and L0 least significant bit), See Note.
NOTE: A MTCH is identified by the MCH in the _pmch-InfoList-r9_ (0..14) and
the _logicalChannelIdentity-r9_ (0..28) in the _mbms-SessionInfoList-r9_ of
the MCH. The pmch-Info-List-r9 is broadcasted on the MCCH in the
_MBSFNAreaConiguration_ message, see TS 36.331 [25] clause 5.8. The MBSFN area
the UE is to monitor is checked against the _mbsfn-AreaId-r9_ of the cell,
which is broadcasted in the SystemInformationBlockType13-r9 message, see TS
36.331 [25] clause 6.3.1.
## 6.2 CLOSE UE TEST LOOP COMPLETE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V 1/2 Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V 1/2 Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 octet 1
* * *
## 6.3 OPEN UE TEST LOOP
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 octet 1
* * *
## 6.4 OPEN UE TEST LOOP COMPLETE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V 1/2 Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V 1/2 Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 octet 1
* * *
## 6.5 ACTIVATE TEST MODE
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 UE test loop mode M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 octet 1
* * *
And where UE test loop mode is specified in clause 6.1.
NOTE: No specific UE action is currently specified upon reception of the \"UE
test loop mode\" IE.
## 6.6 ACTIVATE TEST MODE COMPLETE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 octet 1
* * *
## 6.7 DEACTIVATE TEST MODE
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 octet 1
* * *
## 6.8 DEACTIVATE TEST MODE COMPLETE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 octet 1
* * *
## 6.9 RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], subclause
11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 UE Positioning Technology M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 octet 1
* * *
where UE Positioning Technology is a single octet IE:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. UE Positioning Technology octet 1
* * *
UE Positioning Technology value
Bits\ **8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1** \ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 AGNSS\ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 OTDOA
All other cause values are reserved for future use.
## 6.10 UE TEST LOOP MODE C MBMS PACKET COUNTER REQUEST
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], subclause
11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 octet 1
* * *
## 6.11 UE TEST LOOP MODE C MBMS PACKET COUNTER RESPONSE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], subclause
11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 MBMS Packet Counter Value M V 4
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 octet 1
* * *
And where MBMS Packet Counter Value is:
* * *
C31 C30 C29 C28 C27 C26 C25 C24 octet 1 C23 C22 C21 C20 C19 C18 C17 C16 octet
2 C15 C14 C13 C12 C11 C10 C9 C8 octet 3 C7 C6 C5 C4 C3 C2 C1 C0 octet 4
* * *
C31..C0 = MBMS packet counter value 0.. 4294967295 (binary coded, C31 is most
significant bit and C0 least significant bit).
## 6.12 UPDATE UE LOCATION INFORMATION
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
**Information Element** **Reference** Presence Format Length Protocol
discriminator TS 24.007 [5], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS
24.007 [5], subclause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
ellipsoidPointWithAltitude TS 36.355 [37], subclause 6.4.1. M V 8
horizontalVelocity TS 36.355 [37], subclause 6.4.1. M V 3 gnss-TOD-msec TS
36.355 [37], subclause 6.5.2.6. M V 3
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 octet 1
* * *
And where ellipsoidPointWithAltitude is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. L1 DLA22 DLA21 DLA20 DLA19 DLA18 DLA17 DLA16 octet 1
DLA15 DLA14 DLA13 DLA12 DLA11 DLA10 DLA9 DLA8 octet 2 DLA7 DLA6 DLA5 DLA4 DLA3
DLA2 DLA1 DLA0 octet 3 DLO23 DLO22 DLO21 DLO20 DLO19 DLO18 DLO17 DLO16 octet 4
DLO15 DLO14 DLO13 DLO12 DLO11 DLO10 DLO9 DLO8 octet 5 DLO7 DLO6 DLO5 DLO4 DLO3
DLO2 DLO1 DLO0 octet 6 A1 AD14 AD13 AD12 AD11 AD10 AD9 AD8 octet 7 AD7 AD6 AD5
AD4 AD3 AD2 AD1 AD0 octet 8
* * *
L1 = "latitudeSign" value 0=north and 1=south
DLA22..DLA0 = "degreesLatitude" value 0..8388607 (binary coded, DLA22 is most
significant bit and DLA0 is least significant bit).
DLO23..DLO0 = "degreesLongitude" value -8388608..8388607 (two's complement
binary coded as per ASN.1 encoding of an integer value, DLO23 is most
significant bit and DLO0 is least significant bit).
A1 = "altitudeDirection" value 0=height and 1=depth
AD14..AD0 = "altitude" value 0..32767 (binary coded, AD14 is most significant
bit and AD0 is least significant bit).
And where horizontalVelocity is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. B8 B7 B6 B5 B4 B3 B2 B1 Octet 1 B0 HS10 HS9 HS8 HS7
HS6 HS5 HS4 octet 2 HS3 HS2 HS1 HS0 Reserved octet 3
* * *
B8..B0 = "bearing" value 0..359 (binary coded, B8 is most significant bit and
B0 is least significant bit).
HS10..HS0 = "horizontalSpeed" value 0..2047 (binary coded, HS10 is most
significant bit and HS0 is least significant bit).
And where nss-TOD-msec is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. Reserved T21 T20 T19 T18 T17 T16 octet 1  
T15 T14 T13 T12 T11 T10 T9 T8 octet 2 T7 T6 T5 T4 T3 T2 T1 T0 octet 3
* * *
T21..T0 = "gnss-TOD-msec" value 0.. 3599999 (binary coded, T21 is most
significant bit and T0 is least significant bit).
# 7 Variables, constants and timers
## 7.1 State variables
BUFFER_IP_PDUs
This boolean state variable is used to control if UE is to buffer IP PDUs or
not.
TEST_LOOP_MODE_B_ACTIVE
This boolean state variable is used to indicate if UE test loop mode B is
active. TEST_LOOP_MODE_B_ACTIVE shall be set to FALSE when UE is switched on.
CDMA2000_INITIATED
This boolean state variable is used to indicate if IP control signalling was
initiated by the network on CDMA2000.
TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE
This boolean state variable is used to indicate if UE test loop mode C is
active. TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE shall be set to FALSE when UE is switched on.
MBMS_PACKET_COUNTER
This 32-bit integer state variable is used to count successful reception of
MBMS packets while UE test loop mode C is activate. MBMS_PACKET_COUNTER shall
be set to zero when UE is switched on.
## 7.2 Constants
MAX_ModeA_LB_entities = 8.
## 7.3 Timers
T_delay_modeB
In E-UTRAN, UTRAN and GERAN, this timer is used to delay the transmission of
the first IP PDU when UE test loop function is operated in UE test loop mode
B. In CDMA2000, this timer is used to temporarily interrupt UE test loop mode
B operation so as to allow IP control signalling required before data
transmission. The timer value is configured by the UE test loop mode B setup
IE in the CLOSE UE TEST LOOP message.
## 7.4 Configurable parameters
DRB_ID(LB_ID)
This parameter is used by the UE when operating in UE test loop mode A to map
a bi-directional Data Radio bearer to a loopback entity. LB_ID = 0..
(MAX_ModeA_LB_entities-1). The value is configured when UE receives the CLOSE
UE TEST LOOP message DRB_ID(LB_ID)=0 indicate that no DRB is mapped to the
loopback identity.
UL_PDCP_SDU_scaling(LB_ID)
This parameter is used to enable/disable scaling of UL PDCP SDU size. If
UL_PDCP_SDU_scaling is set to TRUE then scaling based on
UL_PDCP_SDU_size(LB_ID) parameter is performed, otherwise no scaling is done
(UL PDCP SDU size is equal to received DL PDCP SDU size). The value is
configured by the UE test loop mode A setup IE in the CLOSE UE TEST LOOP
message.
UL_PDCP_SDU_size(LB_ID)
This parameter is used to set the UL PDCP SDU size for returned UL PDCP SDUs
on the data radio bearer with data radio bearer ID equal to DRB_ID(LB_ID).
This parameter is only applicable for UE test loop mode A and when state
variable UL_PDCP_SDU_scaling(LB_ID) is TRUE. The value is configured by the UE
test loop mode A setup IE in the CLOSE UE TEST LOOP message.
# 8 Electrical Man Machine Interface (EMMI)
The EMMI is used for automation of conformance testing. The commands used on
the EMMI by the System Simulator, shall be limited to those specified in TS
36.523-3 [32]. An illustration is given in figure 8-1 as an example.
At the System Simulator side, the logical EMMI using mandatory AT commands
shall interface with the Main Test Component (MTC) of TTCN test cases which
hosts the Upper Tester. The physical EMMI interface towards the UE may be for
example a standard USB interface. Other interfaces of proprietary or
standardized type shall not be precluded.
At the UE side an adapter needs to be provided by the UE manufacturer for
converting the commands into the UE manufacturer specific interface and
format.
The use of EMMI is optional for the UE.
Figure 8-1: An example of EMMI and its use for automation of signalling
testing
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
Void.
#