# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of this TR is to summarize the study of radio requirements for the
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception as part of the Rel-10 work
item on Uplink Multiple Antenna Transmission for LTE (LTE UL MIMO).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.104 (9.2.0): \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
[3] RP-091430: "Work Item Description: multiple antenna transmission or LTE"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
UL MIMO Uplink Multiple Antenna Transmission
# 4 General
No changes for this chapter due to UL MIMO.
# 5 Operating bands and channel arrangement
No changes for this chapter due to UL MIMO.
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
No changes for this chapter due to UL MIMO.
# 7 Receiver characteristics
No changes for this chapter due to UL MIMO.
# 8 Performance requirement
## 8.1 General
For Rel-10 BS performance aspects, new performance requirements will be
defined for new transmission modes introduced due to UL-MIMO introduction.
As Rel-8 BS performance requirements are based on single uplink transmit
antenna port, no additional BS requirements are needed for single antenna port
transmission in Rel-10 with the introduction of UL MIMO.
All UL MIMO specific performance requirements will be defined within one
component carrier, as UL MIMO will be deployed per CC.
For all BS performance requirements, UE Antenna Gain Imbalance (AGI) will not
be taken into account, i.e. UE AGI = 0.
## 8.2 Performance requirements for PUSCH
### 8.2.1 Requirements in multipath fading propagation conditions
UL MIMO performance requirements shall cover two and four transmitter antennas
ports, where performance requirements for 2Tx antenna configuration at UE will
be prioritized in RAN4. Introduction of performance requirements for 4Tx
antenna configuration shall follow progress on the core requirements for UL
MIMO in RAN4.
For BS performance requirements (Chapter 8 in 36.104), the transmission rank
(i.e. number of transmission layers) should be fixed for the PUSCH test cases.
RAN4 concluded that the performance of 2Tx rank 1 with random precoding in
comparison with single transmission port mode does not provide justification
for 2Tx rank1 performance tests. Based on the conclusion it was decided that
no BS performance requirements for 2Tx rank 1 transmission is needed.
Non-contiguous PUSCH RA performance will be covered under CA WI and progress
on this topic will be covered in CA BS TR 36.808.
8.2.2 Requirements for UL timing adjustment
No new performance requirements are needed for UL timing adjustment due to
introduction of UL MIMO. This requirement will be performed for single antenna
port transmission.
### Requirements for high speed train
[No additional requirements are needed due to UL MIMO.]
This optional requirement will be performed for single antenna port
transmission.
### 8.2.4 Requirements for HARQ-ACK multiplexed on PUSCH
For the HARQ-ACK multiplexed on PUSCH with MIMO transmission, each layer can
be seen as a replication of the Rel-8/9 encoded signal. The requirement of
single antenna transmission is sufficient to cover test purpose of this
functionality of eNB.
It is thus concluded in RAN4 that no changes are needed for this clause due to
the introduction of UL MIMO.
## 8.3 Performance requirements for PUCCH
For uplink control channels with PUCCH format 1/1a/1b and format 2/2a/2b and
format 3, the spatial orthogonal-resource transmit diversity (SORTD) scheme is
supported for transmissions with two antenna ports.,
The performance requirements will focus on two antenna port cases. For the UE
with four transmit antennas, the 2Tx transmit diversity scheme is applied.
The performance requirements for PUCCH format 1a and format 2 with 2Tx SORTD
are agreed to be defined in Rel-10. The same performance measures as for Rel-8
PUCCH performance requirements are reused.
The performance requirements for PUCCH format 3 with 2Tx SORTD are [TBD].
### 8.3.1 DTX to ACK performance
The DTX to ACK performance is defined for single antenna port transmission in
Rel-8. This requirement is extended to cover Rel-10 multiple antenna port
transmission schemes.
### 8.3.2 ACK missed detection requirements for single user PUCCH format 1a
Performance requirements for 2Tx SORTD scheme are agreed to be defined.
Detailed simulation assumptions can be found in the Annex [X].
### 8.3.3 CQI missed detection requirements for PUCCH format 2
Performance requirements for 2Tx SORTD scheme are agreed to be defined.
Detailed simulation assumptions can be found in the Annex [X].
### 8.3.4 ACK missed detection requirements for multi user PUCCH format 1a
RAN4 concluded that no new requirements are needed for multi-user PUCCH format
1a due to the introduction of UL-MIMO.
## 8.4 Performance requirements for PRACH
The uplink single antenna port transmission is the default transmission scheme
before eNodeB is aware of the UE transmit antenna configuration. Therefore, no
additional performance requirements are needed due to introduction of UL MIMO.
PRACH requirements will be performed for single antenna port transmission.
###### ### Annex A: Measurement channels
###### ### Annex B: Propagation conditions
# B.1 General
# B.2 Propagation channels
## B.2.1 Multi-Antenna channel models
### B.2.1.1 Definition of MIMO Correlation Matrices
Table B-1 defines the correlation matrix for the eNodeB
Table B-1 eNodeB correlation matrix
* * *
                        One antenna   Two antennas   Four antennas
eNode B Correlation
* * *
Table B-2 defines the correlation matrix for the UE:
Table B-2 UE correlation matrix
* * *
                   One antenna   Two antennas   Four antennas
UE Correlation
* * *
Table B-3 defines the channel spatial correlation
matrix{width="0.3333333333333333in" height="0.2638888888888889in"}. The
parameters _α_ and _β_ in Table B-3 defines the spatial correlation between
the antennas at the UE and eNB.
Table B-3: {width="0.3333333333333333in" height="0.2638888888888889in"}
correlation matrices
* * *
1x2 case  
2x2 case  
2x4 case  
4x4 case
* * *
For cases with more antennas at either eNodeB or UE or both, the channel
spatial correlation matrix can still be expressed as the Kronecker product of
{width="0.2916666666666667in" height="0.25in"} and
{width="0.3333333333333333in" height="0.25in"} according to .
### B.2.1.2 MIMO Correlation Matrices at High, Medium and Low Level
The {width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} and
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.2222222222222222in"} for different
correlation types are given in Table B-4.
Table B-4 Correlation for High Medium and Low Level
* * *
Low correlation Medium Correlation High Correlation  
α β α β α β [0] [0] [0.3] [0.9] 0.9 0.9
* * *
Note: in case the values of α and β for Low correlation and Medium correlation
in Table B-4 are changed in future, correlation matrices in Table B-6 and
Table B-7 should be changed accordingly.
The correlation matrices for high, medium and low correlation are defined in
Table B-5, B-6 and B-7 as below.
The values in Table B-5 have been adjusted for the 2x4 and 4x4 high
correlation cases to insure the correlation matrix is positive semi-definite
after round-off to 4 digit precision. This is done using the equation:
Where the value "a" is a scaling factor such that the smallest value is used
to obtain a positive semi-definite result. For the 2x4 high correlation case,
a=0.00010. For the 4x4 high correlation case, a=0.00012.
The same method is used to adjust the 4x4 medium correlation matrix in Table
B-6 to insure the correlation matrix is positive semi-definite after round-off
to 4 digit precision with a =0.00012.
Table B-5: MIMO correlation matrices for high correlation
* * *
1x2 case  
2x2 case  
2x4 case  
4x4 case
* * *
Table B-6: MIMO correlation matrices for medium correlation
* * *
1x2 case [$R_{\text{medium}} = \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 0\text{.}3 \ 0\text{.}3 & 1
\ \end{pmatrix}$] 2x2 case  
2x4 case  
4x4 case
* * *
Table B-7: MIMO correlation matrices for low correlation
* * *
1x2 case  
1x4 case  
2x2 case  
2x4 case  
4x4 case
* * *
In Table B-7, $I_{d}$ is a $d \times d$ identity matrix.
###### ### Annex C: Simulation assumptions for Rel-10 PUSCH performance
requirements
Simulation assumptions for UL MIMO PUSCH performance requirements are captured
in the Table below
Table C-1: Simulation assumptions for Rel-10 PUSCH
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Common parameters | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of TX antennas | 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of RX antennas | 2, 4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Model | EVA, EPA | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Noise Model | AWGN | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power imbalance between antennas | 0 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Bandwidth | 1.4MHZ, 3MHz, 5MHz, 10 MHz, 15 | | | MHz, 20 MHz, | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel estimation | Practical and realizable channel | | | and noise estimates | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cyclic prefix | Normal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Precoding method | Rank1: random precoding | | | | | | Rank2: fixed precoding | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Resource allocation | Full RB allocation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Modulation scheme and code rate | QPSK 1/3, 16QAM 3/4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of HARQ processes | 8 HARQ processes for FDD | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum number of HARQ | 4 | | transmissions | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Redundancy version sequence | 0, 2, 3, 1, 0, 2, 3, 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ combining | Incremental redundancy | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of retransmission layers | Rank2: 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation length | 10000 subframes at minimum | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
###### ### Annex D: Simulation assumptions for Rel-10 PUCCH performance
requirements
Simulation assumptions for UL-MIMO PUCCH performance requirements are captured
in the Tables below.
Table D-1: Common simulation assumptions
* * *
Parameters Value Channel bandwidth 1.4MHz/3MHz/5MHz/10MHz/15MHz/20MHz Noise
model AWGN Cyclic prefix Normal DM RS sequence group hopping Disabled Channel
estimation ML channel estimator with real noise estimation Timing estimation
Perfect Frequency domain equalizer MMSE
* * *
Table D-2: Simulation assumptions for PUCCH format 1a
+--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameters | Value | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration/ | 2x2 Low, 2x4 Low | | | | | correlation matrix | | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Propagation conditions | EPA 5Hz, EVA 70Hz | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | resource index for SORTD | Two adjacent resources in the same PRB | | | | | | with the same orthogonal sequence. | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | | 2 | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Number of users | 1 | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+
Table D-3: Simulation assumptions for PUCCH format 2
+--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameters | Value | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration/ | 2x2 Low | | | | | correlation matrix | | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Propagation conditions | EVA 5Hz | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | resource index for SORTD | Two adjacent resources in the same PRB | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Number of CQI bits | 4 bit | +--------------------------+----------------------------------------+
#