# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
At present, sustainable development is a long-term commitment for all people
in the world. This means not only development but also innovation. People
should do their best to handle the resource shortage and environment
deterioration. Therefore, how to improve the power efficiency and realize the
power saving becomes a significant issue.
In the telecom area, most mobile network operators aim at decreasing the power
consumption without too much impact on their network. In this case, the
greenhouse emissions are reduced, while the OPEX of operators is saved.
Thus, the power efficiency in the infrastructure and terminal becomes an
essential part of the cost-related requirements in network, and there is a
strong need to investigate possible network energy saving solutions.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the study item on Network
Energy Saving for E-UTRAN, which was approved at TSG RAN#47. The objective of
the SI is to first identify the relevant scenarios and then study and present
the solutions that are applicable to EUTRAN energy saving. Furthermore,
initial evaluation should be performed for each solution.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-100674: \"Network Energy Saving for E-UTRAN \", CMCC.
[3] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Physical layer; Measurements \".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA; RRC; Protocol specification Release 10\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
eNB enhanced NodeB
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
ES Energy Savings
ESM Energy Savings Management
FFS For Further Specification
IoT Interference over Thermal
LTE Long Term Evolution
OAM Operations, Administration, Maintenance
OPEX Operating Expenses
RAN Radio Access Network
SON Self-Organizing Networks
TRX Transceiver
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 General
The objective of this study item is to identify potential solutions for energy
saving in E-UTRAN and perform initial evaluation of the proposed solutions, so
that a subset of them can be used as the basis for further investigation and
standardization.
**The following use cases will be considered in this study item as defined in
RP-100674 [2]:**
  * **Intra-eNB energy saving**
  * **Inter-eNB energy saving**
  * **Inter-RAT energy saving**
**Energy saving solutions identified in this study item should be justified by
valid scenario(s), and based on cell/network load situation. Impacts on legacy
and new terminals when introducing an energy saving solution should be
carefully considered. The scope of the study item shall be as follows:**
  * User accessibility should be guaranteed when a cell transfers to energy saving mode
  * Backward compatibility and the ability to provide energy saving for Rel-10 network deployment that serves a number of legacy UEs
  * Solutions shall not impact the Uu physical layer
  * The solutions should not impact negatively the UE power consumption
Note that energy saving for HeNB is out of the scope of this study item.
# 5 Inter-RAT energy saving
## 5.1 Study on inter-RAT scenario 1
### 5.1.1 Description of scenario 1
Networks may consist of LTE cells deployed as capacity enhancement, overlaying
existing and optimized 2G/3G network.
Figure 5.1.1-1. Inter-RAT energy saving scenario 1
Figure 5.1.1.1 shows scenario 1 in which E-UTRAN Cell C, D, E, F and G are
totally covered by the same legacy RAT Cell A and B (e.g. UMTS or GSM). Cell
A/B has been deployed to provide basic coverage of the services in the area,
while other E-UTRAN cells boost the capacity.
The E-UTRAN cells are only deployed for capacity enhancement at some hot
spots, therefore, the continuity of LTE coverage could not be guaranteed. The
legacy network provides the basic coverage, for UEs with multi-mode
capability.
The energy saving solutions for this scenario should only be considered in
case the E-UTRAN is jointly deployed with legacy RAT (e.g. UMTS or GSM). It is
up to operator\'s policy whether service for LTE-only capable devices needs to
be maintained.
If all cells have the same multiple PLMNs in a network sharing scenario, there
are no issues with the solutions to scenario 1. Limitations related to other
network sharing scenarios are not included within this Study Item.
### 5.1.2 Energy saving procedures
To achieve energy savings in this inter-RAT energy savings scenario, two
fundamental approaches, which differ in how capacity-booster E-UTRAN cells
enter or wake up from dormant mode, can be used. These approaches are:
  1. OAM-based approach
  2. Signalling-based approach
Furthermore, the energy saving policy may prefer not to switch off the E-UTRAN
cells that are in an overlapping area between two or more basic coverage cells
(handover region).
#### 5.1.2.1 OAM-based solution for E-UTRAN cell entering or waking up from
dormant mode
The approach is based on the complete set or a subset of [ ]{.underline}
following principles:
  * E-UTRAN cells enters or leaves dormant mode based on centralized OAM decisions, which are made based on statistical information obtained from coverage and/or GERAN/UTRAN/E-UTRAN cells, e.g. load information, traffic QCI, etc The OAM decisions can be pre-configured or directly signalled to the EUTRAN cells.
  * If an E-UTRAN cell enters or leaves dormant mode, its intra/inter-RAT neighbour nodes should be informed either via OAM or signalling.
#### 5.1.2.2 Signalling based solution for E-UTRAN cell entering or waking up
from dormant mode
The approach is based on the complete set or a subset of following principles:
  * E-UTRAN cells may decide to enter dormant mode autonomously or based on information exchanging with the UTRAN/GERAN coverage cell.
  * Switch off decisions/requests will be based on information locally available in the EUTRAN node, including load information of both the coverage and E-UTRAN cells.
  * Switch-on may be performed based upon requests from one or more neighbour inter-RAT nodes, or based on internal EUTRAN node policies (periodic switch on, max switch off time, etc,).
  * Intra-RAT and Inter-RAT neighbour nodes should be informed after on/off decision is made.
  * To perform energy saving more efficiently, some energy saving parameters may be exchanged between inter-RAT neighbour cells if required, e.g. traffic thresholds, time duration, power consumption and so on.
#### 5.1.2.3 How to exit dormant mode efficiently?
_Solution A: No assistance_
When some E-UTRAN cells are in dormant mode and the load increases on the
UTRAN/GERAN coverage cells, the UTRAN/GERAN coverage cells may not know the
most appropriate E-UTRAN cells to wake-up. The overloaded coverage cells may
request wake-up of one or more of the neighbouring dormant E-UTRAN cells. The
final decision to leave dormant mode is however taken by the E-UTRAN cell
based on information locally available.
Some possible enhancements to optimize switch on decisions are reported below,
whereby the actual "switch on" decision algorithm implementation could be
based on one or several of these enhancements:
_[Solution B: OAM predefined 'low-load periods' policies]{.underline}_
When the coverage UTRAN/GERAN cell detects high load, it uses a proprietary
algorithm to decide which E-UTRAN cells should be activated.
The algorithm could rely on pre-defined 'low-load periods' policies for each
neighbour E-UTRAN cell. The 'low-load periods' information can first be
derived from OAM based performance counters, and then the decision implemented
in the coverage cell.
_[Solution C: IoT measurements]{.underline}_
When the coverage UTRAN/GERAN cell detects high load, it can request some
dormant E-UTRAN cells to switch on their listening capability to perform and
report Interference over Thermal (IoT) measurements as defined in TS 36.214
[3].
_[Solution D: UEs measurements]{.underline}_
When the coverage UTRAN/GERAN cell detects high load, it can request some
dormant E-UTRAN cells to transmit the pilot signal (e.g. reference signal in
LTE) for at least a short time interval i.e. the so-called 'probing' interval.
After this interval, all or some E-UTRAN cells will return to dormant mode.
The UEs covered by the coverage cell will be configured to perform Reference
Signal (RS) measurements from the E-UTRAN cells during this interval and send
feedback (the same approach as defined for mobility purposes in TS 36.331 [5]
could be used). Based on the measurement results, the UTRAN/GERAN coverage
cell will then determine which E-UTRAN cells should be switched on.
_[Solution E: Positioning information]{.underline}_
When the coverage UTRAN/GERAN cell detects high load, it can use a combination
of UEs locations, cell locations, and cell radii/transmit powers in deciding
which E-UTRAN cells should be switched on (e.g. cells that cover the UEs).
Furthermore, a timer value can be included in the activation request message
sent from the UTRAN/GERAN coverage cell to the selected E-UTRAN cells. At the
expiry of this timer, each cell verifies if the condition required for staying
on has been met, and if not, it autonomously switches off again.
### 5.1.3 Evaluations and comparisons
In this section of the TR, the described cell switching procedures for Energy
Saving are evaluated and compared. In addition, all enhancements for
signalling-based cell switching approach are also evaluated.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | C | Cell | Cell | | | | | | riteria | switch | switch | | | | | | | on/off | on/off | | | | | | | based | based | | | | | | | on | on | | | | | | | cent | sig | | | | | | | ralized | nalling | | | | | | | OAM | across | | | | | | | de | RATs; | | | | | | | cisions | ass | | | | | | | | istance | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | switch | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | cisions | | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | | on: | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | No | OAM | IoT | UE | Posi | | | | ass | Pre | measu | measu | tioning | | | | istance | defined | rements | rements | info | | | | | 'low | | | rmation | | | | | load | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | eriods' | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | olicies | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Feas | F | F | F | F | Fe | F | | ibility | easible | easible | easible | easible | asible. | easible | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Applic | App | App | App | App | App | App | | ability | licable | licable | licable | licable | licable | licable | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | B | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | | ackward | | | | | | | | compat | | | | | | | | ibility | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Com | Medium: | Medium: | Medium: | High: | High: | Medium: | | plexity | | | | | | | | | - | -- | - OAM | - IoT | - | - need | | (*Note | Common | Add | sync is | measu | C | to | | 1) | O&M or | itional | not | rements | reation | collect | | | synch | network | needed. | of | of a | p | | | ronised | sig | | legacy | new | osition | | | O&M | nalling | - | RAT is | cell | info | | | between | is | Sta | needed | state | rmation | | | RATs is | needed | tistics | in the | ( | for | | | re | for | info | hotspot | probing | sign | | | quired. | a | rmation | cell in | phase) | ificant | | | | ctivate | is | ES | for | number | | | - | and | needed. | mode. | ne | of UEs. | | | com | dea | | | ighbour | | | | plexity | ctivate | | | r | | | | also | unne | | | elation | | | | depends | cessary | | | h | | | | on the | cells. | | | andling | | | | re | | | | | | | | quested | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | rovided | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | the RAN | | | | | | | | to O&M. | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Po | OAM | In the | It has | P | The | Since | | tential | based | worst | the | ossibly | most | UE | | ES gain | s | case | risk of | limited | useful | po | | | olution | some | st | a | cells | sitions | | | is | neigh | atistic | ccuracy | could | and | | | rel | bouring | info | of IoT | be | link | | | atively | s | rmation | meas | se | budgets | | | static | leeping | is | urement | lected, | are not | | | | eNBs | unable | and | at the | fully | | | | may be | to | thr | cost of | corr | | | | turned | reflect | esholds | intro | elated, | | | | on even | the | may | duction | the | | | | if | real | reduce | of an | method | | | | these | cond | the | inter | may | | | | eNBs | itions. | eff | mediate | th | | | | are not | | iciency | probing | erefore | | | | useful. | | of the | state | have a | | | | | | method. | where | limited | | | | | | | the | effi | | | | | | A | cell is | ciency. | | | | | | ccuracy | not | | | | | | | could | fully | Add | | | | | | be | func | itional | | | | | | in | tioning | gain | | | | | | creased | and | could | | | | | | at the | cannot | be | | | | | | cost of | accept | o | | | | | | com | ha | btained | | | | | | plexity | ndover. | at the | | | | | | | Energy | cost of | | | | | | | cons | com | | | | | | | umption | plexity | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | probing | | | | | | | | phase | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | reduce | | | | | | | | its | | | | | | | | gain. | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Specif | No | In | In | -In | In | In | | ication | impact | ter-RAT | ter-RAT | ter-RAT | ter-RAT | ter-RAT | | impact | on RAN | sig | sig | sig | sig | sig | | | s | nalling | nalling | nalling | nalling | nalling | | | pecific | for | for | for | for | for | | | ations. | cell | cell | cell | cell | cell | | | | sw | sw | sw | sw | sw | | | | itching | itching | itching | itching | itching | | | | on/off | on/off | on/off | on/off | on/off | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | - IoT | probing | | | | | | | measu | trigger | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | porting | | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | | added | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | curacy. | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | OAM | High | Low | Medium | Low | Low | Medium | | impact | | | | | | because | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | overage | | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | needed. | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | eNB | Not | Low | Low | High, | Medium, | Low | | impact | f | | | because | new | | | | oreseen | | | add | \"pr | | | | | | | itional | obing\" | | | | | | | UL | cell | | | | | | | r | state. | | | | | | | eceiver | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UE | Not | Not | Not | Not | Negl | None to | | impact | fo | fo | fo | fo | igible, | low | | | reseen. | reseen. | reseen. | reseen. | add | de | | | | | | | itional | pending | | | | | | | measu | on the | | | | | | | rements | posi | | | | | | | will be | tioning | | | | | | | r | me | | | | | | | equired | chanism | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | | probing | | | | | | | | phase. | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
*Note1: OAM Sync means OAM for different RAT should be synchronized.
### 5.1.4 Conclusions
Both OAM-based approach and Signalling-based approach are feasible, applicable
and backward compatible for improving energy efficiency in inter-RAT scenario.
Enhancement solutions on how to exit dormant mode efficiently are feasible,
applicable and backward compatible.
# 6 Inter-eNB energy saving
## 6.1 Study on inter-eNB scenario 1
### 6.1.1 Description of scenario 1
When operators deploy the LTE network, one possible application scenario of
energy saving is described hereafter.
Figure 6.1.1-1. Inter-eNB scenario 1 for energy saving
Figure 6.1.1-1 shows scenario1 in which E-UTRAN Cell C, D, E, F and G are
covered by the E-UTRAN Cell A and B. Here, Cell A and B have been deployed to
provide basic coverage, while the other E-UTRAN cells boost the capacity. When
some cells providing additional capacity are no longer needed, they may be
switched off for energy optimization. In this case, both the continuity of LTE
coverage and service QoS is guaranteed.
If all cells have the same multiple PLMNs in a network sharing scenario, there
are no issues with the solutions to scenario 1. Limitations related to other
network sharing scenarios are not included within this Study Item.
In general, inter-eNB energy saving mechanisms should preserve the basic
coverage in the network.
### 6.1.2 Energy Saving Procedures
#### 6.1.2.1 Baseline Rel-9 mechanisms
A signalling-based mechanism to achieve energy savings in the inter-eNB
scenario 1 has already been specified in Rel-9 as captured in TS 36.300 [4].
In the following some proposed enhancements to the Rel-9 solution are
discussed.
#### 6.1.2.2 How to exit dormant mode efficiently
When some E-UTRAN hotspot cells are not active and the load increases on the
E-UTRAN, the E-UTRAN coverage cells may not know the most appropriate E-UTRAN
cells to wake-up. The overloaded coverage cells may request wake-up of one or
more of the neighbouring dormant E-UTRAN cells. The final decision to leave
dormant mode is however taken by the E-UTRAN cell based on information locally
available.
Some possible enhancements to optimize switch on decisions are reported below,
whereby the actual "switch on" decision algorithm implementation could be
based on one or several of these enhancements:
_[Solution A: OAM predefined 'low-load periods' policy]{.underline}_
When the coverage cell detects high load, it uses a proprietary algorithm to
decide which hotspot cells should be activated. The algorithm could rely on
pre-defined 'low-load periods' for each neighbour hotspot cell. The 'low-load
periods' information can first be derived from OAM based performance counters,
and then configured in the coverage cell.
_[Solution B: IoT measurement]{.underline}_
When the coverage cell detects high load, it can request some dormant hotspot
cells to switch on their listening capability to perform and report
Interference over Thermal (IoT) measurements as defined in TS 36.214 [3].
_[Solution C: UEs measurement]{.underline}_
When the Coverage cell detects high load, it can request some dormant hotspot
cells to transmit the pilot signal (e.g. reference signal in LTE) for at least
a short time interval i.e. the so-called 'probing' interval. After this
interval, all or some hotspot cells will return to dormant mode. The UEs
covered by the coverage cell will be configured to perform Reference Signal
(RS) measurements from the hotspot cells during this interval and send the
feedback (the same approach as defined for mobility purposes in TS 36.331 [5]
could be reused). Based on the measurement results, the coverage cell will
then determine which hotspot cells should be switched on.
_[Solution D: Positioning information]{.underline}_
When the coverage cell detects high load, it can use a combination of UE
locations, cell locations, and cell radii/transmit powers in deciding which
hotspot cells should be switched on (e.g. cells that cover the UEs).
Furthermore, a timer value can be included in the activation request message
sent from the coverage cell to the selected hotspot cells. At the expiry of
this timer, each cell verifies if the condition required for staying on has
been met, and if not, it autonomously turn off cells again.
### 6.1.3 Evaluations and comparisons
In this part, all enhancements for cell exiting dormant mode will be evaluated
here. Information beneficial for energy saving, e.g. traffic thresholds, time
duration, power consumption, may be used if available.
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Criteria | Baseline | S | S | S | S | | | Rel-9 | witching | witching | witching | witching | | | | on based | on based | on based | on based | | | | on | on IoT | on UE | on | | | | pr | mea | mea | pos | | | | edefined | surement | surement | itioning | | | | low-load | | | | | | | periods | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Fea | Feasible | Feasible | Feasible | Feasible | Feasible | | sibility | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Appli | Ap | Ap | Ap | Ap | Ap | | cability | plicable | plicable | plicable | plicable | plicable | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Backward | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | | compa | | | | | | | tibility | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Co | Low: | Low: | Medium: | Medium: | Medium: | | mplexity | | | | | | | | -- | - | - IoT | - | - need | | | Ad | Specific | meas | inte | to | | | ditional | confi | urements | rference | collect | | | network | guration | and | issue | position | | | si | inf | si | during | inf | | | gnalling | ormation | gnalling | probing | ormation | | | is | is | is | phase | for | | | needed | required | needed | for | sig | | | for | and will | between | intra | nificant | | | activate | need to | hotspot | f | number | | | and | be | cells in | requency | of UEs. | | | de | updated. | energy | case- | | | | activate | | saving | Creation | | | | unn | | mode and | of a new | | | | ecessary | | coverage | cell | | | | cells. | | cell. | state | | | | | | | (probing | | | | | | | phase) | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | eighbour | | | | | | | relation | | | | | | | handling | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | P | In the | It has | Possibly | The most | Since UE | | otential | worst | the risk | limited | useful | p | | ES gain | case | of | accuracy | cells | ositions | | | some | s | of IoT | could be | and link | | | neig | tatistic | mea | s | budgets | | | hbouring | inf | surement | elected, | are not | | | sleeping | ormation | and | at the | fully | | | eNBs may | is | th | cost of | cor | | | be | unable | resholds | intr | related, | | | turned | to | may | oduction | the | | | on even | reflect | reduce | of an | method | | | if these | the real | the | inte | may | | | eNBs are | con | ef | rmediate | t | | | not | ditions. | ficiency | probing | herefore | | | useful. | | of the | state | have a | | | | | method. | where | limited | | | | | | the cell | eff | | | | | Accuracy | is not | iciency. | | | | | could be | fully | | | | | | i | fun | Ad | | | | | ncreased | ctioning | ditional | | | | | at the | and | gain | | | | | cost of | cannot | could be | | | | | co | accept | obtained | | | | | mplexity | h | at the | | | | | | andover. | cost of | | | | | | | co | | | | | | Energy | mplexity | | | | | | con | | | | | | | sumption | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | probing | | | | | | | phase | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | reduce | | | | | | | its | | | | | | | gain. | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Speci | Covered | None | X2 | X2 | S1 | | fication | by R9 | | si | si | si | | impact | s | | gnalling | gnalling | gnalling | | | olution. | | for | for | for UE | | | | | r | probing | pos | | | | | eporting | trigger | itioning | | | | | IoT | messages | r | | | | | meas | | etrieval | | | | | urements | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | OAM | Covered | Low | Low | Low | Medium | | impact | by R9 | | | | (need | | | s | | | | for | | | olution. | | | | detailed | | | | | | | coverage | | | | | | | infor | | | | | | | mation). | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | eNB | Covered | Low | Medium, | Medium, | Medium, | | impact | by R9 | | ad | new | location | | | s | | ditional | \"p | client | | | olution. | | UL | robing\" | in the | | | | | receiver | cell | eNB | | | | | for | state. | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nter-fre | | | | | | | quencies | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UE | Not | Not | Not | Not | None to | | impact | f | f | f | foreseen | low | | | oreseen. | oreseen. | oreseen. | for | d | | | | | | intra-f | epending | | | | | | requency | on the | | | | | | case, | pos | | | | | | Ne | itioning | | | | | | gligible | m | | | | | | for | echanism | | | | | | inter-f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | case | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 6.1.4 Conclusions
Release 9 inter-eNB energy saving solution is feasible, applicable and
backward compatible for improving energy efficiency.
Enhancement solutions on how to exit dormant mode efficiently are feasible,
applicable and backward compatible.
## 6.2 Study on inter-eNB scenario 2
### 6.2.1 Description of scenario 2
When operators deploy the LTE network, one possible application scenario for
energy saving is described hereafter.
Figure 6.2.1-1. Inter-eNB scenario 2 for energy saving
As shown in Figure 6.2.1-1, this scenario involves two cases. For both cases,
single layer coverage of E-UTRAN cells is deployed. At off-peak time, energy
saving cells may enter dormant mode, while the basic coverage is provided by
one cell (case 1) or by several compensation cells (case 2). In general, the
continuity of LTE coverage is guaranteed while the QoS of some services may be
impacted.
### 6.2.2 Energy saving procedures
When load level and distribution fluctuates some cells may be switched off,
but in order to guarantee continuous coverage, others must be kept on or even
reconfigured to cover up for those that are in dormant mode. To achieve energy
savings in this inter-eNB scenario, two fundamental approaches differing in
how hotspots E-UTRAN cells enters or leaves dormant mode can be used. These
approaches are:
  1. OAM-based approach
  2. Signalling-based approach
  3. Hybrid OAM and signalling-based approach
#### 6.2.2.1 OAM-based solution for E-UTRAN cell entering or waking up from
dormant mode
In this existing solution, all cells are preconfigured as potential
compensation cells and energy saving cells. The decision to enter or leave
dormant mode is made based on the proprietary algorithm in each cell
configured by OAM. The neighbour nodes should be informed either by the OAM or
by the signalling.
#### 6.2.2.2 Signalling based solution for E-UTRAN cell entering or waking up
from dormant mode
In this method, the cells are aware of whether they are compensation cell or
energy saving cell based on OAM or proprietary information which is knowledge
by itself, e.g. UE measurements, interference status, load information etc.
When the energy saving cell decides to enter dormant mode autonomously or
based on information exchanged with the compensation cell, it will initialise
communication with the corresponding compensation cells, and the coverage
related information may be included into the request message. The final
decision is made at the compensation cell and the feedback may be needed.
Furthermore, similar cell switching on procedure specified in Rel-9 as
captured in TS 36.300 [4] could be reused.
#### 6.2.2.3 Hybrid O&M and signalling based solution for E-UTRAN cell
entering or waking up from dormant mode
In this solution, the cells are preconfigured as potential compensation cells
or energy saving cells by OAM, and also OAM communicates to all cells, the
values of some parameters that determine the behaviour of switching on/off
mechanisms.
Note: Hybrid approach behavior depends entirely on the combination of OAM-
based and Signaling-based solution and the parameters applied, being the
behavior of cell switching on/off for OAM controlled and signaling exchange
mechanisms shown in the evaluation table. Therefore Hybrid mode will not be
compared against OAM or signaling based solution in the evaluation table.
### 6.2.3 Evaluations and comparisons
Rel-9 solution is not applicable in this scenario.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Criteria | Cell switching | Cell switching | | | on/off based on OAM | on/off based on | | | decisions (existing) | signalling exchange | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Feasibility | Feasible | Feasible | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Applicability | Applicable | Applicable | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Backward | Yes | ES-capable cells | | compatibility | | don\'t use Rel.9 | | | | autonomous switch | | | | off to avoid | | | | coverage holes | | | | | | | | Impact on ANR/HO | | | | parameter setting | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Complexity | High, because the | High. A certain | | | OAM should | coordination and | | | coordinate the cell | synchronization of | | | switching on/off | cell | | | | reconfigurations is | | | | needed to avoid | | | | creating coverage | | | | holes, or excessive | | | | interference levels | | | | during transitions | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Potential ES gain | Long term statistics | More flexible | | | may lead to a | compensation | | | conservative | schemes. In addition | | | approach | the mechanism could | | | | improve network | | | | robustness by | | | | permitting | | | | compensation in case | | | | of cell outage. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Specification impact | None | Signalling between | | | | multiple cells is | | | | needed, as well as | | | | definition of | | | | compensation | | | | mechanisms providing | | | | interoperability. | | | | | | | | Enhancement on | | | | ANR/HO parameter | | | | setting | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | OAM impact | High. OAM has to | Low | | | define compensation | | | | cell and its | | | | candidate energy | | | | saving cells, and | | | | how to switch on/off | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eNB impact | Low, some | High, eNB must be | | | functionalities are | able to adapt | | | required for | coverage (power / | | | guarantee UE's | tilt / azimuth). | | | coverage, e.g. ICIC | | | | | Compensation | | | | coordination | | | | function has to be | | | | implemented in | | | | compensation nodes. | | | | More limited impact | | | | on ES-capable cells. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE impact | Not foreseen. | Not foreseen. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.2.4 Conclusions
Both OAM-based approach and Signalling-based approach, as well as hybrid
approaches, are feasible, applicable and backward compatible for improving
energy efficiency in inter-eNB scenario 2.
# 7 Intra-eNB energy saving
## 7.1 Intra-eNB Scenario
A single cell can operate in energy saving mode when the resource utilization
is sufficiently low. In this case, the reduction of energy consumption will be
mainly based on traffic monitoring with regard to QoS and coverage assurance.
Since a large part of power of eNB is consumed by the power amplifier, energy
saving solutions for a single cell mainly aim at reducing power consumption of
the power amplifier.
## 7.2 Potential solutions and Evaluations
### 7.2.1 Configuring MBSFN subframes within the range supported according to
current specification limitation
MBSFN subframes have less common reference signals (CRS) than normal
subframes, and hence configuring as much as possible MBSFN subframes allows
reduced eNB transmission time. According to current specification, at most 5
and 6 MBSFN subframes can be configured per radio frame for TDD and FDD,
respectively.
_[1) Potential gain]{.underline}_
To utilize the currently possible MBFSN subframes is an efficient way for
energy efficient network operation in LTE and has potential to give energy
savings in the order of 30-50% in typical traffic scenarios compared to
operation without MBSFN subframes.
_[2) Potential risk]{.underline}_
There is no impact on coverage and backward compatibility identified.
_[3) Possible impact on the specification]{.underline}_
This solution already can be supported without any further impact on the
specification.
### 7.2.2 Configuring DwPTS in subframe 1 and 6 to the minimum length
For TDD, the special subframe consists of three parts, i.e. DwPTS, Guard
Period and UpPTS. The length of each part is configurable. Subframe 1 and 6
are configured as the special subframes for downlink-to-uplink switch-point
periodicity of 5ms, and subframe 1 is configured as the special subframe for
downlink-to-uplink switch-point periodicity of 10ms. To configure the DwPTS of
subframe 1 and 6 (if applicable) to the minimum length (3 OFDM symbols) can
result in a subframe similar to an MBSFN subframe.
_[1) Potential gain]{.underline}_
From eNB transmission time point of view, the difference between MBSFN
subframe and the special subframe with minimum length of DwPTS only lies in
that for the latter, one more OFDM symbol (the 3^rd^ one) is used to transmit
primary synchronization signal. Hence, the energy saving gains achieved by
this solution is very similar to configuring subframe 1/6 as MBSFN subframes.
_[2) Potential risk]{.underline}_
From coverage and backward compatibility aspects, there is no risk identified.
_[3) Possible impact on the specification]{.underline}_
This solution belongs to an implementation issue and no impact on the
specification is foreseen.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Evaluation Criteria
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Criteria | Description | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Feasibility | Candidate solutions should be easily | | | implemented with existing technology | | | and/or realistic changes to the standards. | | | If the solution breaks this criterion, it | | | is out of the scope of the energy saving | | | discussion. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Applicability | Verification against the scope of the SI | | | as added in the TR (see section 4). If the | | | solution breaks this criterion, it is out | | | of the scope of the energy saving | | | discussion. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Backward compatibility | In Release-9, RAN3 has already specified | | | an inter-eNB energy saving for E-UTRAN | | | based on the cross-eNB signalling | | | exchange. New solutions should be backward | | | compatible with Release-9 energy saving | | | solution in TS 36.300 [4]. If the | | | solution breaks this criterion, it is out | | | of the scope of the energy saving | | | discussion. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Complexity | Candidate solutions should not be too | | | complex when implemented in practice. This | | | criterion evaluates on how many messages | | | exchanging or calculation is needed for | | | the solutions. The frequency of appliance | | | could be considered here. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Potential ES gain | The potential gain of candidate solutions | | | for saving the energy should be evaluated. | | | Qualitative indication of ES gain may be | | | added relative to the following possible | | | reference points : | | | | | | a) Current options for Inter-RAT/eNB ES | | | solutions | | | | | | b) Other proposed ES solutions in the TR | | | (Inter-RAT or Inter-eNB) | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Specification impact | The specification impact should be | | | evaluated. The description of the impact | | | could be added. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | OAM impact | The OAM impact should be evaluated. The | | | description of the impact could be added. | | | The operation effort could be considered. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | eNB impact | The impact on eNB implementation should be | | | evaluated. The description of the impact | | | could be added. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | UE impact | The UE impact and requirement of optional | | | UE feature should be evaluated. The | | | description of the impact could be added. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
#