# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is intended to capture the output of the study item on
Signalling and procedure for interference avoidance for in-device coexistence,
which was approved at TSG RAN#48.
The objective of the SI is to investigate suitable mechanisms for interference
avoidance from signalling and procedure point of view to facilitate the
coexistence scenario that LTE and GPS/ ISM radio within the same device
working in adjacent frequencies or sub-harmonic frequencies. The work under
this study should take the following steps:
  1. Evaluate whether existing RRM mechanisms could be utilized to effectively solve the coexistence problems that arise in supporting the scenarios abovementioned and guarantee the required QoS in LTE with proper GPS/ISM operation.
  2. If legacy signaling and procedure are not sufficient to ensure required performance in the interested coexistence scenario, study enhanced mechanisms to better avoid interference and mitigate the impact caused by ISM radio.
Impact on legacy LTE UEs should be minimized.
NOTE: The candidate solutions should be firstly considered in the non-CA
(carrier aggregation) cases.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[3] Current and Planned Global and Regional Navigation Satellite Systems and
Satellite-based Augmentations Systems International Committee on Global
Navigation Satellite Systems Provider's Forum, United Nations, Office of outer
space affairs.
[4] 3GPP TS 36.305: \"Stage 2 functional specification of User Equipment (UE)
positioning in E-UTRAN\".
[5] 3GPP TR 23.861: \"Multi access PDN connectivity and IP flow mobility\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[7] R4-102416: \"In-device coexistence interference between LTE and ISM
bands\".
[8] R4-103306: \"Some experimental results and suggestions for in-device
coexistence\".
[9] R4-103526: \"Some experimental results for LTE and WLAN in-device
coexistence\".
[10] R4-103670: \"In-device coexistence interference between LTE and ISM
bands\".
[11] R4-104334: \"Analysis on LTE and ISM in-device coexistence
interference\".
[12] ACPF-7024: \"ISM Bandpass filter data sheet\"
[13] ACPF-7025: \"WiMAX bandpass filter data sheet\".
[14] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[15] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical Layer Procedures \".
[16] R2-111390: \"Autonomous gap patterns for BT conversational voice\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
**In-device Coexistence Interference** : when transmitting in one frequency
band interferes with receiving in another, within the same UE.
**ISM Radio** : the radio transceiver operating in ISM band
**Unscheduled period** : Period during which the LTE UE is not scheduled to
transmit or receive, thereby allowing the ISM radio to operate without
interference.
**Scheduling period** : Period during which the LTE UE may be scheduled to
transmit or receive.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
Abbreviation format (EW)
ISM band Industrial, scientific and medical band
GPS Global Positioning System
BT Bluetooth
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
SCO Synchronous connection oriented link
eSCO Extended synchronous connection orientated
A2DP Advanced audio data profile
ACL Asynchronous connection-oriented link
DCF Distributed Coordination Function
# 4 Scenarios
[Editor's note: This section covers the coexistence scenarios that the study
work is focusing on]
In order to allow users to access various networks and services ubiquitously,
an increasing number of UEs are equipped with multiple radio transceivers. For
example, a UE may be equipped with LTE, WiFi, and Bluetooth transceivers, and
GNSS receivers. One resulting challenge lies in trying to avoid coexistence
interference between those collocated radio transceivers. Figure 4-1 shows an
example of coexistence interference.
Figure 4-1: Coexistence interference within the same UE
Due to extreme proximity of multiple radio transceivers within the same UE,
the transmit power of one transmitter may be much higher than the received
power level of another receiver. By means of filter technologies and
sufficient frequency separation, the transmit signal may not result in
significant interference. But for some coexistence scenarios, e.g. different
radio technologies within the same UE operating on adjacent frequencies,
current state-of-the-art filter technology might not provide sufficient
rejection. Therefore, solving the interference problem by single generic RF
design may not always be possible and alternative methods needs to be
considered. An illustration of such kind of problem is shown in Figure 4-2 and
some RF analyses on in-device coexistence between LTE and ISM are given in
Annex A.
Figure 4-2: Example of coexistence interference\ from in-device ISM
transmitter to E-UTRA receiver
## 4.1 Coexistence interference scenarios
In this subclause, the coexistence interference scenarios between LTE radio
and other radio technologies are described. 3GPP frequency bands around 2.4GHz
ISM band are illustrated in Figure 4.1-1 [2].
Figure 4.1-1: 3GPP frequency bands around ISM band
**[LTE coexisting with WiFi]{.underline}**
There are 14 channels demarcated in ISM band for WiFi operation. Each channel
has 5 MHz separation from other channel with an exception of channel number 14
where separation is 12 MHz. Channel 1 starts with 2401 MHz and channel 14 ends
at 2495 MHz. Different countries have different policies for number of allowed
channels of WiFi. Most of the countries allow only channel 1 to 13, while only
in Japan the usage of channel number 14 is allowed for IEEE 802.11b. The
transmitter of LTE band 40 will affect receiver of WiFi and vice-versa. Since
band 7 is a FDD band so there is no impact on LTE receiver from WiFi
transmitter but WiFi receiver will be affected by LTE UL transmitter.
**[LTE coexisting with Bluetooth]{.underline}**
Bluetooth operates in 79 channels of 1 MHz each in ISM band. The first channel
starts with 2402 MHz and the last channel ends at 2480 MHz. Similar as WiFi
case, the activities of LTE band 40 and BT will disturb each other, and the
transmission of LTE band 7 UL will affect BT reception as well.
**[LTE Coexisting with GNSS]{.underline}**
Examples of GNSS include GPS, Modernized GPS, Galileo, GLONASS, Space Based
Augmentation Systems (SBAS), and Quasi Zenith Satellite System (QZSS) [3],
[4]. GNSS systems operate in various frequencies globally with country
specific deviations:
\- Frequencies of operation for GPS, Modernised GPS: L1 (1575.42 MHz),
L2(1227.6 MHz), L1C (1575.42 MHz), L2C (1227.6MHz), L5(1176.45 MHz);
\- Frequencies of operation for Galileo: E1(1575.42MHz), E5A(1176.45 MHz),
ALTBOC(1191.795MHz), E5B (1207.14 MHz), E6(1278.75 MHz);
\- Frequencies of operation for GLONASS: L1(1602.0 MHz), L2 (1246.0 MHz);
\- Frequencies of operation for Compass: Same frequencies as Galileo;
\- Frequencies of operation for QZSS and SBAS: Same frequencies as GPS.
Therefore, the problematic cases for collocated LTE and GNSS include:
\- Band 13 (UL: 777-787 MHz) /14 (UL: 788-798 MHz) can cause interference to
L1/E1 frequency of GNSS (1575.42 MHz) as it is close to the second harmonics
of band 13/14 (1554-1574 MHz for band 13, 1576-1596 MHz for band 14);
\- Galileo is supporting proposal for new global allocation at 2.5 GHz for
GNSS, which will be affected by band 7 LTE collocated operation [3];
\- Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System uses IRNSS standard position
and restricted services are transmitted on L5 (1164-1215 MHz) and S
(2483.5-2500 MHz) bands [3], which will be affected by band 7 LTE collocated
operation.
NOTE: In the last few years, there have been tremendous advancements in GPS
receivers to reduce size, cost and improve accuracy. A near future possibility
of advancement in GNSS receiver would be to build dual frequency GNSS receiver
at low cost. It is possible to build dual frequency GNSS receiver using L1 and
L5 in low cost, because L5 frequency is open for public use and it can be used
for more precise positioning. This makes it an attractive possibility of
integrating dual frequency GNSS receiver using L1 and L5 frequency. The issue
with L5 now is that there are only few satellites transmitting L5 and they are
focusing on North America only. All GPS satellites start transmitting L5 only
by 2020. But a positive trend is that even Galileo is planning L5 and other
systems developed by various countries are also planning L5. Hence, most
probably L5 frequency will be available by 2014 globally. Another direction of
GNSS receiver advancement is integration of motion sensors with GNSS
receivers. With the help of motion sensors, the position can be predicted even
if GNSS signal suddenly becomes week or unavailable.
**[Summary of in-device coexistence interference scenarios]{.underline}**
Based on the above analysis, some examples of the problematic coexistence
scenarios that need to be studied are:
\- Case 1: LTE Band 40 radio Tx causing interference to ISM radio Rx;
\- Case 2: ISM radio Tx causing interference to LTE Band 40 radio Rx;
\- Case 3: LTE Band 7 radio Tx causing interference to ISM radio Rx;
\- Case 4: LTE Band 7/13/14 radio Tx causing interference to GNSS radio Rx.
## 4.2 Usage scenarios
In order to facilitate the study, it is also important to identify the usage
scenarios that need to be considered. This is because different usage
scenarios will lead to different assumption on behaviours of LTE and other
technologies radio, which in turn impact on the potential solutions.
**1a) LTE + BT earphone (VoIP service)**
In the scenario of LTE voice over IP, the voice traffic transmitted by BT is
actually from/to LTE, where the traffic activities between LTE and BT will be
very similar because of the end-to-end latency requirement.
The coexistence interference case 1-3 of section 4.1 may happen in this usage
scenario.
**1b) LTE + BT earphone (Multimedia service)**
Another scenario is that multimedia (e.g. HD video) is downloaded by LTE and
audio is routed to a BT headset, where the traffic activities between LTE and
BT are correlated as well.
For the multimedia (HD video) scenario, in case a time domain solution is
needed, the requirements for the scheduling/unscheduled periods for typical
streaming applications can be obtained based on the requirements on the BT and
LTE sides. Activity time on BT can be very dynamic for BT streaming. The BT
audio stream typically uses the advanced audio data profile (A2DP) for
Bluetooth and typically more than [60 ms] transmission latency can cause
playback problems at the BT receiver. Hence, the scheduling period of LTE
should not exceed this time.
The latency requirement is less stringent on the LTE side, depending on the
QCI (e.g. 150ms for QCI 2 [6]). Hence, the maximum unscheduled period for LTE
can be as much as 150 ms. However, in order to not limit LTE throughput, it is
desirable to minimize the LTE unscheduled period and the smallest unscheduled
period is determined by the on time needed by BT to sustain the data rate,
depending on the link condition. This number typically ranges from [15] ms to
[60] ms. Note that making the LTE unscheduled period much shorter can make it
difficult for BT to utilize the available time given the BT framing structure.
Further, there are no benefits in this case to align the LTE unscheduled
period to the BT timelines. In summary, under this scenario and the assumed BT
profile, if a time domain solution is needed, it should meet the following
guidelines:
  * The LTE scheduling period is to be less than [60] msec
  * The LTE unscheduled period is to be around [15-60] msec
The coexistence interference case 1-3 of section 4.1 may happen in this usage
scenario.
**2) LTE + WiFi portable router**
In this scenario, LTE is considered as a backhaul link to access the Internet,
and the connectivity is shared by other local users using WiFi. In this
scenario, the WiFi transceiver is operated as an AP and has full control on
frequency channel and transmitting power. Given the ability of the WiFi
transceiver to select the frequency channel, it may be possible to avoid
interference to/from WiFi by moving the WiFi signal away from the LTE band. If
this is not sufficient, time domain solutions are applicable.
On the DL, the worst case latency will be for a packet arriving at the eNB at
the beginning of the LTE unscheduled period, with the resulting latency being
the sum of the LTE unscheduled period (waiting for LTE scheduling) and the LTE
scheduling period (waiting for WiFi scheduling). Similar argument applies on
the UL. Though the scheduling/unscheduled periods can be made as small as 1 ms
to minimize latency, this is not desirable due to the impact on
retransmissions and other timelines on both LTE and WiFi. Hence, somewhat
larger periods should be used, keeping in mind a balance between the timeline
requirements and the needs of the specific QCI.
In order to fulfil latency requirements of common services under this
scenario, the scheduling periods and unscheduled periods should use the
following guidelines
  * Scheduling periods and unscheduled periods should be typically not > more than [20-60] ms.
  * The scheduling and unscheduled periods should be large enough for > reasonable operation of the LTE and WiFi timelines. Corresponding > numbers are FFS.
  * Since LTE has typically lower data rate than the WiFi link, the LTE > scheduling periods should be longer than the unscheduled periods > in order to achieve roughly the same throughput on both links.
The coexistence interference case 1-3 of section 4.1 may happen in this usage
scenario.
**3) LTE + WiFi offload**
In this scenario, an LTE UE can also connect to WiFi to offload traffic from
LTE and the WiFi transceiver of the UE operates as a terminal (not AP) in
infrastructure mode. It is difficult for the WiFi radio to change the
configured frequency channel. In addition, the WiFi radio has to keep
listening to the beacon signal transmitted from WiFi AP for maintaining
connection. This usage scenario is getting studied in 3GPP [5].
For this scenario, in case a time domain solution is needed, the requirements
for the scheduling period and unscheduled periods differ from the previous
scenario in three ways:
One difference is about WiFi beacon reception by the UE in WiFi client mode.
Proper reception of the beacon requires alignment of the LTE unscheduled
period with the WiFi beacons. Also, the scheduling period of LTE should be no
longer than 100ms in order to provide for beacon reception.
The second difference is that the packet traverses only one over-the-air link
(WiFi for offload packets, and LTE for non-offload packets), hence somewhat
larger (approximately double) scheduling periods and unscheduled periods can
meet the same latency requirements.
The third difference is that the ratio of the scheduling and unscheduled
periods should roughly correspond to the traffic volume of the non-offloaded
and offloaded traffic.
As in the previous scenario, the guidelines depend on a balance between the
latency requirements of the QCI, and the requirements of the
acknowledgement/timeline of LTE and WiFi. In order to fulfil latency
requirements of common services under this scenario, the scheduling periods
and unscheduled periods should use these guidelines
  * The scheduling and unscheduled periods should typically be not more > than [40-100] ms.
  * The scheduling and unscheduled periods should be large enough for > reasonable operation of the LTE and WiFi timelines. Corresponding > numbers are FFS.
  * Aligning the LTE unscheduled period with WiFi beacons is important.
  * The ratio of the scheduling and unscheduled periods should be > aligned to the ratio of the volume of non-offloaded and offloaded > traffic.
The coexistence interference case 1-3 of section 4.1 may happen in this usage
scenario.
**4) LTE + GNSS Receiver**
This usage scenario considers that the LTE UE is also equipped with the GNSS
(e.g. GPS) receiver to support location services. To be specific, the
following three sub-scenarios represent sufficiently wide range of
possibilities for use:
  * Initial position fix (initial satellite search) in good signal > conditions (e.g. outdoors). This sub-scenario is applicable for > emergency calls, where the UE needs to locate itself using the > A-GPS assistance information. It can be also applicable for > navigation and other location based services (e.g. > advertisements).
  * Initial position fix in difficult signal conditions (e.g. urban > canyon, or indoors). This sub-scenario is similar to the previous > one, but with special consideration to the signal conditions.
  * Successive position fixes during navigation. In this sub-scenario, > the UE has already a good knowledge about the satellite signals, > and is only making successive fixes. On the other hand, it can be > expected that the LTE is serving voice and/or data, for example to > download maps.
In all the sub-scenarios, it can be expected that LTE UL transmissions cause
interference to the GNSS receiver.
The coexistence interference case 4 of section 4.1 may happen in this usage
scenario.
# 5 **Potential solutions for interference avoidance**
[Editor's note: This section is intended to capture potential solutions to
solve the in-device coexistence issues described in section 4. The
effectiveness of existing solutions and envisioned enhancement will be
analyzed and evaluated in this section.]
## 5.1 Introduction
The potential solutions for interference avoidance are mainly considered for
the UE in CONNECTED mode. IDLE mode operation itself is not considered a
problem, since the UE can just stop ISM transmissions at important LTE
reception moments, e.g. when receiving LTE paging. It is FFS whether cell
reselection enhancements need to be considered in order for the UE in IDLE
mode to avoid problems at every subsequent transition to RRC_CONNECTED.
### 5.1.1 Modes of interference avoidance
#### 5.1.1.1 Uncoordinated mode
In this mode, different technologies within the same UE operate independently
without any internal coordination between each other, as illustrated in Figure
5.1.1.1-1.
Figure 5.1.1.1-1: Uncoordinated mode
#### 5.1.1.2 Coordinated within UE only
In this mode, there is an internal coordination between the different radio
technologies within the same UE, which means that at least the activities of
one radio is known by other radio. However, the network is not aware of the
coexistence issue possibly experienced by the UE and is therefore not involved
in the coordination.
Figure 5.1.1.2-1: Coordinated within UE only
#### 5.1.1.3 Coordinated within UE and with network
In this mode, different radio technologies within the UE are aware of possible
coexistence problems and the UE can inform the network about such problems. It
is then mainly up to the network to decide how to avoid coexistence
interference.
Figure 5.1.1.3-1: Coordinated with network level
### 5.1.2 Potential solution directions
#### 5.1.2.1 Move LTE Signal away from ISM Band
The basic concept of this solution is illustrated on Figure 5.1.2.1-1, where
LTE signal is led away from ISM band in frequency domain.
Figure 5.1.2.1-1: Potential solutions to move LTE signal away from ISM band
#### 5.1.2.2 Move ISM Radio Signal away from LTE Frequency Band
The basic concept of this solution is illustrated on Figure 5.1.2.2-1, where
ISM radio signal is led away from LTE frequency band in frequency domain. In
order to help ISM radio complete the necessary procedure to enable this
option, LTE may also need to avoid coexistence interference to ISM radio
during the initial stage.
Figure 5.1.2.2-1: Move ISM radio signal away from LTE frequency band
#### 5.1.2.3 Time Division Multiplexing (TDM)
The basic concept of this solution is illustrated on Figure 5.1.2.3-1. It
consists in ensuring that transmission of a radio signal does not coincide
with reception of another radio signal.
Figure 5.1.2.3-1: Time division multiplexing for coexistence interference
avoidance
#### 5.1.2.4 LTE Power Control (LTE PC)
The basic concept of this solution is illustrated on Figure 5.1.2.4-1. LTE
transmission power is reduced to mitigate the interference to ISM/GNSS
receiver.
Figure 5.1.2.4-1: LTE power control for coexistence interference mitigation
#### 5.1.2.5 ISM Power Control (ISM PC)
The basic concept of this solution is illustrated on Figure 5.1.2.5-1. ISM
transmission power is reduced to mitigate the interference to LTE receiver.
Figure 5.1.2.5-1: ISM power control for coexistence interference mitigation
## 5.2 Description of interference avoidance solutions
### 5.2.1 LTE network-controlled UE-assisted solutions
#### 5.2.1.1A General
Depending on the conditions of in-device coexistence interference on the
serving frequency and non-serving frequencies, there are four scenarios to be
considered as listed in Table 5.2.1.1A-1.
Table 5.2.1.1A‑1: Conditions of in-device coexistence interference
* * *
**Scenario** **Simple description for each scenario** 1 On-going interference
on the serving frequency 2 Potential interference (currently not on-going) on
the serving frequency 3 On-going interference on non-serving frequencies 4
Potential interference (currently not on-going) on non-serving frequencies
* * *
At the initiation of LTE network-controlled UE-assisted solutions, the UE can
send an indication to the network to report the coexistence problems. In case
of scenario 1, indications can be sent by the UE whenever it has problem in
ISM DL reception it cannot solve by itself. At the same time, indications can
also be sent by the UE whenever it has problem in LTE DL reception it cannot
solve by itself, and the eNB did not take action yet based on RRM
measurements. Other triggers of indication could be summarized as the
following three cases, which relate to scenario 2-4 in Table 5.2.1.1A-1
respectively:
1) the UE indicates the network that coexistence problems may become serious
on the serving frequency due to e.g. increase of ISM traffic;
2) the UE indicates the network that certain of non-serving frequencies are
experiencing serious coexistence problems (no serious coexistence problems on
the serving frequency);
3) the UE indicates the network that coexistence problems may become serious
on the non-serving frequencies (no serious coexistence problems on the serving
frequency).
When LTE UL transmission interferes with ISM/GNSS DL reception, LTE
measurements cannot be used to detect the problem and the details of the
trigger(s) for the UE to report the problem will probably not be specified in
3GPP. When ISM UL transmission interferes with LTE DL reception, existing RRM
measurement cannot guarantee timely trigger of indication. Triggers of
indication in scenarios 2-4 are not limited to LTE DL measurements.
The triggers of indication should focus on scenarios 1 and 3 in Table
5.2.1.1A-1. If the interference situation changes significantly, the UE should
send an indication to the network to report the updated interference
situation. It is left to work item phase to discuss how to limit unnecessary
triggers/trigger misuse e.g. by defining new measurements or new test cases.
In order to avoid ping-pong handover back to the problematic frequency, it
would be valuable to make the target eNB be aware of the coexistence problem
within the UE. The following two options have been identified to transport
(part of) the information to a target eNB:
  * The information is transferred from the source to the target eNB;
  * The information is reported again by the UE to the target eNB
#### 5.2.1.1 Frequency Division Multiplexing (FDM) solution
The UE informs the E-UTRAN when transmission/reception of LTE or other radio
signal would benefit or no longer benefit from LTE not using certain carriers
or frequency resources. UE judgement is taken as a baseline approach for the
FDM solution, i.e. the UE will indicate which frequencies are unusable due to
in-device coexistence.
It is FFS how this indication is transmitted (e.g. new report, CQI dummy
values, dummy RSRP measurement, etc) and if additional information would be
useful to report to enable different handover policies in the eNB based on the
actual interferer.
The details of E-UTRAN actions upon reception of the assistant information are
FFS.
#### 5.2.1.2 TDM solutions
SCO, eSCO, A2DP and ACL protocols are assumed to be supported by in-device BT
radio when analyzing the TDM solutions for LTE-BT coexistence. Beacon, power
saving and DCF protocols are assumed to be supported by in-device WiFi radio
when analyzing the TDM solutions for LTE-WiFi coexistence.
For TDM solutions, the UE can signal the necessary information, e.g.
interferer type, mode, and possibly the appropriate offset in subframes to the
eNB. The UE can also signal a suggested pattern to the eNB. Based on such
information, the final TDM patterns (i.e. scheduling and unscheduled periods)
are configured by the eNB.
> Editor's note: Performance analysis (e.g. QoS) of TDM solutions is not
> completed. The feasibility and usefulness of TDM solutions need further
> study.
##### 5.2.1.2.1 DRX based solution
The UE provides the eNB with a desired TDM pattern. For example, the
parameters related to the TDM pattern can consist of:
\- Periodicity of the TDM pattern;
\- Scheduling period (or unscheduled period).
One example of the desired TDM pattern is depicted in Figure 5.2.1.2.1-1
Figure 5.2.1.2.1-1: Example of UE suggested TDM pattern
It is up to the eNB to decide and signal the final DRX configuration to the UE
based on UE suggested TDM pattern and other possible criteria e.g. traffic
type. The scheduling period corresponds to the active time of DRX operation
defined in section 5.7 [14], while unscheduled period corresponds to the
inactive time. The eNB should try to guarantee the unscheduled period by
existing mechanisms, e.g. appropriate UL/DL scheduling, SRS transmission
configuration, DRX Command MAC control element usage, and etc. It means that
flexibility principles from existing DRX mechanism will apply (i.e. variable
scheduling/unscheduled period is possible) and no impact on UE HARQ operation
is assumed so far. During inactive time UE is allowed to delay the initiation
of dedicated scheduling request and/or RACH procedure. Figure 5.2.1.2.1-2
illustrates one example of eNB signalled DRX configuration based on UE
suggested pattern depicted in Figure 5.2.1.2.1-1:
Figure 5.2.1.2.1-2: Example of DRX configured by eNB to enable TDM
It is FFS whether special handling for RRM/RLM/CSI measurement during
unscheduled period (inactive time) would be required.
##### 5.2.1.2.2 HARQ process reservation based solution
In this solution, e.g. a number of LTE HARQ processes or subframes are
reserved for LTE operation, and the remaining subframes are used to
accommodate ISM/GNSS traffic.
For example, for LTE TDD UL/DL Configuration 1, the solution is shown in
Figure 5.2.1.2.2-1. For each radio frame, subframe #1, #2 #6 and #7 are
reserved for LTE usage. Other subframes may be used for ISM/GNSS traffic, i.e.
UE may not be required to receive PDCCH/PDSCH and/or transmit PUSCH/PUCCH in
those subframes, depending on coexistence scenarios.
{width="6.251388888888889in" height="3.1618055555555555in"}
Figure 5.2.1.2.2-1: Example of HARQ process reservation solution
It is up to the eNB to decide and signal the final pattern, e.g. a bitmap
(i.e. subframe reservation pattern) to the UE based on some assistance
information reported by the UE. With respect to the assistant information, the
UE can indicate either:
  * Time offset between BT and LTE + BT configuration, or
  * In-device coexistence interference pattern(s), or
  * HARQ process reservation based pattern(s)
The information that UE provides should allow the network to ensure at least a
pair of clean BT Tx/Rx instances in each BT interval, and as much as possible
capacity to LTE. The reserved subframes should comply with LTE release 8/9 UL
HARQ timing [15], and comply with LTE release 8/9 DL HARQ timing [15] as much
as possible. It means that UE can assume that the eNB will restrict itself to
DL allocation/UL grants inside this pattern. It is FFS whether the patterns
are standardized in the specification, so that the eNB (or UE) can only signal
an index of pattern (e.g. bitmap) to the UE (or eNB). It is FFS how frequent
the assistant information should be sent from the UE.
##### 5.2.1.2.3 Uplink scheduling restriction based solution
LTE uplink transmission causes interference to GNSS reception. In certain
coexistence scenarios it would be helpful if the eNB scheduler restricts
uplink scheduling for the UE to certain threshold. This solution is suitable
for solving coexistence issue for those scenarios which needs LTE uplink
transmission randomly distributed but restricted to certain threshold. The UE
inform the interference situation to the eNB along with some assistant data
e.g. uplink scheduling restriction threshold. The eNB scheduler tries to
restrict uplink scheduling for the UE within the threshold.
For example, in GNSS each bit is DSSS spread over few tens of ms, i.e. 20ms
bit period in case of GPS. GNSS requires some amount of interference free time
every bit period depending upon GNSS receiver phase (i.e. acquisition,
tracking phase). There may be no specific requirement that certain portion of
bit period is more critical than other. If GNSS receiver can get sufficient
percentage of interference free time out of every bit period then it can
possibly recover the signal and solve the in-device co-existence issue.
#### 5.2.1.3 LTE power control solutions
To mitigate coexistence interference to ISM/GNSS DL reception, the UE can
report the need for power reduction to the eNB.
For existing mechanism, the UE can adjust the power control parameters locally
and report the change by existing mechanism (PHR, extended PHR). The eNB may
not be aware of the reason, but it gets the idea that the UE demands power
reduction through the report. This group of solutions can be implemented by
Rel-8/9/10 UEs. It is FFS whether P-MPR can be used for this purpose.
If a new report is introduced, it is FFS how the report is transmitted (e.g.
via RRC or MAC) and what information should be included (e.g. interference
type, power reduction value, etc).
Upon reception of the report the eNB can adjust the UE transmission power
through existing mechanism, e.g. PDCCH or RRC signalling.
### 5.2.2 UE autonomous solutions
#### 5.2.2.1 TDM solutions
##### 5.2.2.1.1 LTE denials for infrequent short-term events
UE can autonomously deny LTE resources due to some critical short-term events
of ISM side, e.g. some events during BT/WiFi connection-setup or other
important signalling. Otherwise, large delay or failure of connection-setup
could happen if these events are not prioritized over LTE. This solution is
assumed to be used for the event that rarely takes place. Potentially,
requirements on the frequency and duration of denials would need to be defined
if such a solution would be adopted.
Autonomous LTE denial at the UE, i.e. UE occasionally skipping an LTE UL
transmission could be considered as a solution to handle reception of WiFi
beacon. However, concerns have been raised that this may impact PDCCH and
PUSCH link adaptation. Therefore, further evaluations, also considering the
factors like beacon transmission delay by the master, are needed to confirm
feasibility of this solution. It is FFS whether further enhancement is needed,
e.g. the UE would have to provide additional assistant information to the
network to keep link adaptation working.
> Editor's note: The feasibility and usefulness of this solution need further
> study.
##### 5.2.2.1.2 LTE denials for ISM data packets
During stable situation of ISM operation, some LTE resources can be denied by
UE autonomously to protect ISM data packets, so e.g. the BT eSCO connection or
WiFi connection with PS-Poll can be maintained. The UE can feedback the denial
pattern to the eNB, or the eNB can learn the pattern used by the UE based on
DTX and other implementation specific solutions. An example of this solution
is shown in Figure 5.2.2.1.2-1.
Figure 5.2.2.1.2-1: Example of LTE denials in case of LTE in Band40 coexisting
with BT slave
The analysis indicates that without eNB knowing the denial resources, the UL
throughput loss is up to 41.6% [16]. Therefore, autonomous LTE denials for ISM
data packets seem not an acceptable solution for solving steady state
situations e.g. voice call.
##### 5.2.2.1.3 ISM denials for LTE important reception
UE can autonomously deny ISM transmissions to ensure successful reception of
important LTE signalling, e.g. system information, paging, synchronization
signal, critical dedicated signalling, etc. The details are up to UE
implementation and will not be specified in 3GPP.
## 5.3 Applicability of interference avoidance solutions
The applicability of TDM solutions for each usage scenario is summarized in
Table 5.3-1.
Table 5.3‑1: Applicability of different TDM solutions
* * *
**TDM solution** **Usage scenario**  
**LTE+BT earphone (VoIP service)** **LTE+BT earphone (Multimedia service)**
**LTE+WiFi portable router** **LTE+WiFi offload** **LTE+GNSS Receiver** HARQ
process reservation based solution Applicable Applicable for BT Master, but
not applicable for BT Slave FFS FFS Applicable DRX based solution Not
applicable Applicable Applicable Applicable Applicable Uplink scheduling
restriction based solution Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not
applicable Applicable Autonomous denial solution Complementary solution for
receiving important signalling
* * *
# 6 **Conclusion**
[Editor's note: This section captures the conclusion of the study. The section
can be formulated in such way that the contents can be used as an input of
further specification work.]
The following main conclusions were drawn during the study item phase:
  1. FDM solution is believed to be a feasible solution to resolve the in-device coexistence issues.
  2. At this stage, it seems impossible to come up with a unified TDM solution to solve coexistence issues of all the usage scenarios. The possibility of unified signalling approach could be investigated during work item phase.
  3. It has been confirmed that any media sharing solution will come at a cost for LTE.
# Annex A: Interference analysis on in-device coexistence between LTE and ISM
The RF analyses on in-device coexistence interference between ISM and LTE
technologies have been studied. The analyses and measurements presented in
[7], [8], [9], [10], and [11] indicate that for some in-device coexistence
scenarios, significant degradation of both LTE and ISM systems can occur
despite current state-of-the-art RF filtering technology. However, for other
in-device coexistence scenarios, it is observed that frequency-domain
solutions, e.g. moving to different frequencies and filtering can sufficiently
suppress the coexistence interference [11]. The precise quantitative results
differ from contribution to contribution due to different assumptions in the
analyses or the measurement approaches. Nonetheless, the conclusions are
consistent in that at least a significant fraction of spectrum is highly
desensitized when the other technology is transmitting. For the remainder of
this section, we will refer to the analysis provided in [7] as Analysis 1, the
measurement and analysis in [8] and [9] as Analysis 2, the analysis in [10] as
Analysis 3, and the analysis in [11] as Analysis 4, respectively. The
approaches and assumptions for these four analyses are summarized in Table
A-1.
Table A‑1: Assumptions for the RF Analyses
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | **Analysis |** Analysis | **Analysis |** Analysis | | Parameter**| 1** | 2**| 3** | 4** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LTE Band | 40 and 7 | 40 and 7 | 40 | 40 and 7 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ISM | BT, WLAN | WLAN | WLAN | BT, WLAN | | technology | | | | | | considered | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | I | LTE to | LTE to | LTE to WLAN | LTE to | | nterference | BT/WLAN; | WLAN; | only | BT/WLAN; | | directions | | | | | | considered | BT/WLAN to | WLAN to LTE | | BT/WLAN to | | for B40 | LTE | | | LTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | I | Spurious | Spurious | Spurious | Spurious | | nterference | emission | emission | emission | emission | | mechanisms | and | and | only | and | | considered | blocking | blocking | | blocking | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Filter | FBAR | No filters | C | FBAR | | | | external to | ommercially | | | | | test set-up | available | | | | | | filter | | | | | | (typic | | | | | | al/minimum) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Antenna | 12 dB | 15, 20, 25 | 12 dB | 12 dB | | Isolation | | dB | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LTE Tx | 23 dBm | 23 dBm | N/A | 0, 15, 23 | | power | | | | dBm | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | WLAN Tx | 20 dBm | 20 dBm | 20 dBm | 20 dBm, | | power | | | | 14.5 dBm | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | BT Tx power | 10 dBm | N/A | N/A | 4 dBm, 0 | | | | | | dBm | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LTE RSSI | -94 dBm | -70 dBm | -94 dBm | -94 dBm | | (as victim) | | | | (Band 40) | | | | | | -92 dBm | | | | | | (Band 7) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | WLAN RSSI | -79 dBm | -50 dBm | N/A | -89 dBm, | | | | | | -76 dBm | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | BT RSSI | -90 dBm | N/A | N/A | -70 dBm | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LTE | 20 MHz | 25-100 RBs | 20 MHz | 20 MHz | | Bandwidth | | (over 20 | | | | | | MHz) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | WLAN | 22 MHz | 22 MHz | 22 MHz | 22 MHz | | Bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | BT | 1 MHz | N/A | N/A | 1 MHz | | Bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Performance | Dese | EVM | Dese | Dese | | measure | nsitization | | nsitization | nsitization | | | (in dB) | | (in dB) | (in dB) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Based on the RF analyses, the following observations are obtained:
  * For some in-device coexistence scenarios, the interference can > severely disrupt receive activities in the entire victim band. For > these scenarios, frequency-domain solutions such as moving to > different frequencies or filtering may not be feasible.
  * For other in-device coexistence scenarios, frequency-domain > solutions can sufficiently suppress the coexistence interference.
  * LTE transmit power control (typically power level below the maximum > 23dBm) can help mitigate/reduce the coexistence interference to > ISM receptions.
## A.1 Assumptions
### A.1.1 Filtering assumptions
A critical parameter in quantifying the expected degradation in performance is
the filtering assumptions used in the analysis. A transmit filter reduces the
out-of-band spurious emissions falling into the receive band of the other
technology; whereas a receive filter reduces the blocking effect due to the
transmitter in the other technology. Each filter serves a different, but
necessary purpose in mitigating interference and desensitization to the extent
possible within the constraints of the design. For purposes of this
coexistence study, the key constraint is the limited attenuation available
over the transition band of the filter. In some cases, for example between LTE
in Band 40 and ISM starting at 2400 MHz, there is no guard band available for
the filter to transition over. Thus, the limited rejection of the filter over
the transition band is the most detrimental when each technology is operating
at the band edges. The problem is amplified when one takes into account the
variation in filter response across manufacturing process and over the
temperature range that the device must operate.
In Analysis 1, the best known simulated BAW (FBAR) filter performance for both
ISM and LTE have been assumed. The analysis further accounts for filter
response variations over process and temperature.
In Analysis 2, lab measurement results were provided to indicate the nature of
interference and the performance degradation. In this case, lab bench test
equipment was used to evaluate performance. The transmitted signals, both
wanted and interfering, were produced by signal generators. The receiver was a
vector signal analyzer measuring the error vector magnitude (EVM) of the
received signal corrupted by interference. External filters were not employed
in the test setup, so the Tx and Rx filtering function was provided by the
inherent filtering in the signal generators and vector signal analyzer. The
filtering function on the test equipment was not specified in the
contribution.
In Analysis 3, a commercially available filter [12] has been assumed for ISM
transmitter. Both the typical and the worst filter performance parameters are
evaluated as indicated below.
  * Typical attenuation filter value: 45dB for frequencies less than > 2370 MHz and 37dB for frequencies between 2370 MHz and 2380 MHz
  * Minimum attenuation filter value: 30dB for frequencies less than > 2370 MHz and 22dB for frequencies between 2370 MHz and 2380 MHz
Since only the ISM Tx filter has been identified, the analysis considers the
out-of-band spurious emissions from ISM into LTE, but the blocking aspect of
the ISM transmitter has not been included.
Analysis 4 also assumes a commercially available FBAR filter [12] for the ISM
Tx/Rx filter. For LTE Band 40 filter, transition and stop band responses are
assumed to be similar to the ISM band filter, but shifted downward with a pass
band in 2300\~2400 MHz. The Band 7 transmit filter is assumed to have similar
transition and stop band responses to the commercially available 2496--2690
MHz WiMax bandpass filter [13].
### A.1.2 Antenna isolation
Another key parameter affecting in-device coexistence performance is the
antenna isolation between the two systems. Analyses 1, 3, and 4 have assumed
an antenna isolation of 12dB to be representative of typical applications and
devices. Analysis 2 has investigated the impact of antenna isolations of 10,
15, and 20 dB.
### A.1.3 Interference mechanisms
The interference mechanisms from one technology transmitting while the other
one is receiving that have been considered are out-of-band spurious emissions
and receiver blocking. The spurious emissions result from the ACLR sidebands
from the transmitting waveform. The spurious emissions, attenuated by the Tx
filter, can extend into the receive band of the other technology causing an
effective increase in noise level, or desensitization, or a degradation in
measured EVM. Receiver blocking is resulted from a large unwanted signal
adjacent to or within close proximity in frequency to the desired signal. The
blocking signal coupled with the non-linearity within the receiver generates
an additional in-band noise component which can also increase EVM and degrade
sensitivity of the impacted system.
In Analysis 1, both spurious emissions and blocking have been considered in
the evaluation. Their cumulative effect on desensitization is reported. The
ACLR of the transmitter and the linearity of the receiver are not specified.
In Analysis 2, since a lab measurement was performed, all aspects including
spurious emissions and blocking are considered. However, because the receiver
in this case is a vector signal analyzer, the linearity of this test equipment
may not be representative of the linearity in an actual LTE or ISM device.
However, the spurious emissions effect is modeled in this measurement as ACLR1
and ACLR2. The assumptions are as follows
  * LTE ACLR1 = -32dB
  * LTE ACLR2 = -50dB
  * WLAN ACLR1 = -34dB
  * WLAN ACLR2 = -51dB
In Analysis 3, the spurious emissions impact has been considered by using a
measured PA output spectrum for WLAN 802.11g. The blocking effect has not been
considered.
In Analysis 4, both spurious emissions and blocking have been considered in
the evaluation. Their cumulative effect on desensitization is reported
specifying the receiver compression point.
### A.1.4 Signal Bandwidth
Signal bandwidth of the transmitting signal impacts the frequency extent of
the spurious emissions -- wider bandwidths generate spurious emissions which
extend further in frequency. In all cases, the bandwidth of WLAN is fixed at
22 MHz and the Bluetooth bandwidth at 1 MHz not taking into consideration
frequency hopping. The bandwidth of the LTE signal has been assumed to be 20
MHz for Analysis 1, Analysis 3, and Analysis 4. For Analysis 2, the channel
bandwidth for LTE is assumed to be 20 MHz, but the uplink allocation and
therefore the extent of spurious emissions is varied from 100RB's at full
allocation to 50 RB's and 25 RB's.
### A.1.5 Transmitter output power
Transmitter output power affects the blocking performance and the amplitude of
spurious emissions. More interference is generated when the output power is
higher. In Analysis 1-3, a high output power was assumed. The maximum output
power for LTE was assumed at 23dBm, the output power for WLAN was assumed to
be 20dBm, and the output power for Bluetooth was assumed to be 10dBm.
Analysis 4 investigates the coexistence interference level for various
transmit powers of aggressors. Considering that LTE transmission with 23dBm
transmit power are typically associated with cell-edge UEs with smaller
resource allocations, practical resource allocation and/or resource allocation
limitations (e.g., limiting the number of RBs and position away from ISM band-
edge) can reduce the LTE interference primarily impacting channels in the ISM
band-edge. Finally, Analysis 4 assumes Bluetooth power class 2, which allows
the maximum transmit power of 4dBm.
### A.1.6 Performance metrics
The impact on the affected system is characterized by degradation in
performance. Desensitization is a common indicator. Indeed, desensitization is
the metric used in Analyses 1 and 3 where the desensitization is relative to
an assumed reference sensitivity value. The desensitization is approximated as
10log~10~(α) in Analysis 1 and computed as 10log~10~(α+1) in Analysis 3 and
Analysis 4, where α is the ratio between the coexistence interference and the
noise floor at sensitivity. The assumed reference sensitivity values in
Analysis 1 are -94dBm for LTE in Band 40, -92dBm for LTE in Band 7, -90dBm for
Bluetooth, and -79dBm for WLAN. Using desensitization as the performance
measure gives an indication of the degradation that can be expected when the
victim system is in its most vulnerable state at the edge of its coverage, so
may be descriptive of a worst case scenario.
On the other hand, Analysis 2 uses a slightly different metric of EVM. EVM can
also indicate potential degradation in receiver performance as signal with
large EVM would likely be incorrectly decoded at the demodulator. Instead of
considering reference sensitivity, Analysis 2 provides insight into
performance at more nominal receive power levels that might be more typically
observed in practice. For example, the received signal power for the LTE
receiver is -70dBm, which is 24dB above reference sensitivity. The received
signal power level for the WLAN receiver is -50dBm, which is 29dB above
sensitivity as defined in Analyses 1 and 3. Analysis 2 uses a benchmark of
5.62% EVM to judge whether the LTE or WLAN system performance is acceptable or
not.
## A.2 Results
The results of the interference analyses are provided in this subclause.
### A.2.1 Analysis 1 Results
A quick look into the results shows that LTE activities in the highest 30MHz
of Band 40 can, in the worst case scenario, disrupt BT/WLAN activity over the
entire ISM band. Moreover, LTE activity in any portion of Band 40 will have
serious impact on the lowest 20MHz of the ISM band.[^1]
{width="5.843055555555556in" height="1.8458333333333334in"}
Figure A.2.1‑1: Coexistence interference impact from LTE in B40 on BT
{width="5.895138888888889in" height="1.8506944444444444in"}
Figure A.2.1‑2: Coexistence interference impact from LTE in B40 on WLAN
Figure A.2.1-3 and Figure A.2.1-4 show the coexistence interference impact on
LTE from BT and WLAN respectively. As shown in the figures, any activity in
the lowest 20MHz[^2] of the ISM band can, in the worst case scenario, impact
LTE activities across the entire Band 40. Also, BT/WLAN activity anywhere
within the ISM band could impact the highest 20-30MHz of Band 40.
{width="5.972916666666666in" height="1.8798611111111112in"}
Figure A.2.1‑3: Coexistence interference impact on LTE in B40 from BT
{width="5.970833333333333in" height="1.8805555555555555in"}
Figure A.2.1‑4: Coexistence interference impact on LTE in B40 from WLAN
Figure A.2.1-5 and Figure A.2.1-6 show the coexistence interference impact
from LTE in Band 7 on BT and WLAN respectively. As expected, in the worst
case, LTE UL in the 2510MHz channel can desensitize the entire ISM band. For
the remaining LTE channels, AFH on BT is required to limit operation to the
first 40-60MHz of the ISM band.
{width="5.91875in" height="1.8722222222222222in"}
Figure A.2.1‑5: Coexistence interference impact from LTE in B7 on BT
{width="6.149305555555555in" height="1.9013888888888888in"}
Figure A.2.1‑6: Coexistence interference impact from LTE in B7 on WLAN
Note that Band 7 DL is far enough away from the ISM band to suffer
interference. While there may be an interference mechanism here such that a
simultaneous transmission of ISM and LTE UL mixes due to non-linearity and
falls in LTE, we do not consider such mechanisms in this paper.
In conclusion, the presented analysis shows significant degradation in
sensitivity due to LTE-ISM coexistence on the same device. While the analysis
assumes worst case conditions in terms of aggressor transmit power, receiver
RSSI and filter variations, we note that coexistence interference extends to a
number of cases in nominal conditions. For instance, LTE transmit activities
in 2380-2400MHz and/or ISM transmissions in 2400-2420MHz can severely disrupt
receiving activities in the whole victim band. In addition, the FBAR filters
used in the analysis come with additional cost compared to the typically used
SAW and ceramic filters.
The analysis above clearly shows that in a number of LTE and ISM channel
combinations, RF filtering is not enough to prevent significant
desensitization.
### A.2.2 Analysis 2 Results
Table A.2.2-1: Experimental results about Minimum Center Frequency Space
* * *
**Aggressor** **Victim** **Minimum Center Frequency Space（MHz）**  
Antenna isolation  
10dB 15dB 20dB LTE band 40 WLAN 58MHz 52MHz 50MHz WLAN LTE band 40 56MHz 50MHz
46MHz LTE band7 WLAN 60MHz 52MHz 50MHz
* * *
Note: The number of RB for band40 or band7 is 100RB and the moving step for
LTE away from WLAN is 2MHz in above experiment.
From the above table we can conclude that:
  * For band 40 or band 7, when LTE working at the center frequency f1 > and WLAN working at the center frequency f2, the space of center > frequency between LTE and WLAN need to meet:
$\left| f1 - f2 \right| \geq \text{Minimum}\ \text{Center}\ \text{Frequency}\
\text{Space}$
  * The antenna isolation is a great impact on the Minimum Center > Frequency Space between LTE and WLAN, so we should try to increase > the antenna isolation to decreasing Minimum Center Frequency > Space.
  * The band is divided into safety zone and danger zone by considering > Minimum Center Frequency Space.
Figure A.2.2-1: Safety zone and danger zone
From the Figure A.2.2-1 we can see that the size of danger zone for band 7 is
smaller than danger zone for band 40.For antenna isolation=15dB, the size of
danger zone for band 40 is 40 MHz, but 24 MHz for band 7. There are only 2
center frequencies in the danger zone for band 7, but there are about 5 center
frequencies for band 40, according to center frequency distribution of band 40
and band7 in [7].
Table A.2.2-2: Experimental results about Minimum Center Frequency Space
+---------------+-----------------------+------+------+------+ | | **Antenna isolation** | | | | +---------------+-----------------------+------+------+------+ | | 10dB | 15dB | 20dB | | +---------------+-----------------------+------+------+------+ | Band7:2510MHz | 100RB | fail | fail | fail | | | | | | | | WLAN:2472MHz | Start=0 | | | | +---------------+-----------------------+------+------+------+ | | 50RB | fail | fail | ok | | | | | | | | | Start=50 | | | | +---------------+-----------------------+------+------+------+ | | 25RB | ok | ok | ok | | | | | | | | | Start=75 | | | | +---------------+-----------------------+------+------+------+ | Band7:2515MHz | 100RB | fail | fail | ok | | | | | | | | WLAN:2472MHz | Start=0 | | | | +---------------+-----------------------+------+------+------+ | | 50RB | ok | ok | ok | | | | | | | | | Start=50 | | | | +---------------+-----------------------+------+------+------+ | | 25RB | ok | ok | ok | | | | | | | | | Start=75 | | | | +---------------+-----------------------+------+------+------+
Note: "Fail" is used to mark the situation of EVM> 5.62%, and "OK" is used to
mark the situation of EVM\ 50dB
* * *
Table A.2.3-2: Coexistence interference impact from WLAN to LTE in B40 \--
Minimum attenuation filter values used
* * *
                     2412   2422   2432   2442   2452   2462   2472   Interferer Freq. MHz
2310 14 14 14 14 14 14 14  
2315 14 14 14 14 14 14 14  
2325 14 14 14 14 14 14 14  
2335 14 14 14 14 14 14 14  
2345 14 14 14 14 14 14 14  
2355 17 14 14 14 14 14 14  
2365 27 22 18 17 17 17 17  
2375 54 48 43 38 38 38 38  
2385 63 57 51 46 43 43 43  
2390 66 60 54 49 45 44 44  
Victim Freq. MHz
* * *
* * *
Desensitization \ 50dB
* * *
From the results shown in the above tables we can note that although LTE
sensitivity degradation is severe for very close interferer and victim
spacing, the nominal filter response of the ISM band-pass filter used in this
analysis effectively controls the interference in the lower half of Band 40.
There is a sensitivity degradation of about at least 2.5 dB across the whole
Band 40 due to the noise floor of the specific WLAN PA and the limited
attenuation of the ISM filter mask. In reality, the ISM filter's response will
not be flat across Band 40, and better performance is expected for at least
some parts of the band. Assuming worst-case filter response, however,
sensitivity degradation is severe across the whole band.
### A.2.4 Analysis 4 Results
Table A.2.4-1 presents LTE blocking levels to WLAN/BT receivers for different
LTE transmit powers and operating channel bands in LTE Band 40 and Band 7. As
shown in Table A.2.4-1, a cell-edge UE transmitting with 23dBm maximum power
in the uppermost 20MHz channel band of Band 40 can result in the maximum 7dBm
out-of-band blocking interference at the WLAN/Bluetooth receiver. The LTE
transmit power level needs to be limited for the simultaneous operation with
ISM (reception) if the LTE transceiver is operated in upper 20MHz of Band 40.
The maximum allowed LTE transmit power for the coexistence varies depending on
the blocking characteristics of WLAN/BT receivers.
Table A.2.4‑1: LTE blocking levels to Bluetooth/WLAN receivers for different
LTE transmit powers and operating channel bands
+-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | LTE Tx | Blocking with FBAR (dBm) | | | | | | | | | | | | | Power (dBm) | | | | | | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | | 2300-2370 (MHz) | 2360-2380 | 2380-2400 | 2500-2520 | 2520-2570 | | | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (MHz) | (MHz) | (MHz) | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 23 | -34 | -28 | 7 | -37 | -40 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 21 | -36 | -30 | 5 | -39 | -42 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 19 | -38 | -32 | 3 | -41 | -44 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 17 | -40 | -34 | 1 | -43 | -46 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 15 | -42 | -36 | -1 | -45 | -48 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 13 | -44 | -38 | -3 | -47 | -50 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 11 | -46 | -40 | -5 | -49 | -52 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 9 | -48 | -42 | -7 | -51 | -54 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 7 | -50 | -44 | -9 | -53 | -56 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 5 | -52 | -46 | -11 | -55 | -58 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 3 | -54 | -48 | -13 | -57 | -60 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 1 | -56 | -50 | -15 | -59 | -62 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | -1 | -58 | -52 | -17 | -61 | -64 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | -3 | -60 | -54 | -19 | -63 | -66 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | -5 | -62 | -56 | -21 | -65 | -68 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | -7 | -64 | -58 | -23 | -67 | -70 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | -9 | -66 | -60 | -25 | -69 | -72 | +-------------+--------------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
Figure A.2.4-1 presents desensitization levels in WLAN receivers due to LTE
blocking and out-of-band/spurious emission for LTE transmission power levels
of 23dBm, 15dBm, and 0dBm. In practice, when a strong blocking signal exists
at the LNA input, the AGC algorithm reduces the receiver front end gain to
avoid LNA saturation, which results in a noise floor increase at the receiver.
In our analysis, we assume a noise floor increase of 4dB per 5 dBm of blocking
above blocking requirements. Figure A.2.4-2 shows WLAN receiver
desensitization levels when the LTE transceiver employs switching between two
band pass filters, that is, pass bands of 2300-2400 MHz and 2300-2380 MHz. LTE
transmission in 2300-2380 MHz results in negligible sensitivity degradation
for all WLAN channels by using the alternative band pass filter of pass band
2300-2380MHz. However, the dual band pass filters solution may not be
applicable for all deployment scenarios, e.g. the operator only has 20MHz
spectrum at 2380-2400MHz.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ------ ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- ----------- | | WL | | AN Channel 1 Channel 2 Channel 3 Channel 4 Channel 5-11 | | | | 2401-2423 2406-2428 2411-2433 2416-2438 2420-2480 | | | | 2380-2400 >16 >16 >16 >16 >16 | | LTE | | 2360-2380 >16 >16 13 2 1 | | | | 2300-2360 >16 >16 13 2 1 | | ------ ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- ----------- | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | (a) LTE Tx Power = 23 dBm | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ----- ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- | | WLAN | | Channel 1 Channel 2 Channel 3 Channel 4 Channel 5-11 | | | | 2401-2423 2406-2428 2411-2433 2416-2438 2420-2480 | | | | 2380-2400 >16 >16 >16 >16 >16 | | | | LTE 2360-2380 >16 15 6 0 0 | | | | 2300-2360 >16 15 6 0 0 | | ----- ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | (b) LTE Tx Power = 15 dBm | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ----- ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- | | WLAN | | Channel 1 Channel 2 Channel 3 Channel 4 Channel 5-11 | | | | 2401-2423 2406-2428 2411-2433 2416-2438 2420-2480 | | | | 2380-2400 >16 >16 15 12 9 | | | | LTE 2360-2380 10 3 0 0 0 | | | | 2300-2360 10 3 0 0 0 | | ----- ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | (c) LTE Tx Power = 0 dBm | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure A.2.4‑1: WLAN receiver desensitization levels (dB) due to LTE
transmission.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ----- ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- | | WLAN | | Channel 1 Channel 2 Channel 3 Channel 4 Channel 5-11 | | | | 2401-2423 2406-2428 2411-2433 2416-2438 2420-2480 | | | | 2380-2400 >16 >16 >16 >16 >16 | | | | LTE 2360-2380 1 1 1 1 1 | | | | 2300-2360 1 1 1 1 1 | | ----- ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure A.2.4‑2: WLAN receiver desensitization levels (dB) due to LTE
transmission when switching between two LTE band pass filters. LTE Tx Power =
23 dBm.
Figure A.2.4-3 and Figure A.2.4-4 provide LTE receiver desensitization levels
caused by simultaneous WLAN transmission. LTE in 2380-2400 MHz seems to be
unusable due to severe sensitivity degradation if WLAN is transmitting in the
2.4GHz ISM band. WLAN in Channel 1-2 (2401-2428 MHz) transmitting with 20dBm
transmit power causes 10dB or higher desensitization on the entire LTE Band 40
due to WLAN blocking to LTE. We can observe in Figure A.2.4-4 that switching
between two LTE front-end filters results in manageable desensitization levels
for LTE 2300-2380 MHz band irrespective of location of WLAN channel. However,
the dual band pass filters solution may not be applicable for all deployment
scenarios, e.g. the operator only has 20MHz spectrum at 2380-2400MHz.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ------ ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- ----------- | | WL | | AN Channel 1 Channel 2 Channel 3 Channel 4 Channel 5-11 | | | | 2401-2423 2406-2428 2411-2433 2416-2438 2420-2480 | | | | 2380-2400 >16 >16 >16 >16 >16 | | LTE | | 2360-2380 >16 16 8 5 5 | | | | 2300-2360 >16 13 5 2 2 | | ------ ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- ----------- | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | (a) WLAN Tx Power = 20 dBm | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ----- ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- | | WLAN | | Channel 1 Channel 2 Channel 3 Channel 4 Channel 5-11 | | | | 2401-2423 2406-2428 2411-2433 2416-2438 2420-2480 | | | | 2380-2400 >16 >16 >16 >16 >16 | | | | LTE 2360-2380 16 8 2 2 2 | | | | 2300-2360 15 7 1 1 1 | | ----- ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | (b) WLAN Tx Power = 14.5 dBm | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure A.2.4‑3: LTE receiver desensitization levels (dB) due to WLAN
transmission.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ----- ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- | | WLAN | | Channel 1 Channel 2 Channel 3 Channel 4 Channel 5-11 | | | | 2401-2423 2406-2428 2411-2433 2416-2438 2420-2480 | | | | 2380-2400 >16 >16 >16 >16 >16 | | | | LTE 2360-2380 5 5 5 5 5 | | | | 2300-2360 2 2 2 2 2 | | ----- ------ | | ----- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -------------- | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure A.2.4‑4: LTE receiver desensitization levels (dB) due to WLAN
transmission when switching between two LTE band pass filters. WLAN Tx Power =
20 dBm.
Figure A.2.4-5 and Figure A.2.4-6 show BT receiver desensitization levels due
to simultaneous LTE transmission. For LTE operated in 2380-2400 MHz with the
maximum transmit power, the coexistence interference cannot be avoided by BT
adaptive frequency hopping (AFH) due to high BT desensitization levels for all
the BT channels. For LTE in 2300-2380 MHz, simultaneous operation of LTE and
BT is feasible via BT AFH with BT avoiding Channels 1-15.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | | | BT | Channe | | ls | Channel | Channel 17 | Channel | Channel 20-79 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1-13 | | | 14-16 | | 18-19 | | | | | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | | | | | | | 2402-2414 | 2415-2417 | 2418 | 2419-2420 | 2421-2480 | | | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | | | | 2380-2 | | 400 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | | | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | | | LTE | 2360-2 | | 380 | >16 | 7 | 4 | 1 | 0 | | | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | | | | 2300-2 | | 360 | >16 | 7 | 4 | 1 | 0 | | | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | (a) LTE Tx Power = 23 dBm | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | BT | | | Channels | Channel | Channel 17 | Channel | Channel 20-79 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1-13 | 14-16 | | 18-19 | | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | | | | 2402-2414 | 2415-2417 | 2418 | 2419-2420 | 2421-2480 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | 2380-240 | | 0 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | LTE | 2360-238 | | 0 | >16 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 0 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | 2300-236 | | 0 | >16 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 0 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | (b) LTE Tx Power = 15 dBm | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | BT | | | Channels | Channel | Channel 17 | Channel | Channel 20-79 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1-13 | 14-16 | | 18-19 | | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | | | | 2402-2414 | 2415-2417 | 2418 | 2419-2420 | 2421-2480 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | 2380-240 | | 0 | >16 | >16 | >16 | 12 | 9 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | LTE | 2360-238 | | 0 | 9 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | 2300-236 | | 0 | 9 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | (c) LTE Tx Power = 0 dBm | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure A.2.4‑5: BT receiver desensitization levels (dB) due to LTE
transmission.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | BT | | | Channel | Channel | Channel 17 | Channel | Channel 20-79 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1-13 | 14-16 | | 18-19 | | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | | | | 2402-2414 | 2415-2417 | 2418 | 2419-2420 | 2421-2480 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | 2380-240 | | 0 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | LTE | 2360-238 | | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | 2300-236 | | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure A.2.4‑6: BT receiver desensitization levels (dB) due to LTE
transmission when switching between two LTE band pass filters. LTE Tx Power =
23 dBm.
Figure A.2.4-7 and Figure A.2.4-8 present LTE receiver desensitization levels
from BT transmission.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | | | BT | Channe | | ls | Channel | Channel 17 | Channel | Channel 20-79 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1-13 | | | 14-16 | | 18-19 | | | | | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | | | | | | | 2402-2414 | 2415-2417 | 2418 | 2419-2420 | 2421-2480 | | | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | | | | 2380-2 | | 400 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | | | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | | | LTE | 2360-2 | | 380 | 8 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | | | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | | | | 2300-2 | | 360 | 6 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | +-----+------- | | ----+-----------+------------+---------+---------------+-----------+ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | (a) Bluetooth Tx Power = 4 dBm | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | BT | | | Channels | Channel | Channel 17 | Channel | Channel 20-79 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1-13 | 14-16 | | 18-19 | | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | | | | 2402-2414 | 2415-2417 | 2418 | 2419-2420 | 2421-2480 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | 2380-240 | | 0 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | LTE | 2360-238 | | 0 | 4 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | 2300-236 | | 0 | 3 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | (b) Bluetooth Tx Power = 0 dBm | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure A.2.4‑7: LTE receiver desensitization levels (dB) due to BT
transmission.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | BT | | | Channels | Channel | Channel 17 | Channel | Channel 20-79 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1-13 | 14-16 | | 18-19 | | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | | | | 2402-2414 | 2415-2417 | 2418 | 2419-2420 | 2421-2480 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | 2380-240 | | 0 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | >16 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | LTE | 2360-238 | | 0 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | | | | 2300-236 | | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | +-----+--------- | | --+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+---------------+ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure A.2.4‑8: LTE receiver desensitization levels (dB) due to BT
transmission when switching between two LTE band pass filters. BT Tx power
=4dBm.
The coexistence interference level and its impact on the receiver performance
depends on transmit power and receiver blocking characteristic of each radio
and physical characteristics of transceivers (e.g. filter responses, antenna
isolation, etc.). The following conclusions can be drawn from the analyses:
  * For most cases, we observe that frequency-domain solutions - moving > to different frequencies and filtering can sufficiently suppress > the coexistence interference.
  * For the upper-most region of LTE Band 40, 2380-2400 MHz, LTE > transmitting with the maximum power of 23dBm can block the > WLAN/Bluetooth signal in the entire ISM band. Limiting the maximum > LTE transmit power below 23dBm, moving LTE signal away from ISM, > or time-division multiplexing need to be considered.
  * For 2300-2380 MHz of LTE Band 40, WLAN/BT desensitization due to the > LTE coexistence interference may be acceptable except for lower > 20MHz of ISM band given current state-of-the art FBAR filters and > that device out-of-band/spurious emission, sensitivity, and > blocking performances of implementations are typically better than > specification limits. Additionally, limitations on the resource > allocation (e.g., limiting the number of RBs and position away > from ISM band-edge) which directly impact the OOB emissions can > help reduce dense to the lower 20MHz of ISM band.
  * A dual filter (switch between two RF front-end filters) solution in > LTE Band 40 is considered which can significantly reduce the > BT/WLAN desensitization level for the lower 20MHz of ISM band. > However, the dual band pass filters solution may not be applicable > for all deployment scenarios, e.g. the operator only has 20MHz > spectrum at 2380-2400MHz.
  * LTE transmit power control (typically power level below the maximum > 23 dBm) can further help mitigate/reduce the coexistence > interference.
  * Large dense to LTE 2380-2400 MHz due to WLAN/BT transmission in the > ISM band may require either TDM between LTE operated in 2380-2400 > MHz and BT/WLAN in the ISM band or moving an LTE frequency from > the ISM band to be considered.
  * Use of WLAN Channel 1-2 (WLAN STA) require either TDM or dual filter > solutions to prevent blocking of LTE Band 40. The dual filter > solution may enable LTE Band 40 and ISM simultaneous operation > without compromising the system performance of both ISM and LTE, > however with an increased cost for UE implementation and may have > some limitations in specific deployment scenario.
  * Coexistence interference in the ISM band is significantly reduced > due to the presence of a 17MHz guard band between LTE Band 7 > uplink and ISM band and by using current state-of-art filters. > Practical resource allocation (LTE transmission with 23dBm > transmit power are typically associated with cell-edge UEs with > smaller resource allocations) and/or resource allocation > limitations (e.g., limiting the number of RBs and position away > from ISM band-edge) which directly impact the OOB emissions can > further reduce the LTE interference primarily impacting the WLAN > Channels 12-13 near the upper ISM band-edge.
# Annex B: Timeline analysis of in-device coexistence between LTE and
Bluetooth
## B.1 Assumptions
### B.1.1 Bluetooth
In this analysis, T~eSCO~ is assumed to be 6 and 12 slots for eSCO EV3 and
2-EV3 respectively. It is also assumed that Bluetooth device can choose its
frame timing relative to LTE. The following rules are used in the timeline
analysis to select BT transmission instance within BT T~eSCO~ interval.
For the analysis without BT retransmissions, the guideline to find a suitable
BT Tx/Rx instance within a BT T~eSCO~ interval is described below.
  * Try to use the first instance when there is no interference between BT and LTE.
    * If no such instance can be found, try to use the first instance when there is no interference from BT to LTE.
      * If no such instance can be found, use the first instance.
For the analysis with BT retransmissions (only 1 retransmission is
considered), the guideline to find suitable BT Tx/Rx instances within a BT
interval is described below (note that there are T~eSCO~ / 2 BT Tx Rx
instances).
  * First BT Tx/RX instance is selected among the first T~eSCO~ / 2 -- 1 instances (i.e. excluding the last instance) according to following rule:
    * Try to use the first instance when there is no interference between BT and LTE.
      * If no such instance can be found, try to use the first instance when there is no interference from BT to LTE.
        * If no such instance can be found, use the first instance.
  * Use the same rule as above to select second BT Tx/Rx instance from instances after the 1^st^ instance.
### B.1.2 LTE
For LTE TDD, normal CP are used for both DL and UL, and special subframe
configuration 4 is used.
## B.2 Results
For all the results, red bar indicates that there is interference at
corresponding Rx side. For each figure, four LTE radio frames are generated.
### B.2.1A Coexistence between LTE and BT eSCO EV3 without TDM solutions
Considering Frequency Hopping (FH) operation of Bluetooth, two scenarios could
be assumed based on the RF analysis result given by Figure A.2.1-1 of
subclause A.2.1:
_1)_ _LTE central_ frequency (_fc_) is in the range of 2375 to 2390 MHz. In
this scenario, all Bluetooth channels are desensitized.
_2)_ _LTE central_ frequency (_fc_) is in the range of 2310 to 2365 MHz. In
this scenario, 2/9 of Bluetooth channels are desensitized. _It should be noted
that adaptive frequency hopping could further improve the situation_ _for this
scenario._
Bluetooth EV3 collision ratios for the above two scenarios are shown in Table
B.2.1A-1. The results presented in this table are based on the assumptions and
results from the case "Analysis 1" in Annex A.
**Table** **B.2.1A-1:** BT EV3 collision ratio
* * *
**LTE TDD UL/DL Configuration** **Collision ratio (Scenario** **1)**
**Collision ratio (Scenario** **2)** 0 25% 5.6% 1 25% 5.6% 2 0% 0% 3 25% 5.6%
4 12.5% 2.8% 5 0% 0% 6 50% 11.1% NOTE: Only collisions with BT Rx instances
are considered in this table. For example, in case of 0% collision ratio,
there might be LTE Rx subframes affected.
* * *
### B.2.1 Coexistence between LTE and BT eSCO 2-EV3 without TDM solutions
**[LTE FDD]{.underline}**
For LTE FDD (shown in Figure B.2.1-1), if there is no restriction on LTE UL
transmissions, it is obvious that there is interference on 2-EV3 reception due
to continuous LTE UL transmissions.
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-1: LTE FDD and BT 2-EV3 w/o retransmissions (Offset of BT
relative to LTE frame: 0 ms)
**[LTE TDD]{.underline}**
When TDM solutions are not used (i.e. without any restrictions on LTE
scheduling) and BT retransmissions are not modelled, mutual interference can
be avoided if time offset between LTE TDD and BT is selected appropriately for
LTE TDD UL/DL configuration 0/1/2, as shown from Figure B.2.1-2 to Figure
B.2.1-4. There are interferences for LTE TDD UL/DL configuration 3/4/5/6 under
above conditions, as shown from Figure B.2.1-5 to Figure B.2.1-8.
When TDM solutions are not used and BT retransmissions are modelled, there are
interferences for LTE TDD UL/DL configuration 0/1/2, as shown from Figure
B.2.1-9 to Figure B.2.1-11.
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-2: TDD Configuration 0 and BT 2-EV3 without retransmissions
(Offset of BT relative to LTE frame: 5 -- 0.625 ms)
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-3: TDD Configuration 1 and BT 2-EV3 without retransmissions
(Offset of BT relative to LTE frame: 4 -- 0.625 ms)
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-4: TDD Configuration 2 and BT 2-EV3 without retransmissions
(Offset of BT relative to LTE frame: 3 -- 0.625 ms)
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-5: TDD Configuration 3 and BT 2-EV3 without retransmissions
(Offset of BT relative to LTE frame: 5 -- 0.625 ms)
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-6: TDD Configuration 4 and BT 2-EV3 without retransmissions
(Offset of BT relative to LTE frame: 4 -- 0.625 ms)
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-7: TDD Configuration 5 and BT 2-EV3 without retransmissions
(Offset of BT relative to LTE frame: 3 -- 0.625 ms)
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-8: TDD Configuration 6 and BT 2-EV3 without retransmissions
(Offset of BT relative to LTE frame: 5 -- 0.625 ms)
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-9: TDD Configuration 0 and BT 2-EV3 with retransmissions (Offset
of BT relative to LTE frame: 5 -- 0.625 ms)
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-10: TDD Configuration 1 and BT 2-EV3 with retransmissions (Offset
of BT relative to LTE frame: 4 -- 0.625 ms)
> {width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.1-11: TDD Configuration 2 and BT 2-EV3 with retransmissions (Offset
of BT relative to LTE frame: 3 -- 0.625 ms)
### B.2.2 Coexistence between LTE and BT eSCO EV3 with TDM solutions
In this subclause, bitmap based TDM solution is used to mask off a number of
LTE HARQ processes to accommodate coexistence.
**[LTE FDD]{.underline}**
For LTE FDD (Figure B.2.2-1), it can be seen that there is only slight
interference for one BT Rx instance. Considering that Bluetooth
retransmissions are modelled always (which is rather pessimistic) in the
analysis, there is negligible impact on BT performance.
{width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.2-1: LTE FDD and BT EV3 (Offset of BT relative to LTE frame: 0.625
ms)
**[LTE TDD]{.underline}**
For LTE TDD, example bitmaps are shown in Table B.2.2-1 below. In these
examples, the length of bitmap is 10, and bit=1 indicates that corresponding
subframe is reserved for BT use. Bitmaps are selected for compatibility with
HARQ processes and are used from Figure B.2.2-2 to Figure B.2.2-8 below. The
results show that with proper time alignment between LTE and Bluetooth and
adequate number of reserved HARQ processes in LTE side, there is negligible
interference considering that the worse cases are modelled.
**Table B.2.2-1: Example bitmaps for LTE TDD Configurations**
* * *
LTE TDD UL/DL Configuration Bitmap 0 0011011011 1 1011011001 2 0110111011 3
0111011111 4 1110111110 5 1101101101 6 1001101101
* * *
{width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.2-2: TDD Configuration 0 and BT EV3 (Offset of BT relative to LTE
frame: 10 -- 0.625 ms)
{width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.2-3: TDD Configuration 1 and BT EV3 (Offset of BT relative to LTE
frame: 10 -- 0.625 ms)
{width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.2-4: TDD Configuration 2 and BT EV3 (Offset of BT relative to LTE
frame: 3 -- 0.625 ms)
{width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.2-5: TDD Configuration 3 and BT EV3 (Offset of BT relative to LTE
frame: 3 -- 0.625 ms)
{width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.2-6: TDD Configuration 4 and BT EV3 (Offset of BT relative to LTE
frame: 7 -- 0.625 ms)
{width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.2-7: TDD Configuration 5 and BT EV3 (Offset of BT relative to LTE
frame: 3 -- 0.625 ms ms)
{width="4.6in" height="1.725in"}
Figure B.2.2-8: TDD Configuration 6 and BT EV3 (Offset of BT relative to LTE
frame: 1 -- 0.625 ms)
# Annex C: Change History
* * *
**Change history**  
**Date** **TSG #** **TSG Doc.** **CR** **Rev** **Subject/Comment** **Old**
**New** 2010-08 RAN2 #71 R2-104555 - - Agreed skeleton TR at RAN2 #71 - 0.1.0
2010-08 RAN2 #71 R2-105214 TR 36.816 v0.1.1 capturing agreements of RAN2 #71
0.1.0 0.1.1 2010-10 RAN2 #71bis R2-105668 TR 36.816 v0.1.2 (revision of v0.1.1
after email discussion after RAN2 #71) 0.1.1 0.1.2 2010-10 RAN2 #71bis
R2-106004 Agreed version at RAN2 #71bis 0.1.2 0.2.0 2010-10 RAN2 #71bis
R2-106008 TR 36.816 v0.2.1 capturing agreements of RAN2#71bis and agreed TP
from R2-106024 0.2.0 0.2.1 2010-10 RAN2 #71bis R2-106034 RAN2 agreed TR v0.3.0
by email discussion after RAN2#71bis 0.2.1 0.3.0 2010-11 RAN2#72 R2-106925 TR
36.816 v0.3.1 capturing agreements of RAN2#72 0.3.0 0.3.1 2010-11 RAN2#72
R2-106971 RAN2 agreed TR v1.0.0 by email discussion after RAN2#72 0.3.1 1.0.0
2011-01 RAN2#72bis R2-110676 TR 36.816 v1.0.1 capturing agreements of
RAN2#72bis 1.0.0 1.0.1 2011-02 RAN2#72bis R2-110703 RAN2 agreed TR v1.1.0 by
email discussion after RAN2#72bis 1.0.1 1.1.0 2011-03 RAN2#73 R2-111693 TR
36.816 v1.1.1 capturing agreements of RAN2#73 1.1.0 1.1.1 2011-03 RAN2#73
R2-111759 RAN2 agreed TR v1.2.0 by email discussion after RAN2#73 1.1.1 1.2.0
2011-04 RAN2#73bis R2-112582 TR 36.816 v1.2.1 capturing agreements of
RAN2#73bis 1.2.0 1.2.1 2011-04 RAN2#73bis R2-112648 RAN2 agreed TR v1.3.0 by
email discussion after RAN2#73bis 1.2.1 1.3.0 2011-05 RAN2#74 R2-113571 TR
36.816 v1.3.1 capturing agreements of RAN2#74 1.3.0 1.3.1
* * *
[^1]: While this may not be an issue for BT which employs adaptive frequency
hopping (AFH) and can avoid transmission/reception in the