# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This clause is optional. If it exists, it is always the second unnumbered
clause.
# 1 Scope
This clause shall start on a new page.
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics and minimum
performance requirements of E-UTRA Relay.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
It is preferred that the reference to 21.905 be the first in the list.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
**Access link:** Link for communication between Relay and UE.
**Backhaul link:** Link for communication between Relay and BS.
**Carrier: The modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA or UTRA physical
channels**
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Channel edge:** The lowest and highest frequency of the E-UTRA carrier,
separated by the channel bandwidth.
**Measurement bandwidth** : The bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**Occupied bandwidth:** The width of a frequency band such that, below the
lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each
equal to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean power of a given
emission.
**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power of a UTRA carrier as measured
through a root raised cosine filter with roll-off factor α and a bandwidth
equal to the chip rate of the radio access mode.
NOTE 1: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated UTRA signal is
0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal.
**Transmission bandwidth:** Bandwidth of an instantaneous transmission from a
UE or BS, measured in Resource Block units.
**Transmission bandwidth configuration:** The highest transmission bandwidth
allowed for uplink or downlink in a given channel bandwidth, measured in
Resource Block units.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACK Acknowledgement (in HARQ protocols)
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BS Base Station
CP Cyclic prefix
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CW Continuous Wave
DC Direct Current
DFT Discrete Fourier Transformation
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
DwPTS Downlink part of the special subframe (for TDD operation)
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EPA Extended Pedestrian A model
ETU Extended Typical Urban model
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
EVA Extended Vehicular A model
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FFT Fast Fourier Transformation
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GP Guard Period (for TDD operation)
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HD-FDD Half- Duplex FDD
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the ITU
LA Local Area
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex
OOB Out-of-band
PA Power Amplifier
PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PSS Primary Synchronization Signal
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QPSK Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying
> RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Resource Block
RE Resource Element
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
R-PDCCH Relay Physical Downlink Control Channel
RS Reference Symbol
RX Receiver
RRC Root Raised Cosine
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal
TA Timing Advance
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Transmitter
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
WA Wide Area
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
Text will be added
## 4.2 Relay classes
Text will be added
## 4.3 Regional requirements
Text will be added
## 4.4 Applicability of the specification
Text will be added
# 5 Operating bands and channel arrangement
Text will be added
## 5.1 General
Text will be added
## 5.2 Operating bands
Text will be added
## 5.3 Channel bandwidth
Text will be added
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
Text will be added
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
Text will be added
## 6.1 General
Text will be added
## 6.2 Output power
Text will be added
## 6.3 Output power dynamics
Text will be added
## 6.4 Transmitted signal quality
Text will be added
## 6.5 Unwanted emissions
Text will be added
## 6.6 Transmitter intermodulation
# 7 Receiver characteristics
Text will be added
## 7.1 General
Text will be added
## 7.2 Reference sensitivity level
Text will be added
## 7.3 Dynamic range
Text will be added
## 7.4 In-channel selectivity
Text will be added
## 7.5 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Text will be added
## 7.6 Blocking characteristics
Text will be added
## 7.7 Receiver spurious emissions
Text will be added
## 7.8 Receiver intermodulation
Text will be added
# 8 Access Performance requirement
Text will be added
## 8.1 General
Text will be added
# 9 Backhaul Performance requirement
Text will be added
## 9.1 General
Text will be added
#