# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
In recent studies and specification work, it was identified that 5G Media
functions and 5G System functions need to be made attractive for third-party
applications, in particular those that include media delivery. Hence, it is
important that these functions are accessible to third-party applications
independent of a 3GPP service. For this purpose, it is considered to introduce
normative specifications in 3GPP SA4 that are
\- more than just a core functionality, e.g. a codec, without any connection
to a service or application
\- less than a full service that includes all aspects of session
establishment, delivery, codecs, rendering and a full user experience
Such new specifications are referred to 5G \"Media Service Enablers\".
# 1 Scope
The present document introduces and defines the concept of Media Service
Enablers which includes among others:
\- Definition of the principal properties of Media Service Enablers.
\- Definition of minimum and typical functionalities of Media Service
Enablers.
\- Definition of a specification template for Media Service Enablers.
\- Identification of possibly relevant stage-2 and stage-3 work for Media
Service Enablers.
\- Collection of a set of initially relevant Media Service Enablers for
normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ISO/IEC 23090-8:2020: \"Information technology --- Coded representation of
immersive media --- Part 8: Network based media processing\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.347: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Application Programming Interface and URL\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.479, \"UE MBMS APIs for Mission Critical Services\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.511, \"5G Media Streaming (5GMS); Profiles, codecs and
formats\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.512, \"5G Media Streaming (5GMS); Protocols\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows\".
[9] The Khronos Group, \"The OpenXR Specification\",\
https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/html/xrspec.html
[10] W3C: \"Media Capabilities\", Working Draft, 3 August 2022,\
https://www.w3.org/TR/media-capabilities/
[11] 3GPP TS 26.238: \"Uplink Streaming\".
[12] Mission Critical Open Platform, https://www.mcopenplatform.org/
[13] 3GPP TS 26.501, \"5G Media Streaming Architecture\".
[14] ISO/IEC 23000-19: Information technology --- Multimedia application
format (MPEG-A) --- Part 19: Common media application format (CMAF) for
segmented media.
[15] ISO/IEC 23009-1: \" Information technology --- Dynamic adaptive streaming
over HTTP (DASH) --- Part 1: Media presentation description and segment
formats\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.501, \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[17] W3C Process Document, https://www.w3.org/Consortium/Process/Drafts/
[18] CTA WAVE-5000, \"Web Media API Snapshot\"
[19] CTA WAVE-5003, \"Device Playback Capabilities\"
[20] Ryan Pavlik, Kaye Mason, Jon Leech, Tobias Hector: \"Open XR Style
Guide\", https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/styleguide.html
[21] Dan Allen, Sarah White: \"AsciiDoc Language Documentation\",
https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/
[22] 3GPP TS 26.502, \"5G Multicast-Broadcast User Service Architecture\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Media Service Enabler:** a set of functions to support third-party
applications to make use of advanced functionalities provided by the 5G
System, combined with additional well-defined client and network
functionalities for a media service
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
API Application Programming Interface
AR Augmented Reality
ASCII American Standard Code for Information Interchange
CMAF Common Media Application Format
CTA Consumer Technology Association
DASH Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
EME Encrypted Media Extension
FLUS Framework for Live Uplink Streaming
HLS HTTP Live Streaming
HTML HyperText Markup Language
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
IDL Interface Description Language
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
KPI Key Performance Indicator
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Services
MBS Multicast Broadcast Services
MCA MSE Configuration API
MDD MSE Description Document
MPD Media Presentation Description
MPEG Moving Pictures Expert Group
MR Mixed Reality
MRP Market Representation Partner
MSE Media Service Enabler
MSH Media Session Handler
NBMP Network-Based Media Processing
RTP Real-time Transport Protocol
SDK Software Development Kit
SEAL Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UPF User Plane Function
URL Universal Resource Locator
WAVE Web Application Video Ecosystem
VAL Vertical Application Layer
VR Virtual Reality
XR eXtended Reality
YAML Yet Another Markup Language
# 4 Motivation for Media Service Enablers
## 4.1 General
In recent studies and specification work, it was identified that 5G Media
functions and 5G System functions need to be made attractive for third-party
applications, in particular those that include media delivery. Examples for
such approaches are MBMS or 5G Media Streaming. Hence, it is important that
these functions are accessible to third-party applications independent of a
3GPP service. For this purpose, it is considered to introduce normative
specifications in 3GPP that are:
\- More than just a core functionality, e.g. a codec, without any connection
to a service or application.
\- Less than a full service that includes all aspects of session
establishment, delivery, codecs, rendering and a full user experience.
The specification should also not only address a pure textual description but
provide additional functionalities such as test and validation tools.
Several examples of specifications at least partially addressing such needs
are provided in the remainder of this clause, both 3GPP internal
specifications in clause 4.2 and external specification in clause 4.3.
## 4.2 Examples in 3GPP
### 4.2.1 MBMS Client
An example for the definition of an API-centric component in a 3GPP
specification is one that serves the MBMS Client. The detailed procedures of
the MBMS Client are defined in TS 26.346 [3] and TS 26.347 [4] according to
Figure 4.2.1-1.
Figure 4.2.1-1: MBMS Client -- Application and Network reference Points an
APIs
In particular, TS 26.347 defines the following aspects:
1\. A set of service APIs for different application user services. The
definition provides the ability to independently develop MBMS-Aware
Applications and MBMS Client implementations, even for different operating
systems and execution environments, but relies on the service APIs to
communicate with the MBMS Client and to make use of the MBMS functionalities.
These APIs are referred to as MBMS-API-C.
2\. A set of interface options between the MBMS Client and the application to
support the transfer of user data. The primary focus is on the communication
through network interfaces, for example the usage of IP sockets or HTTP-based
requests. These APIs are referred to as MBMS-API-U.
Additionally, For Mission Critical (MC) purposes and direct access to MBMS
bearer contents, an integration API is specified by the Mission Critical Open
Platform [12]. 3GPP also specifies the MC MBMS API in TS 26.479 [5] based on
the same objective.
The APIs defined in TS 26.347 address the following aspects:
\- A _client state model_ in relation to the application. Examples for state
are IDLE, REGISTERED, ACTIVE, etc. State changes may occur through MBMS-API-C
or by information received through the network interface.
\- A set of _client internal parameters_ that are changed based on either
configuration or API calls through MBMS-API-C or by information received
through the network interface.
\- A _reference description_ of the operation of the MBMS client in different
states, based on through MBMS-API-C or by information received through the
network interface
\- Different _methods_ that allow the application to communicate with the MBMS
client. For each method, the following information is provided:
i) A _high-level description_ of the method.
ii) An example _call flow_ illustrating usage of the method.
iii) A list of input and output _parameters_ that are exchanged as part of the
method invocation.
iv) A _description of the usage_ of the method by the application.
v) the MBMS Client actions in response to the invocation of the method,
including pre- and post-conditions.
The equivalent Android APIs for MBMS-API-C are defined in the developer
framework of Android:
\- Download Session:
https://developer.android.com/reference/android/telephony/MbmsDownloadSession
\- Group Call Session:
https://developer.android.com/reference/android/telephony/MbmsGroupCallSession
\- Streaming Session:
https://developer.android.com/reference/android/telephony/MbmsStreamingSession
\- MBMS API documentation:
https://developer.android.com/reference/android/telephony/mbms/package-summary
Finally, TS 26.347 also defines interfaces between the MBMS Client and the
application for data exchanges. While the MBMS-API-C provides all methods to
find and establish these interfaces, MBMS-API-U provides requirements on the
data interfaces, for example for copying files, for requesting files through
HTTP, for using specific methods based on an application such as DASH or HLS,
or for accessing interfaces that provide RTP packets, UDP datagrams or packet
data.
An example usage of the abovementioned Android APIs to support accessing MBMS
services through Mission Critical functions is provided in Listing 4.2.1-1
using a reception feature activation.
Listing 4.2.1‑1 Example usage of the Android APIs to support accessing MBMS
services through Mission Critical functions
private MbmsGroupCallSessionCallback groupCallSessionCallback;\ private
MbmsGroupCallSession mbmsGroupCallSession;\ private String mbmsInterfaceName;\
_/**\ * Activate MBMS reception\ */\_ public void enableMBMS() {\ \
groupCallSessionCallback = new MbmsGroupCallSessionCallback() {\ \ \@Override\
public void onServiceInterfaceAvailable(\@NonNull String interfaceName, int
index) {\ Log._e_(_TAG_ , \"service interface for MBMS Reception \" +
interfaceName);\ mbmsInterfaceName = interfaceName;\ }\ \ };\ \ //Enabling
MBMS reception\ mbmsGroupCallSession =
MbmsGroupCallSession._create_(this.getApplicationContext(), 1,
this.getMainExecutor(), groupCallSessionCallback);\ \ }
Reception of data from an MBMS bearer is triggered following the code in
Listing 4.2.1-2.
Listing 4.2.1‑2 Reception of data from an MBMS bearer using Android APIs
private GroupCall groupCall;
_/**\ * Starting the reception of a MBMS bearer\ *__\@param_ _tmgi the
Temporary Multicast Group Identifier of the MBMS Bearer\ */\_ public void
startReceptionMBMSBearer(long tmgi) {\ GroupCallCallback myCallBack = new
GroupCallCallback() {\ \@Override\ public void onGroupCallStateChanged(int
state, int reason) {\ switch (state) {\ case GroupCall._STATE_STARTED_ :\
Log._i_(_TAG_ , \"MBMS bearer reception is started\");\ break;\ \ case
GroupCall._STATE_STALLED_ :\ Log._e_(_TAG_ , \"onGroupCallStateChanged:
stalled reason \" + reason);\ break;\ \ case GroupCall._STATE_STOPPED_ :\
Log._e_(_TAG_ , \"onGroupCallStateChanged: stopped reason \" + reason);\
break;\ } } };\ //List of Service Area Identifiers and frequencies, may be
left empty\ List\ sais = new ArrayList\();\ List\
frequencies = new ArrayList\();\ groupCall =
mbmsGroupCallSession.startGroupCall(tmgi, sais, frequencies, _executor_ ,
myCallBack);
Finally, the multicast packet data is accessed by the execution shown in
Listing 4.2.1-3.
Listing 4.2.1‑3 Multicast packet data access using Android APIs
_/**\ * Access to the multicast IP packets\ *__\@param_ _multicastAddress
String representation of the multicast IP address to join\ *__\@param_
_destinationPort destination port\ *__\@throws_ _Exception\ */\_ public void
receive(String multicastAddress, int destinationPort) throws Exception {\
NetworkInterface ni = NetworkInterface._getByName_(mInterfaceName);\ \ //open
a multicast socket\ MulticastSocket mSocket = new
MulticastSocket(destinationPort);\ SocketAddress socketAddress =\ new
InetSocketAddress(multicastAddress, destinationPort);\ \ //join the multicast
group on a given network interface\ mSocket.joinGroup(socketAddress, ni);\ \
while (true) {\ byte[] buf = new byte[1500];\ DatagramPacket recv = new
DatagramPacket(buf, buf.length);\ mSocket.receive(recv);\ \ //_TODO process
the received datagram\_}\ }
### 4.2.2 Media Session Handler in 5GMS
Another example enabling function relevant to 5G media delivery is the Media
Session Handler defined in TS 26.501 [13] (stage-2) and TS 26.512 [6]
(stage-3). The Media Session Handler is a function on the UE that communicates
with the 5GMSd AF in order to establish, control and support the delivery of a
media session, and may perform additional functions such as the collection and
reporting of consumption and QoE metrics. The Media Session Handler exposes
APIs that can be used by the 5GMSd-Aware Application. An overview is provided
in Figure 4.2.2-1.
Figure 4.2.2-1: Media Session Handler-- Application and Network reference
Points an APIs\ (Reproduced from TS 26.512 [6])
The Media Session Handler deals with three sets of APIs and reference points:
\- _M5d (Media Session Handling API):_ APIs exposed by a 5GMSd AF to the Media
Session Handler for media session handling, control, reporting and assistance
that also include appropriate security mechanisms, e.g. authorization and
authentication.
\- _M6d (UE Media Session Handling APIs):_ APIs exposed by a Media Session
Handler to the Media Player for client-internal communication and exposed to
the 5GMSd-Aware Application enabling it to make use of 5GMS functions.
NOTE: The M6d APIs are not yet fully specified in TS 26.512 [6].
\- _M7d (UE Media Player APIs):_ APIs exposed by a Media Player to the 5GMSd-
Aware Application and Media Session Handler to make use of the Media
Player.The APIs for M6d and M7d are defined in an abstract manner at this
stage.
### 4.2.3 Media Player in 5GMS
Downlink 5G Media Streaming specifies the use of segment formats that are
based on the Common Media Application Format (CMAF) in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [14].
By using this format, 5G Media Streaming is compatible with a broad set of
segment-based streaming protocols including Dynamic Streaming over HTTP (DASH)
and HTTP Live Streaming (HLS). For example, ISO/IEC 23009-1 [15] defines a
detailed DASH profile for delivering CMAF content within a DASH Media
Presentation using a converged format for segmented media content.
Figure 4.2.3-1: Media Playback in 5G Media Downlink Streaming Architecture\
(reproduced from TS 26.511 [7])
According to TS 26.511 [7], TS 26.512 [6] and Figure 4.2.3-1 above, the Media
Player is further decomposed into an Access Client and a Media Playback
Platform. Several APIs are identified for the Media Player:
\- _M4d (Media Streaming APIs):_ APIs exposed by a 5GMSd AS to the Media
Player to stream media content.
_\- M6d (UE Media Session Handling APIs):_ APIs exposed by a Media Session
Handler to the Media Player for client-internal communication and exposed to
the 5GMSd-Aware Application enabling it to make use of 5GMS functions.
_\- M7d (UE Media Player APIs):_ APIs exposed by a Media Player to the 5GMSd-
Aware Application and Media Session Handler to make use of the Media Player.
\- A set of internal _Media Player APIs_ that deals with providing accessed
data to the Media Playback Platform. These closely follow the W3C APIs for
HTML-5 based media playback and the Media Source Extensions.
Most relevant in the discussion is the M7d API provided by the Access Client
(see clause 13 of TS 26.512 [6]) defining:
1) Methods to interact with the Access Client of the Media Player,
2) Notification and Error Events sent to the Media Session Handler and 5GMSd-
Aware Application,
3) Configuration and Settings methods,
4) Status Information.
The initial API has largely been designed based on the dash.js API documented
here: http://cdn.dashjs.org/latest/jsdoc, but they are abstract.
For the Media Player, different states are defined, depending on actions
received from any of the APIs.
### 4.2.4 FLUS sink capability discovery
TS 26.238 [11] defines a set of protocols for uplink media streaming. This
specification includes a method for describing the processing capabilities of
the entity (known as FLUS sink) that receives the uplink stream. In this
specification, these capabilities are described as a list. Each entry in the
list includes a scheme identifier, the location for the description of the
scheme, and a URL where the specific capability can be accessed. The FLUS sink
capabilities description can be retrieved from the sink or it can be found in
a sink directory.
The advantage of the FLUS sink capabilities description is its simplicity.
However, since each item in the capabilities list has its own scheme, it does
not provide much interoperability for describing the available functions and
their detailed features, since each function defines its own scheme for
describing its capabilities.
### 4.2.5 Service Enabler Architecture Layer (SEAL) for Verticals
SA6 defines several Application Frameworks, for example Service Enabler
Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL). TS 23.434 [8] specifies the
functional architecture of the Service Enabler Architecture Layer (SEAL) and
the procedures, information flows and APIs for each service within SEAL in
order to support vertical applications over the 3GPP system. To ensure
efficient use and deployment of vertical applications over 3GPP systems [8]
includes the group management, configuration management, location management,
identity management, key management and network resource management. Figure
4.2.5-1 illustrates the generic on-network functional model for SEAL.
Figure 4.2.5-1: Generic on-network functional model for SEAL (see TS 23.434,
Figure 6.2-1)
In the vertical application layer (VAL), the _VAL client_ communicates with
the _VAL server_ over reference point VAL-UU. This supports both unicast and
multicast delivery modes, but is otherwise out of scope of SEAL.
The SEAL functional entities on the UE and the server are grouped into _SEAL
client(s)_ and _SEAL server(s)_ respectively. The SEAL consists of a common
set of services (e.g. group management, location management) and reference
points. The SEAL offers its services to the vertical application layer (VAL).
The functionalities and reference points of the vertical application layer are
out of scope of SEAL.
\- Each SEAL client communicates with its SEAL server over reference point
SEAL-UU.
\- The SEAL client provides the service enabler layer support functions to the
VAL client over reference point SEAL-C.
\- Each VAL server communicates with its SEAL server over reference point
SEAL-S.
A SEAL server may communicate with the underlying _3GPP network system_ using
the _Network interfaces_ provided by the 5G System (labelled _3GPP network
system_). The specific SEAL client(s) and the SEAL server(s), along with their
specific instantiations of reference point SEAL-UU and the specific network
interfaces of the 3GPP network system used, are described in the respective
on-network functional model for each SEAL service.
For each such service, TS 23.434 [8] defines the functional model, procedures
and information flows, as well as the APIs. The focus in [8] is on stage-2;
detailed stage-3 is not defined.
## 4.3 External Specifications
### 4.3.1 General
This clause provides an overview of existing specifications that provide
specifications similar to what is envisioned as Media Service Enabler
specifications.
### 4.3.2 W3C HTML-5 APIs for Media
#### 4.3.2.1 W3C HTML-5 APIs
According to the W3C Process Document [17], W3C Working Groups create
specifications and guidelines to complete the scope of work envisioned by a
Working Group\'s charter. These technical reports undergo cycles of revision
and review as they advance towards W3C Recommendation status. Once review
suggests the Working Group has met their requirements for a new standard,
including wide review, a Candidate Recommendation phase allows the Working
Group to formally collect implementation experience to demonstrate that the
specification works in practice. At the end of the process, the Advisory
Committee reviews the mature technical report, and if there is support from
its Membership, W3C publishes it as a Recommendation.
In summary, the W3C Recommendation Track consists of:
\- Publication of the First Public Working Draft.
\- Publication of zero or more revised Working Drafts.
\- Publication of one or more Candidate Recommendations.
\- Publication of a Proposed Recommendation.
\- Publication as a W3C Recommendation.
A key issue in the process is \"adequate implementation experience\" that is
summarized as follows in [17]. Implementation experience is required to show
that a specification is sufficiently clear, complete, and relevant to market
needs, to ensure that independent interoperable implementations of each
feature of the specification will be realized. While no exhaustive list of
requirements is provided here, when assessing that there is adequate
implementation experience the following may be considered:
\- is each feature of the current specification implemented, and how is this
demonstrated?
\- are there independent interoperable implementations of the current
specification?
\- are there implementations created by people other than the authors of the
specification?
\- are implementations publicly deployed?
\- is there implementation experience at all levels of the specification's
ecosystem (authoring, consuming, publishing...)?
\- are there reports of difficulties or problems with implementation?
Planning and accomplishing a demonstration of (interoperable) implementations
can be very time consuming. Groups are often able to work more effectively if
they plan how they will demonstrate interoperable implementations early in the
development process; for example, developing tests in concert with
implementation efforts.
A set of developer tools for W3C specification development is provided here:
https://www.w3.org/developers/tools/.
For media streaming media consumption using web-based end points, CTA WAVE has
developed several specifications that define and develop test regimes on how
to use web-based APIs. For this purpose, requirements and related tests are
defined for media playback APIs in particular in CTA WAVE 5000 [18], the WAVE
Web Media API Snapshot, and CTA WAVE 5003 [19], the Device Playback
Capabilities Specification provide detailed requirements and are supported by
test suites for user agent and device tests.
#### 4.3.2.2 W3C Media Capabilities framework
The W3C Media Capabilities API [10] is designed to query a W3C user agent
(such as a web browser) with regard to its media decoding and encoding
capabilities. The intent is to provide a replacement for the HTML5
canPlayType() method and the Media Source Extension isTypeSupported() method
that more accurately reflects the user agent's media encoding and decoding
capabilities.
The API supports decoding from a file, from Media Source Extension (MSE), or
from WebRTC, and also encoding to media chunks that can be stored in a file or
transmitted as a WebRTC stream.
\- The video and audio configuration objects define the general
characteristics of the video and audio configuration.
\- The key system configuration object defines the key configuration for the
encrypted media (EME).
For a given encoding or decoding configuration, the API returns a binary flag
for each of the following values: supported, smooth, or power-efficient. It
seems the logic is very similar to canPlayType(), but the configuration can be
described in more detail and the result is more accurate.
The specification is characterised as follows:
1\. It limits the expression of capabilities to video and audio
encoding/decoding and key configuration for decryption. It doesn't support
other media types such as subtitles, images, or graphics.
2\. It doesn't define a general language to define the capabilities of various
media functions other than video/audio decoding.
3\. It seems various encoding configurations (e.g. motion estimation, bit rate
control modes, number of reference frames, etc) cannot be described or set as
the desired configuration.
4\. The API for querying the functionality i still based on a binary pass/fail
result (similar to canPlayType()), presumably to reduce the risk of
fingerprinting the device, and therefore, it is not possible to get an
expressive list of supported features.
### 4.3.3 Khronos OpenXR
OpenXR [9] is an API (Application Programming Interface) for XR applications.
It sits between an application and an in-process or out-of-process \"XR
runtime system\" (just \"runtime\" hereafter). The runtime may handle such
functionality as frame composition, peripheral management, and raw tracking
information.
The OpenXR specification is intended to satisfy the needs of both programmers
and runtime implementors:
\- To the application programmer, OpenXR is a set of functions that interface
with a runtime to perform commonly required operations such as accessing
controller/peripheral state, getting current and/or predicted tracking
positions, and submitting rendered frames.
\- To the runtime implementor, OpenXR is a set of functions that control the
operation of the XR system and establishes the lifecycle of an XR application.
However, the specification does not necessarily provide a model for
implementation. A runtime implementation is expected to produce results
conforming with those produced by the specified methods, but may carry out
particular procedures in ways that are more efficient than the one specified.
A few fundamentals on API definitions:
\- Version numbers 64 bit major, minor, patch.
\- Threading, multiprocessing, runtime.
\- Extensions.
\- API Layering, which means that a user or application may insert API layers
between the application and the runtime implementation.
\- Return codes.
\- Handles and Object Handling.
\- Timing.
\- Colors.
\- Coordinate Systems.
\- Events.
The specification is also supported by API Reference Pages [9] which are
generated by automatic extraction from the specification source and document
commands, object handles, structures, enumerations, flags, other types and all
extensions.
For each command, the following information is provided:
\- Name.
\- C function call specification.
\- Parameter descriptions.
\- Valid usage.
\- Return codes.
\- Reference to OpenXR specification.
OpenXR is an extensible API and the optional functions are call extensions.
Since the extensions are options, only a subset of runtimes may implement a
particular extension. Therefore, an application may first query which
extensions are available from its underlying runtime. Open XR permits
extensions to be defined by OpenXR or by external parties. The function
xrEnumerateInstanceExtensionProperties [9] provides the list of available
extensions in the current runtime. Each extension is identified by a unique
name and an extension version, and by the type of the extension.
For the specification itself, the document sources are marked up in
_Asciidoctor_ format (https://asciidoctor.org/). _Asciidoctor_ and related
toolchain components are used to generate the output documents. A full
overview of how the specification is developed is provided here:
https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenXR-Docs/blob/main/specification/README.md.
Khronos has also released a Conformance Test Suite for OpenXR, published the
tests as open source software on GitHub
(https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenXR-CTS), and launched the OpenXR 1.0
Adopters Program so that implementations can be officially conformant for the
first time. Any OpenXR implementer -- Khronos member or not -- is welcome to
become an OpenXR Adopter and submit conformance test results for Working Group
review and approval. If their implementation is approved as conformant, they
will be able to use the OpenXR trademark on their implementation.
### 4.3.4 MPEG Network-Based Media Processing (NBMP) media function
description
ISO/IEC 23090-8 [2] is a specification for describing media functions and
workflows as microservices running in the cloud. The specification defines the
data structures for describing workflows and methods for managing them. The
framework enables dynamic creation of media processing pipelines, as well as
access to processed media data and metadata in real time or in a deferred way.
The media and metadata formats used between the media source, workflow
manager, and media processing entities in a media processing pipeline are also
specified.
Each function in a media processing pipeline is specified using a JSON object
called a _function description_ that describes the functionality, the inputs,
outputs, processing characteristics, and configuration parameters, as well as
the processing requirements. The function description can also describe
events, and even how to set up notifications, reporting, and monitoring for
that function if it is deployed as a microservice. More complex functions can
be described also as a composite of simpler functions. Finally, the function
description JSON object can also be used programmatically to instantiate a
task or microservice that performs the function it describes.
The NBMP function description has the advantage of describing being able to
describe a function with identifiers as well as a detailed description of a
function. The optional parameters of an implementation of a generic function
can be described using this approach.
# 5 Considered MSE frameworks
## 5.1 General
This clause collects some proposed and considered MSE frameworks. A discussion
on the different framework proposals is provided in clause 5.4.
## 5.2 MSE framework proposal #1
### 5.2.1 Architecture
Figure 4.4.1.1-1 shows a possible framework for Media Service Enablers. The
MSE framework consists of two parts: the _MSE specification_ (on the left of
the figure) and the _MSE implementation_ (on the right).
Figure 5.2.1-1. Media Service Enablers Framework
### 5.2.2 MSE Specification
An MSE Specification (a) defines:
1\. _Media aspects_
a. Functional description of the MSE including the mandatory and optional
features.
b. The control interfaces such as provisioning, authentication that is used by
the application, and other functions to interact with this MSE.
c. The media interfaces that includes all inputs and outputs format and
protocols.
d. Network interface including system and radio network.
e. Event, notifications, reporting, and monitoring.
f. Error handling.
2\. _MSE Configuration_
a. An _MSE Description Document (MDD)_ that describes an implementation's
functional support in a standardised way, including:
1\. Functions supported by an MSE implementation and their configuration
parameters.
2\. Optionally the performance/cost metrics for the different
features/options.
b. An _MSE Configuration API (MCA)_ abstraction for:
1\. Optionally retrieving the MSE Description Document.
2\. Configuring the MSE instantiation.
3\. Optionally retrieving the state and status of the MSE instantiation.
c. A service API for the MSE Configuration API.
Media aspects (1) are usually covered by SA4 specifications. However, the MSE
Configuration (2) is absent from current SA4 specifications and is what the
MSE Specification adds. The value of this is that, for any SDK or service that
is conforming to the MSE specification, a description of the features and
their configuration parameters can be described using a standard document
format. Furthermore, this description can be retrieved through the
configuration API if supported by the implementation. Additionally, the
external function or service can set a specific configuration for running that
SDK. Furthermore, the state and status of the running SDK can be retrieved at
any time.
The language and syntax of the MSE Description Document and the general
framework of the MSE Configuration API can be defined uniformly for all SA4
Media Service Enabler specifications and only specific codepoints are defined
in that specification. An external function or application understanding the
MSE Description Document syntax, as well as supporting the MSE Configuration
API, can retrieve the information from an MSE implementation. If it recognizes
the MSE Specification identifier, it can parse and process the MSE Description
Document and its configuration parameters.
An example of an MSE Description Document can be found in ISO/IEC 23090-8 [2].
The function description document is a JSON document that describes the
functionalities and features that a function provides as well as its
configuration parameters.
### 5.2.3 MSE implementation
An MSE implementation may consist of up to three aspects:
1\. The MSE SDK abstraction (c), an abstract SDK definition intended to be
realized as a Software Development Kit, which includes the followings:
i. Media aspects conforming to the MSE specification.
ii. MSE Description Document and MSE Configuration API.
2\. The MSE SDK instantiation (d) which is an SDK implementation in a specific
environment and conforms to the following:
i. Media aspects conforming to the MSE Specification.
ii. MSE Description Document and a specific implementation of the MSE
Configuration API.
3\. The MSE service (b) which is the MSE implementation as a service, i.e with
APIs that are platform-independent (such as web-based APIs) and conforms to
the following:
i. Media aspects conforming to the MSE Specification.
ii. MSE Description Document and a platform-independent implementation of the
MSE Configuration API.
As shown in Figure 4.4.1.1-1, while the MSE SDK abstraction and the MSE
Service are platform-independent, the MSE SDK is an instantiation of the MSE
SDK abstraction for a specific platform/environment.
An MSE Specification does not required to include all three aspects. For
instance, if an MSE is only intended to be realized as a software development
kit, then its specification would include specifications for the SDK
abstraction and one or more SDK instantiation.
Note that in the cases of MSE SDK abstract SDK (c) and MSE SDK (d), the MDD
may not be retrievable through the MSE configuration APIs. In these cases, MDD
is a side document, describing the features supported by the SDK.
Table 5.2.4-1 summarizes the above features.
Table 5.2.4-1. Summary of MSE features for various components of Figure
5.2.4-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Feature | Sp | MSE service | MSE SDK | MSE SDK | | | ecification | | abstract | | | | | (b) | | (d) | | | (a) | | (c) | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | MSE | Describes | Describes | Describes | Describes | | Description | the | features | features | features | | Document | mandatory | implemented | implemented | implemented | | (MDD) | and | and | and | and | | | optional | co | co | co | | | features in | nfiguration | nfiguration | nfiguration | | | a standard | options | options | options | | | way. | using MDD. | using MDD. | using MDD. | | | | | | | | | | This | This might | This might | | | | document | be a side | be a side | | | | can be | document. | document. | | | | retrieved | | | | | | using MCA. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MSE | The API | A | An abstract | An API | | Co | abstraction | platform- | API for MSE | instance | | nfiguration | describing | independent | con | for MSE | | API (MCA) | how to | API for MSE | figuration. | con | | | configure | con | | figuration. | | | the MSE. | figuration. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.2.4 Example
As shown in figure 5.2.1-1, the MSE Specification can be deployed in two
different ways: as an SDK for running on devices or as a microservice running
on an Application Server. To demonstrate converting an existing 3GPP
specification to an MSE specification, we use the 5GMS Media Session Handler
defined in TS 26.501 [13], shown in figure 5.2.4-1.
Figure 5.2.4-1. Media Session Handler as defined in 26.501
Figure 5.2.4-2. Media Session Handler as MSE SDK abstraction, MSE SDK
instantiations, and MSE service
The MSE Specification for the Media Session Handler (MSH) shown in Figure
5.2.4-2 describes the following:
1\. Media aspects:
a. Functional description of:
i. Service Access Information.
ii. Consumption Reporting.
iii. Metrics Reporting.
iv. Dynamic policies.
v. Network Assistance.
b. M5d, M6d, M7d API definitions:
i. M5d as is already defined.
ii. M6d and M7d as abstract APIs.
iii. M6d and M7d as service APIs.
2\. MSE Configuration
a. An MSE Description Document which describes:
i. An identifier that shows this MSE conforms to (1).
ii. Optional features of (1a) and (1b) with their configuration parameters.
iii. Optionally the performance/cost metrics for the different
features/options.
b. Abstract API definitions for:
i. Retrieving the MSE Description Document (2a).
ii. Configuring the MSE instantiation.
iii. Retrieving the state and status of the MSE instantiation.
c. A service API for the abstract API (2b).
And MSE SDK implementation of the above specification for Android should
support the following:
3\. Media aspects conforming to (1), including a specific implementation of
the M6d and M7d service APIs.
4\. The MSE Description Document (2a) and a specific implementation of the
abstract APIs (2b).
The MSE Description Document describes the features implemented by the MSE.
The abstract APIs allow an external Android process to retrieve this document
and configure the SDK with a set of configurable parameters that are described
in the MSE Description Document. They also allow it to interrogate the state
and status of the running SDK.
### 5.2.5 Benefits
The benefits of the above approach are the following:
1\. The MSE specification defines all mandatory and optional features in a
single document, the MDD, with references to the specific relevant clause(s).
2\. The MSE specification also optionally defines the MSE Configuration APIs
for managing and retrieving information from an implementation.
3\. An implementer can use the MSE specification's MDD as a feature checklist.
4\. An implementer can use the MSE Configuration API to implement the API for
MSE services.
5\. The SDK instantiation of an MSE specification includes a side MDD
describing the features supported by the SDK and the optional configurations
it may have.
6\. The MSE service instantiation of an MSE specification includes an MSE
configuration API conforming to the one defined in the MSE specification that
can be used for retrieving and configuring the service.
7\. The MSE service instantiation provides an MDD (as a side or as part of
retrieval through MSE configuration API) that provides the supported features
of the MSE service instantiation.
## 5.3 MSE framework proposal #2
### 5.3.1 Overview
The proposal follows existing practices in 3GPP for device and network APIs,
as introduced in clause 4.2, and extends the documentation with best practices
identified in other organizations as introduced in clause 4.3.
### 5.3.2 Architecture
The basic concept of the Media Service Enabler is to support third-party media
delivery over the 5G System. Figures 5.3.2-1 and 5.3.2-2 provide an overview
for an application that is deployed on top of a 5G System. In this case, the
Application Provider is operating an external DN and connects to the 5G System
using N6 for data delivery and possibly N33 to use specific 5G network
services. A UE-resident application makes use of device functions (for example
hardware and software exposed through APIs) and connects to the Application
Provider.
Figure 5.3.2-1: Third-party application on top of 5G System -- 5G System
Architecture
Figure 5.3.2-2: Third-party application on top of 5G System -- Interfaces
Figure 5.3.2-3 now extends the above basic architecture to provide to the
Application Provider a set of 3GPP-specified functions, possibly both on UE
and network side, in order to simplify operations. These functions are bundled
as a Media Service Enabler (MSE) and offered to the Application Provider as
follows:
\- The service may be provisioned on the network side using an MSE Application
Function. The provisioning reference point is summarized as MSE-1.
\- User plane data may be exchanged with the Application Provider using an
Ingest/Egest interface, MSE-2. Generally, this is a generic IP-based interface
that directly uses N6 and the UPF. However, the MSE may offer specific
Application Server functions at MSE-2.
\- On the UE side, the functions of an MSE Client are accessed through a well-
defined client API, MSE-6, that is aligned with other device APIs. The MSE
Client may make use of other device functions that are expected to be
accessible via existing device APIs.
\- The MSE Client may be decomposed into C _ore Functions_ defined in the
relevant Media Service Enabler specification, and _External Device Reference
Functions_ that are accessed through well-defined APIs MSE-7.
\- The MSE Client connects to the 5G network and may make use of Application
Functions associated with this Media Service Enabler. Those functions are
exposed through MSE-5.
\- User data is exchanged with the MSE Application Server (if any) through
MSE-4, which may define specific requirements on the usage of protocols,
codecs, formats etc.
Figure 5.3.2-2: Addition of MSE to 5G-based media delivery
Providing a Media Service Enabler in this form has several benefits:
\- The Application Provider has a set of functions that can be easily accessed
in the same way that device functions are accessed today, namely through well-
defined device APIs. The Application Provider can also use regular IP
connectivity to operate its application.
\- For the MSE developer, the focus is on providing a well-defined set of
functions that are exposed to the application through MSE-1 and MSE-2 on the
network side, and via MSE-6 on the UE device side.
\- The MSE developer may provide the MSE Application Function and Application
Server as well as the MSE Client. In this case, the primary interoperability
aspects are at reference points MSE-1 and MSE-6.
In another case, the network functions for MSE may be provided by a 5G System
operator. In this case the MSE Client and MSE AF are expected to also
implement the functions and interoperability defined at reference points MSE-4
and MSE-5.
### 5.3.3 Functions and reference points
The following functions are defined:
\- _Application:_ A downloadable or installed application in a UE that makes
use of the MSE to provide a Media Service to a user.
\- _MSE Client_ : A UE-internal function dedicated to a specific Media Service
Enabler. The MSE Client is a logical function and its subfunctions may be
distributed within the UE according to implementation choice. For example, it
may define new core functions as well as referencing existing functions that
are required to complete the expected functions.
\- _MSE Application Function_ : An Application Function similar to that
defined in clause 6.2.10 of TS 23.501 [2], dedicated to a specific Media
Service Enabler.
\- _MSE Application Server_ : An Application Server dedicated to a specific
Media Service Enabler.
The following reference points, interfaces and APIs are defined:
\- _MSE-1 (MSE Provisioning API):_ External API, exposed by the MSE AF, which
enables the Application Provider to provision the usage of the MSE.
\- _MSE-2: (MSE Ingest/Egest API):_ Optional external API exposed to the
Application Provider by the MSE AS and used when the MSE AS in the trusted DN
is selected to process content for the MSE.
NOTE: MSE-3 may be used for communication between MSE AS and MSE AF, but is
not considered relevant.
\- _MSE-4: (MSE User Plane interface):_ Interface used by an MSE Client to
exchange user data with an MSE AS.
\- _MSE-5: (MSE Control API):_ APIs exposed by an MSE AF to the MSE Client to
configure and control MSE functions.
\- _MSE-6: (MSE Client APIs):_ APIs exposed by the MSE to the Application for
client-internal communication to make use of MSE functions
\- _MSE-7: (External Device API):_ APIs exposed by the UE device to the MSE to
make use of resident client functions such as rendering, playback, etc.
\- _MSE-8: (Application APIs):_ Interface used for information exchange
between the Application and the Application Provider.
### 5.3.4 Specification
Media Service Enabler specifications do not attempt to define an entire
service, but only a subset of small defined functions. Hence, it is essential
to understand that whatever is not defined to complete a service does not need
to be documented. An MSE specification is a bottom-up specification: it
specifies what is needed and does not address what is not needed.
An MSE specification is proposed to include the following information:
1\. _Pre-requisites and Assumptions_ (Highly recommended): Pre-requisites
document what is expected to be available either from the 5G System (i.e.
certain functionalities of the 5G System) or from implementation (for example
functions available on the device). These pre-requisites may be considered to
be part of the specification (as reference to an external specification), but
it is important to identify this separately in order to clearly demarcate the
boundaries of the MSE with respect to other functions. Example for pre-
requisites include, but are not limited to:
a) Existing and required device functions and the corresponding APIs defined
as MSE-7.
b) Existing and required 5G System functions.
2\. _Overall specification of the function, including a specific architecture_
(Highly recommended). This includes:
a) Instantiations of the MSE reference points and functions.
b) A typical call flow.
3\. _Specification of the MSE Client functions and the corresponding MSE-6
APIs_ (Highly recommended). This typically includes functionalities such as
configuration, settings, notifications, events, data and status query as well
as functional methods. It includes:
a) Definition of the internal functions itself.
b) Definition of how to use existing and required device functions.
c) Strict definition of the API methods with details such as name, pseudo
code, functions. As a common language IDL or C is proposed to be used.
4\. _Control Plane API and network/MSE Application Function_ (Highly
recommended)
a) Definition of the internal functions of the AF, using common practices of a
RESTful API
b) Alignment with 5G Media Streaming functionalities as defined at reference
point M5 of TS 26.501 [13] and TS 26.511 [6], using OpenAPI/YAML.
5\. _User plane reference point and network/MSE Application Server_ (Optional
but recommended)
a) Definition of internal functions of the Application Server, based on common
Internet protocols, preferably by reference to external specifications (IETF,
MPEG, etc.)
### 5.3.5 Implementation support beyond specification
Beyond the specification, it is proposed to document guidelines and additional
support material for developers. The following aspects are considered:
1\. _Guidelines for application developers_ (Highly Recommended)
\- Providing guidance on how an application developer can make use of the
Media Service Enabler.
\- This is preferably done by providing examples and implementation hints.
2\. _Guidelines for MSE implementers_ (Optional):
\- Providing guidance to an implementer of an MSE Client and/or AF in order to
support implementation. Such guidelines may also be provided in line with the
specification text.
\- If provided, the guidelines are preferably separated in style and form from
the main specification text. For example, this may be added in a specific
\"box\" or \"frame\" that identifies this as an informal implementation hint.
3\. _Considerations on device API implementations_ (Recommended)
\- The device APIs MSE-6 and MSE-7 are typically only documented on a
conceptual level.
\- Considerations on the specifics for implementing the APIs, for example in
Android as RESTful APIs in devices, is relevant.
4\. _Considerations of a Conformance Test Suite_ (Optional, but expected to be
at least considered):
\- A Conformance Test Suite is a collection of tests covering the breadth of
the MSE functions. The tests include the definition of test cases, the
definition of test assets as well as the success criteria to pass the tests. A
typical figure for a test application to test the implementation of the MSE
Client is shown in Figure 5.3.5-1.
\- The considerations documented are expected to allow third parties to
implement a full Conformance Test Suite in order to test the 3GPP-defined APIs
and conformance for correct implementation. Follow-up such as adopter programs
may be considered.
\- The Conformance Test Suites and adopter program may be provided by external
organizations, for example 3GPP market representation partners (MRPs).
Figure 5.3.5-1: Test Framework for MSE Client Implementation
### 5.3.6 Style and documentation guidelines
The primary goal is to achieve consistency across the API, as well as across
all specifications. Consistency makes it easier for developers, editors,
reviewers, and users of the documentation to understand and modify it. While
each organization and specification may and should have its own look and feel,
it is considered appropriate to establish a style guide convention. The Style
Guide of the OpenXR Documentation has been branched from the Vulkan
documentation and is hence considered a broadly adopted and established
convention. In addition, 3GPP uses OpenAPI for the API definition towards the
network.
Hence, it is proposed to align with the style guide and documentation
conventions from OpenXR as well as OpenAPI as follows:
1\. Develop APIs for the relevant reference points in a Github- or gitlab-
based environment and only port agreements or full specifications to 3GPP
specifications. The development of the formal APIs is done in a git-based
environment.
2\. For device-internal API definitions, align with the OpenXR style guide
https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/styleguide.html as follows:
\- Use Asciidoc http://www.asciidoctor.org/ to the extent possible to define
formal APIs.
NOTE: References to the Asciidoctor User Manual are to sections in the
document at http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/
\- For API naming conventions, it is proposed that the rules defined in
https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/styleguide.html#naming apply
with the following adaptation:
\- Each MSE is assigned a prefix (for example MSE). In similar way as XR is
used in the OpenXR spec, an equivalent usage of MSE is expected for an MSE
spec. ~~This prefix is used as XR is used in the description above~~.
\- Prefixes are used in the API to denote specific semantic meaning of MSE
names, or as a label to avoid name clashes, and are explained here:
\- MSE/Mse/mse
\- All types, commands, enumerates and C macro definitions in the
specification are prefixed with these characters, according to the rules
defined above.
\- For the markup style, it is proposed that the ETSI/3GPP documentation rules
as well as the rules defined in
https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/styleguide.html#markup apply. In
particular, section 5.7 on writing reference pages is expected to apply:
https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/styleguide.html#writing-refpages
\- Provide reference pages for the MSE according to the OpenXR principle
https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/man/html/openxr.html
3\. For the network-based APIs and reference points, define RESTful APIs and
use the conventional OpenAPI rules as defined by 3GPP in TS 29.501 [16].
4\. For regular data communication reference to existing protocols and
formats.
NOTE: Processes and tools according to W3C as provided in clause 4.3.2 can be
added as well.
### 5.3.7 Examples
#### 5.3.7.1 Example 1: MBMS Client
Based on the specification template in clause 5.3.5 and the style guidelines
in clause 5.3.6, table 5.3.7-1 provides a potential mapping of the MBMS Client
function, as introduced in clause 4.2.1, to the MSE concept.
Table 5.3.7.1-1 Mapping of MBMS Client to MSE concept
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MSE Specification | Specification | Comments | +======================+======================+======================+ | Pre-requisites and | TS 26.347, clause | Some high-level | | assumptions | 6.1: Background | aspects are | | | | discussed, but a | | | | detailed listing of | | | | pre-requisites and | | | | assumptions is not | | | | available. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Overall | TS 26.347, clause 5: | A reference | | specification of the | Reference Client | architecture is | | function including a | Architecture | provided, but no | | specific | | high-level call | | architecture | | flows. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Specification of the | TS 26.347, clause | Detailed | | MSE Client functions | 6.2, 6.3 and 6.4 for | specification of the | | and the | different APIs | APIs. However, | | corresponding MSE-6 | | improved | | APIs | | documentation using | | | | well-defined types, | | | | structures, | | | | highlighting and so | | | | on could be applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Control Plane API | TS 26.346, clause 6 | The control plane | | and network/MSE | and 9 on user | API is not defined | | Application Function | services and | explicitly, but as a | | | referenced in TS | general protocol. | | | 26.347 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | User Plane reference | TS 26.346, clause 7, | The user plane | | point and | 8, 8A, and 8B and | reference point is | | network/MSE | referenced in TS | defined explicitly, | | Application Server | 26.347 | but as a general | | | | protocol. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Guidelines for | TS 26.347, annex E | Some high-level | | application | | implementation | | developers | | guidelines are | | | | provided. More | | | | detailed call flows | | | | would be needed. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Guidelines for MSE | TS 26.347, clause | A detailed set of | | developers | 6.2.2, 6.2.3 and | basic implementation | | | 6.2.4, MBMS Client | ideas for the | | | State Model | internal handling of | | | | an MBMS Client is | | | | provided as part of | | | | the description. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Considerations on | TS 26.347, Annex B, | A full IDL-based | | device API | Interface Definition | interface definition | | implementations | Language for | is provided, but it | | | MBMS-APIs | is informative. It | | | | is also not provided | | | | as "code", but as | | | | text in the | | | | document. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Considerations for a | (Not existing) | Nothing is | | Conformance Test | | documented on this | | Suite | | matter. However, as | | | | seen in | | | | clause 4.2.1, | | | | Android APIs exist | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Style and | TS 26.347, annex A | Style and | | documentation | | documentation is | | | | weak. Annex A | | | | introduces the usage | | | | of IDL, but is | | | | lacking compared to | | | | clause 5.3.6: | | | | | | | | - No git based | | | | approach | | | | | | | | - No usage of | | | | ASCIIDOC | | | | | | | | - No consistent API | | | | naming conventions | | | | are applied | | | | | | | | - No markup or | | | | reference pages are | | | | generated | | | | | | | | - No OpenAPI-based | | | | network protocols | | | | are defined. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
In summary, the MBMS Client, as currently specified by 3GPP, quite closely
follows the definition of an MSE. Because the MBMS Client and the APIs were
developed in stages, the documentation is not consistent in one specification,
but rather is spread over several documents. However, most of the considered
information is present. An improved overall documentation process, more style
guidelines and so on would be needed.
#### 5.3.7.2 Example 2: DASH Player
Based on the specification template in clause 5.3.5 and the style guidelines
in clause 5.3.6, table 5.3.7.2-1 provides a potential mapping of the DASH
Player function, as introduced in clause 4.2.2, to the MSE concept.
Table 5.3.7.2-1 Mapping of DASH Player to MSE concept
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MSE Specification | Specification | Comments | +======================+======================+======================+ | Pre-requisites and | TS 26.512, clause | Reference to TS | | assumptions | 13.2. The Media | 26.511 which in | | | Playback and Content | itself expects | | | Decryption Platform | availability of | | | external APIs. | playback based on | | | | CMAF playback | | | | requirements. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Overall | TS 26.501, clause | Provides call flows | | specification of the | 5.4, DASH Streaming | and architecture. | | function including a | and TS 26.512, | | | specific | clause 13.2. | | | architecture | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Specification of the | Corresponds to the | Definition of | | MSE Client functions | M7d APIs as defined | internal functions, | | and the | TS 26.501 and TS | methods, | | corresponding MSE-6 | 26.512, clause 13.2. | notification and | | APIs | | error events, and | | | | status information | | | | in a formal manner. | | | | Reference to dash.js | | | | documentation. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Control Plane API | Not defined (unless | | | and network/MSE | MPD is considered | | | Application Function | control plane) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | User plane reference | Defined as M4d in TS | References TS 26.247 | | point and | 26.501 and TS | and ISO/IEC 23009-1. | | network/MSE | 26.512, clause 10. | | | Application Server | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Guidelines for | Examples are | | | application | provided by | | | developers | reference to dash.js | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Guidelines for MSE | Partially provided | | | developers | in TS26.247 and | | | | reference to ISO/IEC | | | | 23009-1, Annex A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Considerations on | Nothing available | | | device API | | | | implementations | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Considerations of a | Nothing referenced | DASH-IF defines | | Conformance Test | | reference player. | | Suite | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Style and | TS 26.347, annex A | Style and | | documentation | | documentation is | | | | weak. Annex A | | | | introduces the usage | | | | of IDL, but is | | | | lacking compared to | | | | clause 5.3.6: | | | | | | | | - No git based | | | | approach | | | | | | | | - No usage of | | | | ASCIIDOC | | | | | | | | - No consistent API | | | | naming conventions | | | | are applied | | | | | | | | - No markup or | | | | reference pages are | | | | generated | | | | | | | | - No OpenAPI-based | | | | network protocols | | | | are defined. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 5.4 Discussion on different MSE framework proposals
Two different approaches for an MSE framework are provided in clause 5. The
approaches share many similarities, in particular:
\- Defining the key concepts of MSE
\- Functional definitions of the Media Service Enabler.
\- Media Service enabler is a set of mandatory and possibly optional set of
functionalities
\- Definition of device-internal APIs and network interfaces.
\- Support of specification and implementations
\- Easily mapped to SDK implementation
However, there are also complementary aspects:
\- Approach 1, as proposed in clause 5.2, addresses the following additional
aspects
\- A document for cataloging a MSE specification's features and their options.
\- Configuration of the Media Service Enabler by supplying configuration
parameters as needed by the user of the MSE
\- capability discovery within the Media Service Enabler. This may include
aspects that are binary (supported, not supported), but could also be more
nuanced, and/or optionally cataloguing the subset of the specification
features supported by an implementation in a document and their implemented
options.
\- Approach 2, as proposed in clause 5.3, addresses the following additional
aspects
\- Reference architecture for MSE based on 5GMS architecture
\- Template for Media Service Enabler specification drafting
\- Addressing aspects beyond specification, namely test, reference
implementations, as well as conformance considerations
\- Tooling, style and documentation guidelines
# 6 MSE Specification Framework
## 6.1 Introduction
This clause provides an MSE Specification framework based on the examples and
framework considerations in clause 4 and 5, respectively.
Based on the analysis in clause 5.4, it is considered that the approach in
clause 5.3 is used as the baseline for the MSE specification initial
framework, but the concepts for 5.3 are beneficially enhanced adding the
complementary concepts of the approach in 5.2. Possible extensions of the
framework to provide more consistent deployments can be considered later.
## 6.2 Initial MSE framework
### 6.2.1 General Concepts
The basic concept of the Media Service Enabler is to support third-party
applications to make use of advanced functionalities provided by the 5G
System, combined with additional well-defined client and network
functionalities for media services: an MSE enables improved media services.
In implementations and deployments, such packaged functions are typically
referred to as a Software Development Kit (SDK) and they are usable by
applications through well-defined APIs. A few potential properties of a Media
Service Enabler are provided:
\- A set of functions that may be used to deploy applications that can make
simple use of 5G System functionalities.
\- A set of robust features and functionalities which reduce the complexity of
developing applications.
\- Functions to leverage system and radio optimizations as well as features
defined in 5G System (5G Core Network and 5G NR).
\- Usability of the set of functions by well-defined and well-documented
device APIs.
\- Provision of network interfaces to connect to the 5G System.
\- A testable set of functions. Testing and conformance may be addressed
outside 3GPP, for example by a Market Representation Partner (MRP) such as
5G-MAG or by an industry forum.
\- Guidelines and examples to make use of the set of functionalities provided
by an MSE.
A general initial idea on how to define Media Service Enablers is documented
below:
\- Combine functions defined in 3GPP (for example a codec) and/or reference
technologies defined outside 3GPP, for example in MPEG or Khronos, and provide
relevant subsets and profiles of these.
\- Include mandatory, recommended and optional functions.
\- Define signaling and capability negotiation for all functions.
\- Specify requirements for client and network functions, as needed.
\- Include relevant functions such as QoE metrics and KPIs.
Providing a Media Service Enabler in this form has several benefits:
\- The Application Provider has a set of functions that can be easily accessed
in the same way that device functions are accessed today, namely through well-
defined device APIs. The Application Provider can also use regular IP
connectivity to operate its application.
\- For the MSE developer, the focus is on providing a well-defined set of
functions that are exposed to the application through MSE-1 and MSE-2 on the
network side, and via MSE-6 on the UE device side.
\- The MSE developer may provide the MSE Application Function and Application
Server as well as the MSE Client. In this case, the primary interoperability
aspects are at reference points MSE-1 and MSE-6.
\- In another case, the network functions for MSE may be provided by a 5G
System operator. In this case the MSE Client and MSE AF are expected to also
implement the functions and interoperability defined at reference points MSE-4
and MSE-5.
In the remainder of this clause, an MSE reference architecture is provided and
functions and interfaces are defined.
### 6.2.2 MSE Reference Architecture
The basic concept of the Media Service Enabler is to support third-party
delivery of media over the 5G System. Figure 6.2.2-1 provides the Application
Provider with a set of 3GPP-specified functions, possibly both on UE and
network side, in order to simplify operations. These functions are bundled as
a Media Service Enabler (MSE) and offered to the Application Provider as
follows:
\- The service may be provisioned on the network side using an MSE Application
Function. The provisioning reference point is summarized as MSE-1.
\- User plane data may be exchanged with the Application Provider using an
Ingest/Egest interface, MSE-2. Generally, this is a generic IP-based interface
that directly uses N6 and the UPF. However, the MSE may offer specific
Application Server functions at MSE-2.
\- On the UE side, the functions of an MSE Client are accessed through a well-
defined client API, MSE-6, that is aligned with other device APIs. The MSE
Client may make use of other device functions that are expected to be
accessible via existing device APIs.
\- The MSE Client may be decomposed into C _ore Functions_ defined in the
relevant Media Service Enabler specification, and _External Device Reference
Functions_ that are accessed through well-defined APIs MSE-7.
\- The MSE Client connects to the 5G network and may make use of Application
Functions associated with this Media Service Enabler. Those functions are
exposed through MSE-5.
\- User data is exchanged with the MSE Application Server (if any) through
MSE-4, which may define specific requirements on the usage of protocols,
codecs, formats etc.
Figure 6.2.2-1: Media Service Enablers in 5G Systems
### 6.2.3 Functions and reference points
The following functions are defined:
\- _Application:_ A UE-resident function that uses the Media Service Enabler
to create a service or a user experience
\- _MSE Client_ : A UE-internal function dedicated to a specific Media Service
Enabler. The MSE Client is a logical function and its subfunctions may be
distributed within the UE according to implementation choice. For example, it
may define new core functions as well as referencing existing functions that
are required to complete the expected functions.
\- _MSE Application Function_ : An Application Function similar to that
defined in clause 6.2.10 of TS 23.501 [2], dedicated to a specific Media
Service Enabler.
\- _MSE Application Server_ : An Application Server dedicated to a specific
Media Service Enabler.
The following reference points, interfaces and APIs are defined:
\- _MSE-1 (MSE Provisioning API):_ External API, exposed by the MSE AF, which
enables the Application Provider to provision the usage of the MSE.
\- _MSE-2: (MSE Ingest/Egest API):_ Optional external API exposed to the
Application Provider by the MSE AS and used when the MSE AS in the trusted DN
is selected to process content for the MSE.
NOTE: MSE-3 may be used for communication between MSE AS and MSE AF, but is
not considered relevant.
\- _MSE-4: (MSE User Plane interface):_ Interface used by an MSE Client to
exchange user data with an MSE AS.
\- _MSE-5: (MSE Control API):_ APIs exposed by an MSE AF to the MSE Client to
configure and control MSE functions.
\- _MSE-6: (MSE Client APIs):_ APIs exposed by the MSE to the Application for
client-internal communication to make use of MSE functions
\- _MSE-7: (External Device API):_ APIs exposed by the UE device to the MSE to
make use of resident client functions such as rendering, playback, etc.
\- _MSE-8: (Application APIs):_ Interface used for information exchange
between the Application and the Application Provider.
## 6.3 MSE specification Template
The following is a template for a Media Service Enabler specification.
1 Scope
2 References
3 Terms and abbreviations
4 General
4.1 Overview
\- Motivation and scope for the MSE.
\- Applied MSE principles.
\- Overview of specification.
\- Addressed functionalities.
4.2 Typical Use Cases and applications
\- Use Cases that may be addressed with the MSE.
\- Applications benefitting from the MSE.
5 Reference architecture and procedures
5.1 Reference Architecture
\- Instantiation of the general MSE architecture.
\- Providing the defined APIs and reference points.
5.2 Core functions and extensions
\- Core functions are all functions that need to be implemented to support the
MSE (required).
\- Extensions define a set of functions that are only required for certain use
cases (optional).
\- Configuration parameters for the core functions and extensions
\- Capability options for the core functions and in particular for the
extensions
5.3 Procedures and call flows
\- High-level call flows and procedures for the most common use cases.
\- Summary of specified reference points and procedures in this specification
pa.
6 Prerequisites
6.1 5G System functionalities
\- Functionalities required of the 5G System with reference.
\- May address requirements dependent on core functions or as part of an
extension only.
6.2 Device APIs and functionalities
\- Requirements and functionalities needed from the device.
\- Definition of reference point MSE-7 requirements, i.e. reference APIs and
functionalities.
7 MSE Application Function specification
7.1 Overview of the MSE API calls
7.2 Functionality
\- Defines states of the MSE AF in relation to the MSE client. Examples for
state are IDLE, REGISTERED, ACTIVE, etc.
7.3 MSE AF API methods and parameters
\- RESTful APIs.
\- MSE-5 is defined.
\- MSE-1 may be defined.
8 MSE user plane specification
8.1 Overview
\- Definition of MSE-4 interface.
\- Protocol Stack.
8.2 User plane configuration protocols
8.4 Content delivery protocols
8.3 Formats and Codecs
8.4 QoS considerations
8.5 Security considerations
9 MSE Client specification
9.1 Overview of the MSE API Calls
9.2 Functional description
\- Uses reference pre-requisites, user plane functionality, control plane, and
client API.
\- Defines states of the MSE client in relation to the application. Examples
for state are _IDLE_ , _REGISTERED_ , _ACTIVE_ , etc. State changes may occur
through or by information received through MSE-6 the network interface.
\- A set of client-internal reference parameters that are changed based on
either configuration or API calls through MSE-6 or by information received
through the network interface MSE-4 or MSE-5.
\- Metrics, data and KPI collections, for example to be provided to analytics
servers.
9.3 MSE Client API methods and parameters
\- Different methods that allow the application to communicate with the MSE
client. For each method, the following information is provided:
\- A high-level description of the method.
\- An example call flow.
\- The parameters that are exchanged as part of the API call.
\- The usage of the API by the application.
\- The MSE Client actions, including pre and post conditions.
\- Configuration
\- Capabilities
This API typically includes functionalities such as configurations, settings,
notifications, events, data and status query as well as functional methods. As
an example, the API may provide the ability to query metrics and KPIs,
\- Optional capability discovery: discovery of the capabilities supported by
an implementation including the additional configuration parameters specific
to that MSE implementation
\- Specification using a well-defined language, for example C or IDL,
Annex A (informative): Implementation guidelines
A.1 Guidelines for application developers
\- Use Case mapping.
The guidelines are expected to provide guidance how an application developer
can make use of the MSE. This is preferably done by providing examples and
implementation hints.
A.2 Guidelines for MSE implementers and reference implementations
\- The guidelines are expected to provide guidance to an MSE Client and/or AF
implementor in order to support implementation.
\- A reference implementation of the MSE may be considered.
Annex B (informative): Considerations on conformance testing
B.1 Overview
\- A Conformance Test Suite is a collection of tests covering the breadth of
the MSE functions. The tests include the definition of test cases, the
definition of test assets as well as the success criteria to complete the
tests.
B.2 Potential testing framework
B.3 Potential test cases
B.4 Potential conformance testing procedures
Annex C (normative): API Reference Pages
Annex D (informative): Considerations on API Instantiations
\- The device API implementations MSE-6 and MSE-7 are typically only done on a
conceptual level.
\- Considerations on specifics for the instantiations of the APIs, for example
in Android or in web browsers.
Annex E (informative): Attachments and online repositories
## 6.4 Beyond the MSE Specification -- guidelines, tests and reference
implementations
Beyond the MSE specification, and as indicated in clause 6.3, the following
aspects are considered in the annexes for the specification template:
\- Guidelines for application developers.
\- Guidelines for MSE implementers and reference implementations.
\- Device API instantiations.
\- Conformance Test Suite.
Such efforts are not necessarily suitable for 3GPP working processes. Hence,
collaboration with other organizations, such 3GPP market representation
partners (MRPs) or open-source projects may be considered. The annexes
indicated above may initially contain only considerations that can be used by
third parties in order to develop their own implementations, guidelines, test
frameworks and reference implementations.
As an example, the development of a reference implementation of MSE Client and
network functions can support developers and Application Providers to quickly
gain access to newly defined functionalities. This is, for example, shown in
figure 6.4-1 for which reference implementations of the MSE are used as part
of a reference, demonstration or production application. In this case, the
reference implementation makes use of existing device functions and 5G System
functions. As an example, the 5G-MAG reference tools
https://www.5g-mag.com/reference-tools provide an approach to developing such
reference implementations.
Figure 6.4-1: MSE Reference Implementation
As another example to support the specification development, a conformance
test suite may be developed in order to test the 3GPP-defined APIs and
conformance for correct implementation. A framework for this is provided in
figure 6.4-2.
Figure 6.4-2: Test/Conformance Framework for MSE Client Implementation
In this case, a test framework is developed in order to test the functionality
of the MSE Client implementation. If all tests are passed, the MSE Client may
be considered conformant to the specification. Such an approach may be even
extended to create an adopter program, i.e. providing a process that allows an
MSE implementation to officially claim support of the MSE specification by
having verified that the all tests have been passed.
While 3GPP is not in a position to mandate such a conformance regime, it is
highly recommended to consider the potential benefits of supporting third
parties in developing suitable test and conformance programs.
# 7 Writing MSE Specifications: Style Guides and Tools
The primary goal is to achieve consistency across the API, as well as across
all specifications. Consistency makes it easier for developers, editors,
reviewers, and users of the documentation to understand and modify it. While
each organization and specification may and should have its own look and feel,
it is considered appropriate to establish a style guide convention. As an
example, the Style Guide of the OpenXR Documentation has been branched from
the Vulkan documentation and is hence considered a broadly adopted and
established convention. In addition, 3GPP uses OpenAPI for the API definition
towards the network.
Hence, it is proposed to align with the following style guide and
documentation conventions:
1\. Develop APIs for the relevant reference points in an Internet-accessible
source code repository (e.g. 3GPP Forge) and only port agreements or full
specifications to 3GPP specifications. The development of the formal APIs is
also done in an Internet-accessible source code repository.
2\. For device-internal API definitions, align with the OpenXR style guide
[20] as follows:
a) Use Asciidoc [21] to the extent possible to define formal APIs.
b) For API naming conventions, it is proposed that the rules defined in
https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/styleguide.html#naming apply
with the following adaptation:
\- Each MSE is assigned a prefix (for example MSE). In similar way as XR is
used in the OpenXR specification, an equivalent usage of MSE or an equivalent
prefix is expected for an MSE specification. Prefixes are used in the API to
denote specific semantic meaning of MSE names, or as a label to avoid name
clashes as follows:
MSE/Mse/mse
\- All types, commands, enumerates and C macro definitions in the
specification are prefixed with these characters, according to the rules
defined above.
c) For the mark-up style, it is proposed that the ETSI/3GPP documentation
rules as well as the rules defined in section 4 of [20] apply. In particular,
section 5.7 of [20] on writing reference pages is expected to apply.
d) Provide reference pages for the MSE according to the OpenXR principle
https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/man/html/openxr.html
3\. For the network-based APIs and reference points, define RESTful APIs using
OpenAPI YAML according to the rules and conventions defined by 3GPP in TS
29.501 [16].
4\. For regular User Plane data communication reference existing protocols and
formats.
NOTE: Support for workflows and automation is considered by providing a
workflow and tools based on the Khronos OpenXR specification [9].
# 8 Potentially Relevant 5G Media Service Enablers
The media service enabler concepts may be applied to existing functions or to
future ones.
Existing functions that may be converted and updated to MSE:
\- MBMS Client as defined in TS 26.346 [3] and TS 26.347 [4]. The MBMS client
already uses most of the MSE principles in the way it is defined in TS 26.347
[4].
\- MBS Client as defined in TS 26.502 [22].
\- Media Session Handler as defined in TS 26.512 [7]. This is a candidate for
MSE, but not consistently as it is not explicitly serving application but is
more considered a background service. Certain aspects of MSE may be applied,
but not all.
Other potential MSE candidates:
\- Split Rendering functionality
\- AI/ML functions
# 9 Conclusions and Recommendations
The Technical Report introduces and defines the concept of Media Service
Enablers. In recent studies and specification work, it was identified that 5G
Media functions and 5G System functions need to be made attractive for third-
party applications, in particular those that include media delivery. Hence, it
is important that these functions are accessible to third-party applications
independent of a 3GPP service. For this purpose, it is considered to introduce
normative specifications in 3GPP SA4 that are
\- more than just a core functionality, e.g. a codec, without any connection
to a service or application
\- less than a full service that includes all aspects of session
establishment, delivery, codecs, rendering and a full user experience
Such new specifications are referred to 5G \"Media Service Enablers\".
This document includes, among others:
\- Definition of the principal properties of Media Service Enablers.
\- Examples for similar concepts in 3GPP and external specifications
\- Considerations on an appropriate Media Service Enabler Framework
\- Definition of a specification template for Media Service Enablers.
\- Identification of possibly relevant stage-2 and stage-3 work for Media
Service Enablers.
\- Collection of a set of initially relevant Media Service Enablers for
normative work
The technical report is supported by appropriate tools and style guides to
write good MSE specifications.
It is recommended that device centric media-related functions defined in 3GPP
follow the specification principles defined in
\- Clause 6 MSE Specification Framework
\- Clause 7 Writing MSE Specifications: Style Guides and Tools
Initial candidates for MSE Specifications are provided in clause 8.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Details on Tools and Templates
A software management tool is expected to be used. Details are for further
study.
#