# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
Media services in general, but also in particular eXtended Reality (XR) and
Cloud Gaming are some of the most important 5G media applications under
consideration in the industry. XR is an umbrella term for different types of
realities and refers to all real-and-virtual combined environments and human-
machine interactions generated by computer technology and wearables. It
includes representative forms such as Augmented Reality (AR), Mixed Reality
(MR) and Virtual Reality (VR) and the areas interpolated among them.
**On XR and Cloud Gaming traffic with high throughput, low latency and high
reliability requirements, it is important to consider system aspects of such
services. If the traffic requirements of the XR and Cloud Gaming service are
flexible (e.g., the underlying architecture allows adaptation of content),
then the capacity of the service can be studied by assessing the delay,
throughput and reliability variations with increasing number of users in the
system. In order to properly study this, detailed traffic characteristics are
necessary.**
Based on this, the present document provides traffic models and quality
evaluation methods for different media and eXtended Reality (XR) Services. In
order to address this, generic modelling considerations are introduced and for
different services reference designs, simulation models and suitable quality
metrics are reported. This information permits to obtain accurate information
on exact bitrate and delay requirements in uplink and downlink, develop
detailed traffic traces, develop suitable statistical models for media and XR
traffic and to evaluate the expected media quality of such services. The
information may be used by other 3GPP groups in order to assess media quality
for different configuration of 5G System parameters, as well as for evaluating
the requirements in terms of QoS for XR and media services.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides traffic models and quality evaluation methods
for different media and eXtended Reality (XR) Services. In order to address
this, generic modelling considerations are introduced and for different
services reference designs, simulation models and suitable quality metrics are
reported. This information permits to obtain accurate information on exact
bitrate and delay requirements in uplink and downlink, develop detailed
traffic traces, develop suitable statistical models for media and XR traffic
and to evaluate the expected media quality of such services. The information
may be used by other 3GPP groups in order to assess media quality for
different configuration of 5G System parameters, as well as for evaluating the
requirements in terms of QoS for XR and media services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 26.925, \"Typical traffic characteristics of media services on
3GPP networks\"
[3] 3GPP TR 26.928, \"Extended Reality (XR) in 5G\"
[4] 3GPP TR 38.838, \"Study on XR (Extended Reality) Evaluations for NR\"
[5] 3GPP TS 26.501, \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\"
[6] 3GPP TS 26.118, \"Virtual Reality (VR) profiles for streaming
applications\"
[7] VR-IF Guidelines, https://www.vr-if.org/wp-
content/uploads/vrif2020.180.00-Guidelines-2.3_clean..pdf
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**trace:** a well-defined format to describe a sequence of timed data units
together with relevant metadata for system simulation.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AAC Advanced Audio Coding
ACK ACKnowledgment message
ADU Application Data Unit
ALR Area Loss Rate
AMR Adaptive Multi Rate
API Application Programming Interface
ATW Asynchronous Time Warping
AVC Advanced Video Coding
CAR Correct Area Rate
CAT CATegory
CBR Constant BitRate
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
CDN Content Delivery Network
CGI Computer Graphics and Images
CQP Contant QP
CRF Constant Rate Factor
CSV Comma Separated Version
CTU Coding Tree Unit
CU Coding Unit
DAR DAmage Rate
DASH Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
DRX Discontinous Receive
ERP Equi-Rectangular Projection
EVS Enhanced Voice Service
FEC Forward Error Correction
FFS For Further Study
FOV Fielf-of-View
FPS First Person Shooter
GBR Guaranteed Bit Rate
GDR Gradual Decoder Refresh
GFBR Guaranteed Flow Bit Rate
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat equest
HDR High Dynamic Range
HEVC High Efficiency Video Coding
HLS HTTP Live Streaming
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
IAT Inter arrival times
IBC International Broadcasting Convention
IDR Instantenous Decoder Refresh
IVAS Immersive Voice and Audio Service
LDR Loss and Damage Rate
MDBV Maximum Data Burst Volume
MFBR Maximum Flow BitRate
MMO Massive Multiplayer Online
MOS Mean Opinion Score
MPEG Moving Pictures Expert Group
MTHR Medium-to-High Ratio
MTU Maximum Transfer Unit
NACK Negation ACKnowledgement message
OMAF Omnidirectional MediA Format
PDB Packet Delay Budget
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDU Packet Data Unit
PER Packet Error Rate
PLR Packet Loss Rate
POC Picture Order Count
PSNR Peak Signal to Noise Ratio
QFI QoS Flow Indicator
QP Quantization Parameter
RAN Radio Access Network
RLC Radio Link Control
RPG Role-Player Game
RPSNR Recovered PSNR
RTCP Real-Time Control Protocol
RTP Real-Time Protocol
RTS Real-Time Strategy
RTT Round Trip Time
SLR Slice Loss Rate
SSIM Structural Similarity Index Measure
STD Standard Deviation
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UPF User Plane Function
VBR Variable BitRate
VDP Viewport DePendent
# 4 Overview and Scope
In an initial version of TR26.925, Typical Traffic Characteristics for
Operator and Third-Party Services have been collected. The work was initiated
based on communication between SA4 and SA1. During the course of the work,
additional requests from SA1 were received that have been partially addressed
in the initial version of TR26.925.
3GPP TSG SA WG4 (Codec) addressed their mandate on \"Guidance to other 3GPP
groups concerning required QoS parameters and other system implications,
including channel coding requirements, imposed by different multimedia codecs
in both circuit-switched and packet-switched environments.\"
Furthermore, during the study for eXtended Reality (XR) over 5G (FS_5GXR)
documented in TR26.928, several initial considerations for XR services
including cloud gaming had been collected. Specifically, parameters such as
downlink and uplink bitrates, packet delay budgets, error rates and round-trip
times are collected, but several of those for different cases are kept FFS and
need more work.
In particular, eXtended Reality (XR) and Cloud Gaming are some of the most
important 5G media applications under consideration in the industry. XR is an
umbrella term for different types of realities and refers to all real-and-
virtual combined environments and human-machine interactions generated by
computer technology and wearables. It includes representative forms such as
Augmented Reality (AR), Mixed Reality (MR) and Virtual Reality (VR) and the
areas interpolated among them.
**This Technical Report attempts to provide the following information:**
\- Collect and document traffic characteristics including for different
services, but not limited to
\- Downlink data rate ranges
\- Uplink data rate ranges
\- Maximum packet delay budget in uplink and downlink
\- Maximum Packet Error Rate,
\- Maximum Round Trip Time
\- Traffic Characteristics on IP level in uplink and downlink in terms of
packet sizes, and temporal characteristics. XR Services and Cloud Gaming based
on the initial information documented in TR26.928 including.
\- Collect additional information, such as codecs and protocols in use.
\- Provide the information from above at least for the following services
(initial services)
\- Viewport independent 6DoF Streaming
\- Viewport dependent 6DoF Streaming
\- Simple Single Buffer split rendering for online cloud gaming
\- Cloud gaming
\- MTSI-based XR conversational services
\- Identify additional relevant XR and other media services and document their
traffic characteristics
\- Document additional developments in the industry that impact traffic
characteristics in future networks
\- Identify the applicability of existing 5QIs/PQIs for such services and
potentially identify requirements for new 5QIs/PQIs or QoS related parameters.
**The work is expected to be carried out with other 3GPP groups and external
organizations on relevant aspects related to the scope of the work.**
**In addition, extensions to TR 26.925 are developed to document traffic
characteristics for XR applications.**
# 5 General Design and Modelling
## 5.1 Introduction
The system and RAN model used in this Technical Report for XR Traffic analysis
follows the 5G System architecture as defined in TS 23.501 [5.1i]. In
particular, the user plane aspects are considered as showing in Figure 5.1-1
for which an XR Server is in the external DN or in a trusted DN, and the XR
Device is a 5G UE. The exchange of data is assumed to be carried out using the
5G System. Interfaces to the 5G Core functions for charging, QoS control, etc.
are not considered in the below diagram, for details refer to TS 23.501.
Figure 5.1-1 Simplified Architecture for XR end-to-end services
In order to identify the traffic characteristics and the impacts of media and
XR applications on 5G Systems and radio access networks, an appropriate
modelling of both, the XR traffic as well as of the 5G System is desirable,
also to identify the interaction of the two components. Note that the XR
Server may be hosted in the cloud or may be hosted on an edge.
Details on the modelling of the 5G System and RAN as well as simulation
parameters are provided in clause 5.2.
## 5.2 End-to-end Modelling of XR Traffic
### 5.2.1 Architecture and System Model
In order to support modelling of end-to-end XR Traffic, an abstracted
architecture and system model is introduced in Figure 5.2.1-1. This system is
used as a baseline and may be refined for specific traffic classes. The system
follows the basic building blocks from clause 5.1 but provides details for
each of those aspects. In order to support simpler system modelling and
simulation, the interfaces are supported by _traces_. Traces define a well-
defined format to describe a sequence of timed data units together with
relevant metadata for system simulation. An overview of traces is introduced
in clause 5.2.2, details are provided in each of the functions.
In order to split the tasks across different 3GPP working groups and
companies, an approach as introduced in Figure 5.2.1-1 is considered:
\- A content model based on traces may be provided based on company input
providing sufficient information on a rendered application, e.g. a game or a
scene.
\- Based on these content model traces, codec centric experts defines a
content encoding and delivery model taking into account a system design, for
example based on TR26.928 [3]. The system model includes encoding, delivery,
decoding and also a quality definition, providing packet traces.
\- 5G System and RAN simulations may be carried out by the 3GPP radio experts
using the packet traces to simulate different traffic characteristics and
evaluate different performance options.
An overview of the functions is provided below:
1) Content Model: Provides typical characteristics for the XR content model
for video, audio and potentially other data. This content is rendered for
XR/CG consumption -- for details refer to clause 5.5.
2) Content Encoding Model: Provides the details for the content encoding in
order to meet certain objectives. This includes the generation of sequences of
application data units (slices, video frames, audio frames, etc.) and the
incurred timestamp of each of the units is available. For details refer to
clause 5.6.
3) Content Delivery Model: provides details on content delivery, for example
packetization, delay jitter, but possibly also more sophisticated models such
as retransmission, TCP operations and so on. This also includes emulation of
5G Core Network. It produces packet traces (timestamp and size of each packet)
based on traces of application data units. For details refer to clause 5.7.
4) Core Network Model: This model emulates the core network behaviour in terms
of delay, latency and packet losses in the core network, i.e. the interface
between the UPF and gNB. For details refer to clause 5.4.
5) Packet Radio Model: The packet radio model receives sequences/traces of
packets at a given time and of a specified size. The packets may have
additional metadata assigned that can potentially be used by the radio
simulator. The packet traces are provided for multiple users and reflect
typical traffic characteristics. The RAN simulator provides packet traces
after delivery that reflect the occurred delays and losses for each user. For
details refer to clause 5.4.
6) Content Receiver Model: The content receiver converts the packet traces
into application units taking into account delays and losses occurred. It may
also model additional functions such as retransmissions or FEC, if applicable.
For details refer to clause 5.7.
7) Content Decoding Model: The decoding model uses the received application
units to model the reconstruction of timed data (video frames, audio)
considering delays, losses and also content model properties (error
propagation, refresh data and so on). For details refer to clause 5.6.
8) Quality Evaluation: A quality evaluation tool is provided that takes into
account traces to compute different quality metrics based on packet,
application unit and media quality. For details refer to clause 5.8.
9) Uplink Model: A model for the uplink traffic in a similar fashion also
providing packet traces. For details refer to clause 5.9.
Several of the functions are initialized by appropriate configurations. An
overview of configurations is introduced in each of the functions, if needed.
Figure 5.2.1-1 General architecture and system model for XR Traffic
### 5.2.2 Interfaces and Traces
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
Generally, traces include the following information:
\- Time series of data units
\- Size of each data units
\- Association to the application
\- Additional \"metadata\"
Traces can also directly be fed to a quality evaluation tool obtain the
application quality based on the simulation as shown in clause 5.8. The
benefit of traces compared to first order statistical model are as follows:
\- traces to represent time correlations.
\- traces can be used to assign additional metadata in the time series
\- statistical models can be developed based on time series
\- traces can be directly fed to quality evaluation tool
The trace formats are defined as CSV files and follow the recommendation in
RFC4180 \"Common Format and MIME Type for CSV Files\". For CSV files, headers
are added to identify the data types. From existing CSV types, the online tool
https://csv.openbridge.dev/ has been used to
1) Validate the csv file
2) Create a schema for the files.
#### 5.2.2.2 Overview of Traces
Figure 5.2.1-1 shows different traces, associated to different interfaces. The
following traces are defined:
1) V-Traces: Video traces provide a time series of the statistics/complexity
of a video frame. Such a V-Trace is expected to provide sufficient information
such that a coding model can create suitable statistics statics for encoded
video streams at the output. For details refer to clause 5.5.
2) S-Traces: Slice traces provide a time series of encoded video application
data units, referred to as slices as known from H.264/AVC and H.265/HEVC
suitable application data units as outputs from a video codecs. S-Traces are
expected to provide sufficient information to the content delivery module to
create IP packets. For details refer to clause 5.6.
3) P-Traces: P Traces provide a time series of IP packets, possibly associated
with different application flows and/or QoS Flows. In addition, they provide
metadata information that may be beneficial for advanced delivery. For details
refer to clause 5.3.
4) P'-Traces have the same format as P-Traces, but in addition may include
losses and delays observed due to the delivery over a network.
5) S'-Traces are have the same format as S-Traces, but in addition may include
information on losses and distortions due to the delivery over a network. For
details refer to clause 5.7.
6) V'-Traces: Video receive traces provide a time series of received video
frames together with an associated encoding and delivery quality. For details
refer to clause 5.6.
### 5.2.3 Benefits and Limitations
This aspect is for further study.
## 5.3 P-Traces
Packet Traces (P-Traces) are defined to emulate the arrival of IP packets with
associated metadata at certain network nodes. A P-Trace format together with
semantics is defined in Table 5.3-1.
The first row just keeps an index of the packets.
The second to fourth data row information is considered to be available in a
general delivery environment and are summarized as baseline parameters.
\- availability_time: A relative time from the start of the trace when this
packet is available in the delivery function
\- size: the size of the packet in octets
\- flow_id: an id to a flow in order to differentiate different QoS flows to
identify a PDU session aligned with the QFI.
Table 5.3-1 P-Trace format
+-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Name | Type | Semantics | +=======================+========+=============================+ | number | BIGINT | Unique packet number in the | | | | delivery | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Baseline parameters | | | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | availability_time | BIGINT | Availability time of packet | | | | for next processing step | | | | relative to start time 0 in | | | | microseconds (0 means | | | | lost). | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | size | BIGINT | packet size in bytes. | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | flow_id | BIGINT | an id to the flow in order | | | | to differentiate different | | | | QoS flows | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Cross-Layer Parameter | | | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | buffer | BIGINT | The associated eye buffer | | | | 1=left 2=right | | | | | | | | In general, differentiates | | | | application traffic for | | | | different buffers, for | | | | example audio, video, left | | | | eye, right eye. | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | delay | BIGINT | Delay observed of the | | | | packet in the last | | | | processing step (-1 means | | | | lost) | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | render_timing | BIGINT | the rendering generation | | | | timing associated to the | | | | media included in the | | | | packet. | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | number_in_unit | BIGINT | The number of the packet | | | | within the unit (slice), | | | | start at 1 | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | last_in_unit | BIGINT | Indicates if this is the | | | | last packet in the | | | | slice/unit 0=no, 1=yes | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | type | BIGINT | The data type of the unit | | | | | | | | 0 unknown | | | | | | | | For video 1=intra 2=inter | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | importance | BIGINT | assigned relative | | | | importance information | | | | (higher number means higher | | | | importance) | +-----------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
In addition, it is considered that an application may provide additional
metadata per packet that if present, may be used by the delivery system.
Different definitions are provided in the P-Trace format. The signaling of
this data a 5G System is for further study. This information would not be
available to RAN delivery in the incoming IP packets. These parameters are
summarized as cross-layer parameters.
5GS through the QoS model may provide the ability that application streams are
separated into different streams or the streams are at least marked
accordingly. Details would need further discussion with SA2 on how application
traffic and packet properties or stream properties can be matched to the 5G
System architecture. This aspect may be considered, once it is identified that
certain "cross-layer" markings make sense.
Based on this, it is suitable to use the basic packet trace structure as
defined in Table 5.3-1 and that RAN1 can assume that RAN1 may have access to
the above packet information. The P-Trace may be extended based on new
findings.
For any system simulations, it is important that simulation are carried out
only using the baseline parameters. Additional cross-layer parameters may be
used as defined above. New packet-based markers may be added.
It is also considered that realization in the 5G System is only addressed once
the benefits of an approach are identified.
## 5.4 5G System Model and Simulation
### 5.4.1 5G System Model
In order to further model the 5G system, an alignment with the 5GS QoS model
as defined in clause 5.7 of TS 23.501 is considered appropriate. The interface
between the application domain and the 5G System is assumed to be based on QoS
Flows. A QoS Flow is the finest granularity of QoS differentiation in the PDU
Session. A QoS Flow ID (QFI) is used to identify a QoS Flow in the 5G System.
User Plane traffic with the same QFI within a PDU Session receives the same
traffic forwarding treatment **_(e.g._** scheduling, admission threshold).
The QFI is carried in an encapsulation header on N3 without any changes to the
e2e packet header and is used to uniquely identify a PDU Session. The
principle for classification and marking of User Plane traffic and mapping of
QoS Flows to AN resources is illustrated in Figure 5.7.1.5-1 of TS 23.501 and
repeated in Figure 5.1-2.
Figure 5.2.1-1: The principle for classification and User Plane marking for
QoS Flows and mapping to AN Resources (see TS 23.501 [5.1i], Figure 5.7.1.5-1)
In the downlink, incoming data packets are classified by the UPF based on the
Packet Filter Sets of the DL PDRs in the order of their precedence. The UPF
conveys the classification of the User Plane traffic belonging to a QoS Flow
through an N3 User Plane marking using a QFI. The AN binds QoS Flows to AN
resources (i.e. Data Radio Bearers of in the case of 3GPP RAN).
In UL, for relevant PDU Session of Type IP, the UE evaluates UL packets
against the UL Packet Filters in the Packet Filter Set in the QoS rules based
on the precedence value of QoS rules in increasing order until a matching QoS
rule is found. The UE uses the QFI in the corresponding matching QoS rule to
bind the UL packet to a QoS Flow. The UE then binds QoS Flows to AN resources.
TS 23.501 defines the following QoS characteristics:
\- Clause 5.7.3.2: Resource type (Non-GBR, GBR, Delay-critical GBR)
\- A GBR QoS Flow uses either the GBR resource type or the Delay-critical GBR
resource type. The definition of PDB and PER are different for GBR and Delay-
critical GBR resource types, and the MDBV parameter applies only to the Delay-
critical GBR resource type.
\- A Non-GBR QoS Flow uses only the Non-GBR resource type.
\- Clause 5.7.3.3: Priority Level;
\- The Priority Level associated with 5G QoS characteristics indicates a
priority in scheduling resources among QoS Flows. The lowest Priority Level
value corresponds to the highest priority.
\- Clause 5.7.3.4: Packet Delay Budget (including Core Network Packet Delay
Budget);
\- The Packet Delay Budget (PDB) defines an upper bound for the time that a
packet may be delayed between the UE and the N6 termination point at the UPF.
For a certain 5QI the value of the PDB is the same in UL and DL. In the case
of 3GPP access, the PDB is used to support the configuration of scheduling and
link layer functions (e.g., the setting of scheduling priority weights and
HARQ target operating points).
\- For GBR QoS Flows using the Delay-critical resource type, a packet delayed
more than PDB is counted as lost if the data burst is not exceeding the MDBV
within the period of PDB and the QoS Flow is not exceeding the GFBR. For GBR
QoS Flows with GBR resource type not exceeding GFBR, 98 percent of the packets
shall not experience a delay exceeding the 5QI\'s PDB.
\- Clause 5.7.3.5: Packet Error Rate;
\- The Packet Error Rate (PER) defines an upper bound for the rate of PDUs
(e.g. IP packets) that have been processed by the sender of a link layer
protocol (e.g. RLC in RAN of a 3GPP access) but that are not successfully
delivered by the corresponding receiver to the upper layer (e.g. PDCP in RAN
of a 3GPP access).
\- Thus, the PER defines an upper bound for a rate of non-congestion related
packet losses. The purpose of the PER is to allow for appropriate link layer
protocol configurations (e.g. RLC and HARQ in RAN of a 3GPP access). For every
5QI the value of the PER is the same in UL and DL. For GBR QoS Flows with
Delay-critical GBR resource type, a packet which is delayed more than PDB is
counted as lost, and included in the PER unless the data burst is exceeding
the MDBV within the period of PDB or the QoS Flow is exceeding the GFBR.
\- Clause 5.7.3.6: Averaging window (for GBR and Delay-critical GBR resource
type only);
\- Each GBR QoS Flow shall be associated with an Averaging window. The
Averaging window represents the duration over which the GFBR and MFBR shall be
calculated (e.g. in the (R)AN, UPF, UE).
\- Clause 5.7.3.7: Maximum Data Burst Volume (for Delay-critical GBR resource
type only).
\- Each GBR QoS Flow with Delay-critical resource type shall be associated
with a Maximum Data Burst Volume (MDBV).
\- MDBV denotes the largest amount of data that the 5G-AN is required to serve
within a period of 5G-AN PDB.
\- Every standardized 5QI (of Delay-critical GBR resource type) is associated
with a default value for the MDBV (specified in QoS characteristics Table
5.7.4.1). The MDBV may also be signalled together with a standardized 5QI to
the (R)AN, and if it is received, it shall be used instead of the default
value.
\- The MDBV may also be signalled together with a pre-configured 5QI to the
(R)AN, and if it is received, it shall be used instead of the pre-configured
value
### 5.4.2 Core Network Model
The core network is expected to operate on constant bitrate channel from the
UPF to the gNB.
In the model showing in Figure 5.4.2-1, the core network model gets as input a
P-Trace and delivers a P-Trace. Packets provided to the core network are
expected to be delivered from the UPF to the gNB at a constant bitrate of
bitrate _R_ , whereby each packet is delivered at a delivery time being the
later of the two
1) The arrival time at the UPF
2) The delivery end time of the previous packet
The arrival time at the gNB is modelled as the sum of the delivery time and
the packet size divided by the bitrate _R_.
The core network delivery is considered to be error-free.
Figure 5.4.2-1 Core Network Model
The modelling of such a delay is for example show in Figure 5.4.2-2 for
different packet size models.
{width="2.9895833333333335in"
height="1.5833333333333333in"}{width="3.5104166666666665in"
height="1.78125in"}
Figure 5.4.2-2 Packet size and latency addition in core network model
The configuration parameters for the core network model are
\- the input packet trace
\- the core network bitrate
\- the output packet trace
### 5.4.3 RAN Model
The RAN delivery may be modelled by a function that receives P-Traces as input
for each simulated user as shown in Figure 5.4.3-1 and produces a P'-Trace at
the output for the primary user. The other users are only used from
statistical competing traffic. Configuration parameters for the simulation are
left to RAN experts.
Figure 5.4.3-1 Packet Radio Network Model
However, the usage of traces for RAN simulations is complex and there is a
preference to operate with statistical models that emulate the arrival time
and size of the packets. The main reason is for example, that RAN1 needs to
simulate multiple cells at the same time, for example 63, for interference
considerations. A statistical model is preferred.
### 5.4.4 Test Channels
P-Traces as produced by XR applications may be used by RAN for complex RAN
simulations. However, at the same time it is important to evaluate different
XR application and encoding configurations that result in a P-Trace and then
compare different settings. For this purpose, test channels are defined
addressing two aspects:
\- Permit to emulate typical radio conditions in terms delays and losses.
\- Permit to evaluate the application quality for different representative
radio conditions.
The test channel aligns with the 5G System and QoS Model as introduced in
clause 5.4.1.
A test channel is defined by the following models:
\- Packet Error Rate:
\- Definition: the rate of PDUs (e.g. IP packets) that have been processed by
the sender of a link layer protocol (e.g. RLC in RAN of a 3GPP access) but
that are not successfully delivered by the corresponding receiver to the upper
layer (e.g. PDCP in RAN of a 3GPP access).
\- Model: iid loss model independent of the packet size with parameter _PLR_
\- Packet Delay:
\- Definition: the time that a packet may be delayed between the UE and the N6
termination point at the UPF.
\- Model: iid distributed latency between 0 and a max_delay
Other parameters and modelling aspects for test channels are for further
study.
## 5.5 Content Modelling
### 5.5.1 Introduction
In order to evaluate the traffic characteristics and the quality of XR
applications, it is relevant to operate with realistic source data.
Preferably, the traffic of existing services is evaluated, for example taking
P-Traces from existing XR services. However, in doing so, there are
limitations
1) in accessing the data
2) in terms of legal restrictions on providing such data
3) in terms of making use of such data for quality evaluation
4) in terms of understanding the structure and details of the contained
traffic
5) in terms of understanding the options and impact of different system
configurations
6) and for other reasons
Based on this, an approach is proposed in this report as shown in Figure
5.5.1-1.
Figure 5.5.1-1 Content Modelling Approach
It is assumed that the raw media data is generated based on an XR/game session
for one or several popular games, using typical pose traces and interactions,
for example by a human playing the game. This information may be running over
several minutes or even hours in order to create sufficiently representative
statistics.
The output of the XR rendering engine is video representing texture, primitive
and eye buffers.
For service and applications not relying on XR engines, other approaches may
be taken. This is for further study and discussed as part of the specific
traffic characteristics.
### 5.5.2 V-Trace Generation
The basic idea behind the generation of V-Traces is motivated by two main
aspects:
1) Handling of several minutes or hours of raw data from a game engine is too
significant. A statistical version is preferred in order to properly handle
the amount of data
2) Representative games are typically attached with copyright and licensing
terms and hence, the raw media data cannot be shared publicly.
Based on this V-Trace generation has been initiated by
\- using a representative game
\- using a repeatable pose and interaction trace for the game
\- using a high-quality output of a game engine for each eye buffer, encoded
for example in H.264(AVC)
\- decode these video sequences and store this raw data for proper model
encoding to generate a trace. As an example, the decoded video sequence is 2K
x 2K at 120 fps for each source buffer.
A shorter version of the raw data is then encoded in with different parameters
to create some statistical output that allows to estimate the performance of a
video codec when used with different configurations. For this purpose,
initially a set of encoding parameters are used to understand the impact of
each of the parameters for the resulting bitrate and quality. This information
is then used for the modelling.
Based on the above model findings, it considered to only generate two V-Traces
for the entire sequence to keep data handling manageable as shown in Figure
5.5.2-1. One V-Trace is generated for Intra coding only, the other one is
generated for predictive coding.
The V-Traces are combined to document relevant statistics for each frame.
Figure 5.5.2-1 V-Trace Generation
For the purpose of this TR, a modelling is provided Annex A.
### 5.5.3 V-Trace Format
For each frame in the video sequence, the information as documented in Table
5.5.3-1 is provided.
Table 5.5.3-1 V-Trace Format
Name Type Semantics
* * *
time_stamp_in_micro_s BIGINT Associated rendering time of the frame
encode_order BIGINT The display order of the frames i_qp BIGINT Quantization
Parameter decided for the I frame. i_bits BIGINT Number of bits consumed by
the I frame. i_y_psnr BIGINT Peak signal to noise ratio for Y planes in dB and
multiplied by 1000 for I frame. i_u_psnr BIGINT Peak signal to noise ratio for
U planes in dB and multiplied by 1000 for I frame. i_v_psnr BIGINT Peak signal
to noise ratio for V planes in dB and multiplied by 1000 for I frame.
i_yuv_psnr BIGINT Peak signal to noise ratio for weighted Y, U and V planes in
dB and multiplied by 1000 for I frame. i_ssim BIGINT Quality metric that
denotes the structural similarity between frames for I frame. i_ssim_d_b
BIGINT Quality metric that denotes the structural similarity between frames in
dB for I frame. i_total_frame_time_ms BIGINT Total time spent to encode the
frame for I frame. p_poc BIGINT The display order of the frames for P p_qp
BIGINT Quantization Parameter decided for the P frame. p_bits BIGINT Number of
bits consumed by the P frame. p_y_psnr BIGINT Peak signal to noise ratio for Y
planes in dB and multiplied by 1000 for P frame. p_u_psnr BIGINT Peak signal
to noise ratio for U planes in dB and multiplied by 1000 for P frame. p_v_psnr
BIGINT Peak signal to noise ratio for V planes in dB and multiplied by 1000
for P frame. p_yuv_psnr BIGINT Peak signal to noise ratio for weighted Y, U
and V planes in dB and multiplied by 1000 for P frame. p_ssim BIGINT Quality
metric that denotes the structural similarity between frames for P frame.
p_ssim_d_b BIGINT Quality metric that denotes the structural similarity
between frames in dB for P frame. p_total_frame_time_ms BIGINT Total time
spent to encode the frame for P frame. intra DOUBLE PRECISION Percentage of
intra Coding Units in P frame merge DOUBLE PRECISION Percentage of merge
Coding Units in P frame skip DOUBLE PRECISION Percentage of skip Coding Units
in P frame inter DOUBLE PRECISION Percentage of inter Coding Units in P frame
### 5.5.4 Other media types
For other media types, no dedicated trace format is defined.
## 5.6 Media Coding and Decoding Modelling
### 5.6.1 General
Media may be encoded in many different ways in order to meet application,
service and delivery requirements. Whereas decoders in media coding are
typically fully specified, there typically exist significant options in the
encoding, in particular for video, but also in general, apply different
encoding methods and functionalities.
These functionalities may impact:
1) Bitrate of the media stream, both in terms of short-term (for example over
a window of 1 second) as well as average bitrate of the media stream. The
bitrate may also be dynamically adjusted, for example based on content
properties and/or network conditions. Changes in bitrate impact the quality of
the media stream.
2) Delays in encoder or decoder due to processing or algorithmic
functionalities. For example the time when captures/generated media sample
hits encoder and the time when it leaves the decoder may be configurable.
Permitting longer delays typically results in better quality.
3) Output data unit properties determining the size of the generated data
units and packets. Adding constraints typically results in additional bitrates
4) Error resilience and random access includes functionalities in the media
stream that support mitigation of potential losses of data. Adding such
functionalities typically increases the bitrate or reduces the quality.
More details for video media type are provided in clause 5.6.2. A
configuration overview for video is provided in clause 5.6.3. Trace formats
are defined in clause 5.6.4.
Other media types are defined in clause 5.6.5.
### 5.6.2 Video Coding and Decoding
Figure 5.6.2-1 provides an overview of content encoding and decoding models
with focus on video. Encoding makes use of V-Traces and based on
configurations and possibly feedback from the decoder, encoding of individual
media samples/frames is carried out. The encoder produces a sequence of slices
according to the format defined in clause 5.6.3. After delivery, a content
decoding model generates a sequence of V'-Traces that can be used by a Quality
evaluation tool. The decoding model may also provide feedback to the encoder,
for example on lost or late frames.
Figure 5.6.2-1 Media Coding and Decoding Modelling
As an example, rate control plays an important role in video coding, although
it's not a normative tool for any video coding standard. In video
communications, rate control ensures that the coded bitstream can be
transmitted successfully and make full use of the limited bandwidth while
maximizing the quality. The rate control not only determines the quality, it
also determines the latency when for example delivering a video bitstream via
constant bitrate link.
For video encoding, among others the following parameters may be considered:
\- Codec in use, for example H.264/AVC or H.265/HEVC
\- Encoding patterns:
\- Usage of B and P pictures
\- Latency settings: P pictures only, look-ahead units only 0 (for minimum
latency), i.e. no future frames are taken into account in the encoding
\- Rate control to be used, for example
\- CBR with bitrate
\- Capped VBR with bitrate
\- constant rate factor (CRF), i.e. constant quality with weighted rate
adjustments
\- constant QP (CQP), i.e. constant quantization parameters, or
\- feedback-based using information on loss and delay statistics
> For a detailed modelling refer to clause 5.6.2.3
\- Slice settings, examples
\- 1 slice per frame,
\- 1 slice per every 16 pixel row,
\- 8 slices per video frame
\- Intra settings and error resilience:
\- Regular IDR Patterns, e.g. 16-th frame,
\- Regular Gradual Decoder Refresh Pattern,
\- adaptive Intra,
\- feedback based Intra,
\- feedback based predication and ACK-based,
\- feedback-based prediction and NACK based
\- Complexity settings for encoders
\- Pre-Encoding delays: generation timestamp of the rendered frame until this
frame is encoded (add models)
\- constant delay
\- equally distributed between a min and max delay
\- truncated Gaussian model with mean, variance and maximum delay
\- Encoding delays: the time of encoder from receiving the frame until a slice
is produced (add models).
\- constant delay
\- equally distributed between a min and max delay
\- truncated Gaussian model with mean, variance and maximum delay.
\- Handling of multiple video buffers, for example left and right eye
\- All buffers operate on the same sampling/render time with the same pre-
encoding delay
\- Buffers are staggered, i.e. sampling/render time is uniformly distributed
across the sampling rate.
Based on these settings, a slice trace S-Trace can be generated resulting in
the format as defined clause 5.6.4. A slice delivery unit now uses a slice
trace and provides as output an S'-Trace, for more details refer to clause
5.7. The delivery impacts the slice delivery in one or multiple of the
following ways:
1) The slice is delayed, i.e. a delivery timestamp is assigned to the slice in
the S'-Trace. This can be used to determine if the slice is received in time
2) The slice is corrupted, i.e. the slice is entirely, only a correct prefix
of the slice available or the slice was fully received for the decoding model.
A decoding model now takes into account the S'-Trace as well as the V-Trace in
order to generate a decoding model. For this, coding units in a video frame
may be viewed individually and get assigned a state:
\- A coding unit spanning a certain area of the video frame is _correct_ if
and only if it is received correctly and it predicts for a non-damaged coding
unit. Predicting from non-damaged units means that both spatial prediction as
well as temporal prediction coding units are correct
\- If any of the two conditions do not hold, the coding unit state is
_damaged_.
Note that only non-predicted coding units will eventually remove damaged
areas. The resulting trace documenting correct and damaged coding units is
referred to as V'-Trace, see clause 5.6.4 for more details.
An important factor for the quality of the video is the percentage of lost
area.
A specific algorithm to model the generation of slices as well as the decoding
of received slices is provided in Annex A.
### 5.6.3 Video Coding and Decoding Configuration
Detailed video encoding configuration parameters may be derived from the list
of parameters provided in clause 5.6.2. An example encoding parameters are
provided in Table 5.6.3-1. The below example sets the following parameters:
\- Two source buffers, each defined by V-Traces, width, height, frame rates
\- slice configuration mode, 8 rows are configured.
\- Bitrate mode is configured to CBR, with parameters for the rate control
\- Error resilience settings using 1 intra rotating intra slice for every
frame, restricted to no error propagation, also referred to gradual decoder
refresh (GDR).
\- Parameters for encoder pre-delay and encoder processing delay
\- staggering of buffers are set to be true, i.e. the frames of each buffer
are sent with different presentation times.
Table 5.6.3-1 Example video encoding configuration
+-------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"Buffers\": [{ | | | | \"Source\": { | | | | \"V-Trace\": \"V-Trace-left.csv\", | | | | \"frame_width\": 2048, | | | | \"frame_height\": 2048, | | | | \"frame_rate\": 60, | | | | \"start_frame\": 1, | | | | \"total_frames\": 3600, | | | | \"buffer\": \"left\" | | | | }, | | | | \"Source\": { | | | | \"V-Trace\": \"V-Trace-right.csv\", | | | | \"frame_width\": 2048, | | | | \"frame_height\": 2048, | | | | \"frame_rate\": 60, | | | | \"start_frame\": 1, | | | | \"total_frames\": 3600, | | | | \"buffer\": \"right\" | | | | } | | | | }], | | | | \"Slice\": { | | | | \"mode\": \"row\", | | | | \"parameter\": \"8\" | | | | }, | | | | \"Bitrate\": { | | | | \"mode\": \"CBR\", | | | | \"bitrate\": \"10000000\", | | | | \"window_framerate\": \"1\", | | | | \"QPmin\": 10, | | | | \"QPmax\": 25 | | | | }, | | | | \"ErrorResilience\": { | | | | \"mode\": \"pIntra\", | | | | \"parameter\": \"1\" | | | | }, | | | | \"PreDelay\": [{ | | | | \"Delay\": { | | | | \"mode\": \"equally\", | | | | \"parameter1\": \"10\", | | | | \"parameter1\": \"30\" | | | | }], | | | | \"EncodingDelay\": [{ | | | | \"Delay\": { | | | | \"mode\": \"GaussianTrunc\", | | | | \"parameter1\": \"8\", | | | | \"parameter2\": \"3\" | | | | \"parameter3\": \"1\" | | | | }], | | | | }, | | | | \"bufferinterleaving\": true, | | | | \"S-Trace\": \"S-Trace.csv\" | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
For video coding, each received S'-trace would be decoded independently and
converted into a V'-Trace. The V'-Trace holds status of each coding unit it is
determined if the coding unit is correct or damaged according to clause 5.6.2.
No specific other configuration parameters are provided.
### 5.6.4 S-Trace and V'-Trace Format
For each generated slice, an S-Trace format is provided according to Table
5.6.4-1.
Table 5.6.4-1 S-Trace Format
+---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Name | Type | Semantics | +===========================+========+=============================+ | index | BIGINT | Unique index increased by 1 | | | | and indexing this row in | | | | the S-Trace file. | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | time_stamp_in_micro_s | BIGINT | Availability time of slice | | | | after encoder relative to | | | | start time 0 in | | | | microseconds. | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | size | BIGINT | Slice size in bytes. | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | render_timing | BIGINT | the rendering generation | | | | timing associated to the | | | | frame | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | buffer | BIGINT | The associated eye buffer | | | | 1=left 2=right | | | | | | | | In general, differentiates | | | | application traffic for | | | | different buffers, for | | | | example audio, video, left | | | | eye, right eye. | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | frame_index | BIGINT | Frame index to identify the | | | | frame buffer | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | type | BIGINT | The slice type 1=intra | | | | 2=inter | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | importance | BIGINT | assigned relative | | | | importance information | | | | (higher number means higher | | | | importance) | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | start_address_cu | BIGINT | start address of CU in | | | | slice | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | number_cus | BIGINT | total number of CUs in | | | | slice | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | frame_file | STRING | Reference to frame file | | | | containing information for | | | | each CU including index and | | | | eyebuffer | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
For each frame, an entry into a binary file is generated that documents the
information according to Table 5.6.4-2.
Table 5.6.4-2 Frame-related metadata from encoding
Name Type Semantics
* * *
address BIGINT Address of CU in frame. size BIGINT CU size in bits mode BIGINT
The mode of the CU 1=intra, 2=merge, 3=skip, 4=inter reference BIGINT The
reference frame of the CU 0 n/a, 1=previous, 2=2 in past, etc. qpnew BIGINT
the QP decided for the CU psnr_y BIGINT the estimated Y-PSNR for the CU in dB
multiplied by 1000 psnr_yuv BIGINT the estimated weighted YUV-PSNR for the CU
dB multiplied by 1000
For each slice after delivery, on entry in the V'-Trace is provided according
to the format provided in Table 5.6.4-3.
Table 5.6.4-3 V\'-Trace Format
Name Type Semantics
* * *
time_stamp_in_micro_s BIGINT Availability time of frame after decoder relative
to start time 0 in microseconds. render_timing BIGINT the rendering generation
timing associated to the frame QP BIGINT Quantization Parameter decided for
the frame. bits BIGINT number of bits consumed by the frame. psnr_y BIGINT the
encoded Y-PSNR for the frame in dB multiplied by 1000 psnr_yuv BIGINT The
encoded weighted YUV-PSNR for the frame in dB multiplied by 1000 rpsnr_y
BIGINT the estimated recovered Y-PSNR for the frame in dB multiplied by 1000
rpsnr_yuv BIGINT the estimated weighted recovered YUV-PSNR for the frame in dB
multiplied by 1000 total_CUs BIGINT Total number of CUs correct_CUs BIGINT
Number of correct CUs lost_CUs BIGINT Number of lost CUs damaged_CUs BIGINT
Number of damaged CUs due to error propagation
### 5.6.5 Other media types
For other media types, no dedicated modelling is defined.
## 5.7 Content Delivery Modelling
### 5.7.1 General
Content delivery deals with the content delivery protocol and packetization,
delay jitter, but possibly also more sophisticated models such as RTP
retransmission, TCP operations and so on. Typically, an application data unit
is received by the content delivery system and is then mapped to one or
several transport packets including information on timing, etc. At the
receiving end, the received packets are used to re-construct the application
data units.
There may be network deployments that uniformly support the transport of
packets with larger Maximum Transfer Unit (MTU) sizes (for example with
ethernet jumbo frames of transport MTU size up to 9216 octets), but according
to TS 23.501, clause 5.6.10.4 and Annex J, the typical link MTU size is 1358
bytes. This means that for typical network deployments the IP packets size
larger than 1358 bytes will imply IP fragmentation.
The sending part of the content delivery can typically be modelled by at least
the following parameters:
\- Maximum Transfer Unit: This determines the maximum packet size of the
application. Typically, an application data unit is segmented into multiple
packets for transfer for which none of the packets exceeds the maximum
transfer unit. The delivery This is addressed in clause 5.7.2
\- Bitrate restrictions: the available bitrate from packager to UPF, i.e. from
the content delivery sender to the 5G System.
\- Potential retransmissions of packets. This is addressed in clause 5.7.3.
\- Potentially adding forward error correction on application layer for one or
several application data units. This is addressed in clause 5.7.4.
The receiving part of the content delivery can typically be modelled by at
least the following parameters:
  * Slice recovery strategy: This determines how a slice is recovered from lost and received packets assigned to a slice, for details for different configurations refer to clauses 5.7.2, 5.7.3 and 5.7.4.
  * Maximum Latency: This determines the maximum permitted latency for a slice to be useful and if exceeded, the slice will be declared as lost.
A content delivery modelling is provided in Figure 5.7.1-1. An S-Trace is
received by the content delivery model sender which converts the data to a
packet trace (P-Trace) according to clause 5.3. After delivery through the
5G-System model, a P'-Trace is provided to the content delivery model sender
which has the same format as the P-Trace. From the P'-Trace, an S'-Trace is
reconstructed following the format defined in 5.7.5.
Figure 5.7.1-1 Content Delivery Modelling
### 5.7.2 Content Delivery Modelling for ADU Fragmentation
Payload formats of modern video codecs, in particular H.264/AVC and H.265/HEVC
allow fragmentation of a single application data unit (ADU) into multiple
transport units. Such a fragment of an ADU consists of an integer number of
consecutive octets of that ADU unit. Each octet of the ADU is part of exactly
one fragment of that ADU unit. Fragments of the same ADU are typically sent in
consecutive order, for example with ascending RTP sequence numbers. Based on
this approach, every ADU can be mapped to a packet transport stream for which
a maximum transfer unit (MTU) of a specific size exist, for example something
like 1500 bytes. In addition, mapping a ADU to an IP packet system, results in
some overhead for the packet header, for IPv4 with RTP/UDP typically 40 bytes.
Secondly, the availability time of the generated packets to RAN layer depends
on the delivery from the encoder to the UPF/RAN.
Based on this, from an S-Traces, a P-Trace can be generated based on the
following parameters:
\- MaxSize: maximum size of an output packet in bytes (0 means infinite)
\- PacketOverhead: packet overhead added in bytes (default 40 bytes)
\- Packet Delivery Bitrate: Provides the bitrate at which the packets are
delivered from Encoder to RAN. Packets arrive this value divided by the size
of the packet.
NOTE: assumes 1 hop with a bitrate as above. Consideration of multiple hops is
not included.
Figure 5.7.2-1 provides an illustration on the content delivery modelling
delays and packets based on the measurements presented in Annex B. A video
frame may be delayed by the encoder. ADUs/slices are produced and are delayed
by the encoder. The resulting packets are fragmented and then delivered,
possibly delayed by the connection from the encoder to the UPF/RAN.
{width="5.252777777777778in" height="1.4638888888888888in"}
{width="2.9916666666666667in"
height="1.5840277777777778in"}{width="3.5118055555555556in"
height="1.7756944444444445in"}
Figure 5.7.2-1 Packet sizes and delays
A possible configuration is provided in Table 5.7.2-1. In this case the trace
data from an S-Trace is used and ADU fragmentation and packetization is done
using a maxSize of 1468 and an overhead of 40. The access bitrate from encoder
to RAN is assumed to be 10 Mbit/s and may result in packet delays when
delivered.
Table 5.7.2-1 Example Content Delivery sender configuration
+------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"S-Trace\": { | | | | \"source\": \"S-Trace.csv\", | | | | \"startTime\": 0 | | | | }, | | | | \"Packet\": { | | | | \"maxSize\": \"1468\", | | | | \"overhead\": \"40\" | | | | }, | | | | \"Bitrate\": \"10000000\", | | | | \"P-Trace\": \"P-Trace.csv\" | | | | } | +------------------------------+
At the receiving end the packets assigned to an ADU are recovered to
reconstruct an ADU. For the case of ADU fragmentation, the ADU is
reconstructed by removing the header from each packet and concatenating the
fragment of the ADUs in sequence order. Only when all packets associated to
the ADU are available, the ADU is available to the next processing unit, i.e.
the timestamp is determined by the last received packet associated to the ADU.
If one or more packets associated to the ADU are lost, then the timestamp of
the loss is the time at which the first lost packet is detected. However, as
in order delivery cannot be assumed, a maximum delay of an ADU needs to be
set, typically compared to the render time, after which only received packets
are processed as part of the ADU. For the potential recovery of the ADU one of
two different modes of recovery apply:
\- ADU loss: If one of the packets associated to the ADU is lost, the entire
ADU is lost.
\- Suffix loss: If one packet is lost, then only the information from packets
are earlier in the concatenated ADU are used to generate a partially received
ADU.
In addition, a maximum ADU delay is set after which the data in the ADU
compared to the render time is no longer helpful and the ADU is discarded.
A possible configuration is provided in Table 5.7.2-2. In this case the trace
data from an P'-Trace is analysed and all buffer S'-Traces are generated. The
loss mode is set to ADU to indicate that any lost fragment results in a loss
of the entire ADU. ADUs not recovered within the maxDelay of 60 are considered
as lost.
Table 5.7.2-2 Example Content Delivery receiver configuration
+--------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"Input\": { | | | | \"Pp-Trace\": \"Pp-Trace-1.csv\", | | | | }, | | | | \"Output\": [{ | | | | \"Sp-Trace\": { | | | | \"buffer\": \"left\", | | | | \"Sp-Trace\": \"Sp-Trace-left.csv\", | | | | \"maxDelay\": 60, | | | | \"lossMode\": \"ADU\" | | | | }, | | | | \"Sp-Trace\": { | | | | \"buffer\": \"right\", | | | | \"Sp-Trace\": \"Sp-Trace-right.csv\" | | | | \"maxDelay\": 60, | | | | \"lossMode\": \"ADU\" | | | | } | | | | }] | | | | } | +--------------------------------------+
### 5.7.3 Content Delivery Modelling for Retransmission
This work is for further study.
### 5.7.4 Content Delivery Modelling for Application Layer FEC
This work is for further study.
### 5.7.5 S'-Trace Format
The S'-Trace format after the content delivery modelling receiver is shown in
Table 5.7.4-3.
Table 5.7.4-3 S'-Trace Format
Name Type Semantics
* * *
index BIGINT Unique slice index increased by 1 and indexing this row in the
S-Trace file. time_stamp_in_micro_s BIGINT Availability time of slice at
decoder relative to start time 0 in microseconds. recovery_position BIGINT
Recovered unit position (0 => lost, in between, full) size BIGINT Original
size of slice/data unit in bytes. render_timing BIGINT the rendering
generation timing associated to the frame start_address_cu BIGINT start
address of CU in slice number_cus BIGINT total number of CUs in slice
frame_file STRING Reference to frame file containing information for each CU
## 5.8 Quality Metrics and Computation
### 5.8.1 General
Quality Evaluation is based on two aspects, namely the encoding quality and
the quality degradation due to lost or late data. An evaluation framework is
shown in Figure 5.8-1. The quality evaluation takes into account information
from
\- P'-Traces
\- S'-Traces
\- V'-Traces
For each user and each buffer, the quality is provided individually following
the format of a Quality Trace Q-Trace as shown in Figure 5.8.1-1.
Table 5.8.1-1 Q-Trace Format
+----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | Name | Type | Semantics | +================+==================+================================+ | user | BIGINT | User id. | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | buffer | BIGINT | the buffer information | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | type | TEXT | video, audio or data | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | total_packets | BIGINT | Total amount of packets that | | | | have been sent | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | duration | BIGINT | Duration of the simulation in | | | | ms | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | PLoR | DOUBLE PRECISION | Packet loss rate | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | PLaR | DOUBLE PRECISION | Packet late rate | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | SLR | DOUBLE PRECISION | Slice loss rate for video, if | | | | not present, n/a | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | CAR | DOUBLE PRECISION | Correct Area rate for video, | | | | if not present, n/a | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | ALR | DOUBLE PRECISION | Area loss rate for video, if | | | | not present, n/a | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | DAR | DOUBLE PRECISION | Area damage rate for video, if | | | | not present, n/a | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | LDR | DOUBLE PRECISION | Area loss and damage rate for | | | | video, if not present, n/a | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | PSNR | DOUBLE PRECISION | Average encoded PSNR for | | | | video, if not present, n/a | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | PSNRyuv | DOUBLE PRECISION | Average encoded PSNRyuv for | | | | video, if not present, n/a | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | RPSNR | DOUBLE PRECISION | Average recovered PSNR for | | | | video, if not present, n/a | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | RPSNRyuv | DOUBLE PRECISION | Average recovered PSNRyuv for | | | | video, if not present, n/a | | | | | | | | sum_frame (sum_cu | | | | PSNR[frame][cu] * | | | | indicator(correct[fram | | | | e][cu]))/total_CU[frame] | | | | | | | | with indicator(condition) = 1 | | | | if condition is TRUE and 0 if | | | | condition is wrong | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+ | MOS | DOUBLE PRECISION | Average audio MOS for audio, | | | | if not present, n/a | +----------------+------------------+--------------------------------+
Figure 5.8-1 Packet sizes and delays
### 5.8.2 Test Channels
In order to evaluate the performance of certain configurations, test channel
are defined and applied to P-Traces. The test channel address two aspects:
\- Permit to emulate typical radio conditions in terms delays and losses.
\- Permit to evaluate the application quality for different representative
radio conditions for different different application configurations.
The test channel is aligned with the QoS Model as defined in TS 23.501, clause
5.7. Note that TS 23.501 defines the following QoS characteristics:
\- Clause 5.7.3.2: Resource type (Non-GBR, GBR, Delay-critical GBR)
\- A GBR QoS Flow uses either the GBR resource type or the Delay-critical GBR
resource type. The definition of PDB and PER are different for GBR and Delay-
critical GBR resource types, and the MDBV parameter applies only to the Delay-
critical GBR resource type.
\- A Non-GBR QoS Flow uses only the Non-GBR resource type.
\- Clause 5.7.3.3: Priority Level: The Priority Level associated with 5G QoS
characteristics indicates a priority in scheduling resources among QoS Flows.
The lowest Priority Level value corresponds to the highest priority.
\- Clause 5.7.3.4: Packet Delay Budget (including Core Network Packet Delay
Budget):
\- The Packet Delay Budget (PDB) defines an upper bound for the time that a
packet may be delayed between the UE and the N6 termination point at the UPF.
For a certain 5QI the value of the PDB is the same in UL and DL. In the case
of 3GPP access, the PDB is used to support the configuration of scheduling and
link layer functions (e.g., the setting of scheduling priority weights and
HARQ target operating points).
\- For GBR QoS Flows using the Delay-critical resource type, a packet delayed
more than PDB is counted as lost if the data burst is not exceeding the MDBV
within the period of PDB and the QoS Flow is not exceeding the GFBR. For GBR
QoS Flows with GBR resource type not exceeding GFBR, 98 percent of the packets
shall not experience a delay exceeding the 5QI\'s PDB.
\- Clause 5.7.3.5: Packet Error Rate;
\- The Packet Error Rate (PER) defines an upper bound for the rate of PDUs
(e.g. IP packets) that have been processed by the sender of a link layer
protocol (e.g. RLC in RAN of a 3GPP access) but that are not successfully
delivered by the corresponding receiver to the upper layer (e.g. PDCP in RAN
of a 3GPP access).
\- Thus, the PER defines an upper bound for a rate of non-congestion related
packet losses. The purpose of the PER is to allow for appropriate link layer
protocol configurations (e.g. RLC and HARQ in RAN of a 3GPP access). For every
5QI the value of the PER is the same in UL and DL. For GBR QoS Flows with
Delay-critical GBR resource type, a packet which is delayed more than PDB is
counted as lost, and included in the PER unless the data burst is exceeding
the MDBV within the period of PDB or the QoS Flow is exceeding the GFBR.
\- Clause 5.7.3.6: Averaging window (for GBR and Delay-critical GBR resource
type only): Each GBR QoS Flow shall be associated with an Averaging window.
The Averaging window represents the duration over which the GFBR and MFBR
shall be calculated (e.g. in the (R)AN, UPF, UE).
\- Clause 5.7.3.7: Maximum Data Burst Volume (for Delay-critical GBR resource
type only):
\- Each GBR QoS Flow with Delay-critical resource type shall be associated
with a Maximum Data Burst Volume (MDBV).
\- MDBV denotes the largest amount of data that the 5G-AN is required to serve
within a period of 5G-AN PDB.
\- Every standardized 5QI (of Delay-critical GBR resource type) is associated
with a default value for the MDBV (specified in QoS characteristics Table
5.7.4.1). The MDBV may also be signalled together with a standardized 5QI to
the (R)AN, and if it is received, it shall be used instead of the default
value.
\- The MDBV may also be signalled together with a pre-configured 5QI to the
(R)AN, and if it is received, it shall be used instead of the pre-configured
value
For the initial version of a test channel, the following model and parameters
are defined:
1) Packet Error Rate:
a. Parameters: Packet Error Rate
b. Model: iid losses independent of the packet size
2) Packet delays:
a. Parameter: max_delay
b. Model: iid distributed latency between 0 and a max_value
Additional aspects of the QoS model and the RAN model are for further study.
## 5.9 Uplink Modeling
### 5.9.1 Considerations
In several scenarios, only pose and action data is sent in the uplink channel.
Pose information may be used by the edge/cloud for network rendering. In
general, the sampling rates are controlled by the application for which the
pose information is applied. The more frequently the pose information is
captured, the more accurate the rendered scenes and gaming control are.
According to TR 26.928, in order to always be able to respond to the latest XR
Viewer Pose, tracking needs to be done frequently and the minimum update rates
should be 1000Hz and beyond. However, this applies to the hardware tracking of
the device. Hence, an XR application can continuously query the XR Runtime
(for example using an OpenXR API) to provide the viewer pose for a particular
display time. This time is typically the target display time for a frame to be
rendered. Repeatedly querying the pose for the same display time may not
necessarily return the same result. Instead, the pose prediction gets
increasingly accurate as the function is called closer to the given time for
which a prediction is made. The application may also query the XR runtime for
the predicted pose at different display times.
In case the pose is used for pre-rendering in the network (edge/cloud), an
accurate and most recent pose information is preferable. There is a tradeoff
between how often the latest pose is sent and whether it is sent for only one
predicted display time or several consecutive display times. As a first
estimate it can be assumed that sending a viewer pose aligned with the frame
rate of the rendered video may be sufficient, for example at 60fps. The size
of such information is typically 32 bytes per pose, and with several poses
sent and header overhead, it may be up to few 100 bytes in a single flow. With
such assumption the mapping to bitrates, periodicity and PDB is
straightforward.
In addition to pose information, media uplink may be sent, for example data
from cameras. In this case, a similar modelling as for downlink media applies.
### 5.9.2 Pose Uplink Model
According to TR 26.928, clause 4.1.3, the following applies:
> To maintain a reliable registration of the virtual world with the real world
> as well as to ensure accurate tracking of the XR Viewer pose, XR
> applications require highly accurate, low-latency tracking of the device at
> about 1kHz sampling frequency. An XR Viewer Pose consists of the orientation
> (for example, 4 floating point values in OpenXR) and the position (for
> example, 3 floating point values in OpenXR). In addition, the XR Viewer Pose
> needs to have assigned a time stamp. The size of a XR Viewer Pose associated
> to time typically results in packets of size in the range of 30-100 bytes,
> such that the generated data is around several hundred kbit/s if delivered
> over the network.
In addition, according to clause 5.9.1, an application permits to control the
uplink pose information sending.
Based on these considerations, the following is proposed for the uplink
modelling:
1) XR Viewer Pose information is provided to the application in 1kHz sampling
frequency
2) The size of the XR Viewer Pose packets are considered 100 byte (60 payload,
40 header)
3) The Pose is sent with a frequency of controlled by the application, but we
assume alignment with the rendering frame rate, i.e. 10 ms.
In order to minimize the rendering impact, the expected latency of the pose
information is at most 10ms in the uplink. This means that the content is
rendered with a pose of typically 10-15ms age.
# 6 XR Split Rendering
## 6.1 Introduction
Raster-based split rendering was introduced in TR 26.928 as an important
scenario in order to serve end devices with restricted capabilities.
## 6.2 Reference System Design
### 6.2.1 Overview
The system design for split rendering follows the discussion and requirements
from TR26.928 [3], clause 6.2.5. The architecture us shown in Figure 6.2.1-1.
{width="6.383333333333334in" height="3.4347222222222222in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1 Split Rendering with Asynchronous Time Warping (ATW) Correction
Raster-based split rendering refers to the case where the XR Server runs an XR
engine to generate the XR Scene based on information coming from an XR device.
The XR Server rasterizes the XR viewport and does XR pre-rendering.
According to Figure 6.2.1-1, the viewport is pre-dominantly rendered in the XR
server, but the device is able to do latest pose correction, for example by
asynchronuous time-warping (see clause 4.1 of TR26.928) or other XR pose
correction to address changes in the pose.
\- XR graphics workload is split into rendering workload on a powerful XR
server (in the cloud or the edge) and pose correction (such as ATW) on the XR
device
\- Low motion-to-photon latency is preserved via on device Asynchronous Time
Warping (ATW) or other pose correction methods.
The following call flow highlights the key steps:
1\. An XR Device connects to the network and joins XR application
a) Sends static device information and capabilities (supported decoders,
viewport)
2\. Based on this information, the XR server sets up encoders and formats
3\. Loop
a) XR Device collects XR pose (or a predicted XR pose)
b) XR Pose is sent to XR Serve
c) The XR Server uses the pose to pre-render the XR viewport
d) XR Viewport is encoded with 2D media encoders
e) The compressed media is sent to XR device along with XR pose that it was
rendered for
f) The XR device decompresses video
g) The XR device uses the XR pose provided with the video frame and the actual
XR pose for an improved\ prediction using and to correct the local pose, e.g.
using ATW.
According to TR 26.928, clause 4.2.2, the relevant processing and delay
components are summarized as follows:
\- User interaction delay is defined as the time duration between the moment
at which a user action is initiated and the time such an action is taken into
account by the content creation engine. In the context of gaming, this is the
time between the moment the user interacts with the game and the moment at
which the game engine processes such a player response.
\- Age of content is defined as the time duration between the moment a content
is created and the time it is presented to the user. In the context of gaming,
this is the time between the creation of a video frame by the game engine and
the time at which the frame is finally presented to the player.
The **roundtrip interaction delay** is therefore the sum of the _Age of
Content_ and the _User Interaction Delay_. If part of the rendering is done on
an XR server and the service produces a frame buffer as rendering result of
the state of the content, then for raster-based split rendering, the following
processes contribute to such a delay:
\- User Interaction Delay (Pose and other interactions)
\- capture of user interaction in game client,
\- delivery of user interaction to the game engine, i.e. to the server (aka
network delay),
\- processing of user interaction by the game engine/server,
  * Age of Content
\- creation of one or several video buffers (e.g. one for each eye) by the
game engine/server,
\- encoding of the video buffers into a video stream frame,
\- delivery of the video frame to the game client (a.k.a. network delay),
\- decoding of the video frame by the game client,
\- presentation of the video frame to the user (a.k.a. framerate delay).
As ATW is applied the motion-to-photon latency requirements (of at most 20 ms)
are met by XR device internal processing. What determines the network
requirements for split rendering is time of pose-to-render-to-photon and the
roundtrip interaction delay. According to clause TR 26.928, clause 4.5, the
permitted downlink latency is typically 50-60ms.
### 6.2.2 Considered Content Formats
Rasterized 3D scenes available in frame buffers (see clause 4.4 or TR 26.928
[3]) are provided by the XR engine and need to be encoded, distributed and
decoded. According to TR 26.928, clause 4.2.1, relevant formats for frame
buffers are 2k by 2k per eye, potentially even higher. Frame rates are
expected to be at least 60fps, potentially higher up to 90 fps. The formats of
frame buffers are regular texture video signals that are then directly
rendered. As the processing is graphics centric, formats beyond commonly used
4:2:0 signals and YUV signals may be considered.
In practical considerations, the NVIDIA Encoding functions may be used. The
parameters of such an encoder are documented here
https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-video-codec-sdk.
### 6.2.3 Considered System Parameters
Based on the discussion on clause 6.2.1 and 6.2.2, several parameters are
relevant for the overall system design.
\- Game: Type of game, state of game, multi-user actions, etc.
\- User Interaction:
\- 6DOF pose based on head and body movement,
\- Game interactions by controllers
\- Formats of rasterized video signal. Typical parameters are:
\- 1.5K x 1.5K per eye at 60, 90, 120fps
\- 2K x 2K at 60, 90, 120fps
\- YUV 4:2:0 or 4:4:4
\- Encoder configuration
\- Codec: H.264/AVC or H.265/HEVC
\- Bitrate: Bitrate setting to a specific value (e.g. 50 Mbit/s)
\- Rate control: CBR, Capped VBR, Feedback based, CRF, QP
\- Slice settings: 1 per frame, 1 per MB row, X per frame
\- Intra settings and error resilience: Regular IDR, GDR Pattern, adaptive
Intra, feedback based Intra, feedback based predication and ACK-based,
feedback-based prediction and NACK based
\- Latency settings: P pictures only, look-ahead units
\- Complexity settings for encoder
\- Content Delivery
\- Sending of eye buffers
\- At the same time
\- staggered
\- Slice to IP mapping: Fragmentation
\- RTP-based time codes and packet numbering
\- RTP/RTCP-based feedback ACK/NACK
\- RTP/RTCP-based feedback on bitrate
\- 5G System/RAN Configuration:
\- QoS Settings (5QI): GBR, Latency, Loss Rate
\- HARQ transmissions, scheduling, etc.
\- Content Delivery Receiver configuration:
\- Loss Detection: sequence numbers
\- Delay/Latency handling
\- Error Resilience
\- ATW
\- Quality Aspects
\- Video quality (encoded)
\- Lost data
\- Immersiveness
## 6.3 Simulation System
Figure 6.3-1 shows the simulation system used for XR split rendering based on
the architecture in Figure 5.2.1-1. The following instantiation is provided:
  * Two S-Traces are generated to address a video output for each eye buffer
  * No feedback on video encoding or content delivery is considered
Figure 6.3-1 XR Split Rendering Simulation System
## 6.4 Recommended Configurations
The following parameters are recommended and fixed for the simulartion:
1) Content Model:
a. Rendered scene output with 2 eye buffers at 2Kx2K at 60 fps, 8bit.
b. Content and Trace Preview is here:
http://dash.akamaized.net/WAVE/3GPP/XRTraffic/Traces/Qualcomm-VR2
c. No audio
NOTE: Audio Modeling may be added by providing another P-Trace for audio, for
example every 20ms a packet is provided according to an AMR/EVS/AAC model.
Typical bitrates are in the range of 15-80 kbit/s which is negligible compared
to video.
2) Encoding Model
a. Encoding Models according to clause 5.5.
b. HEVC, target bitrate 30 Mbit/s or 45 Mbit/s (CBR, capped VBR), equally
split across eye buffers, independently encoded.
c. Slice based encoding (8 slices) or 1 frame
d. Intra Refresh (1 slice per frame) or every 8^th^ frame.
e. Left and right eye buffer are independently encoded.
f. Pre-encoding delay: Encoder pre-delay is varying between 10 to 20ms
g. Encoding delay is modelled to vary with mean 4/slice_numbers and standard
deviation 3/slice_numbers and maximum being the frame interval (aligned with
clause 5.7.2 and Annex B).
3) Content Delivery Model
a. Content Delivery Model see clause 5.7.2 with, detailed configurations in
Table 6.4-1.
b. Packet MaxSize 1500 byte (cloud) or unlimited (edge)
c. Edge/Cloud to gNB bitrate is 1.5 media bitrate => delay variance
4) Delivery receiver
a. Modeling according to clause 5.6.
b. Packets are dropped if late
c. Slice loss model (1 lost packets per slice results in slice loss)
d. Timestamp of slice if time stamp of latest packet of slice
e. Maximum latency for slice: 60ms (see TR 26.928, clause 4 and 6.2.5.1)
5) Decoding Model
a. Modeling according to clause 5.6.
b. Takes into account slice structure, spatial and temporal error propagation,
intra refresh
6) Quality evaluation tool.
a. Modeling according to clause 5.8.
b. The following metrics are considered for each user and buffer
i. IP Packet loss rate
ii. IP Packet late rate
iii. Slice loss rate
iv. Area loss rate (total amount of Coding Units)
v. Area damage rate (total amount of Coding Units)
vi. Average encoded PSNR
vii. Average PSNR
a. Average over all buffers
b. Multi-user
i. Average over all users
ii. Percentile of support
7) A model for the uplink traffic in a similar fashion also providing packet
traces.
a. XR Pose is sent uplink
b. Details are in clause 5.8.
c. The uplink bitrate for the pose if 200 kbit/s CBR, with 4ms packet interval
and packet size 100 byte. This means that the content is rendered with a pose
of typically 10-15ms age.
In addition, the following configurations are considered:
\- Start frame for N=16 users at different starting positions
[1,1801,901,2701,451,2251,1351,3251,226,2026,1126,2926,676,2476,1576,3476]
\- Slice and Error Resilience:
\- For configuration 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 use slice setting 8 with one intra
slice per frame
\- For configuration 5: No slice setting with one I-frame very 8 frames
\- Bitrates:
\- For configurations 1, 2, 5 and 6 capped VBR at 30 Mbit/s total with window
size 12 frame (200ms) (target frame size is 31,250 byte per buffer, but buffer
may exceed slightly -- only over 200ms it is not exceeding). (aligns with
findings in Annex B).
\- For configurations 3 and 4: Constant bitrate at 30 Mbit/s total with window
size 1 frame (maximum frame size is 31,250 byte per buffer, almost constant).
\- Delay:
\- Encoder pre-delay is varying between 10 to 20ms.
\- Encoding delay is modelled to vary with mean 4/slice_numbers and std
3/slice_numbers and maximum being the frame interval.
\- Buffer Interleaving:
\- For configuration 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, buffer interleaving set to false.
\- For configuration 6, buffer interleaving set to false.
\- Content Delivery Modeling
\- For configurations 1, 3, 5, and 6, 1500 byte max packet size (addressing
the cloud server case in Annex B)
\- For configurations 2 and 4, unlimited packet size, i.e. each slice results
in a packet (addressing the edge serve case in Annex B)
\- The bitrate is set to an excess of 1.5, i.e. 45 Mbit/s for 30 Mbit/s
content bitrate and 67.5 Mbit/s for 45 Mbit/s content bitrate. This aligns
with the parameters in Annex B.
Beyond the above, the configurations provided in Table 6.4-1 are recommended
with priority according to order.
Table 6.4-1 XR Split Rendering Recommended Configurations
Configuration Basic Content Parameters
* * *
VR2-1 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffer sent at same time, 1500 byte max packet
size VR2-2 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffer sent at same time, unlimited packet size
VR2-3 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s CBR
with window 1 frame, buffer sent at same time, 1500 byte max packet size
packets VR2-4 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded,
30Mbit/s CBR with window 1 frame, buffer sent at same time, unlimited packet
size VR2-5 1 slice per eye buffer, every 8th frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffer sent at same time, 1500 byte max packet
size VR2-6 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffers sent interleaved, 1500 byte max packet
size VR2-7 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 45Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffer sent at same time, 1500 byte max packet
size VR2-8 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 45Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffer sent at same time, unlimited packet size
The following provides an idea of the latencies of packets from the time that
a frame is rendered in the XR server to the time the packet arrives at the
gNB/Radio:
\- Min-Latency:
\- Pre-encoding delay: 10ms
\- Encoding delay: 2ms
\- Encoder-to-gNB delay: 3ms
\- Total delay: 15ms
\- Max-Latency:
\- Pre-encoding delay: 20ms
\- Encoding delay: 17ms (considered exceptionally large)
\- Encoder-to-gNB delay: 10ms (considered exceptionally large)
\- Total delay: 47ms
\- Typical-Latency:
\- Pre-encoding delay: 15ms
\- Encoding delay: 4ms
\- Encoder-to-gNB delay: 11ms
\- Total delay: 30ms
Note that
\- the maximum delay of 47ms aligns with the 32ms from Annex B assuming
without constant delay of around 15ms.
\- typical latency of 30ms aligns with the 32ms from Annex B assuming without
constant delay of around 15ms
## 6.5 Traces and Statistical Models
### 6.5.1 Traces
#### 6.5.1.1 Overview
A set of P-Traces for 16 users are provided, each 1 minute duration for the 8
configurations as provided in clause 6.4.
**The traces can be accessed here**
http://dash.akamaized.net/WAVE/3GPP/XRTraffic/Traces/Candidate/VR2/
#### 6.5.1.2 VR2-1 Plots and Insights
Figure 6.5.1.2-1 provides the S-Trace statistics for both eyes and one user 0.
The bitrate over time varies, but is bound to 30 Mbit/s for almost all cases.
Frame size variation is more distributed than VR2-3, with much smaller frames
occasionally. Due to window size 12 (i.e. 200ms), larger frame sizes occur.
Slice size distribution also follows the peak at 3500 bytes with distributions
up to 12000 bytes.
Overall, the total bitrate is likely too low to express best quality, as the
rate control forces the frame size to be constant for most of the time.
{width="6.4in" height="4.8in"}
Figure 6.5.1.2-1 S-Trace Statistics for VR2-1
#### 6.5.1.3 Initial VR2-7 Plots and Insights
Figure 6.5.1.3-1 and Figure 6.5.1.3-2 provide the S-Trace and P-Trace
statistics for VR2-7 for both eyes and one user 0, respectively. The bitrate
over time varies, but is bound to 45 Mbit/s. This also shows significantly
more variance. Frame size variation is more distributed than VR2-1, with much
smaller frames occasionally. Due to window size 12 (i.e. 200ms), larger frame
sizes occur. Slice size distribution also follows the peak at 5500 bytes with
distributions up to 12000 bytes.
{width="6.4in" height="4.8in"}
Figure 6.5.1.3-1 S-Trace Statistics for initial VR2-7
{width="6.4in" height="4.8in"}
Figure 6.5.1.3-1 P-Trace Statistics for initial VR2-7
This bitrate of 45 Mbit/s seems to better express a realistic content model.
### 6.5.2 Statistical Models
Analyzing the initial traces that were derived and they are attached to this
document for VR2-3 and VR2-4.
We extract several statistical models for VR2-3 and VR2-4 in Figure 6.5.2-1
and Figure 6.5.2-2, respectively.
\- Inter arrival distribution: what is the typical difference between packet
arrival
\- Packet size distribution: what are the different packet sizes
\- Packet latency distributions
{width="6.447916666666667in" height="3.375in"}
Figure 6.5.2-1 VR2-3 Statistics
{width="6.375in" height="3.3645833333333335in"}
Figure 6.5.2-2 VR2-4 Statistics
Observations:
\- The traffic statistics can be mapped to statistics, but we need to know
which statistics are needed
\- It is clear that second order statistics are not represented in the above
distributions
\- It is also clear that depending on the configurations, the statistics are
quite different.
More data can be extracted based on the attached traces and distributions.
Based on the observations it is agreed
\- that SA4 develops statistical models based on traces
\- that RAN1 may develop statistical models based on traces
\- that RAN1 may ask SA4 to provide statistical models for specific setups and
parameters, if needed, for example
\- Statistical models for packets associated to I-frames and P-frames
\- Statistical models for slices and video frames
\- Statistical models for different importance settings
### 6.5.3 Analysis of the Traces and Statistical Models
#### 6.5.3.1 Frame Size
Statistical models are in Table 5.1.1.5-1 in TR 38.838 [4], repeated below in
Table 6.5.3.1-1. The size of a frame is determined by the given data rates and
frame rates, which is modelled as a random variable following truncated
Gaussian distribution, as shown in Table 5.1.1.5-1 in TR 38.838 [4].
Note that a frame in the context of TR 38.838 is defined as the collection of
all packets of a packet trace with the same timestamp for presentation.
Table 6.5.3.1-1: Statistical parameter values for dual eye buffer frame size
(TR 38.838)
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Parameter | unit | values for | Optional values | | | | evaluation | for evaluation | +===================+======+===================+===================+ | Mean: M | byte | R×1e6 / (2×F) /8 | R×1e6 / (2×F) / 8 | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | STD | byte | 10.5% of M | 4% of M | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Max | byte | 150% of M | 112% of M | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Min | byte | 50% of M | 88% of M | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | R: data rate of | | | | | the flow in Mbps | | | | | | | | | | F: frame | | | | | generation rate | | | | | of the flow in | | | | | fps | | | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
An analysis was done using the traces defined in clause 6.5.1 and the
statistical model. Table 6.5.3.1-2 show the frame size distribution for the
P-trace according to the traces. It can be seen that the frame size
distribution based on the P-traces in clause 6.5.1 are aligned with frame size
model in TR 38.838 [4].
Table 6.5.3.1-1 Frame size distribution deriving from the P-trace files
Parameter VR 2-1 VR 2-2 VR 2-3 VR 2-4 VR 2-5 VR 2-6 VR 2-7 VR 2-8
* * *
Bitrate (Mbit/s) 30 30 30 30 30 30 45 45 Mean (byte) 7378 7211 7640 7467 6699
3689 10506 10265 STD (byte) 560 543 176 173 847 296 1574 1530 Min (byte) 3531
3488 7115 6974 1522 1719 3544 3480 Max (byte) 9224 9117 8164 7996 13106 4836
13523 13147 STD/Mean 7.60% 7.53% 2.30% 2.32% 12.64% 8.02% 14.99% 14.91%
Min/Mean 47.86% 48.37% 93.14% 93.40% 22.72% 46.61% 33.74% 33.90% Max/Mean 125%
126% 107% 107% 196% 131% 129% 128%
Figure 6.5.3.1-1 shows the distribution of the slice size for different
P-Traces.
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.5.3.1-1 The statistic of packet size by using the P-trace data from
SA4
From the figure the following is observed:
\- VR2-1, VR2-2, VR2-3, VR2-4 and VR2-5 share similar frame size distribution
as they all operate at the same bitrate of 30 Mbit/s and basically every frame
uses the same bitrate to maximize the quality within the delay constraints.
VR2-1, VR2-2 and VR2-5 have higher likelihood of smaller packets as they
operate in capped VBR.
\- VR2-6 has lower frame sizes, because it sends the buffers in a staggered
manner, resulting in twice as many frames, but each at half size.
\- VR2-7 and VR2-8 operate at higher bitrate and hence the quality for several
frames is higher making use of the higher bit budget, but some frames do not
need the full bit budget and hence stay at lower size.
#### 6.5.3.2 Jitter
An analysis was done using the traces defined in clause 6.5.1 for jitter
statistical modelling. Table 6.5.3.2-1 shows the jitter distribution for the
P-trace according to the traces.
Table 6.5.3.2-14: Jitter distribution deriving from the P-trace files
Parameter VR 2-1 VR 2-2 VR 2-3 VR 2-4 VR 2-5 VR 2-6 VR 2-7 VR 2-8
* * *
Mean (ms) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 STD (ms) 4.96 5.00 4.85 4.89 5.31 4.02 5.19 5.18 Min
(ms) -15.89 -16.00 -11.87 -11.96 -18.95 -14.40 -16.48 -16.18 Max (ms) +11.27
+10.30 +10.10 +10.51 +18.69 +8.08 +11.59 +11.13 Jitter range (ms) [-8.39,
+7.89] [-8.42, +7.91] [-8.26, +7.69] [-8.30, +7.77] [-8.74, +8.42] [-7.05,
+6.24] [-8.82, +8.19] [-8.79, +8.20] **jitter range = [5%-tile in CDF,
95%-tile in CDF] ms**
Figure 6.5.3.2-1 shows the distribution of the jitter value for different
P-traces.
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.5.3.2-1 The statistic of jitter from the P-trace files
From Table 6.5.3.2-1 and Figure 6.5.3.2-1 the following is observed:
\- VR2-1, VR2-2, VR2-3, VR2-4, VR2-5, VR2-6, VR2-7 and VR2-8 share similar
jitter distribution with Mean 0ms and STD 5ms in rang [-8, 8] ms, since they
all experience the same encoder and transport network.
Note that the jitter statistical model refers to the description in TR 38.838
[4]. The jitter is modelled as a random variable added on top of periodic
arrivals, which follows truncated Gaussian distribution.
## 6.6 Test Channel Results
In clause 5.8.2, test channels are introduced in order to
\- Permit to emulate typical radio conditions in terms delays and losses.
\- Permit to evaluate the application quality for different representative
radio conditions.
The 3GPP radio experts are expected to simulate based on statistical models
whereby the statistical models may for example differentiate packet classes,
as an example, different radio QoS is associated to different packets.
3GPP radio experts may ask 3GPP application service experts to evaluate the
simulation and evaluation results for different test channels in order to
identify the benefit of specific radio settings. For this purpose, 3GPP radio
experts should support 3GPP application service experts to define test
channels models and configurations. Examples are
\- Use Test channel with PLR 0.1% and iid delay between 0 and 20ms and
simulate the quality
\- Use Test channel with
\- PLR 0.1% and iid delay between 0 and 20ms for packets marked with type P
\- PLR 0.01% and iid delay between 0 and 20ms for packets marked with type I
\- and provide the resulting quality
It is agreed
\- that 3GPP application service experts evaluates the quality of different
configurations and radio settings through test channels
\- that 3GPP radio experts supports 3GPP application service experts in the
development of different test channel models
\- that 3GPP radio experts may ask 3GPP application service experts to
evaluate the simulation and evaluation results for different test channels in
order to identify the benefit of specific radio settings, if needed.
Table 6.6-14: traces and configuration for P-file generation
Configuration Basic Content Parameters
* * *
VR2-1 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffer sent at same time, 1500 byte max packet
size VR2-2 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffer sent at same time, unlimited packet size
VR2-3 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s CBR
with window 1 frame, buffer sent at same time, 1500 byte max packet size
packets VR2-4 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded,
30Mbit/s CBR with window 1 frame, buffer sent at same time, unlimited packet
size VR2-5 1 slice per eye buffer, every 8th frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffer sent at same time, 1500 byte max packet
size VR2-6 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffers sent interleaved, 1500 byte max packet
size VR2-7 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 45Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffer sent at same time, 1500 byte max packet
size VR2-8 8 slices per eye buffer, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 45Mbit/s
capped VBR with window 200ms, buffer sent at same time, unlimited packet size
Based on the traces and configuration as available in Table 6.6-1 we have
produced some initial results with the following test channel.
\- \"loss_rate\": 0.01,
\- \"max_delay_ms\": 50,
\- \"max_bitrate\": 60000000,
The results were produced for 4 users each. We observe that the loss rates and
delays may be too high, but it was for an initial plausibility checking.
The results are provided here:
https://dash.akamaized.net/WAVE/3GPP/XRTraffic/Test-Results/sample-
results-2021-03-31-01.zip and include P', S', V', and Q traces as well as
inter arrival plots.
Table 6.6-2 provides the averaged results for the 4 users and for each of the
eye buffers.
Table 6.6-24: traces and configuration for P-file generaration
config total_packets PLoR PLaR SLR CAR ALR DAR LDR PSNR PSNRyuv RPSNR RPSNRyuv
* * *
1 712134 1.004% 20.890% 24.283% 24.781% 24.283% 50.936% 75.219% 40057 40419
10417 10535 2 230400 1.010% 15.105% 16.115% 28.803% 16.115% 55.082% 71.197%
40050 40412 12067 12203 3 727022 0.989% 22.214% 25.836% 24.137% 25.836%
50.027% 75.863% 39739 40101 10083 10198 4 230400 0.973% 15.820% 16.793%
28.587% 16.793% 54.620% 71.413% 39742 40104 11904 12039 5 528639 0.989%
33.336% 57.392% 14.175% 57.392% 28.433% 85.825% 40617 40979 6189 6253 6 712220
1.007% 7.459% 11.120% 30.522% 11.120% 58.358% 69.478% 40054 40415 12772 12916
7 924161 1.017% 28.905% 32.619% 21.278% 32.619% 46.102% 78.722% 37290 37652
8326 8427 8 230400 0.972% 20.822% 21.793% 26.494% 21.793% 51.713% 73.506%
37297 37659 10322 10446
The following is observed:
1\. The packet loss rates are too high and in particular the channel latencies
are too high to get meaningful results
\- The packet late rate is too high
\- In between 11 to 50% of the slices are lost
\- The Loss and Damaged Area is 70 to 85%
2\. There is a problem with the PSNR for config 7 and 8, which is lower than
for lower bitrates. We are investigating this.
3\. Best performing is config 6, which does eye buffer interleaving. In this
case, the second eye buffer is not blocked in the sending for the right as
they are staggered. This is a problem in all other configurations that the
second eye buffer causes the packet and slice late losses.
4\. Worst performing is the single slice configuration as a single loss
results in the loss of an entire frame.
5\. The same packet loss rate for larger packets (i.e. mapped to a slice)
results in better quality as for smaller packets (as each loss aggregates
later to a slice loss).
6\. We also identified that handling the frame data too complex, so we plan to
create a binary pseudo bitstream.
The following is concluded:
1\. We are moving into a good direction, but some open issues still
2\. We need to fix the bug on PSNR
3\. We need to use identify good channel parameters for
a. PLR = 1e-3, 1e-4, 1e-5
b. Latencies = 10ms, 20ms, 30ms (iid), 10ms (iid) for 98% of packets
We need to identify to what extent these configurations are useful.
# 7 Cloud Gaming
## 7.1 Introduction
Cloud Gaming according to TR 26.928 refers to the case that rendering of the
views is done in the cloud. It differentiates from clause 6 XR Split Rendering
in a sense that it is expected to played on a single screen device, e.g. a
smartphone or tablet.
## 7.2 Reference System Design
### 7.2.1 Overview
The system design for cloud gaming is provided in Figure 7.2.1-1 and is
similar to what is provided for XR Split rendering.
{width="6.096527777777778in" height="2.795138888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.1-1 Cloud Gaming Reference Architecture
The cloud scene is rendered in the device. The following assumptions are
taken. The Game Server runs a game engine to generate the game scene based on
information coming from a gaming end device, and in multi-user cases also what
comes from other users. The gaming server rasterizes the viewport and does a
scene pre-rendering.
According to Figure 7.2.1-1, the viewport is pre-dominantly rendered in the
gaming server, but the device is able to do latest pose correction, for
example by asynchronous time-warping (see clause 4.1 of TR26.928) or other
pose correction to address changes in the pose.
\- Graphics workload is split into rendering workload on a powerful cloud
gaming server (in the cloud or the edge) and pose correction (such as ATW) on
the gaming device
\- Low motion-to-photon latency is preserved via on device Asynchronous Time
Warping (ATW) or other pose correction methods.
The following call flow highlights the key steps:
1) A gaming device connects to the network and joins a gaming application
a) Sends static device information and capabilities (supported decoders,
viewport)
2) Based on this information, the gaming server sets up encoders and formats
3) Loop
a) gaming end device collects pose and controller information
b) pose and controller information is sent to gaming server
c) The gaming uses the pose to pre-render the gaming viewport
d) the scene viewport is encoded with 2D media encoders
e) The compressed media is sent to gaming device along with the pose that it
was rendered for
f) The gaming device decompresses video
g) The gaming device uses the pose provided with the video frame and the
actual pose for an improved prediction using and to correct the local pose,
e.g. using ATW.
According to TR 26.928, clause 4.2.2, the relevant processing and delay
components are summarized as follows:
**\- User interaction delay** is defined as the time duration between the
moment at which a user action is initiated and the time such an action is
taken into account by the content creation engine. In the context of gaming,
this is the time between the moment the user interacts with the game and the
moment at which the game engine processes such a player response.
**\- Age of content** is defined as the time duration between the moment a
content is created and the time it is presented to the user. In the context of
gaming, this is the time between the creation of a video frame by the game
engine and the time at which the frame is finally presented to the player.
The **roundtrip interaction delay** is therefore the sum of the _Age of
Content_ and the _User Interaction Delay_. If part of the rendering is done on
a gaming server and the service produces a frame buffer as rendering result of
the state of the content, then for raster-based split rendering (as defined in
clause 6.2.5) in cloud gaming applications, the following processes contribute
to such a delay:
\- User Interaction Delay (Pose and other interactions)
\- capture of user interaction in game client,
\- delivery of user interaction to the game engine, i.e. to the server (aka
network delay),
\- processing of user interaction by the game engine/server,
\- Age of Content
\- creation of one or several video buffers (e.g. one for each eye) by the
game engine/server,
\- encoding of the video buffers into a video stream frame,
\- delivery of the video frame to the game client (a.k.a. network delay),
\- decoding of the video frame by the game client,
\- presentation of the video frame to the user (a.k.a. framerate delay).
As ATW is applied corrections to pose are applied by device internal
processing. What determines the network requirements for split rendering is
time of pose-to-render-to-photon and the roundtrip interaction delay.
According to clause TR 26.928, clause 4.5, the permitted downlink latency is
typically 50-60ms.
### 7.2.2 Considered Content Formats
#### 7.2.2.1 Introduction
Video games have different characteristics that are important to take into
account when encoding the rasterized frames produced by the game engine. In TR
26.928 [6], clause 4.2.2, a few different types of games and their interaction
delay tolerance are documented. However, TR 26.928 [6] does not differentiate
the characteristics of the content. This aspect is addressed in the following.
In particular, the following characteristics are important:
\- Dynamicity of content: how frequent rasterized frames change when compared
to previous frame
\- Complexity of content: how much content changes between frames and how
complex such changes are
\- Type of content: traditional CGI, photo-realistic CGI or natural
images/video
Depending on these characteristics as well as the interaction delay tolerance,
video games can be organized into different categories as document in the
remainder of this clause.
A detailed analysis is provided in TR26.955, clause 6.6.
#### 7.2.2.2 Category A: Low/medium dynamicity with low/medium complexity.
This category includes games such as board games, turn-by-turn strategy games,
management/simulation games or non-realtime role-playing games (RPG) in which
content may not change over several consecutive frames and changes are
typically limited.
This category also includes games such as adventure games, casual games, or
platform games in which although content may change at every single frame,
changes are limited to animation of sprites or simple global movements of the
content.
The common characteristics of the games in this category is that their
playability can support longer interaction delay tolerance (500 -- 1000ms
according to TR 26.928 [6]) and their content is typically considered to video
encode.
#### 7.2.2.3 Category B: games with high dynamicity and low/medium complexity.
This category includes games such as fighting games, racing games, real-time
strategy (RTS) games or real-time RPGs in which content is very dynamic but
changes are either limited or simple transforms.
The common characteristics of the games in this category is that their
playability requires shorter interaction delay tolerances (100ms according to
TR 26.928 [6]) while their content is still considered simple to video encode
(with high benefits from prediction coding).
#### 7.2.2.4 Category C: games with high dynamicity and high complexity.
This category includes games such as first-person shooters (FPS), Massive
Multiplayer Online (MMO) games and racing games in which content is very
dynamic with possibly very significant changes regularly in the content.
The common characteristics of the games in this category is that their
playability requires shorter interaction delay tolerances (100ms according to
TR 26.928) and their content is typically considered as complex content to
video encode.
#### 7.2.2.5 Category D: photo-realistic games or games based on natural
images/video.
The main characteristics of the games in this category is that their content
is typically considered as more complex content to video encode.
#### 7.2.2.6 Category E: XR game content
XR Game content is covered as part of XR Split rendering and not further
discussed.
#### 7.2.2.7 Summary
Table 7.2.2.7-1 provides an overview of the different source signal properties
for Online Gaming. This information is used to select proper test sequences.
Table 7.2.2.7-1 Online Gaming source properties
* * *
Source format properties Category A\ Category B\ Category C\ Category D\
low/med dynamicity & low/med complexity games high dynamicity & low/med
complexity games high dynamicity & high complexity games photo-realistic or
natural video games
* * *
Spatial resolution 1280x720, 1920x1080, 3840x2160 1280x720, 1920x1080,
3840x2160 1280x720, 1920x1080, 3840x2160 1280x720, 1920x1080, 3840x2160
Chroma format Y'CbCr Y'CbCr Y'CbCr Y'CbCr
Chroma subsampling 4:2:0, 4:4:4 4:2:0, 4:4:4 4:2:0, 4:4:4 4:2:0, 4:4:4
Picture aspect ratio 16:9 16:9 16:9 16:9
Frame Buffers 1 1 1 1
Frame rates 30, 50, 60 Hz 30, 50, 60, 90, 120 Hz 30, 50, 60, 90, 120 Hz 30,
50, 60, 90, 120 Hz
Bit depth 8 8 8, 10 8, 10
Colour space formats BT.709, BT.2020 BT.709, BT.2020 BT.709, BT.2020 BT.709,
BT.2020
Transfer characteristics N/A N/A BT.2100 (HDR) BT.2100 (HDR)
* * *
In practical considerations, the NVIDIA Encoding functions may be used. The
parameters of such an encoder are documented here
https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-video-codec-sdk.
### 7.2.3 Considered System Parameters
Based on the discussion on clause 7.2.1 and 7.2.2, several parameters are
relevant for the overall system design.
\- Game:
\- Type of game
\- state of game,
\- multi-user actions, etc.
\- User Interaction:
\- Game pose by the device,
\- Game interactions by controllers
\- Formats of rasterized video signal. Typical parameters are:
\- See above
\- Encoder configuration
\- Codec: H.264/AVC or H.265/HEVC
\- Bitrate: Bitrate setting to a specific value (e.g. 50 Mbit/s)
\- Rate control: CBR, Capped VBR, Feedback based, CRF, QP
\- Slice settings: 1 per frame, 1 per MB row, X per frame
\- Intra settings and error resilience: Regular IDR, GDR Pattern, adaptive
Intra, feedback based Intra, feedback based predication and ACK-based,
feedback-based prediction and NACK based
\- Latency settings: P pictures only, look-ahead units
\- Complexity settings for encoder
\- Content Delivery
\- Slice to IP mapping: Fragmentation
\- RTP-based time codes and packet numbering
\- RTP/RTCP-based feedback ACK/NACK
\- RTP/RTCP-based feedback on bitrate
\- 5G System/RAN Configuration:
\- QoS Settings (5QI): GBR, Latency, Loss Rate
\- HARQ transmissions, scheduling, etc.
\- Content Delivery Receiver configuration:
\- Loss Detection: sequence numbers
\- Delay/Latency handling
\- Error Resilience
\- ATW
\- Quality Aspects
\- Video quality (encoded)
\- Lost data
\- immersiveness
## 7.3 Simulation System
Figure 7.3-1 shows the simulation system used for Cloud gaming based on the
architecture in Figure 5.2.1-1. The following instantiation is provided:
  * Single S-Traces is generated to address a video output for a screen
  * No feedback on video encoding or content delivery is considered
Figure 7.3-1 Cloud Gaming Simulation System
## 7.4 Recommended Configurations
The following parameters are considered:
1) Content Model:
a. Game output with 1920 x 1080 and 4096 x 2048 at 60fps.
b. Content and Trace Preview is here:
i. Baolei HD (to be produced)
ii Baolei 4K (to be produced)
c. No audio
2) Encoding Model
a. HEVC encoding model as defined in 5.6
b. Pre-encoding delay: Encoder pre-delay is varying between 10 to 20ms
c. Encoding delay is modelled to vary with truncated Gaussian
3) Content Delivery Model
a. Edge/Cloud to gNB bitrate is 1.5 media bitrate
4) Delivery receiver
a. Slice loss model (1 lost packets per slice results in slice loss)
b. Maximum latency for slice: 80ms (see TR 26.928, clause 4 and 6.2.5.1)
Beyond the above, the configuration options provided in Table 7.4-1 are
recommended with priority according to order.
Table 7.4-1 Online Gaming source properties
Configuration Basic Content Parameters
* * *
CG-1 4K content, 8 slices, 1 slice per frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s capped
VBR with window 200ms, 1500 byte max packet size CG-2 4K content, 8 slices, 1
slice per frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s capped VBR with window 200ms,
unlimited packet size CG-3 FullHD content, 8 slices, 1 slice per frame is
intra coded, 8Mbit/s capped VBR with window 200ms, 1500 byte max packet size
CG-4 4K content, 1 slice, every 8th frame is intra coded, 30Mbit/s capped VBR
with window 200ms, 1500 byte max packet size
In total there are 4 configurations. Additional configurations may be added.
For uplink modelling, no specific content modelling is considered.
1) A model for the uplink traffic in a similar fashion also providing packet
traces.
a. Game pose and actions are sent uplink
b. Details are in clause 5.8.
c. The uplink bitrate for the pose is 200 kbit/s CBR, with 4ms packet interval
and packet size 100 byte. This means that the content is rendered with a pose
of typically 10-15ms age.
d. The E2E Requirements are
i. Bitrate: 200 kbit/s
ii. PLR: 1e-3
iii. 10ms
In addition, the configurations as documented in clause 6.4 are to be
considered.
## 7.5 Traces and Statistical Models
Traces and statistical models for cloud gaming are for further study.
## 7.6 Test Channel Results
Test Channel Results for cloud gaming are for further study.
# 8 AR Conversational
## 8.1 Introduction
In contrast to the scenarios presented in clause 6 and 7, AR Conversational
provides audio and video also in the uplink. A more specific example is the
use case 8 in TR 26.928 [3] (AR guided assistant at remote location
(industrial services)), which requires one or two video streams in the uplink.
The use case states:
\- A XR device with glasses of some sort boasting view-port dependent
streaming and split rendering
\- The device has one 2D camera which is used for conveying the local scene to
a remote location. (Use case 8 includes depth information but this could be
disregarded for the purposes of this study.)
For example, it is expected that mobile network operators may configure 5G
networks for less capacity in the uplink than the downlink, thus it would be
relevant to confirm whether we can expect bottlenecks in the uplink, related
to XR use cases. Also, it would be relevant to confirm whether the
transmission of time-critical pose information in the uplink is impacted by
the additional uplink video traffic.
As uplink video may in some use cases happen at the same time as split
rendering in the downlink, it is relevant to add an uplink video signal with
suitable characteristics to the scenario for AR Conversational.
## 8.2 Reference System Design
### 8.2.1 Overview
In order to re-use an existing architecture, the XR distributed computing
architecture in TR 26.928 [3] is applicable. The camera in the XR device may
be viewed as a \"sensor\" in this context as shown in Figure 8.2.1-1.
{width="3.879942038495188in" height="1.863082895888014in"}
Figure 8.2.1-1 AR Conversational reference system as XR distributed compute
system
{width="6.09375in" height="0.4375in"}
Detailed system design and modeling assumptions are provided in clause 8.3.
{width="6.465972222222222in" height="2.345138888888889in"}
Figure 8.2.1-1 AR Conversational reference system
### 8.2.2 Considered Content Formats
As a starting point consider 4K 60 fps, at 0, 10 and 25 Mbps, based on 2D
video as documented in TR 26.928 [3] are considered and provided in Figure
8.2.2-1.
{width="5.174333989501313in" height="1.123494094488189in"}
Figure 8.2.2-1 Content formats for AR conversational
This is based on the highest profiles in TS 26.118 [6] for VR streaming may be
a starting point to derive also the 2D uplink video. In practice the rate
would be highly use-case-dependent, it is advisable to select realistic values
covering a variety of use case. The considered Content formats and properties
are provided in Table 8.2.2-1.
Table 8.2.2-1 Considered content formats and properties
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Media** | **Format and Model** | **E2E Latency | | | | requirement** | +======================+======================+======================+ | 3/6DOF Pose | Same as for split | UL: 5-10 ms | | | rendering | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Video + Depth | 1080p, Capped VBR | Conversational | | | 10/20 Mbit/s for UL | 100ms, 200ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2D Video is split | 1080p or 4K (2 | 60ms | | rendering | eyes)\ | | | | same model as split | 100ms | | | rendering | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Front Facing | 720p, CBR 3 Mbit/s | Conversational | | Camera* | for UL | 100ms, 200ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audio (MPEG-H) | 256/512 kbps for | Conversational | | | both UL/DL | 100ms, 200ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Data Stream | 0.5 Mbps for both | Conversational | | | UL/DL | 100ms, 200ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 8.3 Simulation System
### 8.3.1 Overview
A simulation overview for downlink and uplink is provided.
### 8.3.2 Simulation Downlink
Downlink simulation model is provided in the following
1) Content Model:
a. Video is identical to split rendering simulation in clause 6.3
b. Audio
i. Max Sampling Rate: 48 kHz
ii. Inter-frame time: 20-21.3 ms
NOTE: For the simulation purposes, the inter-frame time can be assumed to be
21.3 ms considering MPEG-H, or if we consider that the actual conversational
audio codec might be a different one, we could assume 20 ms, as this has so
far been used for several 3GPP speech codecs
c. Data Stream
\- Inter-frame time: 10 ms
2) Encoding Model
a. Video is identical to split rendering simulation in clause 6.3
b. Audio
\- Operation Point (following 3GPP TS 26.118 [6] Table 6.1-1): 3GPP MPEG-H
Audio (this Operation Point is specified for VR streaming in SA4 and can be
used for simulation purposes for conversational services since the IVAS Codec
is not yet available)
\- Average data rate : 256 / 512 kbps
\- Packet Loss rate should be below 1e-3
c. Data Stream
\- Average data Rate : \ Object is impacted by the lost packet for each object
\- Model needs to be defined based on traces
b) HTTP3 => Object is impacted by the lost packet for each object
\- Model needs to be defined based on traces
d) Objects are either lost or delayed
5) Decoding Model
\- none
6) Quality evaluation tool. The following metrics are considered for each user
and buffer
a) IP Packet loss rate
b) Viewport object loss rate
c) Non-viewport object loss rate
d) Streaming Metrics
\- Video stuck rate
\- Percentage of video playing stuck time
\- MTHR delay: average video time from low definition to high definition (FOV)
\- Times of black edge/shadow/blur when turning head
e) Average over all buffers
f) Multi-user
\- Average over all users
\- Percentile of support
7) A model for the uplink traffic in a similar fashion also providing packet
traces.
a) 26 HTTP requests are sent
b) HTTP/1.1 and HTTP 3 feedback for TCP/IP and QUIC
c) Uplink traffic is minimal
d) The end-to-end RTT delay and packet loss rate recorded by the test under
different configurations can also be used as the actual network conditions.
e) Interaction: turning frequency
\- Low frequency turned: like every 10s
\- high frequency turned: like every ls
8) Potential RAN Configurations
\- to be decided by RAN
\- Devices: support QoS Profile. The recommended configuration of 5QI is as
follows：
5QI MinBR（Mbps） Relative Priority Level (ratio to 5QI 9)
* * *
6 10 4:1 8 10 2:1 9 - 1:1
\- Since the 5QI have mapping relation to characteristics of 5G QoS, the RAN
configuration, such as Packet Delay Budget (PDB) and Packet Error Rate (PER),
can be configured according to the value of 5QI. In the TS 23.501, table
5.7.4-1. shows standardized 5QI to QoS characteristics mapping. It should be
noted that the PDB value in this table includes AN-PDB and CN-PDB which is a
fixed value generally.
A summary is provided as follows:
Configuration Basic Content Parameters
* * *
VR1-1 See above for HTTP/1.1 VR1-2 See above for HTTP/3
### 9.3.2 Open Issues
Among others, the following issues are for further study
\- Late and loss model for objects based on HTTP/1.1 and HTTP3 taking into
account radio model
\- Uplink traffic model for objects based on HTTP/1.1 and HTTP3
\- Definition of late threshold
\- Quality impact for lost and late objects in viewport and not in viewport
\- Packet trace model and mapping.
# 10 XR Distributed Computing
Traffic models XR Distributed computing are for further study.
###### ## Annex A: Example Content Coding Modelling
# A.1 Introduction
Content encoding with different parameters is complex and so is decoding
modelling with errors. Hence a simplified model is derived using model
encoding and decoding. Different aspects are modelled in the following.
# A.2 Encoding modeling
## A.2.1 Impact of encoding parameters
A version of the video sequence is sent through a model encoder for
identifying the impacts of different parameter settings. The following x.265
parameters are used resulting in total with 24 different configurations. The
configurations take into account different frame rates, different quality
factors, an all intra and an all inter predicted sequence, as well as no
slices or 8 slices, as follows:
./x265 --input input.yuv --input-res 2048x2048 --preset medium --fps
**[30,60]** \--crf **[22, 28,34]** \--keyint **[-1,1]** \--slice **[1,8]**
\--csv /csv_analfiles/**[i,p]_[30,60]_[22,28,34]_[1,8]**.csv \--csv-log-level
2 --log-level full --rc-lookahead 0 --no-deblock \--bframes 0 --frames 480
--psnr --ssim --output /output/xxxx.h265
A summary of the bitrates and resulting quality is provided in Table A.2.1-1
for each of the 24 parameter settings.
Table A.2.1-1 Bitrates and resulting quality for different configurations
* * *
**Mode** **Frame\** CRF**** Slice**** Data\ **Average\** Average\ **Y\** U\
**V\** YUV\ **SSIM** **SSIM(dB)** **Frames** rate**Rate\ QP** Rate\
PSNR**PSNR** PSNR**PSNR**  
in Mbit/s**Factor**
* * *
**I** 60 22 1 43.77 27.29 19.09 42.58 46.58 46.12 43.52 0.979 16.82 480
**I** 60 22 8 44.16 27.29 19.09 42.57 46.57 46.11 43.51 0.979 16.77 480
**P** 60 22 1 14.14 23.82 21.99 43.46 48.27 47.83 44.60 0.983 17.80 480
**P** 60 22 8 29.64 23.71 21.99 43.37 47.94 47.49 44.45 0.983 17.57 480
**I** 60 28 1 21.56 33.30 25.09 39.07 44.11 43.64 40.27 0.960 14.00 480
**I** 60 28 8 21.85 33.30 25.09 39.06 44.11 43.64 40.26 0.960 13.98 480
**P** 60 28 1 3.86 30.17 27.99 40.36 46.12 45.57 41.73 0.972 15.51 480
**P** 60 28 8 12.33 29.91 27.99 40.13 45.48 44.96 41.40 0.969 15.07 480
**I** 60 34 1 10.55 39.35 31.09 35.68 42.62 42.16 37.36 0.928 11.44 480
**I** 60 34 8 10.76 39.34 31.09 35.65 42.63 42.17 37.34 0.928 11.43 480
**P** 60 34 1 1.30 36.75 33.99 37.16 43.84 43.32 38.77 0.949 12.94 480
**P** 60 34 8 5.59 36.20 33.99 36.85 42.99 42.47 38.32 0.942 12.40 480
**I** 30 22 1 29.43 24.88 19.28 44.08 47.70 47.27 44.93 0.984 17.99 250
**I** 30 22 8 29.66 24.87 19.28 44.07 47.70 47.26 44.92 0.984 17.91 250
**P** 30 22 1 12.78 21.87 22.18 44.43 48.95 48.51 45.50 0.986 18.41 250
**P** 30 22 8 20.59 21.82 22.18 44.42 48.72 48.29 45.44 0.985 18.25 250
**I** 30 28 1 14.54 30.88 25.27 39.07 44.11 43.64 40.27 0.960 14.00 250
**I** 30 28 8 14.71 30.88 25.27 39.06 44.11 43.64 40.26 0.960 13.98 250
**P** 30 28 8 3.82 28.07 28.17 41.23 46.69 46.19 42.53 0.976 16.11 250
**P** 30 28 8 8.34 27.94 28.17 41.09 46.17 45.67 42.30 0.974 15.80 250
**I** 30 34 1 7.14 36.91 31.26 37.07 43.19 42.73 38.54 0.943 12.44 250
**I** 30 34 8 7.26 36.91 31.26 37.05 43.20 42.74 38.53 0.943 12.43 250
**P** 30 34 1 1.29 34.38 34.16 38.09 44.36 43.83 39.59 0.957 13.62 250
**P** 30 34 8 3.71 34.11 34.16 37.86 43.57 43.12 39.23 0.952 13.21 250
* * *
An analysis of the bitrate decrease per CRF/QP increase is shown in Table
A.2.1-2.
Table A.2.1-2 Bitrate decrease per CRF/QP increase
**1 Slices**
* * *
I only P only  
22->28/60 28->34/60 22->28/30 28->34/30 22->28/60 28->34/60 22->28/30
28->34/30  
2.03 2.04 2.02 2.04 3.85 3.23 3.46 3.18 8 Slices  
I only P only  
22->28/60 28->34/60 22->28/30 28->34/30 22->28/60 28->34/60 22->28/30
28->34/30  
2.02 2.04 2.02 2.04 3.85 3.23 3.46 3.18
The bitrate increase for I-frames vs P-frames for different configurations is
shown in Table A.2.1-3.
Table A.2.1-3 Bitrate decrease per CRF/QP increase
Frame I/P 22/60/1 I/P 28/60/1 I/P 34/60/1 I/P 22/60/8 I/P 28/60/8 I/P 34/60/8
* * *
Average 3.17 6.10 10.03 1.51 1.81 1.81
Finally, the bitrate increase for 60fps vs 30fps is shown in Table A.2.1-4.
Table A.2.1-4 Bitrate increase for 60 fps vs. 30fps
Frame 22-1 28-1 34-1 22-8 28-8 34-8
* * *
Average 1.83 2.13 2.28 1.39 1.38 1.36
From these results some initial conclusions:
\- Slices as available in x265 being constrained across pictures are very
costly if used without prediction across slice boundaries
\- Prediction over 2 P-frames results roughly in factor 2
\- Rate decrease per CRF/QP for I is consistently 2 for QP increase 6
\- Rate decrease per CRF/QP for P is consistently between 3 and 4 for QP
increase 6
\- Bitrate increase for I frame coding when doubling frame rate is typically
in the range of 2.
\- Bitrate increase for P frame coding when doubling frame rate is typically
in the range of 1.4.
## A.2.2 Global Configuration
The following global configuration parameters are considered (considered,
_preferred_ , ~~ignored~~)
\- Bitrate Control (one of the following):
\- Constant Bitrate -- bitrate & buffer
\- Feedback-based Variable Bitrate - dynamic
_\- Constant Rate Factor -- rate factor with CRF (default: CRFref is used)_
\- Slice Setting (one of the following)
\- Default -- no slices
\- number of slices -- number of slices (typical numbers are 4, 8, 16)
~~- maximum slice size -- number in bytes~~
\- Error Resilience (one of the following)
\- Intra-refresh frame parameter would be the period (default is no intra
refresh)
\- Intra-refresh slice: period (1 1 slice every 1 frame with the slice being
picked as POC mod #slices ) ~~2 1 slice every 2 frames~~)
\- Feedback-based
\- Mode:
\- _intra refresh: add an intra for the lost slice_
\- ACK-mode: only use acknowledge slices in prediction
\- NACK-mode: use an old reference frame or intra in case of loss
## A.2.3 Dynamic status:
Dynamic feedback status may be considered as follows
\- Max number of bits for next frame (external rate control)
\- frame Number, slice number ACK/NACK/unknown
## A.2.4 Content Encoding Modelling
The content encoding per frame is modelled as shown in Listing A.2.4-1.
Listing A.2.4-1 Content Encoding per frame
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | - Create a map of slices, CTU maps (64 x 64) and reference frames | | | | - Example: 2048 x 2048, 8 slices, 3 reference frames | | | | - Addresses for 2048 / (8 * 64) = 4 rows with 32 CTUs for | | > 8 slices in 3 frames maintained. | | | | - For each CTU store encoding mode: | | | | - intra/inter+merge/skip | | | | - largest reference frame (only previous one is used | | > in simple config) | | | | - For frame i from V-Trace (based on sample time) | | | | - Read frame i from V-Trace (timestamp) | | | | - Read latest dynamic information from dynamic status info, if | | > applicable | | | | - Do a model encoding | | | | - Input parameters: V-Trace, global configuration, dynamic | | > status (if applicable) | | | | - Output: _s_ slices with parameters | | | | `{=html} | |  | |` | | - Based on the map of intra and inter for each slice/MB | | | | - Constant CRF | | | | - Re-use the CRFref for which the Trace was generated. | | | | - For every CTU | | | | - Take P-frame intra/inter/merge/skip percentage and | | > decide intra/inter/merge/skip randomly. This is | | > done that the number of MBs is matching the trace | | > entry. | | | | - For every slice, | | | | - apply intra/(inter + reference) decision as follows | | | | - _Periodic: slice mode follows pattern, other | | > inter + reference 1_ | | | | - _Feedback intra: slice was lost = > intra, else | | > inter + reference 1_ | | | | - Feedback ack: only ACK slices => reference | | > inter + reference backward (typically more | | > than 1), such that the slice was acked. | | | | - Feedback NACK: slice nack => reference inter + | | > reference backward (typically more than 1) | | > prior to NACK or intra. | | | | - For intra slices, | | | | - overwrite the above CTU decision and make it an | | > intra | | | | - draw a number of bits for the slice | | | | - that takes into account | | | | - the type of the CTU | | | | - the information in the trace file | | | | - the total amount of the bits for this slice by | | > the following modelling | | | | - intra size: | | | | - take total intra size and divide by | | > number of CTUs as medium value | | | | - apply Gaussian drawing with 10% variance | | > of the total number of bits | | | | - Use the CRF and apply adjustment as | | > follows | | | | - FinalBits = Bits * pow(2, (CRFref | | > \-- CRF)/6) | | | | - QPnew = QPref - (CRF -- CRFref) | | | | - skip: | | | | - 1 byte | | | | - merge + inter | | | | - _compute medium value as total inter | | > size (total P-size - | | > intra-percentage*intra-size -- | | > skip-percentage) and divide by number | | > of inter CTUs (total CTUs*(1 -- | | > intra_percentage -- | | > skip_percentage))_ | | | | - _reference frame 1_ | | | | - _apply Gaussian drawing with 20% | | > variance of the total number of | | > bits with medium value_ | | | | - _Use the CRF and apply adjustment as | | > follows_ | | | | - _FinalBits = Bits * pow(2, | | > (CRFref -- CRF)/6)_ | | | | - _QPnew = QPref - (CRF -- | | > CRFref)_ | | | | - reference frame more than 1, it is X | | | | - take total inter size and divide by | | > number of CTUs as medium value | | | | - multiply the medium value with X | | | | - apply Gaussian drawing with 20% | | > variance of the total number of | | > bits | | | | - do also intra test as above, if | | > intra is lower, apply intra, else | | > this inter mode. | | | | - Use the CRF and apply adjustment as | | > follows | | | | - FinalBits = Bits * pow(2, | | > (CRFref -- CRF)/6) | | | | - QPnew = QPref - (CRF -- CRFref) | | | | - sum up the size of each CTU for the slice | | | | - Dump the following information: | | | | - Slice Timing/frame count | | | | - Left or right eye | | | | - Slice availability (after the slice timing) | | > relative to 0. | | | | - Without encoding delay this is the same as | | > the slice. time. | | | | - Quality/QPnew | | | | - New PSNR -- add a function | | | | - Slice size | | | | - Slice type | | | | - CTU types | | | | - Bitrate constrained -- a total max of bits available | | > max_bits | | | | - Do the same as for constant CRF | | | | - Iterate to the smallest CRF that fulfill max_bits | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The following issues are not yet included:
\- Modelling of encoding times -- no priority
\- Model encoding delay.
\- two independent buffers for left and right eye need to be addressed.
\- for now create the same process for
\- Option 1: Same timing
\- Option 2: staggered left right at half the frame rate
\- Can a new PSNR model for the updated QP be derived?
\- check for model
\- In the absence of a model, 1 QP step up reduces PSNR by 1dB (linear)
\- What about slice modelling and all the issues that we saw
\- Ignore slice modelling for now, no bitrate change compared to not using
slices.
\- Also ACK/NACK based feedback needs to be addressed.
\- NACK already addressed above.
\- ACK you only take acknowledged slice/frames for references -- this
basically extends the reference frame the feedback delay per slice.
## A.2.5 Rate Control
The rate control is modelled as shown in Listing A.2.5-1.
Listing A.2.5-1 Rate Control Modelling
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | - Parameters | | | | - Total average bit budget per frame: Tbits | | | | - Window size is W | | | | - Allocated bits to frame i: Bits[i] | | | | - Allocated bits in model encoding (from V-Trace): A[i] | | | | - Forced intra period -- intra_period = 1, 2, ... (0 means no | | forced intra) | | | | - Algorithm | | | | - Available Bits B[i] = Tbits*W -- sum (j=i-W+1) (i-1) | | Bits[j] | | | | - If A[i] \ 0: Bits[i] \ lost, in between, full)
Run the following algorithm:
\- Input parameters.
\- Parameters of source
\- Resolution
\- reference frames
\- S'-Trace
\- Create a map of slices, CU maps (64 x 64) and reference frames
\- Example: 2048 x 2048, 8 slices, 3 reference frames
\- Addresses for 2048 / (8 * 64) = 4 rows with 32 CUs for 8 slices in 3 frames
maintained.
\- For each CU of each frame, store mode:
\- Correct
\- Damaged
\- Unavailable
\- Initialize all CUs as unavailable
\- For each frame i
\- Get all slices from trace for the frame
\- For all slices that are lost
\- Mark all CUs as unavailable
\- Indicate the slice loss for feedback
\- For all slices are received
\- Indicate the slice received for "feedback"
\- If it is an intra CU, mark it correct
\- If it is an inter CU and it _references_ a damaged or unavailable CU, mark
it as damaged, otherwise mark it as correct
_\- Referencing_ is determined as follows (note a better model may be
developed in the future)
\- The CU in the new frame references the CU at the same position in the
referencing frame is 100%
\- The probability of referencing a neighbouring CU top/bottom/left/right is
50%
\- The probability of referencing a neighbouring CU is 50%, if one of the two
top/botton/left/right is referenced, and 100% if both are referenced, and is
0% if none are referenced.
\- Compute the totally unavailable and damaged CUs in this frame
\- Compute the average PSNR for this frame
\- avPSNR = PSNR * correctCUs/totalCUs + PSNRwrong (1- correctCUs/totalCUs)
with PSNRwrong = 0
\- Run this independently for each eye buffer
\- Dump this information into a V'-Trace according to format in 5.6.4.
\- Add the availability time stamp
{width="5.604166666666667in" height="2.466666666666667in"}
Figure A.3.4.3-1 Probability for wrong CU propagation inter
{width="5.877777777777778in" height="2.58125in"}
Figure A.3.4.3-2 Probability for wrong CU propagation intra
###### ## Annex B: Cloud Gaming & XR Traffic Model
# B.1 Introduction
In order to have some insights into realistic traffic models for cloud gaming
and XR, measurements are derived traffic models from different gaming
platforms such as Stadia ™, GEFORCE Now ™, PS Now ™ and different game types
such as role player games or racing. It is considered to use rendering in the
edge (with the operators network) and rendering in the cloud with a public
Internet connection.
The following assumptions where taken for a cloud gaming:
\- Platform: Google Stadia
\- Game: misc. e.g. Grid (Racing)
\- Frame rate: 60fps
\- Screen resolution: 4K
\- Capturing packets from Router
\- WiFi AP: .11ac, 5GHz, 80MHz, 867Mbps
\- Wireline: Data rate: 70Mbps DL / 20Mbps UL
\- Ping: 20ms
# B.2 Results
From the results of the measurement a bursty traffic model is obtained with
burst periodicity of indirectly proportional to the frame rate of the video
content. Packets are of fixed size, with almost fixed inter-packets arrival
time. The burst Length follows truncated Gaussian distribution.
{width="3.7604166666666665in" height="2.21875in"}
Figure B.2-1 Illustration of Traffic model
Figure B.2-2 provides the results for different games on different platforms
in terms of throughput, downlink packet sizes and burst lengths for:
\- CAT-B: High dynamicity & low/med complexity games
\- CAT-C: High dynamicity & high complexity games
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.78125in"}
Figure B.2-2Statistics for different games and platforms: Throughput, packet
size, burst length
Figure B.2-3 provides the results for different games on different platforms
in terms of Inter arrival times (IAT), jitter, and burst IAT.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.7597222222222222in"}
Figure B.2-3Statistics for different games and platforms: Inter arrival times
(IAT), jitter, burst IAT
# B.3 Derived Traffic Models
## B.3.1 Traffic Models
Based on the measurement and results, the following traffic models are
proposed for cloud-gamin:
\- Packet Size & Traffic Shape
\- Fixed packet size. E.g. 1500 bytes
\- Bursty (Segmentation based on Ethernet MTU size limit)
\- Arrival time
\- Inter-burst period of 1/FR sec
\- Burst length follows truncated Gaussian distribution and depends on channel
conditions and games/XR req.
\- Jitter
## B.3.2 Parameters
Figure B.3.2-1 provides recommended parameters for cloud-gaming traffic
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.3881944444444443in"}
Figure B.3.2-1 recommended parameters for cloud-gaming traffic
## B.3.3 Jitter Modelling
Jitter is the effect of variable packet delays observed in the system. Reasons
of jitter
\- XR Server at the Cloud (outside 3GPP network): Variation in frame encoding
time, Network routing and congestion, gNB buffering latency
\- XR server at the Edge (within 3GPP network): Network routing and gNB
buffering latency
Jitter affects QoE, i.e. results indicate that, even for slight variations of
the underlying jitter distribution, the QoE distribution shows significant
variations. Jitter can lead to high power consumption due to uncertainty in
the arrival time of the periodic traffic could impact the DRX operation
affecting power consumption. Edge compute may reduce baseline latency, but
congestion in access still causes some jitter.
#