# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 45 series of the digital
cellular telecommunications systems GSM technical specifications. It is not of
a mandatory nature, but consists of a general description of the organization
of the physical layer with reference to the technical specifications where
each part is specified in detail. It introduces furthermore, the reference
configuration that will be used throughout this series of technical
specifications.
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.003: \"Numbering, Addressing and Identification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.034: \"High Speed Circuit Switched Data (HSCSD); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 43.020: \"Security-related Networks Functions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 43.022: \"Functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle mode
and group receive mode\".
[6] 3GPP TR 43.030: \"Radio network planning aspects\"
[7] 3GPP TS 43.052: \"Lower layers of the GSM Cordless Telephony System (CTS)
radio interface; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 43.064: \"Overall description of the GPRS radio interface; Stage
2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 44.003: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
Interface Channel Structures and Access Capabilities\".
[10] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\"
[11] 3GPP TS 44.021: \"Rate Adaption on the Mobile Station - Base Station
System (MS-BSS) Interface\"
[12] 3GPP TS 44.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Mobile Station
(MS) - Base Station System (BSS) interface; Radio Link Control/ Medium Access
Control (RLC/MAC) protocol\".
[13] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[14] 3GPP TS 45.003: \"Channel coding\".
[15] 3GPP TS 45.004: \"Modulation\".
[16] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[17] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[18] 3GPP TS 45.009: \"Link adaptation\".
[19] 3GPP TS 45.010: \"Radio subsystem synchronization\".
[20] 3GPP TS 45.056: \"GSM Cordless Telephony System (CTS); Phase 1; CTS-FP
Radio subsystem\".
[21] 3GPP TR 45.902: \"Flexible Layer One\".
[22] 3GPP TR 45.914: \"Circuit Switched Voice Capacity Evolution for GERAN\".
## 1.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905. In
addition to abbreviations in 3GPP TR 21.905 the following abbreviations apply:
BTTI Basic Transmission Time Interval
CC Coverage Class
EDAB Extended Dual slot Access Burst
ESAB Extended Synchronization Access Burst
FANR Fast Ack/Nack Reporting
PAN Piggy-backed Ack/Nack
PCS PAN Check Sequence
RTTI Reduced Transmission Time Interval
VAMOS Voice services over Adaptive Multi-user Channels on One Slot
AQPSK Adaptive Quadrature Phase Shift Keying
## 1.2a Definitions
**Blind physical layer transmissions:** see definition in 3GPP TS 43.064 [8].
**Coverage Class:** see definition in 3GPP TS 43.064 [8].
**EC-GSM-IoT:** see definition in 3GPP TS 43.064 [8].
**Extended Coverage:** see definition in 3GPP TS 43.064 [8].
## 1.3 Restrictions
Independently of what is stated elsewhere in this and other 3GPP
specifications, mobile station support for PBCCH and PCCCH is optional for
A/Gb-mode of operation. The network shall never enable PBCCH and PCCCH.
# 2 Set of channels
The radio subsystem provides a certain number of logical channels that can be
separated into two categories according to 3GPP TS 44.003, 3GPP TS 43.064 and
3GPP TS 43.052:
1) The traffic channels (TCH): they are intended to carry two types of user
information streams: encoded speech and data. The following types of traffic
channels are defined: Bm or full‑rate (TCH/F), Lm or half‑rate (TCH/H), cell
broadcast (CBCH), full rate packet data ((EC-)PDTCH/F) and half rate packet
data (PDTCH/H) traffic channels. For the purpose of this series of technical
specifications, the following traffic channels are distinguished:
\- full rate speech TCH (TCH/FS);
\- enhanced full rate speech TCH (TCH/EFS)
\- half rate speech TCH (TCH/HS);
\- adaptive full rate speech TCH (TCH/AFS);
\- adaptive half rate speech TCH (TCH/AHS);
\- adaptive half rate 8-PSK speech TCH (O-TCH/AHS);
\- adaptive full rate wideband speech (TCH/WFS)
\- adaptive full rate 8-PSK wideband speech (O-TCH/WFS)
\- adaptive half rate 8-PSK wideband speech (O-TCH/WHS)
\- 28,8 kbit/s full rate data E-TCH (E-TCH/F28.8);
\- 32,0 kbit/s full rate data E-TCH (E-TCH/F32.0);
\- 43,2 kbit/s full rate data E-TCH (E-TCH/F43.2);
\- 14,4 kbit/s full rate data TCH (TCH/F14.4);
\- 9,6 kbit/s full rate data TCH (TCH/F9.6);
\- 4,8 kbit/s full rate data TCH (TCH/F4.8);
\- 4,8 kbit/s half rate data TCH (TCH/H4.8);
\- ≤ 2,4 kbit/s full rate data TCH (TCH/F2.4);
\- ≤ 2,4 kbit/s half rate data TCH (TCH/H2.4);
\- cell broadcast channel (CBCH);
\- full rate packet data traffic channel (PDTCH/F);
\- extended coverage full rate packet data traffic channel (EC-PDTCH/F);
\- half rate packet data traffic channel (PDTCH/H).
Adaptive speech traffic channels are channels for which part of the radio
bandwidth is reserved for transmission of in band signalling to allow in call
adaptation of the speech and channel codec. 8 full rate block structures for
TCH/AFS, 8 half rate block structures for O-TCH/AHS, 6 half rate block
structures for TCH/AHS, 3 full rate block structures for TCH/WFS, 5 full rate
block structures for O-TCH/WFS and 3 half rate block structures for O-TCH/WHS
are defined.
All channels are bi‑directional unless otherwise stated. Unidirectional
downlink full rate channels, TCH/FD are defined as the downlink part of the
corresponding TCH/F. Unidirectional uplink full rate channels are FFS.
The assigned uplink and downlink (EC-)PDTCHs are used independently of each
other. Dependent assignment of uplink and downlink is possible. A PDTCH/F may
be defined either in BTTI configuration or in RTTI configuration. An EC-
PDTCH/F shall be defined in BTTI configuration. When blind physical layer
transmissions are used on EC-PDTCH, variants of the BTTI configuration are
used, see 3GPP TS 43.064 [8] and 3GPP TS 45.003 [14].
Multislot configurations for circuit switched connections are defined as
multiple (1 up to 8) full rate channels assigned to the same MS. At least one
channel shall be bi‑directional (TCH/F). The multislot configuration is
symmetric if all channels are bi‑directional (TCH/F) and asymmetric if at
least one channel is unidirectional (TCH/FD).
High Speed Circuit Switched Data (HSCSD) is an example of multislot
configuration, in which all channels shall have the same channel mode.
NOTE: For the maximum number of timeslots to be used for a HSCSD
configuration, see 3GPP TS 23.034.
> Multislot configurations for packet switched connections are defined as
> multiple (1 up to 8) (EC-)PDTCH/Us and one (EC-)PACCH for one mobile
> originated communication, or multiple (1 up to 8) (EC-)PDTCH/Ds and one
> (EC-)PACCH for one mobile terminated communication respectively, assigned to
> the same MS. In this context \"assignment\" refers to the list of PDCHs in
> BTTI configuration or PDCH-pairs in RTTI configuration that may dynamically
> carry the (EC-)PDTCHs for that specific MS. One exception applies in case of
> EC operation where the PDCHs of a mobile originated communication carry the
> EC-PDTCHs by means of a fixed uplink allocation.
The (EC-)PACCH shall have the same TTI configuration as the (EC-)PDTCH that it
is associated with. The rules for mapping of (EC-)PACCH onto physical channels
are specified in 3GPP TS 44.060. In the case of point-to-multipoint
transmission for MBMS, multiple (1 up to 5) PDTCH/Ds and one PACCH can be
assigned for simultaneous communication with multiple mobiles.
Multislot configurations for dual transfer mode are defined as one bi-
directional, traffic channel (TCH/H, O‑TCH/H, TCH/F, O-TCH/F or E-TCH/F) and
one packet channel combination. The packet channel combination may consist of
multiple PDTCH/Us and one PACCH for one mobile originated communication, or
multiple PDTCH/Ds and one PACCH for one mobile terminated communication
respectively, assigned to the same MS. The PDTCHs may be transmitted either in
BTTI configuration or in RTTI configuration. The rules for mapping of PACCH
onto physical channels are specified in 3GPP TS 44.060.
> An MS capable of dual transfer mode (DTM) shall support, as a minimum, DTM
> multislot class 5, which utilises the two-timeslot channelization method,
> i.e. a single TCH/F or O‑TCH/F plus a single PDTCH/F. In addition, the MS
> supporting DTM shall support TCH/H + PDCH/F configuration with the adaptive
> multirate (AMR) speech coder for voice coding.
2) The signalling channels: these can be sub‑divided into BCCH (broadcast
control channel, including packet broadcast control channel (PBCCH), see sub
clause 1.3, and extended coverage broadcast control channel (EC-BCCH)), CCCH
(common control channel, including packet common control channel (PCCCH), see
sub clause 1.3, and extended coverage common control channel (EC-CCCH)), SDCCH
(stand‑alone dedicated control channel), (P)ACCH ((packet) associated control
channel, including extended coverage packet associated control channel (EC-
PACCH)), packet timing advance control channel (PTCCH) and CTSCCH (CTS control
channel). An associated control channel is always assigned in conjunction
with, either a TCH, or an SDCCH. A packet associated control channel is always
assigned in conjunction to one or multiple (EC-)PDTCH, concurrently assigned
to one MS. Two types of ACCH for circuit switched connections are defined:
continuous stream (slow ACCH) and burst stealing mode (fast ACCH). For the
purpose of this series of technical specifications, the following signalling
channels are distinguished:
\- stand-alone dedicated control channel, four of them mapped on the same
basic physical channel as the CCCH (SDCCH/4);
\- stand-alone dedicated control channel, eight of them mapped on a separate
basic physical channel (SDCCH/8);
\- full rate fast associated control channel (FACCH/F);
\- enhanced circuit switched full rate fast associated control channel
(E-FACCH/F);
\- half rate fast associated control channel (FACCH/H);
\- full rate octal fast associated control channel (O‑FACCH/F);
\- half rate octal fast associated control channel (O‑FACCH/H);
\- slow, TCH/F, O-TCH/F or E-TCH/F associated, control channel (SACCH/TF);
\- slow, TCH/F or O-TCH/F associated, control channel for enhanced power
control (SACCH/TPF);
\- slow, TCH/H or O‑TCH/H associated, control channel (SACCH/TH);
\- slow, TCH/H or O‑TCH/H associated, control channel for enhanced power
control (SACCH/TPH);
\- slow, TCH/F, O-TCH/F or E-TCH/F associated, control channel for multislot
configurations (SACCH/M);
\- slow, TCH/F or O-TCH/F associated, control channel for enhanced power
control in multislot configurations (SACCH/MP);
\- slow, TCH/F associated, control channel for CTS (SACCH/CTS);
\- slow, SDCCH/4 associated, control channel (SACCH/C4);
\- slow, SDCCH/8 associated, control channel (SACCH/C8);
\- packet associated control channel (PACCH);
\- extended coverage packet associated control channel (EC-PACCH);
\- packet timing advance control channel (PTCCH);
\- broadcast control channel (BCCH);
\- packet broadcast control channel (PBCCH);
\- extended coverage broadcast control channel (EC-BCCH);
\- random access channel (i.e. uplink CCCH) (RACH);
\- packet random access channel (i.e. uplink PCCCH) (PRACH);
\- extended coverage random access channel (i.e. uplink EC-CCCH) (EC-RACH);
\- paging channel (part of downlink CCCH) (PCH);
\- extended coverage paging channel (part of downlink EC-CCCH) (EC-PCH);
\- packet paging channel (part of downlink PCCCH) (PPCH);
\- access grant channel (part of downlink CCCH) (AGCH);
\- packet access grant channel (part of downlink PCCCH) (PAGCH);
\- extended coverage access grant channel (part of downlink EC-CCCH) (EC-
AGCH);
\- extended coverage paging indication channel (EC-PICH);
\- notification channel (part of downlink CCCH) (NCH);
\- CTS beacon channel (part of downlink CTSCCH) (CTSBCH-FB and CTSBCH-SB);
\- CTS paging channel (part of downlink CTSCCH) (CTSPCH);
\- CTS access request channel (part of uplink CTSCCH) (CTSARCH);
\- CTS access grant channel (part of downlink CTSCCH) (CTSAGCH);
\- enhanced inband associated control channel (E-IACCH);
\- enhanced power control channel (EPCCH);
\- enhanced power control channel for multislot configurations (EPCCH/M);
\- packet random access channel for MBMS (MPRACH).
All associated control channels have the same direction (bi‑directional or
unidirectional) as the channels they are associated to. The unidirectional
SACCH/MD, SACCH/MPD or EPCCH/MD are defined as the downlink part of SACCH/M,
SACCH/MP or EPCCH/M respectively.
When there is no need to distinguish between different sub‑categories of the
same logical channel, only the generic name will be used, meaning also all the
sub‑categories, irrespective of modulation used (SACCH will mean all
categories of SACCHs, SACCH/T will mean both the slow, TCH associated, control
channels with and without enhanced power control, etc.). Also EC-channels are
considered to be a sub-category of the same logical channels as non-EC-
channels, unless otherwise stated.
The logical channels mentioned above are mapped on physical channels that are
described in this set of technical specifications. The different physical
channels provide for the transmission of information pertaining to higher
layers according to a block structure.
# 3 Reference configuration
For the purpose of elaborating the physical layer specification, a reference
configuration of the transmission chain is used as shown in annex A. This
reference configuration also indicates which parts are dealt with in details
in which technical specification. It shall be noted that only the transmission
part is specified, the receiver being specified only via the overall
performance requirements. With reference to this configuration, the technical
specifications in the 45 series address the following functional units:
‑ 3GPP TS 45.002: burst building, and burst multiplexing;
‑ 3GPP TS 45.003: coding, reordering and partitioning, interleaving, and for
EC-channels blind physical layer transmissions;
‑ 3GPP TS 45.004: differential encoding, modulation, and for EC-GSM-IoT
overlaid CDMA;
‑ 3GPP TS 45.005: transmitter, antenna, and receiver (overall performance).
NOTE: 3GPP TS 45.056 addresses the transmitter and receiver of the CTS-FP.
This reference configuration defines also a number of points of vocabulary in
relation to the name of bits at different levels in the configuration. It must
be outlined, in the case of the encrypted bits, that they are named only with
respect to their position after the encryption unit, and not to the fact that
they pertain to a flow of information that is actually encrypted.
# 4 The block structures
The different block structures are described in more detail in 3GPP TS 45.003.
A summarised description appears in table 1, in terms of net bit rate, length
and recurrence of blocks.
Table 1: Channel block structures
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Type of | net bit rate | block length | block | | channel | | | recurrence | | | (kbit/s) | (bits) | | | | | | (ms) | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | full rate | 13,0 | 182 + 78 | 20 | | speech TCH1 | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | enhanced full | 12,2 | 170 + 74 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH1 | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | half rate | 5,6 | 95 + 17 | 20 | | speech TCH2 | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive full | 12,2 | 244 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (12,2 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive full | 10,2 | 204 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (10,2 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive full | 7,95 | 159 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (7,95 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive full | 7,4 | 148 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (7,4 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive full | 6,7 | 134 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (6,7 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive full | 5,9 | 118 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (5,9 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive full | 5,15 | 103 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (5,15 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive full | 4,75 | 95 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (4,75 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 7,95 | 123 + 36 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (7,95 | | | | | kbit/s)^8^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 7,4 | 120 + 28 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (7,4 | | | | | kbit/s)^8^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 6,7 | 110 + 24 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (6,7 | | | | | kbit/s)^8^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 5,9 | 102 + 16 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (5,9 | | | | | kbit/s)^8^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 5,15 | 91 + 12 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (5,15 | | | | | kbit/s)^8^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 4,75 | 83 + 12 | 20 | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (4,75 | | | | | kbit/s)^8^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 12,2 | 244 | 20 | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH\ | | | | | (12,2 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 10,2 | 204 | 20 | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH\ | | | | | (10,2 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 7,95 | 159 | 20 | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH\ | | | | | (7,95 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 7,4 | 148 | 20 | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH\ | | | | | (7,4 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 6,7 | 134 | 20 | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH\ | | | | | (6,7 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 5,9 | 118 | 20 | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH\ | | | | | (5,9 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 5,15 | 103 | 20 | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH\ | | | | | (5,15 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Adaptive half | 4,75 | 95 | 20 | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH\ | | | | | (4,75 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 12,65 | 253 | 20 | | Adaptive full | | | | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (12,65 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 8,85 | 177 | 20 | | Adaptive full | | | | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (8,85 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 6,60 | 132 | 20 | | Adaptive full | | | | | rate speech | | | | | TCH (6,60 | | | | | kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 23,85 | 477 | 20 | | Adaptive full | | | | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH | | | | | (23,85 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 15,85 | 317 | 20 | | Adaptive full | | | | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH | | | | | (15,85 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 12,65 | 253 | 20 | | Adaptive full | | | | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH | | | | | (12,65 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 8,85 | 177 | 20 | | Adaptive full | | | | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH | | | | | (8,85 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 6,60 | 132 | 20 | | Adaptive full | | | | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH | | | | | (6,6 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | (continued) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 12,65 | 253 | 20 | | Adaptive half | | | | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH | | | | | (12,65 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 8,85 | 177 | 20 | | Adaptive half | | | | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH | | | | | (8,85 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Wideband | 6,60 | 132 | 20 | | Adaptive half | | | | | rate 8-PSK | | | | | speech TCH | | | | | (6,6 kbit/s) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | data E-TCH | 43,5 | 870 | 20 | | (43,2 kbit/s) | | | | | ^3^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | data E-TCH | 32,0 | 640 | 20 | | (32,0 kbit/s) | | | | | ^3^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | data E-TCH | 29,0 | 580 | 20 | | (28,8 kbit/s)3 | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | data TCH (14,4 | 14,5 | 290 | 20 | | kbit/s) ^3^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | data TCH (9,6 | 12,0 | 60 | 5 | | kbit/s)3 | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | data TCH (4,8 | 6,0 | 60 | 10 | | kbit/s)3 | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | data TCH (≤ | 3,6 | 36 | 10 | | 2,4 kbit/s)3 | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F (CS-1) | 9,05 | 181 | - | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F (CS-2) | 13,4 | 268 | - | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F (CS-3) | 15,6 | 312 | - | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F (CS-4) | 21,4 | 428 | - | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H (CS-1) | 4,525 | 181 | - | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H (CS-2) | 6,7 | 268 | - | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H (CS-3) | 7,8 | 312 | - | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H (CS-4) | 10,7 | 428 | - | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PDTCH/F | 2,65 | 212 | - | | (MC | | | | | S-1/16)^10,18^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PDTCH/F | 5,3 | 212 | - | | (M | | | | | CS-1/8)^10,17^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PDTCH/F | 10,6 | 212 | - | | (M | | | | | CS-1/4)^10,16^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PDTCH/F | 0,88 | 212 | - | | (MCS-1\' | | | | | /48)^10,24,25^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PDTCH/2TS/F | 0,44 | 212 | | | (MCS-1\' | | | | | /48)^10,24,29^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PDTCH/2TS/F | 1,325 | 212 | - | | (MC | | | | | S-1/16)^10,28^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PDTCH/2TS/F | 2,65 | 212 | - | | (M | | | | | CS-1/8)^10,27^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PDTCH/2TS/F | 5,3 | 212 | - | | (M | | | | | CS-1/4)^10,26^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | (EC-)PDTCH/F | 10,6 | 212 | - | | (MCS-1)^10,15^ | (21,2)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | (EC-)PDTCH/F | 13,0 | 260 | - | | (MCS-2)^10,15^ | (26,0)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | (EC-)PDTCH/F | 16,6 | 332 | - | | (MCS-3)^10,15^ | (33,2)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | (EC-)PDTCH/F | 19,4 | 388 | - | | (MCS-4)^10,15^ | (38,8)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | (EC-)PDTCH/F | 24,05 | 481 | - | | (MCS-5)^10,15^ | (48,1)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | (EC-)PDTCH/F | 31,25 | 625 | - | | (MCS-6)^10,15^ | (62,5)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | (EC-)PDTCH/F | 47,45 | 949 | - | | (MCS-7)^10,15^ | (94,9)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | (EC-)PDTCH/F | 57,05 | 1141 | - | | (MCS-8)^10,15^ | (114,1)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | (EC-)PDTCH/F | 61,85 | 1237 | - | | (MCS-9)^10,15^ | (123,7)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 23,75 | 475 | - | | (DAS-5)^13^ | (47,50)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 28,55 | 571 | - | | (DAS-6)^13^ | (57,10)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 34,15 | 683 | - | | (DAS-7)^13^ | (68,30)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 46,90 | 938 | - | | (DAS-8)^13^ | (93,80)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 56,50 | 1130 | - | | (DAS-9)^13^ | (113,00)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 67,60 | 1352 | - | | (DAS-10)^13^ | (135,20)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 84,40 | 1688 | - | | (DAS-11)^13^ | (168,80)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 101,20 | 2024 | - | | (DAS-12)^13^ | (202,40)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 23,80 | 476 | - | | (DBS-5)^13^ | (47,60)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 31,00 | 620 | - | | (DBS-6)^13^ | (62,00)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 46,85 | 937 | - | | (DBS-7)^13^ | (93,70)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 61,25 | 1225 | - | | (DBS-8)^13^ | (122,50)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 69,95 | 1399 | - | | (DBS-9)^13^ | (139,90)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 91,559 | 1831 | - | | (DBS-10)^13^ | (183,10)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 112,30 | 2246 | - | | (DBS-11)^13^ | (224,60)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 121,90 | 2438 | - | | (DBS-12)^13^ | (243,80)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 47,65 | 953 | - | | (UAS-7)^14^ | (95,30)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 57,25 | 1145 | - | | (UAS-8)^14^ | (114,50)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 62,05 | 1241 | - | | (UAS-9)^14^ | (124,10)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 71,00 | 1420 | - | | (UAS-10)^14^ | (142,00)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 80,60 | 1612 | - | | (UAS-11)^14^ | (161,20)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 24,20 | 484 | - | | (UBS-5)^14^ | (48,40)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 31,40 | 628 | - | | (UBS-6)^14^ | (62,80)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 47,55 | 951 | - | | (UBS-7)^14^ | (95,10)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 61,95 | 1239 | - | | (UBS-8)^14^ | (123,90)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 70,95 | 1419 | - | | (UBS-9)^14^ | (141,90)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 92,55 | 1851 | - | | (UBS-10)^14^ | (185,10)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 113,60 | 2272 | - | | (UBS-11)^14^ | (227,20)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/F | 123,20 | 2464 | - | | (UBS-12)^14^ | (246,40)^11^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H | 5,3 | 212 | - | | (MCS-1)^10^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H | 6,5 | 260 | - | | (MCS-2)^10^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H | 8,3 | 332 | - | | (MCS-3)^10^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H | 9,7 | 388 | - | | (MCS-4)^10^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H | 12,025 | 481 | - | | (MCS-5)^10^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H | 15,625 | 625 | - | | (MCS-6)^10^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H | 23,725 | 949 | - | | (MCS-7)^10^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H | 28,525 | 1141 | - | | (MCS-8)^10^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PDTCH/H | 30,925 | 1237 | - | | (MCS-9)^10^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | full rate | 9,2 | 184 | 20 | | FACCH | | | | | (FACCH/F) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | half rate | 4,6 | 184 | 40 | | FACCH | | | | | (FACCH/H) | 9,2 | 184 | 20 | | | | | | | enhanced | | | | | circuit | | | | | switched full | | | | | rate FACCH | | | | | (E-FACCH/F) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | full rate | 9,2 | 184 | 20 | | octal FACCH | | | | | (O-FACCH/F) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | half rate | 4,6 | 184 | 40 | | octal FACCH | | | | | (O-FACCH/H) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | SDCCH | 598/765 (≈ | 184 | 3 060/13 (235) | | | 0,782) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | SACCH (with | 115/300 (≈ | 168 + 16 | 480 | | TCH)4 | 0,383) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | SACCH (with | 299/765 (≈ | 168 + 16 | 6 120/13 (≈ | | SDCCH)4 | 0,391) | | 471) | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PACCH/F^7^ | - | 181 (204)^12^ | - | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PACC | - | 80 | - | | H/D^15,16,17,1 | | | | | 8,26,27,28,19^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PACC | - | 64 | - | | H/U^15,16,17,1 | | | | | 8,26,27,28,20^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PACCH/ | - | 56 | - | | U/48^25,29,30^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PACCH/H^7^ | - | 181 | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | BCCH | 598/765 (≈ | 184 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | | 0,782) | | 235) | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-BCCH | 598/ (8*765) | 184 | 8*3 060/13 | | | (≈ 0,098) | | (≈1 883) | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PBCCH^6^ | s*181/120 | 181 | 120 | | | (≈1,508) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | AGCH^5^ | n*598/765 (≈ | 184 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | | 0,782) | | 235) | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-AGCH, CC1 | 18*286/765 | 88 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | | (≈6,729)^21^ | | 235) | | | | | | | | 25*286/765 | | | | | (≈9,346)^22^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-AGCH, CC2 | 4 | 88 | 2*3 060/13 (≈ | | | *286/(2*765) | | 471) | | | (≈ 0,748)^21^ | | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | *286/(2*765) | | | | | (≈ 1,122)^22^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-AGCH, CC3 | 2 | 88 | 2*3 060/13 (≈ | | | *286/(2*765) | | 471) | | | (≈ 0,374)^21^ | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | *286/(2*765) | | | | | (≈ 0,561)^22^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-AGCH, CC4 | 2 | 88 | 4*3 060/13 (≈ | | | *286/(4*765) | | 942) | | | (≈ 0,187)^21^ | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | *286/(4*765) | | | | | (≈ 0,280)^22^ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PAGCH^7^ | | 181 | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NCH5 | m*598/765 (≈ | 184 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | | 0,782) | | 235) | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PCH5 | p*598/765 (≈ | 184 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | | 0,782) | | 235) | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PCH, CC1 | 1 | 88 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | | 6*88*650/153 | | 235) | | | (≈ 5,982) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PCH, CC2 | 4*88 | 88 | 2*3 060/13 (≈ | | | *650/(2*153) | | 471) | | | (≈ 0,748) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PCH, CC3 | 2*88 | 88 | 2*3 060/13 (≈ | | | *650/(2*153) | | 471) | | | (≈ 0,374) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PCH, CC4 | 2*88 | 88 | 4*3 060/13 (≈ | | | *650/(4*153) | | 942) | | | (≈ 0,187) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PICH, | 2*88 | 88 | 2*3 060/13 (≈ | | CC3^31^ | *650/(2*153) | | 471) | | | (≈ 0,374) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-PICH, | 2*88 | 88 | 4*3 060/13 (≈ | | CC4^32^ | *650/(4*153) | | 942) | | | (≈ 0,187) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PPCH^7^ | | 181 | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | RACH5 | r*26/765 (≈ | 8 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | | 0,034) | | 235) | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | RACH (30 bit | r*13/102(≈ | 30 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | Extended | 0,127) | | 235) | | Access | | | | | Burst)^23^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PRACH (8 bit | r*26/765 (≈ | 8 | | | Access | 0,034) | | | | Burst)^7^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-RACH, 1 TS, | 5 | 11 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | CC1 (11 bit | 1*11*650/153 | | 235) | | Access Burst) | (≈ 2,383) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-RACH, 1 TS, | 1 | 11 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | CC2 (11 bit | 2*11*650/153 | | 235) | | Access Burst) | (≈ 0,561) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-RACH, 1 TS, | 3*11*650/153 | 11 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | CC3 (11 bit | (≈ 0,140) | | 235) | | Access Burst) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-RACH, 1 TS, | 2*11 | 11 | 2*3 060/13 (≈ | | CC4 (11 bit | *650/(2*153) | | 471) | | Access Burst) | (≈ 0,047) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-RACH, 2 TS, | 2 | 11 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | CC2 (11 bit | 5*11*650/153 | | 235) | | Access Burst) | (≈ 1,168) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-RACH, 2 TS, | 6*11*650/153 | 11 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | CC3 (11 bit | (≈ 0,280) | | 235) | | Access Burst) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-RACH, 2 TS, | 4*11 | 11 | 2*3 060/13 (≈ | | CC4 (11 bit | *650/(2*153) | | 471) | | Access Burst) | (≈ 0,093) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-RACH, 2 TS, | 2*11 | 11 | 3*3 060/13 (≈ | | CC5 (11 bit | *650/(3*153) | | 706) | | ESAB and 11 | (≈ 0,031) | | | | bit EDAB) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | EC-RACH (30 | 5 | 30 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | bit Extended | 1*30*650/153 | | 235) | | Access | (=6,5) | | | | Burst)^23^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | PRACH (11 bit | r*143/3060 (≈ | 11 | | | Access | 0,047) | | | | Burst)^7^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | MPRACH (8 bit | r*26/765 (≈ | 8 | | | Access | 0,034) | | | | Burst)^7^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | MPRACH (11 bit | r*143/3060 (≈ | 11 | | | Access | 0,047) | | | | Burst)^7^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | CBCH | 598/765 (≈ | 184 | 3 060/13 (≈ | | | 0,782) | | 235) | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | CTSBCH-SB | 25/240 (≈ | 25 | 240 | | | 0,104) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | CTSPCH | 184/240 (≈ | 184 | 240 | | | 0,767) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | CTSARCH | 14*25/240 (≈ | 25 | 240 | | | 0,104) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | CTSAGCH | 2*184/240 (≈ | 184 | 240 | | | 0,767) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | full rate | | | | | speech, the | | | | | block is | | | | | divided into | | | | | two classes | | | | | according to | | | | | the importance | | | | | of the bits | | | | | (182 bits for | | | | | class I and | | | | | 78 bits for | | | | | class II). | | | | | | | | | | For enhanced | | | | | full rate | | | | | speech, the | | | | | block is | | | | | divided into | | | | | two classes | | | | | according to | | | | | the importance | | | | | of the bits | | | | | (170 bits for | | | | | class I and | | | | | 74 bits for | | | | | class II). | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 2: For | | | | | half rate | | | | | speech, the | | | | | block is | | | | | divided into | | | | | two classes | | | | | according to | | | | | the importance | | | | | of the bits | | | | | (95 bits for | | | | | class I and 17 | | | | | bits for class | | | | | II). | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 3: For | | | | | data services, | | | | | the net bit | | | | | rate is the | | | | | adaptation | | | | | rate as | | | | | defined in | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 44.021. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 4: On | | | | | SACCH, 16 bits | | | | | are reserved | | | | | for control | | | | | information on | | | | | layer 1, and | | | | | 168 bits are | | | | | used for | | | | | higher layers. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 5: CCCH | | | | | channels are | | | | | common to all | | | | | users of a | | | | | cell; the | | | | | total number | | | | | of blocks (m, | | | | | n, p, r) per | | | | | recurrence | | | | | period is | | | | | adjustable on | | | | | a cell by cell | | | | | basis and | | | | | depends upon | | | | | the parameters | | | | | ( | | | | | BS_CC_CHANS, | | | | | BS_BCCH | | | | | _SDCCH_COMB, | | | | | BS\ | | | | | _AG_BLKS_RES | | | | | and NCP) | | | | | broadcast on | | | | | the BCCH and | | | | | specified in | | | | | 3GPP TS 45.002 | | | | | and 3GPP | | | | | TS 44.018. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 6: The | | | | | total number | | | | | of PBCCH | | | | | blocks (s) is | | | | | adjustable on | | | | | a cell by cell | | | | | basis and | | | | | depends upon | | | | | the parameter | | | | | B | | | | | S_PBCCH_BLKS | | | | | broadcast on | | | | | the first | | | | | PBCCH block | | | | | and specified | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | | TS 45.002 and | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS 44.018. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 7: The | | | | | net bit rate | | | | | for these | | | | | channels in a | | | | | cell can | | | | | change | | | | | dynamically | | | | | and depends on | | | | | how PDCH are | | | | | configured in | | | | | a cell, and | | | | | upon the | | | | | parameters | | | | | BS | | | | | _PBCCH_BLKS, | | | | | BS_ | | | | | PAG_BLKS_RES | | | | | and | | | | | B | | | | | S_PRACH_BLKS | | | | | broadcast on | | | | | the PBCCH and | | | | | specified in | | | | | 3GPP TS 45.002 | | | | | and 3GPP | | | | | TS 44.018, as | | | | | well as upon | | | | | how certain | | | | | blocks on the | | | | | PDCH are used | | | | | (indicated by | | | | | the message | | | | | type). | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 8: For | | | | | adaptive half | | | | | rate speech, | | | | | the blocks are | | | | | divided into | | | | | two classes | | | | | according to | | | | | the importance | | | | | of the bits | | | | | (the first | | | | | number in the | | | | | block length | | | | | corresponds to | | | | | the class I | | | | | bits, the | | | | | second number | | | | | corresponds to | | | | | the class II | | | | | bits). | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 9: | | | | | CTSBCH, | | | | | CTSARCH, | | | | | CTSPCH and | | | | | CTSAGCH are | | | | | only used in | | | | | CTS. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 10: For | | | | | EGPRS PDTCH | | | | | and EC-PDTCH, | | | | | the block | | | | | length in bits | | | | | excludes the | | | | | USF bits | | | | | (downlink | | | | | traffic) and | | | | | all the | | | | | error-check | | | | | bits, but | | | | | includes the | | | | | tail bits. For | | | | | transmission | | | | | using FANR, | | | | | they also | | | | | exclude the | | | | | PAN bits. For | | | | | Turbo coded | | | | | coding schemes | | | | | (DAS-5 to | | | | | DAS-12 and | | | | | DBS-5 to | | | | | DBS-12) the | | | | | tail bits are | | | | | not included | | | | | in this | | | | | calculation. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 11: The | | | | | value outside | | | | | the bracket | | | | | applies for | | | | | transmission | | | | | using BTTI | | | | | configuration, | | | | | whereas the | | | | | value in | | | | | bracket refers | | | | | to the case of | | | | | transmission | | | | | using RTTI | | | | | configuration. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 12: The | | | | | value in | | | | | bracket | | | | | applies to | | | | | TBFs using | | | | | FANR (see 3GPP | | | | | TS 44.060), | | | | | when | | | | | transmission | | | | | of the PACCH | | | | | uses MCS-0. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 13: These | | | | | channels are | | | | | available only | | | | | for the EGPRS2 | | | | | downlink. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 14: These | | | | | channels are | | | | | available only | | | | | for the EGPRS2 | | | | | uplink. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 15: | | | | | Applies to EC | | | | | operation for | | | | | CC1. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 16: | | | | | Applies to EC | | | | | operation for | | | | | CC2 using 4 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 17: | | | | | Applies to EC | | | | | operation for | | | | | CC3 using 4 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 18: | | | | | Applies to EC | | | | | operation for | | | | | CC4 using 4 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 19: | | | | | Applies to | | | | | following | | | | | EC-PACCH/D | | | | | configurations | | | | | using 4 or 2 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs, i.e. | | | | | EC-PACCH/D/1, | | | | | EC-PACCH/D/4, | | | | | EC-PACCH/D/8, | | | | | EC-PACCH/D/16, | | | | | EC- | | | | | PACCH/D/2TS/4, | | | | | EC- | | | | | PACCH/D/2TS/8, | | | | | EC- | | | | | PACCH/D/2TS/16 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 20: | | | | | Applies to | | | | | following | | | | | EC-PACCH/U | | | | | configurations | | | | | using 4 or 2 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs, i.e. | | | | | EC-PACCH/U/1, | | | | | EC-PACCH/U/4, | | | | | EC-PACCH/U/8, | | | | | EC-PACCH/U/16, | | | | | EC- | | | | | PACCH/U/2TS/4, | | | | | EC- | | | | | PACCH/U/2TS/8, | | | | | EC- | | | | | PACCH/U/2TS/16 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 21: | | | | | Applies for an | | | | | EC-CCCH mapped | | | | | on timeslot 1. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 22: | | | | | Applies for an | | | | | EC-CCCH mapped | | | | | on timeslot 3, | | | | | 5 or 7. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 23: | | | | | Applies for | | | | | M | | | | | ultilateration | | | | | Timing Advance | | | | | using the | | | | | Extended | | | | | Access Burst | | | | | method. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 24: | | | | | Uplink | | | | | EC-PDTCH with | | | | | 48 blind | | | | | physical layer | | | | | transmissions | | | | | uses modified | | | | | MCS-1 coding | | | | | scheme | | | | | MCS-1\', see | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 45.003. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 25: | | | | | Applies to EC | | | | | operation for | | | | | CC5 using 4 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 26: | | | | | Applies to EC | | | | | operation for | | | | | CC2 using 2 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 27: | | | | | Applies to EC | | | | | operation for | | | | | CC3 using 2 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 28: | | | | | Applies to EC | | | | | operation for | | | | | CC4 using 2 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 29: | | | | | Applies to EC | | | | | operation for | | | | | CC5 using 2 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 30: | | | | | Applies to | | | | | following | | | | | EC-PACCH/U | | | | | configurations | | | | | using 4 or 2 | | | | | consecutive | | | | | PDCHs, i.e. | | | | | EC-PACCH/U/48 | | | | | and | | | | | EC-P | | | | | ACCH/U/2TS/48. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 31: | | | | | EC-PICH, CC3 | | | | | maps a 4 bit | | | | | message type | | | | | and a 2 bit | | | | | indication to | | | | | a block of 88 | | | | | bits to be | | | | | encoded using | | | | | EC-CCCH/D | | | | | coding scheme | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 44.018). | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 32: | | | | | EC-PICH, CC4 | | | | | maps a 4 bit | | | | | message type | | | | | and a 1 bit | | | | | indication to | | | | | a block of 88 | | | | | bits to be | | | | | encoded using | | | | | EC-CCCH/D | | | | | coding scheme | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 44.018). | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
# 5 Multiple access and timeslot structure
The access scheme is Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA) with eight basic
physical channels per carrier. The carrier separation is 200 kHz. A physical
channel is therefore defined as a sequence of TDMA frames, a time slot number
(modulo 8) and a frequency hopping sequence.
The basic radio resource is a time slot lasting ≈ 576,9 µs (15/26 ms) and
transmitting information at a modulation rate of ≈ 270,833 ksymbol/s (1 625/6
ksymbol/s) when the symbol period is the normal symbol period (see 3GPP TS
45.010) or at a modulation rate of 325 ksymbol/s for when the symbol period is
the reduced symbol period (see 3GPP TS 45.010) . This means that the time slot
duration, including guard time, is 156,25 symbols long when the symbol period
is the normal symbol period (see 3GPP TS 45.010) or 187,5 symbols long when
the symbol period is the reduced symbol period (see 3GPP TS 45.010).
We shall describe successively the time frame structures, the time slot
structures and the channel organization. The appropriate specifications will
be found in 3GPP TS 45.002.
## 5.1 Hyperframes, superframes and multiframes
A diagrammatic representation of all the time frame structures is in figure 1.
The longest recurrent time period of the structure is called hyperframe and
has a duration of 3 h 28 mn 53 s 760 ms (or 12 533,76 s). The TDMA frames are
numbered modulo this hyperframe (TDMA frame number, or FN, from 0 to 2 715
647). This long period is needed to support cryptographic mechanisms defined
in 3GPP TS 43.020.
One hyperframe is subdivided in 2 048 superframes which have a duration of
6,12 seconds. The superframe is the least common multiple of the time frame
structures. The superframe is itself subdivided in multiframes; four types of
multiframes exist in the system:
\- a 26- multiframe (51 per superframe) with a duration of 120 ms, comprising
26 TDMA frames. This multiframe is used to carry TCH (and SACCH/T) and FACCH;
\- a 51- multiframe (26 per superframe) with a duration of ≈235,4 ms (3 060/13
ms), comprising 51 TDMA frames. This multiframe is used to carry BCCH, EC-
BCCH, CCCH (NCH, AGCH, PCH and RACH), EC-CCCH (EC-AGCH, EC-PCH and EC-RACH),
EC-PICH and SDCCH (and SACCH/C).
\- a 52-multiframe (25,5 per superframe) with a duration of 240 ms, comprising
52 TDMA frames. This multiframe is used to carry PBCCH, PCCCH (PAGCH, PPCH and
PRACH), PACCH, EC-PACCH, PDTCH, EC-PDTCH, PTCCH and MPRACH. The 52-multiframe
is not shown in Figure 1, but can be seen as two 26-multiframes, with TDMA
frames numbered from 0 to 51. For Compact, this 52-multiframe (51 per
superframe) is used to carry CFCCH, CSCH, CPBCCH, CPCCCH (CPAGCH, CPPCH, and
CPRACH), PACCH, PDTCH, and PTCCH.
\- a 52-multiframe (25,5 per superframe) for CTS, with a duration of 240 ms,
comprising 52 TDMA frames. This multiframe is used to carry CTSCCH (CTSBCH,
CTSPCH, CTSARCH and CTSAGCH). The 52-multiframe for CTS is shown in Figure 2b.
A TDMA frame, comprising eight time slots has a duration of ≈4,62 (60/13) ms.
## 5.2 Time slots and bursts
The time slot is a time interval of ≈ 576,9 µs (15/26 ms), that is 156,25
symbol[^1] duration when using the normal symbol period (see 3GPP TS 45.010)
or 187,5 symbol duration when using the reduced symbol period (see 3GPP TS
45.010), and its physical content is called a burst. Five different types of
bursts exist in the system. A diagram of these bursts appears in figure 1.
\- normal burst (NB): this burst is used to carry information on traffic and
control channels, except for RACH, EC-RACH, PRACH, and CPRACH. It contains 116
encrypted symbols and includes a guard time of 8,25 symbol duration (≈ 30,46
µs);
\- frequency correction burst (FB): this burst is used for frequency
synchronization of the mobile. It is equivalent to an unmodulated carrier,
shifted in frequency, with the same guard time as the normal burst. It is
broadcasted together with the BCCH. The repetition of FBs is also named
frequency correction channel (FCCH). For Compact, FB is broadcast together
with the CPBCCH and the repetition of FBs is also named Compact frequency
correction channel (CFCCH). In CTS, the frequency correction burst is
broadcast in the CTSBCH-FB channel;
\- synchronization burst (SB): this burst is used for time synchronization of
the mobile. It contains a long training sequence and carries the information
of the TDMA frame number (FN) and base station identity code (BSIC, see 3GPP
TR 23.003). An exception applies to a PEO capable MS where the synchronization
burst contains the 6 most significant bits of the 9 bit base station identity
field (BSIC, see 3GPP TR 23.003). The 3 least significant bits of the 9 bit
BSIC are obtained from messages sent over common control channels (see 3GPP TS
44.018). It is broadcast together with the frequency correction burst. The
repetition of synchronization bursts is also named synchronization channel
(SCH). For Compact, the repetition of synchronization bursts is also named
Compact synchronization channel (CSCH). For EC-GSM-IoT the repetition of
synchronization bursts is also referred to as Extended Coverage
synchronization channel (EC-SCH). In this case the synchronization burst
carries additional information apart from the reduced TDMA frame number per
quarter hyperframe and BSIC (see 3GPP TS 45.002). In CTS, the synchronization
burst is used for the CTSBCH-SB and the CTSARCH, and it carries different
information depending on the channel using it;
\- access burst (AB): this burst is used for random access and is
characterized by a longer guard period (68,25 bit duration or 252 µs) to cater
for burst transmission from a mobile which does not know the timing advance at
the first access (or after handover).This allows for a distance of 35 km. In
exceptional cases of cell radii larger than 35 km, some possible measures are
described in 3GPP TR 43.030. The access burst is used in the (P)RACH, CPRACH,
MPRACH and EC-RACH CC1 to CC4, after handover, on the uplink of a channel used
for a voice group call in order to request the use of that uplink, as well as
on the uplink of the PTCCH to allow estimation of the timing advance for MS in
packet transfer mode;
\- extended access burst (Extended AB): this burst is used for random access
when executing the Multilateration Timing Advance using the Extended Access
Burst method. This allows a mobile station which has made a successful random
access attempt by using an access burst on (EC-)RACH containing 11 information
bits, and has received a timing advance value on the access grant channel,
i.e. on (EC-)AGCH, to make a subsequent access attempt by using the Extended
AB on (EC-)RACH, except EC-RACH for CC2 to CC5, containing 30 information
bits, as soon as possible after receiving the access grant while still using
the principles for (EC-)RACH transmission opportunity selection described in
3GPP TS 44.018. The Extended AB has a burst size of 148 symbols, contains 30
information bits wherein 11 bits are sent using 36 encrypted bits and 19 bits
are sent using 57 encrypted bits as per Figure 1a and using the commanded
timing advance. Information sent in the access burst and Extended AB and the
determined refined timing advance from both access attempts is used by the
network within the Multilateration Timing Advance procedure, see 3GPP TS
43.059. The structure of the Extended AB is depicted in figure 1a. It is
common with the access burst in figure 1 for the first 88 symbols, which are
followed by another block of 57 encrypted symbols and another 3 tail symbols
(TB), see 3GPP TS 45.002. Channel encoding for data transmitted in the
Extended AB is specified in 3GPP TS 45.003 for (EC-)RACH carrying 30
information bits;
\- extended synchronization access burst (ESAB): this burst is used for random
access of CC5 users and is, as depicted in Figure 1b, characterized by a
longer synchronization sequence (140 bits) and more encrypted data bits (102
bits) compared to access burst to cater for the required coverage extension;
\- extended dual slot access burst (EDAB): this sequence of two bursts sent in
consecutive timeslots in the same TDMA frame is used for random access channel
request for uplink coverage class CC5 in EC operation applying the 2 TS EC-
RACH format. The first burst is transmitted with equal size to the active part
of the normal burst, with a timeslot length of 157 normal symbol periods on
timeslots with TN = 0 and 4, and 156 normal symbol periods on timeslots with
TN = 2 and 6, and the second burst transmitted in the consecutive TN in the
same TDMA frame with equal size to the active part of the access burst with a
timeslot length of 156 normal symbol periods. The structure of the extended
dual slot AB is depicted in figure 1c and specified in 3GPP TS 45.002. Channel
encoding for data transmitted in the Segmented AB is specified in 3GPP TS
45.003 for EC-RACH/132 carrying 11 information bits;
\- higher symbol rate burst (HB): this burst is used to carry information on
full rate packet data traffic channels using higher symbol rate (see 3GPP TS
45.004). It contains 138 encrypted symbols and includes a guard time of 10,5
reduced symbol periods (see 3GPP TS 45.010).
{width="7.701388888888889in" height="5.327083333333333in"}
Figure 1: Time frames time slots and bursts
{width="6.000694444444444in" height="0.8229166666666666in"}
> Figure 1a: Burst structure of Extended AB sent in 1 timeslot
{width="9.106944444444444in" height="1.7493055555555554in"}
> Figure 1b: Burst structure of ESAB in 2 time slots
>
> **Figure 1c: Burst structure of EDAB sent in 2 consecutive timeslots**
## 5.2a Training sequences
### 5.2a.1 General
As shown in Figure 1, all burst types except the frequency correction burst
contain a training sequence (also referred to as a synchronization sequence).
Its purpose is to facilitate synchronization, channel estimation and blind
detection of modulation on the radio interface.
For normal bursts (NB) and higher symbol rate bursts (HB) a set of eight
training sequences is defined for each modulation (GMSK, 8PSK, 16QAM and 32QAM
for NB, and QPSK, 16QAM and 32QAM for HB) to facilitate training sequence
planning, i.e., avoiding that strong interfering bursts have the same training
sequence as the wanted signal bursts.
For access bursts (AB) seven different synchronization sequences are defined
for use on the RACH and EC-RACH CC1 to CC4. For extended synchronization
sequence burst (ESAB) one long synchronization sequence is defined for use on
EC-RACH CC5. The synchronization sequence used indicates the channel request
type and MS modulation capability.
All training sequences are defined in 3GPP TS 45.002.
### 5.2a.2 VAMOS
For VAMOS, a second set of eight training sequences (TSC Set 2) is defined for
GMSK modulated normal bursts (see 3GPP TS 45.002). Two GMSK training sequences
are used to form the AQPSK training sequence (see 3GPP TS 45.002) for the
downlink VAMOS modulation, see subclase 13.3.
### 5.2a.3 Extended TSC Sets
When using extended TSC Sets, additional sets, each of eight training
sequences, are defined for the different modulations when using normal bursts.
The number of additional TSC Sets depends on the domain (circuit switched or
packet switched) they operate in.
For the circuit switched domain, two new GMSK sets, referred to as GMSK TSC
Set 3 and GMSK TSC Set 4 are defined.
For the packet switched domain, including EGPRS and EGPRS2-A, one additional
set of eight training sequences is defined for each of GMSK, 8PSK, 16QAM and
32QAM normal bursts, referred to as TSC Set 2 for 8PSK, 16QAM and 32QAM
modulation, while for GMSK, TSC Set 3, which is identical to TSC Set 3 used
for circuit switched channels, is used.
An MS indicating support for Extended TSC Sets (see 3GPP TS 24.008) shall
support all additional TSC Sets applicable to its modulation capabilities for
both circuit switched and packet switched channels. Especially, if such an MS
supports GMSK modulated circuit switched channels, it shall support GMSK TSC
Set 1, GMSK TSC Set 2, GMSK TSC Set 3 and GMSK TSC Set 4 regardless of its
support for VAMOS (see 3GPP TS 24.008).
### 5.2a.4 EC-GSM-IoT
For EC operation, an EC-CCCH/D block designated to MSs in the lower coverage
class (CC1) only shall use a TSC from the TSC Set 1 for GMSK corresponding to
the BCC (see 3GPP TS 45.002) and EC-CCCH/D blocks designated to at least one
MS in a higher coverage class (CC2 to CC4) shall use the paired TSC with the
same TSC number from the TSC Set 2 for GMSK (see 3GPP TS 45.002).
For EC-RACH a set of five synchronization sequences are defined, denoted TS3,
TS5, TS6, TS7, and TS8. Different synchronization sequences are used to
indicate the UL CC selected to assist the BTS in detecting the MS access and
separate accesses from different CCs. TS3 is used for CC1, TS5 is used for
CC2, TS6 is used for CC3 and TS7 is used for CC4. EC-RACH uses the single
timeslot format for CC1 (i.e. 1 TS EC-RACH) and may use either the single or
dual timeslot format (i.e. 1 TS EC-RACH or 2 TS EC-RACH) for CC2 to CC4. For
CC5 using ESAB in two consecutive timeslots TS8 is used. The synchronisation
sequence to be used for CC5 using EDAB is defined in 3GPP TS 45.002.
## 5.3 Channel organization
The channel organization for the traffic channels (TCH), FACCHs and SACCH/T
uses the 26‑frame multiframe. It is organized as described in figure 2, where
only one time slot per TDMA frame is considered.
Figure 2: Traffic channel organization.
The FACCH is transmitted by pre-empting half or all of the information bits of
the bursts of the TCH to which it is associated (see 3GPP TS 45.003).
The channel organization for the control channels (except FACCHs and SACCH/T)
uses the 51‑frame multiframe. It is organized in the downlink and uplink as
described in figure 3.
The channel organization for packet data channels uses the 52- multiframe.
Full rate packet data channels in BTTI configuration are organized as
described in figure 2a1, and in RTTI configuration in figure 2a3. Half rate
packet data channels can be organized as described in figure 2a2.
52 TDMA Frames
{width="6.189583333333333in" height="0.4722222222222222in"}
X = Idle frame\ T = Frame used for PTCCH\ B0 - B11 = Radio blocks
Figure 2a1: 52- multiframe for PDCH/Fs in BTTI configuration.
Figure 2a2: 52- multiframe for PDCH/Hs.
{width="6.090277777777778in" height="2.558333333333333in"}
Figure 2a3: 52- multiframe for a PDCH-pair in RTTI configuration.
In case of EC operation the multiframe structure for PDCH consists of 52 TDMA
frames, divided into 12 blocks (of 4 frames) and 4 idle frames, see Figure
2a4. In EC operation, BTTI (and variants thereof, see 3GPP TS 43.064 [8] and
3GPP TS 45.003 [14]) is always used, and no frames are allocated for the
PTCCH. In case blind physical layer transmissions are used, multiple BTTI
blocks constitute the block that is mapped onto the physical channel, see
Figure 2a4 to Figure 2a7, resulting in an effective TTI that is a multiple of
the basic TTI of 20 ms. For an EC TBF assigned four consecutive PDCHs, the
effective TTI is 20 ms for CC2, 40 ms for CC3, 80 ms for CC4 and 240 ms for
CC5 (uplink only). For an EC TBF assigned two consecutive PDCHs, the effective
TTI is 40 ms for CC2, 80 ms for CC3, 160 ms for CC4 and 480 ms for CC5 (uplink
only).
Figure 2a4: Multiframe structure for EC-GSM-IoT using one PDCH for CC1 and
four PDCHs for CC2 to CC4 in EC operation.
Figure 2a5: Multiframe structure for EC-GSM-IoT using two PDCHs for CC2 to CC4
in EC operation.
Figure 2a6: Multiframe structure for EC-GSM-IoT using four PDCHs for CC5 in EC
operation
Figure 2a7: Multiframe structure for EC-GSM-IoT using two PDCHs for CC5 in EC
operation.
For an uplink EC TBF assigned two consecutive PDCHs, compact burst mapping
shall be used on an EC-PDTCH (see 3GPP TS 43.064 [8] and 3GPP TS 45.003 [14]).
The channel organization for CTS control channels uses the 52-multiframe. It
is organized as described in figure 2b.
52 TDMA Frames
A: TDMA frame for CTSARCH
B: TDMA frame for CTSBCH
P: TDMA frame for CTSPCH
G: TDMA frame for CTSAGCH
X: Idle frame
Figure 2b: 52-multiframe for CTS.
Figure 3: Channel organization in the 51‑frame multiframe
Figure 3a: Channel organization in the 51‑frame multiframe for EC-GSM-IoT
(TN1).
# 6 Frequency hopping capability
The frequency hopping capability is optionally used by the network operator on
all or part of its network. The main advantage of this feature is to provide
diversity on one transmission link (especially to increase the efficiency of
coding and interleaving for slowly moving mobile stations) and also to average
the quality on all the communications through interferers diversity. It is
implemented on all mobile stations.
The principle of slow frequency hopping is that every mobile transmits its
time slots according to a sequence of frequencies that it derives from an
algorithm. The frequency hopping occurs between time slots and, therefore, a
mobile station transmits (or receives) on a fixed frequency during one time
slot (≈ 577 µs) and then must hop before the time slot on the next TDMA frame.
Due to the time needed for monitoring other base stations the time allowed for
hopping is approximately 1 ms, according to the receiver implementation. The
receive and transmit frequencies are always duplex frequencies.
The frequency hopping sequences are orthogonal inside one cell (i.e. no
collisions occur between communications of the same cell), and independent
from one cell to an homologue cell (i.e. using the same set of RF channels, or
cell allocation). The hopping sequence is derived by the mobile from
parameters broadcast at the channel assignment, namely, the mobile allocation
(set of frequencies on which to hop), the hopping sequence number of the cell
(which allows different sequences on homologue cells) and the index offset (to
distinguish the different mobiles of the cell using the same mobile
allocation). The non‑hopping case is included in the algorithm as a special
case. The different parameters needed and the algorithm are specified in 3GPP
TS 45.002.
In case of multi band operation frequency hopping channels in different bands
of operation, e.g. between channels in GSM and DCS, is not supported.
Frequency hopping within each of the bands supported shall be implemented in
the mobile station.
It must be noted that the basic physical channels supporting any of the BCCH,
CCCH, EC-BCCH and EC-CCCH do not hop.
For COMPACT, frequency hopping is not permitted on CPBCCH or CPCCCH for a
specific amount of blocks. On other frequency hopping channels, a reduced
mobile allocation is used on the corresponding blocks.
In CTS, the frequency hopping capability shall be used. The frequency hopping
sequences are independently chosen by each CTS-FP. The hopping sequence is
derived by the CTS-MS from parameters transmitted during the attachment
procedure. The different parameters needed and the algorithm are specified in
3GPP TS 45.002. It must be noted that the basic physical channels supporting
the CTSBCH and some other particular channels do not hop (see 3GPP TS 45.002).
# 7 Coding and interleaving
## 7.1 General
A brief description of the coding schemes that are used for the logical
channels mentioned in clause 2, except packet traffic channels and packet
control channels that can be found in sub clause 7.2, plus the synchronization
channels (see subclause 5.2), is made in the following tables. For all the
types of channels the following operations are made in this order:
\- external coding (block coding);
\- internal coding (convolutional or turbo coding);
\- interleaving.
After coding, the different channels (except RACH, EC-RACH, SCH, EC-SCH,
CTSBCH-SB and CTSARCH) are constituted by blocks of coded information bits
plus coded header (the purpose of the header is to distinguish between TCH and
FACCH blocks). These blocks are interleaved over a number of bursts. The block
size and interleaving depth are channel dependent. All these operations are
specified in 3GPP TS 45.003.
For the adaptive speech traffic channels, a signaling codeword is attached to
the block of coded information bits before interleaving. The signaling
codeword is a block code representation of a 2-bits inband information word
(rate ¼ for the adaptive full rate speech traffic channels, ½ for the adaptive
half rate speech traffic channels, rate 1/6 for the adaptive half rate 8-PSK
speech and 8-PSK wideband speech traffic channels, and rate 1/12 for the
adaptive full rate 8-PSK wideband speech traffic channels).
* * *
Type of channel bits/block data+parity+tail1 convolutional code rate coded
bits per block interleaving depth TCH/FS 456 8 class I2 182 + 3 + 4 ½ 378  
class II 78 + 0 + 0 ‑ 78  
TCH/EFS 456 8 class I2 170 + 15 + 4 ½ 378  
class II 74 + 4 + 0 ‑ 78  
TCH/HS 228 4 class I3 95+3+6 104/211 211  
class II 17+0+0 17  
TCH/AFS12.24 456 8 Class I5 244 + 6 + 4 127/224 448  
TCH/AFS10.24 456 8 Class I6 204 + 6 + 4 107/224 448  
TCH/AFS7.954 456 8 Class I7 159 + 6 + 6 171/448 448  
TCH/AFS7.44 456 8 Class I8 148 + 6 + 4 79/224 448  
TCH/AFS6.74 456 8 Class I9 134 + 6 + 4 9/28 448  
TCH/AFS5.94 456 8 Class I10 118 + 6 + 6 65/224 448  
TCH/AFS5.154 456 8 Class I11 103 + 6 + 4 113/448 448  
TCH/AFS4.754 456 8 Class I12 95 + 6 + 6 107/448 448  
TCH/AHS7.9513 228 4 Class I14 123 + 6 + 4 133/188 188  
Class II 36+0+0 36  
TCH/AHS7.413 228 4 Class I15 120 + 6 + 4 65/98 196  
Class II 28+0+0 28  
TCH/AHS6.713 228 4 Class I16 110 + 6 + 4 3/5 200  
Class II 24+0+0 24  
TCH/AHS5.913 228 4 Class I17 102 + 6 + 4 7/13 208  
Class II 16+0+0 16  
TCH/AHS5.1513 228 4 Class I18 91 + 6 + 4 101/212 212  
Class II 12+0+0 12  
TCH/AHS4.7513 228 4 Class I19 83 + 6 + 6 95/212 212  
Class II 12+0+0 12  
(continued)
* * *
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | (continued) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | bits/block | co | coded bits | i | | channel | data+p | nvolutional | per block | nterleaving | | | arity+tail1 | code rate | | depth | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TC | | | 456 | 8 | | H/WFS12.654 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I23 | 253 + 6 + 4 | 263/448 | 448 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | T | | | 456 | 8 | | CH/WFS8.854 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I24 | 177 + 6 + 4 | 187/448 | 448 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCH/WFS6.64 | | | 456 | 8 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I25 | 132 + 8 + 4 | 9/28 | 448 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TCH | | | 1368 | 8 | | /WFS23.8527 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I23 | 477 + 6 + 6 | 163/448 | 1344 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TCH | | | 1368 | 8 | | /WFS15.8527 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I23 | 317 + 6 + 6 | 47/192 | 1344 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TCH | | | 1368 | 8 | | /WFS12.6527 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I23 | 253 + 6 + 6 | 14/71 | 1344 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TC | | | 1368 | 8 | | H/WFS8.8527 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I24 | 177 + 6 + 6 | 9/64 | 1344 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-T | | | 1368 | 8 | | CH/WFS6.627 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I28 | 132 + 6 + 6 | 3/28 | 1344 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TCH | | | 684 | 4 | | /WHS12.6526 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I23 | 253 + 6 + 6 | 265/672 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TC | | | 684 | 4 | | H/WHS8.8526 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I24 | 177 + 6 + 6 | 9/32 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-T | | | 684 | 4 | | CH/WHS6.626 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I28 | 132 + 6 + 6 | 3/14 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TC | | | 684 | 4 | | H/AHS12.226 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I5 | 244 + 6 + 6 | 8/21 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TC | | | 684 | 4 | | H/AHS10.226 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I6 | 204 + 6 + 6 | 9/28 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TC | | | 684 | 4 | | H/AHS7.9526 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I7 | 159 + 6 + 6 | 57/224 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-T | | | 684 | 4 | | CH/AHS7.426 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I8 | 148 + 6 + 6 | 5/21 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-T | | | 684 | 4 | | CH/AHS6.726 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I9 | 134 + 6 + 6 | 73/336 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-T | | | 684 | 4 | | CH/AHS5.926 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I10 | 118 + 6 + 6 | 65/336 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TC | | | 684 | 4 | | H/AHS5.1526 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I11 | 103 + 6 + 6 | 115/672 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-TC | | | 684 | 4 | | H/AHS4.7526 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class I12 | 95 + 6 + 6 | 107/672 | 672 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCH/F14.4 | 290 + 0 + 4 | 294/456 | 294/456 | 19 | | | | | | | | TCH/F9.6 | 4*60 + 0 + | 244/456 | 456 | 19 | | | 4 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCH/F4.8 | 60 + 0 + 16 | 1/3 | 228 | 19 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCH/H4.8 | 4*60 + 0 + | 244/456 | 456 | 19 | | | 4 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCH/F2.4 | 72 + 0 + 4 | 1/6 | 456 | 8 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCH/H2.4 | 72 + 0 + 4 | 1/3 | 228 | 19 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | (continued) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | (continued) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | bits/block | co | coded bits | i | | channel | data+p | nvolutional | per block | nterleaving | | | arity+tail1 | code rate | | depth | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | FACCH/F | 184 + 40 + | ½ | 456 | 8 | | | 4 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-FACCH/F | 184 + 40 + | ½ | 456 | 4 | | | 4 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | FACCH/H | 184 + 40 + | ½ | 456 | 6 | | | 4 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-FACCH/F | 184 + 40 + | 1/6 | 1368 | 8 | | | 6 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O-FACCH/H | 184 + 40 + | 1/6 | 1368 | 6 | | | 6 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SDCCHs, | 184 + 40 + | ½ | 456 | 4 | | SACCHs^20^, | 4 | | | | | BCCH, | | | | | | EC-BCCH, | | | | | | NCH, AGCH, | | | | | | PCH, CBCH | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EC-AGCH, | 88+18+0 | 106/116 | 116 | 1 | | EC-PCH | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EC-PICH^31^ | 88+18+0 | 106/116 | 116 | 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EC-PACCH, | 80+18+0 | 98/114 | 114 | 1 | | downlink | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EC-PACCH, | 64+18+0 | 82/116 | 116 | 1 | | uplink^30^ | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E | 56+18+0 | 74/106 | 106 | 1 | | C-PACCH/48, | | | | | | uplink | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SACCH/TP | 184 + 18 + | ½ | 456 | 4 | | | 6\ | | | | | SACCH/MP | + 40^21^ | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-IACCH | 3 | 1/8^22^ | 24 | 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EPCCH | 3 | ¼^22^ | 12 | 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RACH | 8 + 6 + 4 | ½ | 36 | 1 | | | | | | | | EC-RACH | 11 + 6 + 4 | ½ | 36 | 1 | | (CC1 to | | | | | | CC4) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EC-RACH | 11 + 6 | 1/6 | 102 | 1 | | (CC5), ESAB | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EC-RACH | 11 + 6 + 4 | ½ | 30 | 1 | | (CC5), EDAB | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EC-SCH^29^ | 30 + 10 + 4 | ½ | 78 | 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SCH | 25 + 10 + 4 | ½ | 78 | 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CTSBCH-SB | 25 + 10 + 4 | ½ | 78 | 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CTSPCH | 184 + 40 + | ½ | 456 | 4 | | | 4 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CTSARCH | 25 + 10 + 4 | ½ | 78 | 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CTSAGCH | 184 + 40 + | ½ | 456 | 4 | | | 4 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | tail bits | | | | | | mentioned | | | | | | here are | | | | | | the tail | | | | | | bits of the | | | | | | co | | | | | | nvolutional | | | | | | code. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | 3 parity | | | | | | bits for | | | | | | TCH/FS | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on | | | | | | 50 bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | 3 parity | | | | | | bits for | | | | | | TCH/HS | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 22 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 4: For | | | | | | TCH/AFS and | | | | | | TCH/WFS an | | | | | | 8 bits in | | | | | | band | | | | | | signalling | | | | | | codeword is | | | | | | attached to | | | | | | the block | | | | | | of coded | | | | | | information | | | | | | before | | | | | | int | | | | | | erleaving.\ | | | | | | A dedicated | | | | | | block | | | | | | structure | | | | | | to carry | | | | | | the comfort | | | | | | noise | | | | | | information | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with the | | | | | | adaptive | | | | | | full rate | | | | | | speech | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | channels is | | | | | | also | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | | | TS 45.003. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 5: The | | | | | | 6 parity | | | | | | bits for | | | | | | TCH/AFS12.2 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O- | | | | | | TCH/AHS12.2 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 81 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 6: The | | | | | | 6 parity | | | | | | bits for | | | | | | TCH/AFS10.2 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O- | | | | | | TCH/AHS10.2 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 65 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 7: The | | | | | | 6 parity | | | | | | bits for | | | | | | TCH/AFS7.95 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O- | | | | | | TCH/AHS7.95 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 75 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 8: The | | | | | | 6 parity | | | | | | bits for | | | | | | TCH/AFS7.4 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O | | | | | | -TCH/AHS7.4 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 61 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 9: The | | | | | | 6 parity | | | | | | bits for | | | | | | TCH/AFS6.7 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O | | | | | | -TCH/AHS6.7 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 55 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 10: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TCH/AFS5.9 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O | | | | | | -TCH/AHS5.9 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 55 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 11: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TCH/AFS5.15 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O- | | | | | | TCH/AHS5.15 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 49 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 12: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TCH/AFS4.75 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O- | | | | | | TCH/AHS4.75 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 39 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 13: | | | | | | For TCH/AHS | | | | | | a 4 bits in | | | | | | band | | | | | | signalling | | | | | | codeword is | | | | | | attached to | | | | | | the block | | | | | | of coded | | | | | | information | | | | | | before | | | | | | in | | | | | | terleaving\ | | | | | | A dedicated | | | | | | block | | | | | | structure | | | | | | to carry | | | | | | the comfort | | | | | | noise | | | | | | information | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with the | | | | | | adaptive | | | | | | half rate | | | | | | speech | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | channels is | | | | | | also | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | | | TS 45.003. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 14: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TCH/AHS7.95 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 67 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 15: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TCH/AHS7.4 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 61 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 16: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TCH/AHS6.7 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 55 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 17: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TCH/AHS5.9 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 55 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 18: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TCH/AHS5.15 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 49 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 19: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TCH/AHS4.75 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 39 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 20: | | | | | | with the | | | | | | exception | | | | | | of SACCH/TP | | | | | | and | | | | | | SACCH/MP | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 21: 40 | | | | | | uncoded | | | | | | dummy bits | | | | | | are | | | | | | inserted | | | | | | for the | | | | | | mapping of | | | | | | the | | | | | | enhanced | | | | | | power | | | | | | control | | | | | | signalling | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 22: | | | | | | block code | | | | | | is applied | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 23: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TC | | | | | | H/WFS12.65, | | | | | | O-TC | | | | | | H/WFS23.85, | | | | | | O-TC | | | | | | H/WFS15.85, | | | | | | O-T | | | | | | CH/WFS12.65 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O-T | | | | | | CH/WHS12.65 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 72 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 24: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | T | | | | | | CH/WFS8.85, | | | | | | O- | | | | | | TCH/WFS8.85 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O- | | | | | | TCH/WHS8.85 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 64 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 25: | | | | | | The 8 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | TCH/WFS6.60 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 54 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 27: | | | | | | For | | | | | | O-TCH/WFS a | | | | | | 24 bits in | | | | | | band | | | | | | signalling | | | | | | codeword is | | | | | | attached to | | | | | | the block | | | | | | of coded | | | | | | information | | | | | | before | | | | | | int | | | | | | erleaving.\ | | | | | | A dedicated | | | | | | block | | | | | | structure | | | | | | to carry | | | | | | the comfort | | | | | | noise | | | | | | information | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with the | | | | | | adaptive | | | | | | full rate | | | | | | 8PSK | | | | | | wideband | | | | | | speech | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | channels is | | | | | | also | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | | | TS 45.003. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 28: | | | | | | The 6 | | | | | | parity bits | | | | | | for | | | | | | O | | | | | | -TCH/WFS6.6 | | | | | | and | | | | | | O | | | | | | -TCH/WHS6.6 | | | | | | detect an | | | | | | error on 54 | | | | | | bits of | | | | | | class I. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 29: | | | | | | Two | | | | | | additional | | | | | | information | | | | | | bits | | | | | | available | | | | | | to the | | | | | | physical | | | | | | layer are | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | a cyclic | | | | | | shift of | | | | | | the mapping | | | | | | of the | | | | | | burst on | | | | | | the | | | | | | physical | | | | | | channel as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in in 3GPP | | | | | | TS 45.003. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 30: | | | | | | Applies for | | | | | | EC-PACCH/U | | | | | | except | | | | | | EC | | | | | | -PACCH/U/48 | | | | | | using 2 or | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | consecutive | | | | | | PDTCHs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 31: | | | | | | For | | | | | | EC-PICH, | | | | | | CC3 and | | | | | | EC-PICH, | | | | | | CC4 the | | | | | | EC-CCCH/D | | | | | | coding | | | | | | scheme is | | | | | | used. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Type of | bi | Reed | convo | coded | inte | | channel | ts/block | -Solomon | lutional | bits per | rleaving | | | d | code | code | block | depth | | | ata+pari | rate | rate | | | | | ty+tail1 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-T | 870 + 0 | N/A | 876/1368 | 1368 | 19 | | CH/F43.2 | + 6 | | | | | | | | N/A | 646/1392 | 1392 | 12 | | E-T | 640 + 0 | | | | | | CH/F32.0 | + 6 | 73/85 | 686/1368 | 1368 | 19 | | | | | | | | | E-T | 580 + 0 | | | | | | CH/F28.8 | + 6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 7.2 Packet Traffic and Control Channels
All packet traffic and control channels, except PRACH and EC-PACCH, use
rectangular interleaving of one Radio Block over four bursts in consecutive
TDMA frames of one PDCH. As an exception, in RTTI configuration, the PDTCH
uses rectangular interleaving of one Radio Block over four bursts in two
consecutive TDMA frames of a PDCH-pair.
### 7.2.1 Channel coding for PDTCH
#### 7.2.1.1 Channel coding for GPRS PDTCH
Four different coding schemes, CS-1 to CS-4, are defined for the GPRS Radio
Blocks carrying RLC data blocks. For the Radio Blocks carrying RLC/MAC Control
blocks code CS-1 is always used. The exceptions are messages that use the
existing Access Burst (see 3GPP TS 45.003, e.g. Packet Channel Request). An
additional coding scheme is defined for the Access Burst that includes 11
information bits.
The first step of the coding procedure is to add a Block Check Sequence (BCS)
for error detection. For CS-1 - CS-3, the second step consists of pre-coding
USF (except for CS-1), adding four tail bits and a convolutional coding for
error correction that is punctured to give the desired coding rate. For CS-4
there is no coding for error correction.
The details of the codes are shown in the table below, including:
\- the length of each field;
\- the number of coded bits (after adding tail bits and convolutional coding);
\- the number of punctured bits;
\- the data rate, including the RLC header and RLC information.
* * *
Scheme Code rate USF Pre-coded USF Radio Block excl. USF and BCS BCS Tail
Coded\ Punctured\ bits bits
CS-1 ½ 3 3 181 40 4 456 0
CS-2 ≈2/3 3 6 268 16 4 588 132
CS-3 ≈3/4 3 6 312 16 4 676 220
CS-4 1 3 12 428 16 - 456 -
* * *
CS-1 is the same coding scheme as specified for SDCCH. It consists of a half
rate convolutional code for FEC and a 40 bit FIRE code for BCS (and optionally
FEC). CS-2 and CS-3 are punctured versions of the same half rate convolutional
code as CS-1 for FEC. CS-4 has no FEC.
The USF has 8 states, which are represented by a binary 3 bit field in the MAC
Header.
All coding schemes are mandatory for MSs supporting GPRS. Only CS-1 is
mandatory for the network.
#### 7.2.1.2 Channel coding for EGPRS and EGPRS2 PDTCH
Nine different modulation and coding schemes, MCS-1 to MCS-9, are defined for
the EGPRS Radio Blocks (4 bursts, 20ms in case of BTTI configuration or 10ms
in case of RTTI configuration) carrying RLC data blocks. Further, 16 more
modulation and coding schemes, DAS-5 to DAS-12 and DBS-5 to DBS-12, are
defined for EGPRS2 downlink radio blocks (4 bursts, 20ms in case of BTTI
configuration or 10ms in case of RTTI configuration) carrying RLC data blocks
and 13 more modulation and coding schemes, UAS-7 to UAS-11 and UBS-5 to
UBS-12, are defined for EGPRS2 uplink radio blocks (4 bursts, 20ms in case of
BTTI configuration or 10ms in case of RTTI configuration) carrying RLC data
blocks. For the Radio Blocks carrying RLC/MAC Control blocks code CS-1 is
always used, except in the case of RTTI configuration, when code MCS-0 may be
used in the downlink (see subclause 7.2.2). The exceptions are messages that
use the existing Access Burst (see 3GPP TS 45.003, e.g. Packet Channel
Request). An additional coding scheme is defined for the Access Burst that
includes 11 information bits.
To ensure strong header protection, the header part of the Radio Block is
independently coded from the data part of the Radio Block (8 bit CRC
calculated over the header -excl. USF- for error detection, followed by rate
1/3 convolutional coding -- and possibly puncturing -- for error correction).
Additionally, for transmission using FANR, a PAN field is included which is
independently coded from the header and data parts of the Radio Block (the
coding is the same as for the header part).
For EGPRS (see 3GPP TS 44.060), the MCSs are divided into different families
A, B and C. Each family has a different basic unit of payload (see 3GPP TS
43.064). Different code rates within a family are achieved by transmitting a
different number of payload units within one Radio Block. For families A and
B, 1, 2 or 4 payload units are transmitted, for family C, only 1 or 2 payload
units are transmitted.
For EGPRS2 (see 3GPP TS 44.060), the coding schemes are divided into different
families A, B and C. Each family has a different basic unit of payload (see
3GPP TS 43.064). Different code rates within a family are achieved by
transmitting a different number of payload units within one Radio Block. For
family A, 1, 2, 4, 6 or 8 payload units are transmitted, for family B, 1, 2,
3, 4, 6 or 9 payload units are transmitted, for family C, only 1 or 2 payload
units are transmitted.
For EGPRS, when 4 payload units are transmitted (MCS-7, MCS-8 and MCS-9),
these are splitted into two separate RLC blocks (i.e. with separate sequence
numbers and block check sequences).
For EGPRS2, when 4 payload units are transmitted (UAS-7 to UAS-9, UBS-7,
UBS-8, DAS-8, DAS-9, DBS-7 and DBS-8), these are split into two separate RLC
blocks (i.e. with separate sequence numbers and block check sequences). When 6
payload units are transmitted (UAS-10, UAS-11, UBS-9, UBS-10, DAS-10, DAS-11,
DBS-9 and DBS-10), these are split into three separate RLC blocks (i.e. with
separate sequence numbers and block check sequences), except for DAS-10 for
which they are split into two separate RLC blocks. When 8 payload units are
transmitted (DBS-11, DBS-12, UBS-11 and UBS-12), these are split into four
separate RLC blocks (i.e. with separate sequence numbers and block check
sequences). When 9 payload units are transmitted (DAS-12), these are split
into three separate RLC blocks (i.e. with separate sequence numbers and block
check sequences).
The first step of the coding procedure is to add a Block Check Sequence (BCS)
for error detection.
In case of convolutional coding, the second step consists of adding six tail
bits (TB) and a 1/3 rate convolutional coding for error correction that is
punctured to give the desired coding rate.
In case of turbo coding, the second step consists of 1/3 rate turbo coding for
error correction (see 3GPP TS 45.003) that is punctured to give the desired
coding rate.
The USF has 8 states, which are represented by a binary 3 bit field in the MAC
Header. The USF is encoded to 12 symbols for bursts using legacy symbol rate
and 16 symbols for bursts using higher symbol rate, (this results in12 bits
for GMSK modes, 32 bits for QPSK modes, 36 bits for 8PSK modes, 48 bits for
16-QAM modes at legacy symbol rate (See 3GPP TS 45.004), 64 bits for 16-QAM at
higher symbol rate (see 3GPP TS 45.004), 60 bits for 32-QAM at legacy symbol
rate and 80 bits for 32-QAM at higher symbol rate).
MSs supporting EGPRS shall support MCS-1 to MCS-9 in downlink and MCS-1 to
MCS-4 in uplink. In case an MS supporting EGPRS is 8-PSK capable in uplink, it
shall also support MCS-5 to MCS-9 in uplink. A network supporting EGPRS may
support only some of the MCSs.
MSs supporting EGPRS2 (see 3GPP TS 44.060) shall support EGPRS coding schemes
MCS-1 to MCS-9 in downlink and uplink.
MSs supporting EGPRS2-A (see 3GPP TS 44.060) in the downlink shall support
DAS-5 to DAS-12.
MSs supporting EGPRS2-B (see 3GPP TS 44.060) in the downlink shall support
DAS-5 to DAS-12 and DBS-5 to DBS-12.
MSs supporting EGPRS2-A in the uplink shall support UAS-7 to UAS-11.
MSs supporting EGPRS2-B in the uplink shall support UAS-7 to UAS-11 and UBS-5
to UBS-12.
A network supporting EGPRS2-A in downlink (respectively uplink) may support
only some of DAS-5 to DAS-12 (respectively UAS-7 to UAS-11).
A network supporting EGPRS2-B in downlink (respectively uplink) may support
only some of DBS-5 to DBS-12 (respectively UBS-5 to UBS-12).
The details of the EGPRS coding schemes are shown in Table 7.2.1.2.1. An
exhaustive description of the EGPRS coding schemes can be found in 3GPP TS
45.003.
Table 7.2.1.2.1 - Coding parameters for the EGPRS coding schemes
Scheme | Code rate  
(Note 2) | Header Code rate | PAN Code rate  
(if present) | Modulation | RLC blocks per Radio Block (20ms) | Raw Data within one Radio Block  
(Note 1) | Family | BCS | Tail payload | HCS | PCS  
(if present) | Data rate  
kb/s (Note 3)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
MCS-9 | 1,0 | 0,36 | n/a | 8PSK | 2 | 2x592 | A | 2x12 | 2x6 | 8 | 10 | 59,2  
MCS-8 | 0,92  
(0,98) | 0,36 | 0,42 |  | 2 | 2x544 | A |  |  |  |  | 54,4  
MCS-7 | 0,76  
(0,81) | 0,36 | 0,42 |  | 2 | 2x448 | B |  |  |  |  | 44,8  
MCS-6 | 0,49  
(0,52) | 1/3 | 0,39 |  | 1 | 592 _48_ +544 | A | 12 | 6 |  |  | 29,6 27,2  
MCS-5 | 0,37  
(0,40) | 1/3 | 0,39 |  | 1 | 448 | B |  |  |  |  | 22,4  
MCS-4 | 1,0 | 0,53 | n/a | GMSK | 1 | 352 | C |  |  |  |  | 17,6  
MCS-3 | 0,85  
(0,96) | 0,53 | 0,63 |  | 1 | 296 _48_ +248 and 296 | A |  |  |  |  | 14,8 13,6  
MCS-2 | 0,66  
(0,75) | 0,53 | 0,63 |  | 1 | 224 | B |  |  |  |  | 11,2  
MCS-1 | 0,53  
(0,60) | 0,53 | 0,63 |  | 1 | 176 | C |  |  |  |  | 8,8  
Note 1: The italic caption indicates the 6 octets of padding when retransmitting MCS-8 block with MCS-3 or MCS-6. For MCS-3, the 6 octets of padding are sent every second block (see 3GPP TS 44.060). Note 2: The number in bracket indicates the coding rate for transmission using FANR, when the PAN is present. Note 3: These data rates are applicable for BTTI configuration. The data rates are doubled in case of RTTI configuration. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
The details of the EGPRS2 coding schemes are shown in the table below. An
exhaustive description of the EGPRS2 coding schemes can be found in 3GPP TS
45.003.
Table 7.2.1.2.2: Coding parameters for the EGPRS2 coding schemes
Scheme | Code rate (Note 5) | Header Code rate | PAN code rate (if present) | Modulation | RLC blocks per Radio Block (20ms) | Raw Data within one Radio Block | Family | BCS | Tail payload | HCS | PCS | Data rate  
kb/s (Note 6)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
DAS-12 | 0,96 (0,99) | 0,38 | 0.38 | 32QAM (Note 4) | 3 | 658 | B | 3x12 | (Note 7) | 8 | 10 | 98,4  
DAS-11 | 0,80 (0,83) | 038 | 0.38 |  | 3 | 546 | A | 3x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 81,6  
DAS-10 | 0,64 (0,66) | 0,33 | 0.38 |  | 2 | 658 | B | 2x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 65,6  
DAS-9 | 0,68 (0,70) | 0,34 | 0.38 | 16QAM (Note 4) | 2 | 546 | A | 2x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 54,4  
DAS-8 | 0,56 (0,58) | 0,34 | 0.38 |  | 2 | 450 | B | 2x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 44,8  
DAS-7 | 0,54 (0,57) | 033 | 0.38 | 8PSK (Note 4) | 1 | 658 | B | 12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 32,8  
DAS-6 | 0,45 (0,48) | 0,33 | 0.38 |  | 1 | 546 | A | 12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 27,2  
DAS-5 | 0,37 (0,39) | 0,33 | 0.38 |  | 1 | 450 | B | 12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 22,4  
DBS-12 | 0,98 (1,00) | 0,37 | 0.54 | 32QAM (Note 3) | 4 | 594 | A | 4x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 118,4  
DBS-11 | 0,91 (0,93) | 0,37 | 0.38 |  | 4 | 546 | A | 4x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 108,8  
DBS-10 | 0,72 (0,75) | 0,34 | 0.38 |  | 3 | 594 | A | 3x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 88,8  
DBS-9 | 0,71 (0,.73) | 0,34 | 0.38 | 16QAM (Note 3) | 3 | 450 | B | 3x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 67,2  
DBS-8 | 0,60 (0.63) | 0,31 | 0.38 |  | 2 | 594 | A | 2x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 59,2  
DBS-7 | 0,47 (0,48) | 0,31 | 0.38 |  | 2 | 450 | B | 2x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 44,8  
DBS-6 | 0,63 (069) | 0,31 | 0.38 | QPSK (Note 3) | 1 | 594 | A | 1x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 29,6  
DBS-5 | 0,49 (0,53) | 0,31 | 0.38 |  | 1 | 450 | B | 1x12 | (Note 7) |  |  | 22,4  
UAS-11 | 0,95 (0,99) | 0,36 | 0.38 | 16QAM (Note 2) | 3 | 514 | A | 3x12 | 3x6 |  |  | 76,8  
UAS-10 | 0,84 (0,87 | 0,36 | 0.38 |  | 3 | 450 | B | 3x12 | 3x6 |  |  | 67,2  
UAS-9 | 0,71 (0,74) | 0,36 | 0.38 |  | 2 | 594 | A | 2x12 | 2x6 |  |  | 59,2  
UAS-8 | 0,62 (0,64) | 0,36 | 0.38 |  | 2 | 514 | A | 2x12 | 2x6 |  |  | 51,2  
UAS-7 | 0,55 (0,57) | 0,36 | 0.38 |  | 2 | 450 | B | 2x12 | 2x6 |  |  | 44,8  
UBS-12 | 0,96 (0,99) | 0,35 | 0.38 | 32QAM (Note 1) | 4 | 594 | A | 4x12 | 4x6 |  |  | 118,4  
UBS-11 | 0,89 (0,91) | 0,35 | 0.38 |  | 4 | 546 | A | 4x12 | 4x6 |  |  | 108,8  
UBS-10 | 0,71 (0,73) | 0,35 | 0.36 |  | 3 | 594 | A | 3x12 | 3x6 |  |  | 88,8  
UBS-9 | 0,70 (0,72) | 0,32 | 0.36 | 16QAM (Note 1) | 3 | 450 | B | 3x12 | 3x6 |  |  | 67,2  
UBS-8 | 0,60 (0,61) | 0,33 | 0.38 |  | 2 | 594 | A | 2x12 | 2x6 |  |  | 59,2  
UBS-7 | 0,46 (0,47) | 0,33 | 0.38 |  | 2 | 450 | B | 2x12 | 2x6 |  |  | 44,8  
UBS-6 | 0,62 (0,67) | 0,35 | 0.38 | QPSK (Note 1) | 1 | 594 | A | 12 | 6 |  |  | 29,6  
UBS-5 | 0,47 (0,51) | 0,35 | 0.38 |  | 1 | 450 | B | 12 | 6 |  |  | 22,4  
Note 1: These coding schemes use the higher symbol rate (See 3GPP TS 45.004) and are only available in the uplink Note 2: These coding schemes use the normal symbol rate (See 3GPP TS 45.004) and are only available in the uplink Note 3: These coding schemes use the higher symbol rate (See 3GPP TS 45.004) and are only available in the downlink Note 4: These coding schemes use the normal symbol rate (See 3GPP TS 45.004) and are only available in the downlink Note 5: The number in bracket indicates the code rate for transmission using FANR, when the PAN is present Note 6: These data rates apply in case of BTTI configuration, the data rates are doubled in case of RTTI configuration. Note 7: The turbo code is terminated using 2x3 tail bits resulting in 12 coded bits per RLC block. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 7.2.2 Channel coding for PACCH, PBCCH, PAGCH, PPCH, CPBCCH, CPAGCH, CPPCH,
and CSCH
The channel coding for the PBCCH, PAGCH, PPCH, CPBCCH, CPAGCH, and CPPCH
corresponds to the coding scheme CS-1. The channel coding for the PACCH
corresponds to the coding scheme CS-1; in case of RTTI configuration, the
channel coding for the downlink PACCH corresponds to the coding scheme MCS-0
if BTTI USF mode is used and may correspond to either CS-1 or MCS-0 if RTTI
USF mode is used. The channel coding for the CSCH is identical to SCH.
### 7.2.3 Channel Coding for the PRACH and MPRACH
Two types of packet random access burst may be transmitted on the PRACH and
MPRACH: an 8 information bits random access burst or an 11 information bits
random access burst called the extended packet random access burst. The MS
shall support both random access bursts. The channel coding used for the burst
carrying the 8 data bit packet random access uplink message is identical to
the coding of the random access burst on the RACH. The channel coding used for
the burst carrying the 11 data bit packet random access uplink message is a
punctured version of the coding of the random access burst on the RACH.
### 7.2.4 Channel coding for EC-PDTCH, EC-PACCH, EC-AGCH, EC-PCH, EC-PICH, EC-
BCCH and EC-SCH
The channel coding for the EC-BCCH corresponds to the coding scheme CS-1. EC-
SCH, EC-PACCH, EC-AGCH, EC-PICH and EC-PCH are all defined by separate coding
schemes, see 3GPP TS 45.003. The channel coding for the EC-PDTCH for coverage
classes CC1 to CC4 is identical to PDTCH for EGPRS, see subclause 7.2.1.2,
except for a limitation in puncturing schemes used for MCS-1 to MCS-4. The
channel coding for the EC-PDTCH for uplink coverage class CC5 is defined by a
separate coding scheme MCS-1\' see 3GPP TS 45.003 [14].
### 7.2.5 Channel Coding for EC-RACH
For EC-RACH CC1 to CC4, the access burst is used and the coding is identical
to the coding for PRACH. For EC-RACH CC5, either the extended synchronization
access burst (ESAB) is used, where 11 information bits are encoded to 102 bits
with 1/6 coding rate or the extended dual slot access burst (EDAB), where 11
information bits are encoded to 30 bits with 1/2 coding rate see 3GPP TS
45.003 [14].
# 8 Modulations
The modulation scheme may be one of gaussian MSK (GMSK) with BT = 0,3, AQPSK,
QPSK, 8-PSK, 16QAM or 32QAM depending on the type of channel. As already
mentioned the modulation rate is either the normal symbol rate, 1 625/6
ksymbol/s (≈ 270,83 ksymbol/s) (see 3GPP TS 45.004) or the higher symbol rate,
325 ksymbol/s (see 3GPP TS 45.004). These schemes are specified in detail in
3GPP TS 45.004.
# 9 Transmission and reception
The modulated stream is then transmitted on a radio frequency carrier. The
frequency bands and channel arrangements are the following:
i) T-GSM 380 band:
\- for T-GSM 380, the system is required to operate in the following band:
\- 380,2 MHz to 389,8 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive;
\- 390,2 MHz to 399,8 MHz base transmit, mobile receive.
ii) T-GSM 410 band:
\- for T-GSM 410, the system is required to operate in the following band:
\- 410,2 MHz to 419,8 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive;
\- 420,2 MHz to 429,8 MHz base transmit, mobile receive.
iii) GSM 450 Band;
> For GSM 450, the system is required to operate in the following frequency
> band:
450,4 -- 457,6 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive;
460,4 -- 467,6 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive;
iv) GSM 480 Band;
> For GSM 480, the system is required to operate in the following frequency
> band:
478,8 -- 486 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive;
488,8 -- 496 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive;
> v) GSM 710 Band;
>
> For GSM 710, the system is required to operate in the following frequency
> band:
728 -- 746 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive;
698 -- 716 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive;
> vi) GSM 750 Band;
>
> For GSM 750, the system is required to operate in the following frequency
> band:
777 -- 793 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive;
747 -- 763 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive;
vii) T-GSM 810 Band;
For T-GSM 810, the system is required to operate in the following band:
806 - 821 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive
851 - 866 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive
viii) GSM 850 Band;
For 850, the system is required to operate in the following band:
824 - 849 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive
869 - 894 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive
ix) Standard or primary GSM 900 Band, P‑GSM;
For Standard GSM 900 Band, the system is required to operate in the following
frequency band:
890 ‑ 915 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive
935 ‑ 960 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive
x) Extended GSM 900 Band, E‑GSM (includes Standard GSM 900 band);
For Extended GSM 900 Band, the system is required to operate in the following
frequency band:
880 ‑ 915 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive
925 ‑ 960 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive
xi) Railways GSM 900 Band, R‑GSM (includes Standard and Extended GSM 900
Band);
For Railways GSM 900 Band, the system is required to operate in the following
frequency band:
876 ‑ 915 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive
921 ‑ 960 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive
xii) Void
xiii) DCS 1 800 Band;
For DCS 1 800, the system is required to operate in the following frequency
band:
1 710 ‑ 1 785 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive
1 805 ‑ 1 880 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive
xiv) PCS 1900 Band;
For PCS 1900, the system is required to operate in the following frequency
band;
1850-1910 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive
1930-1990 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive
xv) Extended Railways GSM 900 Band, ER‑GSM (includes Railways GSM 900 Band);
For Extended Railways GSM 900 Band, the system is required to operate in the
following frequency band:
873 ‑ 915 MHz: mobile transmit, base receive
918 ‑ 960 MHz: base transmit, mobile receive
NOTE 1: The term GSM 400 is used for any GSM system, which operates in any 400
MHz band including T-GSM 380.
NOTE 2: The term GSM 700 is used for any GSM system, which operates in any 700
MHz band.
NOTE 3: The term GSM 850 is used for any GSM system, which operates in any 850
MHz band but excluding T-GSM 810.
NOTE 4: The term GSM 900 is used for any GSM system, which operates in the
frequency band 876-915 MHz in the UL and 921-960 MHz in the DL.
NOTE 5: The BTS may cover a complete band, or the BTS capabilities may be
restricted to a subset only, depending on the operator needs.
NOTE 6: The term ER-GSM 900 is used for the GSM system, which in addition to
GSM 900 operates in the frequency band 873-876 MHz in the UL and 918-921 MHz
in the DL.
Operators may implement networks on a combination of the frequency bands above
to support multi band mobile stations.
The RF channel spacing is 200 kHz, allowing for 41 (T-GSM 380), 41 (T-GSM
410), 35 (GSM 450), 35 (GSM 480), 89 (GSM 710), 74 (GSM 750), 74 (T-GSM 810),
124 (GSM 850), 209 (ER-GSM 900), 194 (GSM 900), 374 (DCS 1 800) and 299 (PCS
1900) radio frequency channels, thus leaving a guard band of 200 kHz at each
end of the sub-bands.
The specific RF channels, together with the requirements on the transmitter
and the receiver will be found in 3GPP TS 45.005 and in 3GPP TS 45.056 for the
CTS-FP.
In order to allow for low power consumption for different categories of
mobiles (e.g. vehicle mounted, hand‑held, ..), different power classes have
been defined. For GSM 400, GSM 700, T-GSM 810 and ER-GSM 900, there are four
power classes with the maximum power class having 8 W peak output power (ca 1
W mean output power) and the minimum having 0,8 W peak output power. For GSM
850 and GSM 900 there are five power classes with the maximum power class
having 8 W peak output power (ca 1 W mean output power) and the minimum having
0,2 W peak output power. For DCS 1 800 there are four power classes of 4 W
peak output power, 1 W peak output power (ca 0,125 W mean), 0,25 W peak output
power and 0,16 W peak output power. For PCS 1900 there are four power classes
of 2 watts, 1 watt, 0,25 watt and 0,16 W peak output power.
Multi band mobile stations may have any combinations of the allowed power
classes for each of the bands supported.
The power classes are specified in 3GPP TS 45.005 and in 3GPP TS 45.056 for
CTS-FP.
The requirements on the overall transmission quality together with the
measurement conditions are also in 3GPP TS 45.005 and in 3GPP TS 45.056 for
CTS-FP.
# 10 Other layer 1 functions
The transmission involves other functions. These functions may necessitate the
handling of specific protocols between BS and MS. Relevant topics for these
cases are:
1) The power control mechanisms which adjust the output level of the mobile
station (and optionally of the base station) in order to ensure that the
required quality is achieved with the less possible radiated power. Power
levels with 2 dB steps have been defined for that purpose. This is described
in 3GPP TS 45.008 and 3GPP TS 45.005.
2) The synchronization of the receiver with regard to frequency and time (time
acquisition and time frame alignment). The synchronization problems are
described in 3GPP TS 45.010.
3) The hand‑over and quality monitoring which are necessary to allow a mobile
to continue a call during a change of physical channel. This can occur either
because of degradation of the quality of the current serving channel, or
because of the availability of another channel which can allow communication
at a lower Tx power level, or to prevent a MS from grossly exceeding the
planned cell boundaries. In the case of duplex point‑to‑point connections, the
choice of the new channel is done by the network (base station control and
MSC) based on measurements (on its own and on adjacent base stations) that are
sent on a continuous basis by the mobile station via the SACCHs. The
requirements are specified in 3GPP TS 45.008.
4) The measurements and sub‑procedures used in the first selection or
reselection of a base station by a mobile are specified in 3GPP TS 45.008. The
overall selection and reselection procedures, together with the idle mode
activities of a mobile are defined in 3GPP TS 43.022.
5) The measurements and sub‑procedures used by an MS in selecting a base
station for reception of a voice group or a voice broadcast call are specified
in 3GPP TS 45.008. The overall voice group and voice broadcast cell change
procedures, being similar to the reselection procedures related to the idle
mode activities of an MS, are defined in 3GPP TS 43.022.
6) For the adaptive speech traffic channels the inband signalling carries the
required information to adapt the speech and channel codec modes to the
propagation conditions. The coding of the in band signalling is specified in
3GPP TS 45.009. An example of codec adaptation algorithm is also provided in
3GPP TS 45.009.
# 11 Performance
Under typical urban fading conditions (i.e. multipath delays no greater than 5
µs), the quality threshold for full‑rate speech and PDTCH/CS-1 is reached at a
C/I value of approximately 9 dB. The maximum sensitivity is approximately ‑104
dBm for base stations and GSM mobiles and ‑102 dBm for GSM small MSs and PCS
1900 MS s and ‑102 dBm for DCS 1 800 hand‑helds (see 3GPP TS 45.005).
For EC-GSM-IoT, the logical channels can operate in what is referred to as
extended coverage. Under typical urban fading conditions, the maximum
sensitivity when using the highest number of blind physical layer
transmissions is reached at approximately -128 dBm for a base station and
-118,5 dBm for an EC-GSM-IoT MS. The co-channel interference performance limit
when using the highest number of blind physical layer transmissions is reached
at approximately -14 dB for a base station and -10,5 dB for an EC-GSM-IoT MS
(see 3GPP TS 45.005).
Multi band MSs shall meet the requirements on each band of operation
respectively.
# 12 Flexible layer one
With the Flexible Layer One (FLO), the physical layer offers transport
channels to the MAC sublayer of Layer 2 (see 3GPP TR 45.902). Figure 4 shows
the radio interface protocol architecture around FLO. On transport channels,
transport blocks (TB) are exchanged between the MAC sublayer and the physical
layer on a Transmission Time Interval basis (TTI). A transport channel is
characterized by how the information is transferred over the radio interface.
FLO is configured by Layer 3.
{width="4.269444444444445in" height="1.8493055555555555in"}
Figure 4: Radio interface protocol architecture around the physical layer for
FLO
In the following subclauses, the new concepts and definitions introduced by
FLO are explained. The multiple access and timeslot structure of section 5,
the frequency hopping capability of section 6, the modulations of section 8,
the transmission and reception of section 9, and the other layer 1 functions
of section 10 remain unchanged and can be used as such by FLO.
## 12.1 Set of transport channels
The offered transport channels are Dedicated CHannels (DCH). A DCH can be
either full rate (DCH/F) or half rate (DCH/H) depending on the rate of the
dedicated basic physical subchannel on which they are used.
## 12.2 Transport block structure
A summarised description of the transport block structure for FLO appears in
table 2, in terms of net bit rate, length and recurrence of blocks.
Table 2: Transport block structures
+------------------+--------------+--------------+------------------+ | Type of | net bit rate | block length | block recurrence | | transport | | | | | channel | (kbit/s) | (bits) | (ms)^1^ | +------------------+--------------+--------------+------------------+ | DCH/F | 0,05 - 68,5 | 1 - 1370 | 20 | +------------------+--------------+--------------+------------------+ | DCH/H | 0,05 - 34,1 | 1 - 682 | 20 | +------------------+--------------+--------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: or | | | | | transmission | | | | | time interval | | | | | (TTI). | | | | +------------------+--------------+--------------+------------------+
## 12.3 Channel organisation
The channel organization for FLO uses the 26‑frame multiframe structure, as
described in figure 2 of section 5.3, where T depicts a TDMA frame that can be
used to transmit transport block(s).
## 12.4 Transport channel coding/multiplexing for FLO
The coding/multiplexing unit of FLO is a combination of error detection,
forward error correction, rate matching, multiplexing and interleaving.
The transport channels offered by FLO (DCHs) are used to transmit data flows
with a negotiated QoS over the radio interface. A number of transport channels
can be active at the same time and multiplexed at the physical layer. The
configuration of a transport channel is denoted the Transport Format (TF). A
number of different transport formats can be associated to one transport
channel. Layer 3 controls the configuration of the transport formats. Only a
limited number of combinations of the transport formats of the different TrCHs
are allowed. A valid combination is called a Transport Format Combination
(TFC). The set of valid TFCs is called the Transport Format Combination Set
(TFCS). In every radio packet, the Transport Format Combination Indicator
(TFCI) tells which TFC is used.
The following coding/multiplexing steps can be identified:
\- CRC attachment: error detection is provided on each transport block through
a cyclic redundancy check (CRC). Layer 3 configures the size of the CRC to be
used. Code blocks are output from the CRC attachment.
\- Channel coding: after CRC attachment, the code blocks are processed through
channel coding (1/3 rate convolutional code), producing encoded blocks.
\- Rate matching: in rate matching, bits of an encoded block on a transport
channel are repeated or punctured to ensure that the total bit rate after TrCH
multiplexing is identical to the total channel bit rate of the assigned basic
physical channel. Outputs from the rate matching are called radio frames. The
rate matching produces one radio frame per encoded block, i.e. per TrCH.
\- Multiplexing of transport channels: for every radio packet to be
transmitted, one radio frame from each TrCH is delivered to the TrCH
multiplexing. These radio frames are serially multiplexed into a Coded
Composite Transport CHannel (CCTrCH).
\- TFCI mapping: the coded TFCI is appended at the beginning of the CCTrCH to
form a radio packet.
\- Interleaving: the radio packet is interleaved and then mapped on bursts.
The interleaving can be either block diagonal or block rectangular and is
configured by Layer 3.
# 13 Voice services over Adaptive Multi-user Channels on One Slot (VAMOS)
## 13.1 General
VAMOS allows multiplexing of two users simultaneously on the same physical
resource in the circuit switched mode both in downlink and in uplink, using
the same timeslot number, ARFCN and TDMA frame number. Hence, a basic physical
channel capable of VAMOS supports up to 4 TCH channels along with their
associated control channels (FACCH and SACCH).
The channel organization for TCH, FACCH and SACCH/T in VAMOS mode shall be
done as described in 3GPP TS 45.002. Some exemplary channel organizations are
depicted in Figure 5, where only one time slot per TDMA frame is considered.
The FACCH is transmitted by pre-empting half or all of the information bits of
the bursts of the TCH to which it is associated (see 3GPP TS 45.003).
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="3.8694444444444445in"}
Figure 5: TCH and ACCH organization in _VAMOS mode_
A pair of TCH channels along with their associated control channels sharing
the same timeslot number, ARFCN and TDMA frame number is referred to as a
_VAMOS pair_. Up to 2 _VAMOS pairs_ can be supported by a basic physical
channel capable of VAMOS. The TCH channels along with their associated control
channels in a _VAMOS pair_ are said to be in _VAMOS mode_ and are referred to
as _VAMOS subchannels_. In a _VAMOS pair_ , each _VAMOS subchannel_ shall be
assigned a training sequence which is different from the training sequence
assigned to the other _VAMOS subchannel_ in that _VAMOS pair_ (see 3GPP TS
45.002).
The following combinations of TCH channels along with their corresponding
associated control channels are allowed to form a _VAMOS pair_ :
i) 2 full rate TCH channels where each TCH/F channel is a TCH/FS, TCH/EFS,
TCH/AFS or TCH/WFS channel.
ii) 1 full rate TCH channel where the TCH/F channel is a TCH/FS, TCH/EFS,
TCH/AFS or TCH/WFS and 1 half rate TCH channel where the TCH/H channel is a
TCH/HS or TCH/AHS channel.
iii) 2 half rate TCH channels where each TCH/H channel is a TCH/HS or TCH/AHS
channel.
Note 1: In combination ii) the basic physical channel capable of VAMOS may
support two _VAMOS pairs_ , one pair with TCH/F and TCH/H sub-channel number 0
and another pair with the same TCH/F paired with TCH/H sub-channel number 1
Note 2: In combination iii) the basic physical channel capable of VAMOS may
support two _VAMOS pairs_ , one sharing TCH/H sub-channel number 0 and one
sharing TCH/H sub-channel number 1.
## 13.2 Network and MS Support for VAMOS
A network supporting VAMOS may assign a mobile station not indicating explicit
support for VAMOS on a _VAMOS_ _pair_ provided the training sequence assigned
on the corresponding _VAMOS subchannel_ is chosen from a TSC Set (see 3GPP TS
45.002) supported by the MS.
An MS shall indicate whether or not it supports VAMOS (see 3GPP TS 24.008).
For an MS supporting VAMOS, multiple levels of support are defined. An MS
supporting VAMOS shall indicate the supported VAMOS level (see 3GPP TS
24.008).
\- An MS supporting VAMOS I, VAMOS II or VAMOS III (see 3GPP TS 24.008) shall
support the set of training sequences in TSC Set 1 and TSC Set 2 (see 3GPP TS
45.002).
\- If an MS indicates support for VAMOS II or VAMOS III (see 3GPP TS 24.008)
then the MS shall support the mapping of logical channels onto the physical
channels as shown in table 1a and/or table 1b of 3GPP TS 45.002.
\- An MS indicating support for VAMOS shall also indicate support for either
\"Downlink Advanced Receiver Performance -- phase I\" or \"Downlink Advanced
Receiver Performance -- phase II\", and for \"Repeated SACCH and Repeated
Downlink FACCH\" (see 3GPP TS 24.008). If an MS supports VAMOS III, then
irrespective of whether it indicates DARP I or DARP II capability, it shall
meet DARP II GMSK speech channel and associated control channel performance
requirements.
\- If at least one MS assigned to a _VAMOS pair_ indicates explicit support
for VAMOS, then the network shall use training sequences for the two
subchannels in the _VAMOS pair_ according to one of the following options:
\- a training sequence from TSC Set 1 for one of the _VAMOS subchannels_ and
the training sequence with the same training sequence code from TSC Set 2 for
the other _VAMOS subchannel_.
\- a training sequence chosen from TSC Set 3 for one of the _VAMOS
subchannels_ and the training sequence with the same training sequence code
from TSC Set 4 for the other _VAMOS subchannel_. This option may be used only
if both MS have indicated support for Extended TSC Sets for circuit switched
channels (see 3GPP TS 24.008).
## 13.3 Downlink Functionality {#downlink-functionality .list-paragraph}
In downlink, a pair of corresponding bits from the TCHs and associated control
channels in a _VAMOS pair_ shall be mapped on to an AQPSK modulation symbol
(see 3GPP TS 45.004) and shall be received by 2 different mobile stations in
the same cell. Each MS shall decode the desired signal of its TCH and
associated control channels, and shall perform the radio link measurements as
stated in 3GPP TS 45.008.
### 13.3.1 Modulation {#modulation .list-paragraph}
The data from both subchannels of a _VAMOS pair_ shall be mapped onto the
AQPSK symbols pair wise as shown in the Figure 6. Detailed description of
modulation and pulse shaping is provided in 3GPP TS 45.004.
Figure 6: AQPSK Modulation to map bits from a _VAMOS pair_ on a burst in
downlink
#### 13.3.1.1 Selection of modulation format
In downlink, for a _VAMOS pair_ , when DTX is employed for the TCH channels,
AQPSK modulation as shown above shall be used when on a given physical
resource both the TCH channels in the _VAMOS pair_ have bursts scheduled for
transmission simultaneously. If only one of the TCH channels in a _VAMOS pair_
has bursts scheduled for transmission, with the other TCH channel being in DTX
state (having no bursts scheduled for transmission, see 3GPP TS 45.008), the
BSS shall send GMSK normal bursts. If none of the TCH channels in the _VAMOS
pair_ has bursts scheduled for transmission, then nothing is transmitted.
NOTE: A burst scheduled for transmission in downlink for a _VAMOS subchannel_
may contain bits from one of the following types of frames: speech frame,
FACCH frame, SACCH frame, SID frame, SID_UPDATE frame, SID_FIRST frame, ONSET
frame, RATSCCH frame.
### 13.3.2 Burst Format
When the modulation format used is GMSK (see sub clause 13.3.1.1), the burst
format used in downlink is GMSK normal burst at normal symbol rate (see 3GPP
TS 45.002). When the modulation format used is AQPSK (see sub clause
13.3.1.1), the burst format used in downlink is normal burst for the AQPSK
modulation (see 3GPP TS 45.002).
### 13.3.3 Associated Control Channels
#### 13.3.3.1 FACCH
The channel coding for FACCH associated to a TCH in _VAMOS mode_ is identical
to the corresponding coding for the single user case, i.e. FACCH/F for full
rate or FACCH/H for half rate. (see 3GPP TS 45.002 and 3GPP TS 45.003).
Repeated FACCH may be used in downlink.
#### 13.3.3.2 SACCH
The channel coding for SACCH associated to a TCH in _VAMOS mode_ is identical
to the corresponding coding for the single user case, i.e. SACCH/TF, SACCH/TPF
for full rate or SACCH/TH, SACCH/TPH for half rate (see 3GPP TS 45.002 and
3GPP TS 45.003). The TDMA frame mapping for SACCH in _VAMOS mode_ is done as
described in 3GPP TS 45.002. Repeated SACCH may be used in downlink.
## 13.4 Uplink Functionality
In uplink, when in _VAMOS mode_ , two GMSK modulated signals are transmitted
simultaneously on the same radio resource, identified by the same timeslot
number, ARFCN and TDMA frame number, in a given cell by two different mobile
stations. The BSS shall decode the TCH and the associated control channels for
the two desired signals and shall perform radio link control procedures for
the two _VAMOS subchannels_ as stated in 3GPP TS 45.008.
### 13.4.1 **Modulation, Burst Format and Training Sequence**
Each mobile station in _VAMOS mode_ shall use in uplink GMSK modulation,
normal burst format at normal symbol rate and use the training sequence
assigned by the BSS.
### 13.4.2 Associated Control Channels
#### 13.4.2.1 FACCH
In uplink FACCH transmission associated to a TCH in _VAMOS mode_ is identical
to the single user case, i.e. FACCH/F for full rate or FACCH/H for half rate
(see 3GPP TS 45.002 and 3GPP TS 45.003).
#### 13.4.2.2 SACCH
In uplink the channel coding of SACCH associated to a TCH in _VAMOS mode_ is
identical to the single user case, i.e. SACCH/TF or SACCH/TPF for full rate
and SACCH/TH or SACCH/TPH for half rate (see 3GPP TS 45.002 and 3GPP TS
45.003). The TDMA frame mapping for SACCH in _VAMOS mode_ is done as described
in 3GPP TS 45.002. Repeated SACCH may be used in uplink.
## 13.5 Channel Mode Adaptation
Channel Mode Adaptation is used for assigning individual TCH channels in
_VAMOS mode_ or in single user TCH mode. Assignments are performed according
to decisions made by the BSS and if necessary, are communicated to the
respective MS in layer 3 control messages. If the physical resource and the
TSC assigned on the physical resource do not change, the channel mode
adaptation shall be performed without signalling on the associated FACCH. Both
uplink and downlink channel modes are changed during the channel mode
adaptation process.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Reference configuration
Figure A1: Reference configuration
###### ## Annex B (informative): Relations between specification
{width="6.738194444444445in" height="4.300694444444445in"}
Figure B1: Relations between specifications
#