# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies requirements on MSs supporting Downlink
Advanced Receiver Performance (DARP) that are independent of release. TSG
GERAN has agreed that the standardisation of DARP be independent of a release.
However, in order to implement an MS that conforms to a particular release but
supports DARP, which is specified in a later release, it is necessary to
specify some extra requirements.
DARP - phase II is contained in the Release 7 specifications. In order to
implement an MS conforming to Release 5 but supporting DARP -- phase II, it is
necessary for the MS to additionally conform to some parts of the Release 7
specifications, such as the radio frequency requirements for DARP and some
signalling extensions relating to the MS Classmark and radio access
capabilities.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] (void)
[2] (void)
[3] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception (Release 7)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
Network protocols; Stage 3 (Release 7)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Unless listed below, all definitions and abbreviations used in the present
document are listed in documents referenced in clause 2.
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DARP Downlink Advanced Receiver Performance
SAIC Single Antenna Interference Cancellation, also known as DARP - phase I
MSRD Mobile Station Receive Diversity, also known as DARP - phase II
# 4 Void
# 5 DARP Phase II MS Independent of Release
MSs that conform to Release 5 and support DARP - phase II shall support the
following requirements in Release 7.
## 5.1 RF Requirements
The MS shall comply with the RF requirements for DARP - phase II specified in
[3]. These requirements are:
Section 6.2: Reference sensitivity level.
Section 6.3: Reference interference level.
## 5.2 Signalling Requirements
The MS shall support the following information elements specified in [4]:
Section 10.5.1.7 Mobile Station Classmark 3, with the following exceptions:
\- Fields T-GSM 400 Bands Supported / T-GSM 400 Associated Radio Capability,
T-GSM 900 Associated Radio Capability, DTM GPRS High Multi Slot Class / Offset
required / DTM EGPRS High Multi Slot Class, GSM 710 Associated Radio
Capability, T-GSM 810 Associated Radio Capability, and Multislot Capability
Reduction for Downlink Dual Carrier shall be indicated as not present since
they are not defined in Release 5. This is done by setting the related
indication bit to \'0\'.
\- Parameter DTM Enhancement Capability, Repeated ACCH Capability and
Ciphering Mode Setting Capability shall be indicated as not supported since it
is not defined in Release 5. This is done by setting the bit value \'0\' for
this parameter.
Section 10.5.5.12a MS Radio Access Capability, with the following exceptions:
\- Fields DTM GPRS High Multi Slot Class / DTM EGPRS High Multi Slot Class,
Multislot Capability Reduction for Downlink Dual Carrier, and Downlink Dual
Carrier for DTM Capability shall be indicated as not present since they are
not defined in Release 5. This is done by setting the related indication bit
to \'0\'.
\- Parameters Multiple TBF Capability, Extended RLC/MAC Control Message
Segmentation Capability, DTM Enhancements Capability, PS Handover Capability,
and DTM Handover Capability shall be indicated as not supported since they are
not defined in Release 5. This is done by setting the bit value \'0\' for each
of these parameters.
\- In addition, for Access Technology Type, the values \'1001\' through to
\'1101\' shall not be used since GSM T 380, GSM T 410, GSM T 900, GSM 710 and
GSM T 810 are not supported in Release 5.
NOTE: The lack of one or more of the fields following the Downlink Advanced
Receiver Performance field in Mobile Station Classmark 3 IE or MS Radio Access
Capability IE should not be considered as an error by the network. In this
case the meaning \"not supported\" or \"not present\" should be assumed as
indicated above.
#