# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Energy saving is important for operators\' operational efficiency. Energy
consumption is a significant operational cost factor, for example in
developing markets, up to 30% of OPEX is spent on energy. For one operator
group, almost 80% of base stations in Africa and India use diesel as the
primary or as a backup power source. Furthermore, base stations account up to
80% of the total CO~2~ emissions in a mobile operator network. Many operators
have a target to cut CO~2~ emissions as part of their environmental
objectives. With increasing voice usage, data usage (e.g. introduction of
smart phones, MTC devices, etc.) and more dense networks, the thirst for
energy consumption is expected to increase further, hence, motivating the need
for low energy base station technology. Increasing the energy efficiency of
base stations or reducing the energy consumption of base stations will also
facilitate the possibility for operators to power all types of base stations
with alternative fuels and rely less on fossil fuels either from diesel
generators or from the electricity grid.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a study into BTS energy saving solutions. The
present document analyses and evaluates different solutions to determine the
benefits provided compared to the legacy BTS energy consumption.
In the scope of this study there are following solutions:
\- Reduction of Power on the BCCH carrier (potentially enabling dynamic
adjustment of BCCH power)
\- Reduction of power on DL common control channels
\- Reduction of power on DL channels in dedicated mode, DTM and packet
transfer mode
\- Deactivation of cells (e.g. Cell Power Down and Cell DTX like concepts as
discussed in RAN [4])
\- Deactivation of other RATs in areas with multi-RAT deployments, for
example, where the mobile station could assist the network to suspend/minimize
specific in-use RATs at specific times of day
\- And any other radio interface impacted power reduction solutions
The solutions will also consider the following aspects:
\- Impacts on the time for legacy and new mobile stations to gain access to
service from the BTS
\- Impacts on legacy and new mobile stations to keep the ongoing service
(without increasing drop rate)
\- Impacts on legacy and new mobile stations implementation and power
consumption, e.g. due to reduction in DL power, cell (re-)selection
performance, handover performance, etc.
\- Impacts on UL/DL coverage balance, especially to CS voice
Solutions will be considered for both BTS energy saving non-supporting and
supporting mobile stations (i.e. solutions that are non-backwards compatible
towards legacy mobile stations will be out of the scope of this study).
The contents of the present document when stable will determine the
modifications to existing GERAN specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] ETSI TS 102 706: \"Energy Efficiency of Wireless Access Network
Equipment\".
[4] 3GPP TR 25.927: \"Solutions for Energy Savings within UTRA NodeB\",
V.10.0.0
[5] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[6] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[7] 3GPP TR 45.913: \"Optimized transmit pulse shape for downlink Enhanced
General Packet Radio Service (EGPRS2-B)\".
[8] 3GPP TR 45.050: \"Background for Radio Frequency (RF) requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TR 45.914: \"Circuit switched voice capacity evolution for GSM/EDGE
Radio Access Network (GERAN)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[11] 3GPP TR 45.912: \"Feasibility study for evolved GSM/EDGE Radio Access
Network (GERAN)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control (RRC) protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**busy hour:** one hour period during which occurs the maximum total load in a
given 24-hour period
**busy hour load:** average BTS load during busy hour
**energy efficiency** : relation between the useful output and energy/power
consumption
**low load:** average BTS load during time when there is only very low traffic
in network
**medium term load:** defined BTS load level between busy hour and low load
levels
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AFS Adaptive multirate Fullrate Speech
AHS Adaptive multirate Halfrate Speech
APD Average Power Decrease
BBU Base Band Unit
BHT Busy Hour Traffic
BTS Base Transceiver Station
DARP Downlink Advanced Receiver Performance
EGPRS Enhanced General Packet Radio Service
EGPRS2 Enhanced General Packet Radio Service phase 2
FTP File Transfer Protocol
GoS Grade of Service
IRC Interference Rejection Combining
LA Link Adaptation
MCBTS Multi-Carrier BTS
MCPA Multi-Carrier Power Amplifier
NC1 Network Control mode 1
RE Radio Equipment
SAIC Single Antenna Interference Cancellation
SCPA Single Carrier Power Amplifier
TRX Transceiver
VAMOS Voice services over Adaptive Multi-user channels on One Slot
# 4 Study Considerations
## 4.0 General
This clause depicts considerations on appropriate network scenarios and on
qualitative analysis of the BTS energy consumption.
## 4.1 Network Scenario Considerations
All the scenarios to be studied in BTS energy saving are listed in this
subclause. The scenarios should consider deployment, GERAN configuration (e.g.
CS+PS resource dimensioning, EGPRS, EGPRS2), cell utilization, etc.
Below is a list of aspects that could be used to characterize the energy
saving scenarios:
\- Deployment and coverage:
\- GERAN only, multi cell, single band, 900 coverage layer
\- GERAN only, multi cell, single band, 1800 capacity layer
\- GERAN only, multi cell, dual band with 900 coverage layer, 1800 capacity
layer
\- BTS type and configuration:
\- Number of sectors and carriers
\- SCPA (Normal BTS) and MCPA (MCBTS)
\- The following traffic and load models are assumed:
\- SDCCH configuration model
\- Traffic load profiles for low load, medium term load and busy hour load
subscriber traffic (derived from ETSI TS 102 706 [3], Annex D)
\- Backward compatibility to previous MS releases
## 4.2 Energy Consumption of BTS
This clause contains a qualitative analysis of energy consumption breakdown of
current BTSs for different antenna/carrier configurations, topologies and DL
and UL loading scenarios.
The components listed below are the main parts in a BTS energy consumption
breakdown, containing BBU, REs, power supply, coaxial feed, and other related
consumptions. The relation in Table 4.2-1 is summarized based on a variety of
configurations of BTSs under a low load assumption specified as 10% in ETSI TS
102 706 [3].
Table 4.2-1: Power Consumption breakdown of a BTS
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BTS component | Qualitative contribution to | | | | | | Total Power Consumption of BTS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Base Band Unit (BBU) | Medium | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Radio Equipments (RE) | High | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Primary DC Power Supply (i.e. | Medium | | rectifiers, battery) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Coaxial feed | Medium | | pressurization/dehydration | | | | (vary with feeder length and | | | diameter) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Other related consumption(like | Low | | fan, lighting, alarm, etc.） | | | | (under typical environmental | | | conditions) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
From Table 4.2-1, the BTS component RE appears to contribute the most to the
total BTS power consumption. However, the qualitative analysis above does not
take into consideration the different permutations of BTS type and
configuration, which can influence alternative energy saving solutions and is
an important aspect in the definitions of the scenarios.
# 5 Objectives
This clause describes how to evaluate the solutions and the rules for adopting
energy saving solution into the present document. To this purpose performance
and compatibility objectives are defined. For each objective an evaluation
metric will be defined for benchmarking the proposed candidate solutions. A
candidate solution will not be necessarily discarded, if it does not fulfil a
particular objective, but this will be taken into account in the overall
evaluation of the candidate solution and in the comparison against other
candidate solutions.
## 5.1 Performance Objectives: energy efficiency target
The energy efficiency will be measured in terms of relative energy savings in
% versus a reference configuration, where the reference configuration does not
apply any energy saving mechanism and is based on the configuration specified
in subclause 6.1 and based on the agreed minimum GoS requirements as stated in
subclause 5.2.1 and 5.2.2 and the fulfillment of the requirement stated in
subclause 5.2.3. The relative energy savings are to be evaluated in regard to
TRX power consumption and in regard to average RF output power as stated in
subclause 6.6.2.
## 5.2 Compatibility Objectives
There are seven compatibility objectives defined for this study.
### 5.2.1 Avoid impact to voice user call quality
The introduction of a candidate solution will minimize degradation of voice
quality as perceived by the user. The acceptable limit for the call blocking
rate is less than 2%. For the candidate solution the call quality will fulfil
the target of at least 95% of satisfied users, where the call FER, determined
as average FER over the entire call duration, will be less than 2% for FR
codecs and less than 3% for HR codecs. The percentage of satisfied users will
be recorded for the reference case and the candidate solution.
### 5.2.2 Avoid impact to data user session quality
The introduction of a candidate solution will minimize degradation of active
data sessions for the user. The degradation of the session throughput will be
recorded at the 10th, 50th and 90th percentiles of the session throughput
cumulative distribution function.
### 5.2.3 Avoid impact to cell (re)selection and handover
Impact to cell (re)selection and handover should be minimized with any
candidate solution, in that additional cell reselections and handovers
compared to the reference case will be minimized. The call drop rate will not
be higher than 0.2% for the reference case and the candidate solution. If the
reference case does not meet this call drop rate level, the call drop rate of
the candidate solution will not be worse compared to the reference case.
### 5.2.4 Support of legacy MSs
Legacy MS types will be supported.
### 5.2.5 Implementation impacts to new MSs
The introduction of any candidate solution proposed under this study should
avoid changes to MS hardware. Additional complexity in terms of processing
power and memory should be kept to a minimum for a new MS. Impacts to power
consumption should be avoided.
### 5.2.6 Implementation impacts to BSS
The introduction of any candidate solution proposed under this study should
change BSS hardware as little as possible and HW upgrades to the BSS should be
avoided.
### 5.2.7 Impacts to network planning
Impacts to network planning and frequency reuse will be avoided.
# 6 Common Assumptions
This clause lists the common assumptions for the evaluation of candidate
solutions.
## 6.1 Reference Configuration
The reference configuration described hereafter is derived from that specified
in Annex D, Table D.1 of ETSI\ TS 102 706 [3].
Table 6.1-1 below describes the load conditions for various load levels and
site configurations. The BCCH TRX is active in every site configuration and
for different load levels. The busy hour traffic figures for the three site
configurations listed in the rightmost column are taken from Table 6.3-1.
Table 6.1-1: Load model for different site configuration and offered load
level
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | **Low load** | **Medium term |** Busy hour | | | | load**| load** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for S222 | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | all TS except | all TS except | all TS except | | | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | | | for user | for user | for user | | | traffic | traffic | traffic | | | | | | | | - Mean | - Mean | - Mean | | | Traffic load | Traffic load | traffic load | | | per sector: | per sector: | per sector: | | | 20% of busy | 50% of busy | according to | | | hour (see | hour (see | busy hour (see | | | Table 6.3-1) | Table 6.3-1) | Table 6.3-1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for S444 | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | all TS except | all TS except | all TS except | | | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | | | for user | for user | for user | | | traffic | traffic | traffic | | | | | | | | - Mean | - Mean | - Mean | | | Traffic load | Traffic load | traffic load | | | per sector: | per sector: | per sector: | | | 20% of busy | 50% of busy | according to | | | hour (see | hour (see | busy hour (see | | | Table 6.3-1) | Table 6.3-1) | Table 6.3-1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for S888 | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | all TS except | all TS except | all TS except | | (optional) | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | all TS allowed | all TS per | all TS allowed | | | for user | each sector | for user | | | traffic | can be | traffic | | | | allocated and | | | | - Mean | remaining TS | - Mean | | | Traffic load | idle | traffic load | | | per sector: | | per sector: | | | 20% of busy | - Mean | according to | | | hour (see | traffic load | busy hour (see | | | Table 6.3-1) | per sector: | Table 6.3-1) | | | | 50% of busy | | | | | hour (see | | | | | Table 6.3-1) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load level | 6 hours | 10 hours | 8 hours | | duration | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The evaluation will be performed for configurations S222 and S444 and
optionally for configuration S888, since configurations S222 and S444 are
considered sufficient to prove gains in BTS energy saving. Dedicated
signalling channels (SDCCH) are modelled for each cell according to Table
6.1-2. The load model for these channels (i.e. channel usage for call set-up
phase, location signalling, etc.), the allocation of these channels (i.e. if
allocated on BCCH TRX and/or on any other TRX belonging to the cell) and the
energy saving method for these channels (i.e. applied power reduction/power
control method) need to be reported.
Table 6.1-2: Number of SDCCH channels per sector for each site configuration
and each load profile
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Site | Load | Load | Load | Load | | | Profile 1 | Profile 2 | Profile 3 | Profile 4 | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | Low Traffic | Medium Term | High | High | | | Load | Traffic | Traffic | Traffic | | | | Load | Load | Load | | | (20% of | | | | | | BHT) with | (50% of | (100% of | (100% of | | | | BHT) with | BHT) with | BHT) with | | | 100 % FR | | | | | | codec | 100 % FR | 100% FR | 100% HR | | | | codec | codec | codec | | | | | | | | | | | | (optional) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S222 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S444 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S888 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 8 | | | | | | | | (optional) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The evaluation will be performed for load profiles 1 to 3, whilst load profile
4 is optional, since load profiles 1 to 3 are considered sufficient to prove
gains in BTS energy saving. **Reference deployment scenarios are listed in
subclause 6.4.**
## 6.2 Evaluation Metrics
Appropriate metrics for the evaluation by means of dynamic system simulations
need to be identified.
Two Radio Equipment (RE) related performance metrics for energy efficiency
evaluation are defined as reflected in the performance objective in clause
5.1:
\- RE Performance Metric 1: Gain in Cumulated TRX power consumption for all
TRXs belonging to a cell.
\- RE Performance Metric 2: Gain in Average RF output power for all TRXs
belonging to a cell.
For comparison of candidate techniques RE Performance Metric 1 has higher
priority than RE Performance Metric 2.
The evaluation should refer to energy savings in percent versus the reference
configuration specified in subclause 6.1. The method for evaluating the
performance gain is further described in subclause 6.6.2.
NOTE: Dynamic system simulations can be supported by measurements from real
networks.
## 6.3 Traffic Load profiles
The busy hour traffic for the three site configurations from Table 6.1-1 are
detailed in Table 6.3-1. CS voice traffic is 0,020 Erlangs/subscriber during
Busy Hour. **CCCH is allocated on one timeslot.**
Table 6.3-1: Load profiles for different site configuration
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Site | Load | Load | Load | Load | | | Profile 1 | Profile 2 | Profile 3 | Profile 4 | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | Low Traffic | Medium Term | High | High | | | Load | Traffic | Traffic | Traffic | | | | Load | Load | Load | | | (20% of | | | | | | BHT) with | (50% of | (100% of | (100% of | | | | BHT) with | BHT) with | BHT) with | | | 100 % FR | | | | | | codec | 100 % FR | 100% FR | 100% HR | | | | codec | codec | codec | | | | | | | | | | | | (optional) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S222 | 4,8 Erlangs | 12,3 | 24,6 | 54,9 | | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | | (3×1,6) | | | | | | | (3×4,1) | (3×8,2) | (3×18,3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S444 | 12,6 | 31,5 | 63,0 | 131,7 | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | | | | | | | | (3×4,2) | (3×10,5) | (3×21,0) | (3×43,9) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S888 | 26,1 | 73,2 | 146,1 | 292,8 | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | (optional) | | | | | | | (3×8,7) | (3×24,4) | (3×48,7) | (3×97,6) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The traffic load levels in Table 6.3-1 are derived from a call blocking rate
of 2% assumed for the busy hour traffic in load profile 3 and load profile 4
and from the indicated share of the busy hour load of load profile 3 in case
of load profile 1 and load profile 2. Table 6.3-1 is valid for the voice-only
scenario.
For the mixed voice/data scenario the traffic load levels need to be modified
to accommodate the traffic on data channels. _A straightforward way is to use
the same traffic load levels as for the voice only scenario depicted in Table
6.3-1 and reuse the call arrival model. For each call arrival it will be
decided with a probability of 70% that a voice call is requested and with a
probability of 30% that a data session is requested according to the entry in
Table 6.4-1. Note for each data user a session has a size of 800 kb according
to the data traffic model in Table 6.4-1. If this session was transported over
only 1 TS with an average throughput of only 10 kBit/s, then the session would
have a duration of 80 s, which is less than the assumed mean call duration of
90 s for a voice call. Hence the overall traffic load for the mixed voice/data
scenario is assumed to not exceed the one for the voice only scenario. The
traffic load for the data sessions for load profile 4 is derived from load
profile 3 in that it is equal._
_BCCH time slot allocation for both traffic scenarios related to voice and
data traffic is depicted in Table 6.4-1._
## 6.4 Reference deployment scenarios
Further detailing of deployment scenarios listed in clause 4.1 is of
importance to progress evaluations on identified candidate solutions.
Following settings are proposed for network parameters as depicted in Table
6.4-1 below.
**Table 6.4-1: Network parameters for site configurations defined in subclause
6.1**
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Parameter | Value | Unit | Comment | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Sectors per site | 3 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Frequency Band | 900 / 1800 | MHz | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Cell size | 2000 | m | Coverage layer | | | | | (900 MHz) as | | | 500 | m | investigated in | | | | | TR 45.050 Annex | | | | | Z.B.2.3 for MCBTS | | | | | | | | | | Capacity layer | | | | | (1800 MHz) as | | | | | investigated in | | | | | 3GPP TR 45.913 | | | | | and 45.914 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BCCH frequency | 4/12 | | BCCH frequency | | re-use | | | reuse applied | | | | | also in WIDER, | | | | | see 3GPP TR | | | | | 45.913, and | | | | | MUROS, see 3GPP | | | | | TR 45.914, | | | | | feasibility | | | | | studies. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BCCH TS | TN 0 | | BCCH/CCCH, | | occupation | | | multiple CCCH not | | | []{.underline} | | used. | | | | | | | | **Traffic | | TS for TCH in the | | | scenario 1** | | voice only | | | (Voice only): TN | | scenario | | | 1...7 | | excluding TS on | | | | | BCCH carrier | | | **Traffic | | allocated to | | | scenario 2** | | SDCCH. | | | (Mixed voice/data | | | | | scenario): | | TS for TCH in the | | | | | mixed voice / | | | for low load / | | data scenario | | | medium term load: | | excluding TS on | | | | | BCCH carrier | | | TS occupation for | | allocated to | | | voice and data | | SDCCH. | | | flexible | | | | | | | The SDCCH | | | for busy hour | | allocation needs | | | load: | | to be described | | | | | for the candidate | | | voice: TN 5...7 | | technique (see | | | | | subclause 6.1). | | | data: TN 1...4 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | TCH frequency | Configuration | | TCH frequency | | re-use | 2/2/2: | | reuse figures | | | | | depend on the | | | 1/1 and 3/9 for | | site | | | RF synthesizer | | configuration | | | hopping | | under | | | | | investigation and | | | 3/9 for baseband | | the frequency | | | hopping | | hopping type. | | | | | Site | | | Configuration | | configurations | | | 4/4/4: | | are according to | | | | | subclause 6.1 . | | | 1/1 and 3/9 for | | | | | RF synthesizer | | For baseband | | | hopping | | hopping the BCCH | | | | | carrier is | | | 3/9 for baseband | | included in the | | | hopping | | hopping set. | | | | | | | | Configuration | | Information on | | | 8/8/8 (optional): | | the frequency | | | | | hopping type, on | | | 1/1 and 3/9 for | | MA length, on | | | RF synthesizer | | MAIO allocation | | | hopping | | and on how the | | | | | imposed bandwidth | | | 3/9 for baseband | | restriction for | | | hopping | | hopping carriers | | | | | is taken into | | | | | account in the | | | | | modelling should | | | | | be reported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Frequency | 21 frequencies | | BCCH frequencies | | Allocation | (12 + 9) | | and TCH | | | | | frequencies | | Site | 39 frequencies | | separated by 1 | | configuration | (12 + 27) | | guard frequency | | 2/2/2 | | | (0.2 MHz) | | | 75 frequencies | | | | Site | (12 + 63) | | | | configuration | | | | | 4/4/4 | | | | | | | | | | Site | | | | | configuration | | | | | 8/8/8 | | | | | | | | | | (optional) | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Bandwidth of BCCH | 2.4 MHz | | | | layer | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Bandwidth of TCH | 1.8 MHz | | TCH on adjacent | | layer | | | freq. | | | 5.4 MHz | | | | Site | | | TCH on adjacent | | configuration | 12.6 MHz | | freq. | | 2/2/2 | | | | | | | | TCH on adjacent | | Site | | | freq. | | configuration | | | | | 4/4/4 | | | | | | | | | | Site | | | | | configuration | | | | | 8/8/8 | | | | | | | | | | (optional) | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Path loss model | Okumura-Hata | | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | | | | | | | | - rural (cell | | | | | size 2000 m) | | | | | | | | | | - urban (cell | | | | | size 500 m) | | | | | | | | | | A description on | | | | | modelling short | | | | | distances should | | | | | be provided. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Log-normal fading | 6 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | | st.dev | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Correlation | 110 | m | | | distance | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Inter-site | 50 | \% | | | log-normal | | | | | correlation | | | | | coefficient | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handover margin | 3 | dB | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS output power | 43 | dBm | Other output | | for BCCH carrier | | | power levels may | | and other | | | in addition be | | carriers | | | used in the study | | | | | but need to be | | | | | indicated. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS antenna | 40 | m | ETSI TS 102 706 | | height | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS Sector | 65º deg H-plane,\ | dBi | UMTS 30.03 | | antenna pattern | max TX gain 18 | | (modified from | | | | | assumption in | | | | | ETSI\ | | | | | TS 102 706) | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS feeder and | 3 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | | connector loss | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS sensitivity\ | | dBm\ | implementation | | BTS noise figure | | dB | dependent | | | | | | | | | | implementation | | | | | dependent | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS output power | 31 (GSM 900) | dBm | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | | | | | | 28 (DCS 1800) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | RACH power | Disabled | | | | reduction | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS antenna height | 1,5 | m | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS antenna gain | 0 | dBm | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS sensitivity | -104\ | dBm\ | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | 8 | dB | | | MS noise figure | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Body loss | 3 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Indoor/Outdoor | 0 / 100 | \% | Outdoor users are | | users | | | more interesting | | | | | in a | | | | | res | | | | | election/handover | | | | | study. This will | | | | | effectively | | | | | eliminate the | | | | | impact of | | | | | building | | | | | penetration loss | | | | | listed in ETSI TS | | | | | 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Traffic scenarios | 100 % voice users | | **First priority | | | | | for evaluation** | | Traffic scenario | 70 % voice users, | | | | 1 | 30 % data users | | **Second priority | | | | | for evaluation** | | Traffic scenario | | | | | 2 | | | **Note VAMOS | | | | | channels are not | | | | | included for | | | | | voice.** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Average power | 0,2,..,APDmax | dB | **L** evel chosen | | decrease (APD) | | | according to | | for voice | | | power control. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Average power | GMSK: 0 dB | | | | decrease (APD) | | | | | for data | 8PSK: 4.0 dB\ | | | | | 16QAM: 6.0 dB\ | | | | | 32QAM: 6.0 dB | | | | | | | | | | (Values from | | | | | 3GPP\ | | | | | TS 45.008) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Average power | APDmax | dB | **Pre-CCCH | | decrease (APD) | | | timeslot has | | for dummy bursts | | | APDmax = 3 dB.** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Speech codecs | FR: AFS 12.2 and | | **FR codecs are | | | AFS 5.9 HR: AHS | | evaluated at all | | | 5.9 and GSM HR | | traffic load | | | | | levels.** | | | | | | | | | | **HR codecs are | | | | | only evaluated at | | | | | busy hour traffic | | | | | load level and | | | | | are optional | | | | | (load profile | | | | | 4).** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DARP phase I | Traffic scenario | | **See clause | | penetration rate | 1: 60% | | 6.5.8.** | | | | | | | | Traffic scenario | | | | | 2: 60% for voice | | | | | users, 100% for | | | | | data users | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | AMR codec mode | Disabled | | | | adaptation | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DTX on DL/UL | Enabled | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Channel | Description of | | Information | | allocation | channel | | should be | | strategy | allocation | | provided (e.g. | | | strategy | | allocation | | | | | priority for | | | | | channel on BCCH | | | | | layer / TCH layer | | | | | and other | | | | | criteria). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handover | Penalty in terms | | Vendor specific | | | of speech frame | | penalty. | | | erasures during | | **Aligned to | | | handover to be | | MUROS TR 45.913** | | | taken into | | | | | account for DL | | Information on | | | and UL. | | enabling of | | | | | intra-cell | | | | | handovers and on | | | | | HO penalty size | | | | | for inter-/ | | | | | intra-cell | | | | | handovers should | | | | | be provided. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DL Repeated FACCH | Optional | | assumed to be | | | | | supported by | | | | | legacy MS | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | nabling/disabling | | | | | should be | | | | | reported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Repeated SACCH | Disabled | | not supported by | | | | | legacy MS | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Voice call model | - Poisson | | **Aligned to | | | distributed call | | MUROS\ | | | arrivals and | | TR 45.913** | | | exponential call | | | | | durations. - mean | | | | | call duration: 90 | | | | | sec - min. call | | | | | duration: 5 sec. | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Data traffic | - PS data | | **In WIDER TR | | model | transfer size per | | 45.913 FTP | | | session: 100 kB | | service with 1 MB | | | | | file size has | | | - MCS belonging | | been assumed.** | | | to GPRS and EGPRS | | | | | to be used in | | **In GERAN | | | phase 1 of the | | Evolution TR | | | study. MCS for | | 45.912 FTP | | | EGPRS2 to be used | | service with 100 | | | in phase 2 of the | | and 120 kB was | | | study. | | assumed aside | | | | | HTTP traffic.** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Link adaptation | Enabled | | LA kept vendor | | | | | specific | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Fading channel | Typical Urban | | | | profile | (TU) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Paging cycle | BS_PA_MFRMS = 4 | | **relevant for MS | | | | | measurements in | | | (4*235.38 ms = | | idle mode.** | | | 941.5 ms) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Number of cells | 12 | | **relevant for | | in neighbour cell | | | measurements in | | list | | | idle and | | | | | connected mode** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Number of | 6 | | **signalled in | | reported | | | normal | | neighbour cells | | | measurement | | | | | reporting** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Reselection | C2 = C1 | | **Represents the | | criteria | | | default case in | | | | | TS 45.008, i.e. | | | | | no additional | | | | | parameters for | | | | | cell reselection | | | | | are broadcast** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS velocity | 3 km/h and 50 | | **3 km/h | | | km/h | | evaluated for all | | | | | scenarios** | | | | | | | | | | **50 km/h only | | | | | evaluated for | | | | | certain | | | | | scenarios, see | | | | | subclause 6.5.7** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
A high level description of the user mobility model should be provided.
Information in regard to the traffic load creation and handling of service
area border effects may be beneficial to be reported. Other simulation
parameters such as simulated time, network size, usage of propagation wrap
around need to be reported.
## 6.5 MS characteristics
The need for clarification of MS related procedures has been raised during the
study in order to create a simplistic model for measurement sampling,
averaging and cell reselection procedures and handover preparation in the MS.
These items are subject for discussion with MS manufacturers and feedback was
requested to derive such a model. Behaviour of legacy MS in field and new MS
has to be distinguished. Deviations from the common assumptions stated in this
clause need to be reported.
### 6.5.1 BCCH carrier power measurement sampling {#bcch-carrier-power-
measurement-sampling .list-paragraph}
#### 6.5.1.1 Idle mode
In idle mode, information was provided during Telco#1 on BTSEnergy, that the
measurement window of the MS for monitoring signal strength of serving cell
and neighbour cells is enlarged compared to connected mode, but it is
sufficiently different from selecting a time slot on random basis between 0
and 7. Measurements in idle mode are not taken in a continuous manner, since
the MS will enter DRX periods and only measure during active periods between
two DRX periods. Feedback received from MS manufacturers so far indicates that
all BCCH measurements, performed for serving cell and neighbour cells, are
done in the time interval where the MS listens to its paging block.
The minimum performance requirement for cell selection in idle mode is
specified in TS 45.008 in subclause 6.6.1:
Whilst in idle mode an MS will continue to monitor all BCCH carriers as
indicated by the BCCH allocation (BA ‑ See table 1). A running average of
received signal level (RLA_C) in the preceding 5 to:
Max {5 , ((5 * N + 6) DIV 7) * BS_PA_MFRMS / 4}
seconds will be maintained for each carrier in the BCCH allocation. N is the
number of non‑serving cell BCCH carriers in BA and the parameter BS_PA_MFRMS
is defined in 3GPP TS 45.002.
The same number of measurement samples will be taken for all non‑serving cell
BCCH carriers of the BA list, and the samples allocated to each carrier will
as far as possible be uniformly distributed over each evaluation period. At
least 5 received signal level measurement samples are required per RLA_C
value. New sets of RLA_C values will be calculated as often as possible.
Hence at least 5 samples need to be taken in a period no shorter than 5
seconds for all neighbour cells ( i.e. Max {5 , ((5 * N + 6) DIV 7) *
BS_PA_MFRMS / 4}). Consequently the number of neighbour cells N is an
important parameter to define the length of the averaging period. The meaning
of the above formula in TS 45.008 is an important clue to help identify
mobiles behaviour. Figure 6.5-1 below shows an example for neighbour cell
monitoring in idle mode.
Figure 6.5-1 Example for MS neighbour cell monitoring in idle mode.
The MS belonging to P1 paging group needs to monitor downlink CCCH for paging.
During reading paging messages there are totally 28(7*4) idle slots for
mobiles to monitor neighbour cells (7 timeslots in each frame). The time for
each neighbour cell measurement is consisted of the monitoring time for
measurements and the switching time between two neighbour BCCH frequencies. To
guarantee the time for measurements is sufficiently long it can be assumed
that during this period totally 7 samples are made for neighbour cells (i.e.
the sampling is made every 4 timeslots). Suppose for each neighbour cell 5
samples are made then the total number of paging blocks which completes the
measurement for all neighbour cells reach to (5 * N + 6) DIV 7). Since the
period for each paging group equals to 240 ms* BS_PA_MFRMS (≈BS_PA_MFRMS/4),
the total time for samples averaging approximately equals to ((5 * N + 6) DIV
7) * BS_PA_MFRMS / 4.
From the above analysis it can be assumed that when 5 samples are required for
each neighbour cell and sampling is made every 4 timeslots (7 samples are
collected in each paging reading), the averaging time reaches to ((5 * N + 6)
DIV 7) * BS_PA_MFRMS / 4.
It is thus necessary to define typical values for the mentioned parameters
including BS_PA_MFRMS, number of neighbour cells and number of samples to be
taken into account in the performance evaluations. At GERAN#50 agreement was
found on following parameters in Table 6.5-1.
Table 6.5-1: Parameters for MS measurements in idle mode
* * *
Parameters Value Number of neighbour cells 12 BS_PA_MFRMS 4 Number of samples
per neighbour cell for cell (re)selection 5
* * *
Based on these figures, the minimum requirement as depicted in TS 45.008
related to cell (re)selection can be derived. In addition measurement patterns
for neighbour cells in idle mode can be derived based on the assumption that
sampling is made every 4 timeslots in the non-DRX mode as depicted above.
#### 6.5.1.2 Connected mode
In connected mode it is assumed that the MS performs only 1 neighbour cell
BCCH power measurement per TDMA frame. This would be rather on the same time
slot (e.g. on time slot preceding DL receive timeslot or any other suitable
time slot). Note this assumption is expected to apply for a multislot
supporting mobile, that has a bidirectional data transfer ongoing, such as
class 12 (4+1) and higher. Also for a MS handling voice service, it is
expected that one time slot per TDMA frame is available for sampling the
received power of one neighbour cell.
### 6.5.2 BCCH carrier power measurement accuracy
A sufficient large measurement sampling window of 64 symbols for idle and
connected mode at MS side is assumed, yielding a margin of ±1 dB for the
tolerances in regard to difference between power measurements as confirmed by
feedback of MS manufacturers. This figure is valid for a non-fading channel
only. The impact of the fading radio channel has to be superposed on top of
this level of accuracy.
### 6.5.3 BCCH carrier power measurement averaging
The MS behaviour related to averaging of neighbour cell measurements in idle
mode is described in subclause 6.5.1.1.
In the connected mode, TS 45.008, subclause 7.2, specifies that comparison of
averaged power measurements for neighbour cells will be based on the time
period of 2 SACCH block periods, in order to derive the need for BSIC
detection. Feedback received from MS manufacturers indicates that averaging of
serving cell and neighbour cell measurements is done per SACCH period. This
means that 100 TDMA frames are available if 4 search frames are used for BSIC
decoding and other measurement tasks. With the assumption stated in subclause
6.5.1 above that 1 neighbour cell BCCH can be measured per TDMA frame, which
is assumed to be valid both for legacy MS with voice calls or multislot MS as
depicted in subclause 6.5.1 above, and that the complete BA list is processed,
the number of measurements per neighbour cell for averaging then solely is
dependent on the length of the neighbour cell list N, i.e. N_av = int (100 /
N). For the agreed value of N = 12 (see table 6.5-1), the number of neighbour
cell measurement samples per SACCH period equals 8.
### 6.5.4 BSIC Decoding
The identification of suitable cells, i.e. the serving cell in case of idle
mode and neighbour cells in case of connected mode, is subject to successful
BSIC decoding, once the neighbour cell has sufficient signal strength. For
instance TS 45.008, subclause 6.6.1 describes the BSIC decoding requirement
for idle mode:
\- The MS will attempt to check the BSIC for each of the 6 strongest
non‑serving cell BCCH carriers at least every 30 seconds, to confirm that it
is monitoring the same cell.
Further TS 45.008 subclause 7.2 specifies the BSIC decoding requirement in
dedicated mode:
\- If, after averaging measurement results over 2 SACCH block periods, the MS
detects one or more BCCH carriers, among the 6 strongest, whose BSICs are not
currently being assessed, then the MS will as a matter of priority attempt to
decode their BSICs.
Modelling of the BSIC decoding process in idle and in connected mode, such as
defining a minimum radio channel quality for successful BSIC decoding, was
discussed during Telco#2. Feedback received from MS manufacturers indicates
that the overall impact of BSIC decoding is seen as low since the process is
much less executed than the frequent BCCH power measurements and a decoding
failure is unlikely to result in a cell (re)selection failure or a handover
failure. Thus no modelling of the BCCH decoding process is mandated for this
study. However for taking into account impact of neighbour cell quality during
preparation phase for handover and cell (re-)selection it may be useful to be
modelled.
### 6.5.5 Power reduction on TS preceding BCCH timeslot
No further power reduction on the timeslot preceding the BCCH or CCCH timeslot
is foreseen in comparison to what is allowed in TS 45.008 subclause 7.1 in
regard to modulations other than GMSK:
\- Furthermore, between a slot used for BCCH/CCCH and the slot preceding it,
the difference in output power actually transmitted by the BTS will not exceed
3 dB.
This includes output power tolerance on BTS transmitter side.
### 6.5.6 Handover, Cell Selection and Cell Reselection {#handover-cell-
selection-and-cell-reselection .list-paragraph}
The impact on cell selection and cell reselection performance will be
evaluated for each candidate solution against the reference case. The number
of cell reselections and handovers will be counted for the reference case and
the candidate solution in the evaluation period. The call drop rate will be
evaluated in all cases. The method to derive the call drop rate and the
handover failure rate need to be reported. For handover a penalty in terms of
speech frame erasures needs to be taken into account as described in Table
6.4-1. For cell (re-)selection NC1 mode is assumed.
### 6.5.7 Mobile velocity {#mobile-velocity .list-paragraph}
Mobile velocity of 3 km/h will be considered for all scenarios.
Mobile velocity of 50 km/h will be considered for low and medium traffic load
profiles, i.e. load profiles 1 and 2 in subclause 6.3, for both selected full
rate speech codecs, i.e. AFS 12.2 and AFS 5.9. In addition high traffic load
profiles, i.e. load profiles 3 and 4 in subclause 6.3, may be investigated.
The mobility model used in the performance evaluation will be described for
each candidate solution.
### 6.5.8 Mobile station types {#mobile-station-types .list-paragraph}
The MS types used in the evaluation need to be specified. A distinction is
done between traffic scenario 1 (voice only) and traffic scenario 2 (mix of
voice and data).
Traffic scenario 1: all MS are single TS mobiles (MSC=1) with DARP phase I
penetration rate of 60%.
Traffic scenario 2: MS with voice service: single TS (MSC=1) with DARP phase I
penetration rate of 60%,
MS with data service: MSC=12 with DARP Phase I penetration rate of 100%.
## 6.6 BTS characteristics
### 6.6.1 Network synchronization {#network-synchronization .list-paragraph}
The study will investigate both synchronized networks and asynchronous
networks.
For intra-site synchronization TDMA frame alignment is assumed in both cases.
For inter-site synchronization time slot alignment is assumed on random basis
with fixed offsets in case of synchronized networks, whilst neither TDMA frame
alignment nor multi-TDMA frame alignment is part of this assumption.
For inter-site synchronization no time slot or frame alignment (multi-frame,
TDMA frame, time slot) is assumed in case of asynchronous networks.
### 6.6.2 Modelling of TRX power consumption {#modelling-of-trx-power-
consumption .list-paragraph}
Modeling of TRX power consumption aspects is needed in order to accurately
model expected savings in BTS power consumption. Typically the power
consumption of a SCPA TRX is not linear, i.e. a 3 dB decrease in RF output
power does not correspond to a 50% decrease of TRX power consumption. Also
ramping down of a SCPA TRX may yield to higher energy savings than taken into
account in savings for the RF output power. This is similar for a BTS with
MCPA component. To take any non-linear dependency between RF output power and
actual TRX power consumption into account two metrics to quantify the relative
power savings during the performance evaluation are introduced based on the
definitions in clause 6.2:
\- RE Performance Metric 1: relative energy savings in % related to the
reference configuration
\- RE Performance Metric 2: relative energy savings in % related to the
reference configuration
Both metrics refer to the comparison of the candidate solution against the
reference configuration depicted in subclause 6.1 and will be related to the
BTS power consumption including BCCH TRX and non-BCCH TRX, or in case of MCPA
including total number of operated BCCH and TCH carriers.
# 7 Candidate Solution: BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology
## 7.1 Introduction
This methodology is proposed to involve a dynamic power adjustment scheme to
each timeslot on BCCH carrier by traffic load.
## 7.2 Methodology
The methodology is applied to GMSK modulated BCCH carrier. Two variants have
been included. The value of X should be pre-set.
### 7.2.1 Variant 1
{width="5.995833333333334in" height="1.7125in"}
Figure 7.2-1: BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Method; Variant 1
\- The timeslots used as control channel (TS0, TS1, blue area) is transmitted
with maximum power.
\- For idle TCH timeslots (yellow area), the BCCH carrier is transmitted with
X dB power reduction.
\- During DTX active period (orange area) of TCH timeslots, the BCCH carrier
is transmitted with maximum power.
\- During DTX silence period (green area) of TCH timeslots, the BCCH carrier
is transmitted with X dB power reduction.
Table 7.2-1: Power Scheme of Variant 1
* * *
Timeslot Preceding Traffic Status DTX status BCCH Carrier Transmit Power
BCCH/SDCCH Idle N/A Maximum BCCH/SDCCH Busy N/A Maximum TCH Idle N/A Reduced
by X dB TCH Busy Active period Maximum TCH Busy Silence period Reduced by X dB
* * *
### 7.2.2 Variant 2
{width="6.844444444444444in" height="1.9465277777777779in"}
Figure 7.2-2: BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Method; Variant 2
\- The timeslots used as control channel (TS0, TS1, blue area) is transmitted
with maximum power.
\- For idle TCH timeslots (yellow area), the BCCH carrier is transmitted with
X dB power reduction.
\- During DTX active period (orange area) of TCH timeslots, power control
algorithm is applied to BCCH carrier, but the total reduced power is not
allowed to exceed X dB.
\- During DTX silence period (green area) of TCH timeslots, the BCCH carrier
is transmitted with X dB power reduction.
Table 7.2-2: Power Scheme of Variant 2
* * *
Timeslot Preceding Traffic Status DTX status BCCH Carrier Transmit Power
BCCH/SDCCH Idle N/A Maximum BCCH/SDCCH Busy N/A Maximum TCH Idle N/A Reduced
by X dB TCH Busy Active period Power control applied (reduction not exceed X
dB) TCH Busy Silence period Reduced by X dB
* * *
## 7.3 Evaluation
Three cases are simulated to compare:
**Reference case:** No BCCH power reduction is applied.
**Case 1:** Variant 1 is applied, with x = 2;
**Case 2:** Variant 2 is applied, with x = 2;
Assumptions are aligned to current common assumptions.
### 7.3.1 Simulation Assumptions
Table 7.3-1: Simulation Assumptions
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Parameter | Default Value | Unit | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Frequency band | 900 | MHz | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | BCCH frequency re-use | 4/12 | - | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TCH frequency re-use | 1/1 | | | | | | | | 3/9 | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Frequency Hopping | 1/1 for synthesizer hopping | - | | | | | | | 3/9 for baseband hopping | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Cell Size | 500 | m | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Network size | 84 cells | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Sectors (cells) per Site | 3 | - | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Sector Antenna Pattern | UMTS 30.03 | - | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Propagation Model | Okumura-Hata | dB | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Log-Normal Fading: Standard | 6 | dB | | Deviation | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Log-Normal Fading: | 110 | m | | Correlation Distance | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Log-Normal Fading: | 50 | \% | | Inter-Site Correlation | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Adjacent Channel | 18 | dB | | Interference Attenuation | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Fast Fading | Enabled | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Fast Fading Type | TU3 | km/hr | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Receiver Type | Conventional Receiver(DL | | | | EGC/ UL IRC) | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | SAIC penetration rate | 60 | \% | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Speech codec | AFS 12.2 | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Traffic mix | 100 % voice | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Indoor/outdoor users | 0/100 | \% | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
Table 7.3-2: Traffic Load Configuration
+--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | **Low load** | **Medium |** Busy hour | | | | load**| load** | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for 222 | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | all TS except | all TS except | all TS except | | | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | | | for user | for user | for user | | | traffic | traffic | traffic | | | | | | | | - Mean | - Mean | - Mean | | | Traffic load | Traffic load | traffic load | | | per sector: | per sector: | per sector: | | | 20% of busy | 50% of busy | according to | | | hour | hour | busy hour | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for 444 | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | all TS except | all TS except | all TS except | | | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | | | for user | for user | for user | | | traffic | traffic | traffic | | | | | | | | - Mean | - Mean | - Mean | | | Traffic load | Traffic load | traffic load | | | per sector: | per sector: | per sector: | | | 20% of busy | 50% of busy | according to | | | hour | hour | busy hour | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for 888 | BCCH TRX: all | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | TS except TS0 | all TS except | all TS except | | | can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | Other TRX: all | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | TS allowed for | all TS per | all TS allowed | | | user traffic | each sector | for user | | | | can be | traffic | | | - Mean | allocated and | | | | Traffic load | remaining TS | - Mean | | | per sector: | idle | traffic load | | | 20% of busy | | per sector: | | | hour | - Mean | according to | | | | traffic load | busy hour | | | | per sector: | | | | | 50% of busy | | | | | hour | | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.3-3: Load profiles for different site configuration
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Site | Load | Load | Load | Load | | | Profile 1 | Profile 2 | Profile 3 | Profile 4 | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | Low Traffic | Medium | High | High | | | Load | Traffic | Traffic | Traffic | | | | Load | Load | Load | | | (20% of | | | | | | BHT) with | (50% of | (100% of | (100% of | | | | BHT) with | BHT) with | BHT) with | | | 100 % FR | | | | | | codec | 100 % FR | 100% FR | 100% HR | | | | codec | codec | codec | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S222 | 4,8 Erlangs | 12,3 | 24,6 | 54,9 | | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | | (3×1,6) | | | | | | | (3×4,1) | (3×8,2) | (3×18,3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S444 | 12,6 | 31,5 | 63,0 | 131,7 | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | | | | | | | | (3×4,2) | (3×10,5) | (3×21,0) | (3×43,9) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S888 | 26,1 | 73,2 | 146,1 | 292,8 | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | | | | | | | | (3×8,7) | (3×24,4) | (3×48,7) | (3×97,6) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 7.3-4: Number of SDCCH channels per sector for each site configuration
and each load profile
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Site | Load | Load | Load | Load | | | Profile 1 | Profile 2 | Profile 3 | Profile 4 | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | Low Traffic | Medium | High | High | | | Load | Traffic | Traffic | Traffic | | | | Load | Load | Load | | | (20% of | | | | | | BHT) with | (50% of | (100% of | (100% of | | | | BHT) with | BHT) with | BHT) with | | | 100 % FR | | | | | | codec | 100 % FR | 100% FR | 100% HR | | | | codec | codec | codec | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S222 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S444 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S888 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 8 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 7.3.2 Evaluations
#### 7.3.2.1 Impacts to Radiated Power and Power Consumption
Table 7.3-5: Average Tx power on the BCCH carrier
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | TCH | Site | Traffic | Reference | Case 1 | Case 2 | | Frequency | Conf | Load | Case | | | | Reuse | iguration | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | | (dBm) | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | 1/1 Reuse | S222 | Busy Hour | 43 | 42.21 | 41.71 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 43 | 42.06 | 41.7 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 43 | 41.85 | 41.7 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | Busy Hour | 43 | 42.32 | 41.93 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 43 | 42.29 | 41.93 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 43 | 42.16 | 41.91 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | Busy Hour | 43 | 42.5 | 42.35 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 43 | 42.49 | 42.35 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 43 | 42.48 | 42.35 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | 3/9 Reuse | S222 | Busy Hour | 43 | 42.18 | 41.7 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 43 | 42 | 41.7 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 43 | 41.84 | 41.7 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | Busy Hour | 43 | 42.3 | 41.92 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 43 | 42.28 | 41.92 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 43 | 42.14 | 41.91 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | Busy Hour | 43 | 42.5 | 42.35 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 43 | 42.48 | 42.35 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 43 | 42.47 | 42.35 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+
The simulation results in table 7.3-5 show the average Tx power, evaluated
only for the BCCH carrier, which is not compliant with the common assumptions
in clause 6.2 of providing accumulated average Tx power over all carriers,
however, the observed reduction in Tx power on BCCH carrier proves the
feasibility of this candidate technique at certain extent.
Table 7.3-6: Average power consumption on the BCCH carrier
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | TCH | Site | Traffic | R | Case 1 | Case 2 | | F | Confi | Load | eference | | | | requency | guration | | Case | Relative | Relative | | Reuse | | | | Decrease | Decrease | | | | | (Watt) | (%) | (%) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1/1 | S222 | Busy | 240 | 8.33 | 12.5 | | Reuse | | Hour | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Medium | 240 | 8.75 | 12.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Low | 240 | 10 | 12.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | S444 | Busy | 240 | 5.83 | 10 | | | | Hour | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Medium | 240 | 6.25 | 10 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Low | 240 | 8.75 | 10 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | S888 | Busy | 240 | 4.58 | 5.83 | | | | Hour | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Medium | 240 | 4.58 | 5.83 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Low | 240 | 4.58 | 5.83 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3/9 | S222 | Busy | 240 | 8.75 | 12.5 | | Reuse | | Hour | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Medium | 240 | 9.17 | 12.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Low | 240 | 11.67 | 12.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | S444 | Busy | 240 | 6.25 | 10 | | | | Hour | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Medium | 240 | 6.67 | 10 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Low | 240 | 8.75 | 10 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | S888 | Busy | 240 | 4.58 | 5.83 | | | | Hour | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Medium | 240 | 4.58 | 5.83 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Low | 240 | 4.58 | 5.83 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
> The simulation results in table 7.3-6 show decreased power consumption,
> evaluated only for the BCCH carrier, which is not compliant with the common
> assumptions in clause 6.2 of providing accumulated TRX power consumption
> over all carriers. However, the observed decreased power consumption on BCCH
> carrier proves the feasibility of this candidate technique at certain
> extent.
#### 7.3.2.2 Impacts to Call Quality
> The following table includes the percentage of satisfied users (FER ≤ 2%)
> for different load scenarios and site configurations.
Table 7.3-7 Percentage of satisfied users
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | TCH | Site | Uplink | Traffic | Re | Case 1 | Case 2 | | Fr | Config | or | Load | ference | | | | equency | uration | D | | Case | (100%) | (100%) | | Reuse | | ownlink | | | | | | | | | | (100%) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | 1/1 | S222 | UL | Busy | 99.57 | 98.71 | 97.86 | | Reuse | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.29 | 97.44 | 97.44 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.9 | 98.8 | 98 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 99.15 | 99.14 | 98.71 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 99.15 | 99.15 | 99.15 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.7 | 99.5 | 99.3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | UL | Busy | 97.78 | 94.85 | 94.27 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.75 | 98.75 | 97.18 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.39 | 97.58 | 96.77 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 96.67 | 94.85 | 94.58 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.75 | 98.75 | 97.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.42 | 99.23 | 99.19 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | UL | Busy | 94.72 | 93.69 | 93.42 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.06 | 97.93 | 96.84 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.58 | 98.23 | 97.52 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 93.37 | 92.52 | 91.93 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 97.69 | 96.96 | 96.84 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.58 | 97.86 | 97.51 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | 3/9 | S222 | UL | Busy | 97.83 | 97.79 | 97.69 | | Reuse | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 99.74 | 99.49 | 99.23 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.9 | 98.72 | 98.08 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 96.48 | 96.34 | 95.97 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 99.23 | 98.97 | 98.46 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.36 | 98.08 | 96.15 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | UL | Busy | 96.71 | 96.51 | 96.49 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.72 | 98.33 | 98.13 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.39 | 98.39 | 98.12 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 96.09 | 95.37 | 94.9 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 97.74 | 97.64 | 97.64 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.93 | 98.66 | 98.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | UL | Busy | 95.49 | 95.2 | 95.16 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.18 | 98.05 | 97.89 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.53 | 99.3 | 98.94 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 94.37 | 94.25 | 94.17 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 97.72 | 97.43 | 96.64 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.83 | 98.83 | 98.59 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+
From the evaluation results, the BCCH power reduction method decreases the
percentage of satisfied users. However, in most cases, this KPI still fulfills
the 95% target or within 2% degradation compare to reference case. During the
busy hours, the power reduction method does not perform well in S444
configuration, 1/1 reuse.
#### 7.3.2.3 Impacts to Handover
**HO modeling:** Use the link FER to determine whether SABM and UA frames are
successfully delivered. If the SABM and UA frames fail to be sent/received
after retry, a HO failure is marked.
**Call drop modeling:** 1\. HO failure may leads to a call drop; 2. Use the
link FER to determine whether SACCH frame is correctly transmitted. The
threshold for call drop depends on how many SACCH frame fails within an
interval.
**HO Penalty:** Penalty in terms of speech frame erasures during handover to
be taken into account for DL and UL. **Aligned to MUROS TR 45.913.**
Table 7.3-8: Handover number
* * *
TCH Frequency Reuse Site Configuration Traffic Load Reference Case Case 1 Case
2 1/1 Reuse S222 Busy Hour 188 185 183 Medium 70 63 60 Low 45 40 40 S444 Busy
Hour 1030 948 758 Medium 250 245 230 Low 78 75 75 S888 Busy Hour 2795 2750
2723 Medium 883 825 790 Low 195 193 178 3/9 Reuse S222 Busy Hour 685 628 610
Medium 240 233 223 Low 105 85 85 S444 Busy Hour 2323 2280 2178 Medium 840 788
780 Low 260 235 230 S888 Busy Hour 6033 5965 5870 Medium 2200 2190 2153 Low
608 603 598
* * *
> From the evaluation results, the total number of handover slightly decreases
> after power reduction method had been applied.
Table 7.3-9: Call Drop Rate
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | TCH | Site | Traffic | Reference | Case 1 | Case 2 | | Frequency | Conf | Load | Case | | | | Reuse | iguration | | | (100%) | (100%) | | | | | (100%) | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | 1/1 Reuse | S222 | Busy Hour | 0.03 | 0.05 | 0.09 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.02 | 0.03 | 0.05 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0 | 0 | 0 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | Busy Hour | 0.05 | 0.07 | 0.11 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.03 | 0.05 | 0.08 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0 | 0 | 0 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | Busy Hour | 0.09 | 0.13 | 0.20 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.05 | 0.08 | 0.11 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0.05 | 0.07 | 0.10 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | 3/9 Reuse | S222 | Busy Hour | 0.02 | 0.03 | 0.05 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.01 | 0.02 | 0.04 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0 | 0 | 0 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | Busy Hour | 0.04 | 0.07 | 0.09 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.02 | 0.05 | 0.06 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0 | 0.01 | 0.01 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | Busy Hour | 0.07 | 0.11 | 0.15 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.01 | 0.04 | 0.05 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0 | 0.02 | 0.05 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+
> The call drop rate slightly increased while all cases are within the 0.2%
> target.
## 7.4 Conclusion
This candidate technique has impacts to network KPI. The total handover number
slightly decreases when it is applied. The percentage of satisfied users may
decrease but be within a 95% target in most cases, especially when the
reference case meets the target. It also has limited impacts to the call drop
rate. It was observed that the investigated power reduction for the BCCH
carrier is up to 12.5 % for the small site configuration S(2/2/2) and up to 10
% for the medium site configuration S(4/4/4), respectively. It is noted that
the evaluation was not in alignment with the common assumptions in clause 6.2
requiring the evaluation of the cumulated TRX power consumption over all
carriers of the base station. Thus the observed gains can be seen rather as
indicative for a possible significant power saving.
# 8 Candidate Solution: Output Power Reduction on BCCH Carrier for GMSK
## 8.1 Introduction
The need to investigate energy savings in the GERAN networks and in particular
at the BTS side has been previously raised in GERAN [8-1]. This clause depicts
the candidate technique \'output power reduction on BCCH carrier for GMSK\'.
It is judged to achieve significant energy savings in networks in low and
medium loaded network scenarios. After the concept description performance
evaluation results for various defined scenarios are reported that confirm the
assumption that this candidate technique will lead to significant OPEX
savings.
## 8.2 Concept Description
This clause depicts the concept of the output power reduction on BCCH carrier
for GMSK candidate technique.
### 8.2.1 Overview
Energy saving in the BTS may be possible across the whole network for times
with low and medium traffic loads, e.g. at night when there is no or very few
traffic served on the BCCH transceiver or during other day phases with medium
traffic. In these times a reduced output power could be permitted on the BCCH
carrier for all time slots carrying GMSK modulation except time slots carrying
BCCH and CCCH channels as well as timeslots preceding them. The latter ones
are excluded due to impact on BCCH monitoring task in the mobile.
In addition power reduction on specific time slots on the BCCH carrier,
allocated to SDCCH/8 channels, which are used by multiple mobile stations and
only sporadically, such as for location update, during channel access or for
directed retry, is excluded, since the power reduction estimate may be
unreliable due to insufficient channel quality measurements.
In case of absence of traffic channels, i.e. presence of idle time slots, TS
45.008 specifies that dummy bursts have to be sent using GMSK modulation at
maximum Tx power on the BCCH carrier. Also for GMSK modulated traffic channels
the usage of maximum TX power on the BCCH carrier is currently specified.
The proposed concept foresees to operate all time slots on BCCH carrier using
GMSK modulation, except the time slot carrying the BCCH/CCCH or further
BCCH/CCCH channels (in case of extended BCCH or multiple CCCH configurations)
and SDCCH/8 channels, with a modified output power, as follows:
\- a static maximum output power reduction of APDmax = 2, 4 or 6 dB for idle
time slots on BCCH carrier.
\- a dynamic output power reduction of APDdyn = m * 2 dB , with m steps, up to
the maximum power reduction APDmax for time slots carrying TCH on BCCH
carrier. Time slots dedicated to TCH handling distant users with high pathloss
will use maximum output power, whilst users with lower pathloss will be served
with reduced output power.
\- a static output power reduction of APDmax,red = 2 dB for TN 7 and in
addition for all time slots preceding CCCH timeslots in case of Multiple CCCH.
The applied power reduction of 2 dB equals one power step. On other TRX than
the BCCH TRX normal dynamic transmit power control is applied.
### 8.2.2 Exemplary Scenario
The different power levels for one TDMA frame are depicted in Figure 8.2-1 for
one exemplary scenario with 1 SDCCH on TN 1 and three active TCH users, one
with high, another with medium and another with low pathloss.
{width="6.022222222222222in" height="2.7375in"}
Figure 8.2-1: Output power reduction on BCCH carrier for selected GMSK
modulated timeslots using static and dynamic power reduction in 2 dB power
steps
## 8.3 Concept Evaluation
### 8.3.0 Overview
This clause depicts simulation results from the evaluation of the BCCH power
saving method introduced in [8-2] and described above. Clause 8.3.1 provides
an overview of the simulation model and of the applied power reduction method,
clause 8.3.2 describes the observed performance for eight specific scenarios.
The specification impact is analysed in clause 8.3.3. The conclusion and
further proceeding are outlined in clause 8.4.
### 8.3.1 Simulation Model
The simulation model is described hereafter including general simulation
assumptions, investigated channel allocation strategies, evaluated deployment
scenarios, the network layout, the output power reduction settings on BCCH
carrier and the employed Link-to-System Mapping.
#### 8.3.1.1 Simulation Assumptions
The general simulation assumptions are summarized in Table 8.3-1.
Table 8.3-1: Summary of simulation assumptions.
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Parameter | Value | Unit | Comment | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Sectors per site | 3 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Frequency Band | 900 | MHz | | | | | | | | | 1800 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Cell size | 2000 | m | Coverage layer | | | | | (900 MHz, rural) | | | 500 | | | | | | | Capacity layer | | | | | (1800 MHz, urban) | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BCCH frequency | 4/12 | | | | re-use | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | TS occupation on | []{.underline} | | BCCH allocation: | | BCCH carrier | | | on TN 0. | | | **Traffic | | | | | scenario 1** | | SDCCH allocation: | | | (Voice only): | | | | | | | S(2/2/2): TN 1 of | | | S(2/2/2): TN | | BCCH TRX, | | | 2...7 | | operated without | | | | | power reduction. | | | S(4/4/4): TN | | | | | 3...7 | | S(4/4/4): TN 1, | | | | | TN 2 of BCCH TRX, | | | | | operated without | | | | | power reduction. | | | | | | | | | | TCH allocation: | | | | | all TS of cell | | | | | excluding TS on | | | | | BCCH carrier | | | | | allocated to BCCH | | | | | / SDCCH. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | TCH frequency | S(2/2/2): | | S(2/2/2): MA | | re-use | | | length is 9 for | | | 1/1 for RF | | hopping channel. | | | synthesizer | | | | | hopping | | Bandwitdth | | | | | restriction is | | | S(4/4/4): | | taken into | | | | | account by loss | | | 1/1 for RF | | factor of 3 dB | | | synthesizer | | against ideal | | | hopping | | frequency | | | | | hopping. | | | | | Coherence BW for | | | | | paths in rural | | | | | area between 2 | | | | | and 4 km is up to | | | | | 1 MHz [8-3]. | | | | | | | | | | S(4/4/4): MA | | | | | length is 27 for | | | | | hopping channel. | | | | | | | | | | Bandwitdth | | | | | restriction is | | | | | taken into | | | | | account by loss | | | | | factor of 0 dB | | | | | against ideal | | | | | frequency | | | | | hopping. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Frequency | S(2/2/2): | | BCCH frequencies | | Allocation | | | and TCH | | | 21 frequencies | | frequencies | | | (total) | | separated by 1 | | | | | guard frequency | | | 12 (BCCH layer) | | (0.2 MHz) | | | | | | | | 9 (TCH layer) | | | | | | | | | | S(4/4/4): | | | | | | | | | | 39 frequencies | | | | | (total) | | | | | | | | | | 12 (BCCH layer) | | | | | | | | | | 27 (TCH layer) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Bandwidth of BCCH | 2.4 MHz | | | | layer | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Bandwidth of TCH | S(2/2/2): 1.8 MHz | | TCH layer in one | | layer | | | frequency block | | | S(4/4/4): 5.4 MHz | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Path loss model | Okumura-Hata | | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | | | | | | | | - rural (cell | | | | | size 2000 m) | | | | | | | | | | - urban (cell | | | | | size 500 m) | | | | | | | | | | Short distances | | | | | are modelled by | | | | | means of a two | | | | | breakpoint model | | | | | with LOS area, | | | | | LOS-NLOS | | | | | transition area | | | | | and NLOS area | | | | | aligned to ITU-R | | | | | F1336-4 and ECC | | | | | Report 146. | | | | | | | | | | MCL = 59 dB is | | | | | applied acc. to | | | | | 3GPP 45.050 for | | | | | GSM900 small | | | | | cells. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Log-normal fading | 6 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | | st.dev | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Correlation | 110 | m | | | distance | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Inter-site | 50 | \% | | | log-normal | | | | | correlation | | | | | coefficient | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handover margin | 3 | dB | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS output power | 43 | dBm | | | for BCCH carrier | | | | | and other | | | | | carriers | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS antenna | 40 | m | ETSI TS 102 706 | | height | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS Sector | 65º deg H-plane,\ | dBi | UMTS 30.03 | | antenna pattern | max TX gain 18 | | (modified from | | | | | assumption in | | | | | ETSI TS 102 706) | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS feeder and | 3 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | | connector loss | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS sensitivity\ | | dBm\ | implementation | | BTS noise figure | | dB | dependent | | | | | | | | | | implementation | | | | | dependent | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS output power | 31 (GSM 900) | dBm | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | | | | | | 28 (DCS 1800) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | RACH power | Disabled | | | | reduction | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS antenna height | 1.5 | m | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS antenna gain | 0 | dBm | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS sensitivity | -104\ | dBm\ | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | 8 | dB | | | MS noise figure | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Body loss | 3 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Indoor/Outdoor | 0 / 100 | \% | Outdoor users are | | users | | | more interesting | | | | | in a | | | | | res | | | | | election/handover | | | | | study. This will | | | | | effectively | | | | | eliminate the | | | | | impact of | | | | | building | | | | | penetration loss | | | | | listed in ETSI TS | | | | | 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Traffic scenarios | 100 % voice users | | **First priority | | | | | for evaluation** | | Traffic scenario | | | | | 1 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Average power | 0 dB up to X dB | | Level chosen | | decrease (APD) | in 2 dB steps | | according to | | for voice | | | dynamic power | | | | | control. | | | | | | | | | | **See clause | | | | | 8.3.1.4** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Average power | X:= 0 dB, 2 dB, 4 | | **See clause | | decrease (APD) | dB, 6 dB | | 8.3.1.4** | | for dummy bursts | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Speech codecs | FR: AFS 12.2 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DARP phase I | As defined for | | | | penetration rate | traffic scenario | | | | | 1: 60 % | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | AMR codec mode | Disabled | | | | adaptation | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DTX on DL/UL | Enabled | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Channel | Description of | | **See clause | | allocation | channel | | 8.3.1.2** | | strategy | allocation | | | | | strategy | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handover | Penalty in terms | | No intra-cell | | | of speech frame | | handovers | | | erasures during | | enabled. | | | handover to be | | | | | taken into | | HO penalty size | | | account for DL | | of 6 speech | | | and UL. | | frames assumed | | | | | for inter-cell | | | | | handovers | | | | | | | | | | in case of voice | | | | | activity. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handover failure | modelled | | Loss of HO | | | | | command in source | | | | | cell and failure | | | | | of HO access in | | | | | target cell taken | | | | | into account. | | | | | | | | | | Leading to call | | | | | drop. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Voice call model | - Poisson | | **Aligned to | | | distributed call | | MUROS TR 45.913** | | | arrivals and | | | | | exponential call | | | | | durations. | | | | | | | | | | - mean call | | | | | duration: 90 sec | | | | | | | | | | - min. call | | | | | duration: 5 sec. | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Fading channel | Typical Urban | | | | profile | (TU) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Paging cycle | BS_PA_MFRMS = 4 | | | | | | | | | | (4*235.38 ms = | | | | | 941.5 ms) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Number of cells | 12 | | | | in neighbour cell | | | | | list | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS velocity | 3 km/h | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User mobility | random movement | | **User moves in | | model | | | random | | | | | direction.** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Traffic load | according to | | Traffic is | | creation | configured load | | generated at a | | | | | randomly | | | | | determined | | | | | location in a | | | | | cell after random | | | | | determination of | | | | | a cell in the | | | | | network. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handling of | taken into | | User is moved to | | service area | account in idle | | a location at the | | border effects | and connected | | opposite side of | | | mode. | | the service area | | | | | with similar | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions to | | | | | continue the call | | | | | until its end. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BSIC decoding | enabled for | | rate of 9.6 sec | | | neighbour cells | | in connected mode | | | in idle and | | (for each | | | connected mode | | neighbour cell) | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | rate of 4.7 sec | | | | | in idle mode (for | | | | | each of the | | | | | strongest 6 | | | | | neighbour cells). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Propagation wrap | activated | | | | around | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Network size | Cluster of 16 | | Cluster is | | | sites | | repeated for | | | | | propagation wrap | | | (48 cells) | | around, cell | | | | | statistic over 48 | | | | | cells | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Network | Timeslot | | TDMA frame | | synchronization | synchronous | | synchronous for | | mode | | | BS at same cell | | | | | site, | | | | | | | | | | not TDMA frame | | | | | synchronous for | | | | | BS of different | | | | | cell sites | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Interference | Co-channel and | | ACP = 18 dB | | types | 1^st^ adjacent | | | | | channel | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | RLF Timeout | 16 | | Leading to call | | | | | drop | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DL Repeated FACCH | disabled | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Repeated SACCH | disabled | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Simulated time | 90 000 TDMA | | Equals about 415 | | | frames | | sec (3 km/h) | | | | | | | | 75 000 TDMA | | Equals about 346 | | | frames | | sec (50 km/h) | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Simulated | DL and UL | | | | directions | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
#### 8.3.1.2 Channel Allocation Strategies
Two different simple channel allocation strategies have been investigated
depicted in Table 8.3-2.
Table 8.3-2 Investigated channel allocation strategies
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Aspect | Strategy 1 | Strategy 2 | Strategy 3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Carrier | > no | > preference | > preference | | selection** | > preference | > for channel | > for channel | | | > for | > allocation | > allocation | | | > allocation | > is given to | > is given to | | | > on BCCH | > BCCH carrier | > BCCH | | | > carrier or | | > carrier, if | | | > hopping TCH | | > the uplink | | | > carrier | | > received | | | | | > power on | | | | | > RACH is | | | | | > higher than | | | | | > a | | | | | > pre-defined | | | | | > threshold, | | | | | > else | | | | | > allocated | | | | | > with | | | | | > preference | | | | | > on hopping | | | | | > TCH carrier | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **TS | > random | > random | > random | | selection** | > selection of | > selection of | > selection of | | | > time slot, | > time slot, | > time slot, | | | > both on BCCH | > both on BCCH | > both on BCCH | | | > carrier or | > carrier or | > carrier or | | | > hopping TCH | > hopping TCH | > hopping TCH | | | > carrier | > carrier | > carrier | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Activation | > second TRX | > second TRX | > second TRX | | of** | > goes into | > is only | > goes into | | | > standby mode | > activated if | > standby mode | | **non-BCCH | > once no | > the BCCH TRX | > once no | | TRX** | > channel is | > is filled | > channel is | | | > allocated | | > allocated | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 8.3.1.3 Deployment Scenarios and Network Layout
The following deployment scenarios were evaluated.
Table 8.3-3: Evaluated scenarios for small site configuration S(2/2/2)
+----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | Scenario | Frequency band | Load Profile | Channel | | | and propagation | | Allocation | | | | | Strategy | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | S1 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 1 | 1 | | | | | | | | rural | (20% of BHT) | | | | | | | | | | MS velocity: 3 | | | | | km/h | | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | S2 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 1 | 2 | | | | | | | | rural | (20% of BHT) | | | | | | | | | | MS velocity: 3 | | | | | km/h | | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | S3 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 2 | 1 | | | | | | | | rural | (50% of BHT) | | | | | | | | | | MS velocity: 3 | | | | | km/h | | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | S4 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 2 | 1 | | | | | | | | rural | (100% of BHT) | | | | | | | | | | MS velocity: 3 | | | | | km/h | | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | S5 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 1 | 3 | | | | | | | | rural | (20% of BHT) | | | | | | | | | | MS velocity: 50 | | | | | km/h | | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | S6 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 2 | 3 | | | | | | | | rural | (100% of BHT) | | | | | | | | | | MS velocity: 50 | | | | | km/h | | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
Table 8.3-4: Evaluated scenarios for medium site configuration S(4/4/4)
+----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | Scenario | Frequency band | Load Profile | Channel | | | and propagation | | Allocation | | | | | | | | | | Strategy | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | M1 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 1 | 2 | | | | | | | | rural | (20% of BHT) | | | | | | | | | | MS velocity: 3 | | | | | km/h | | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | M2 | DCS 1800 | Load Profile 1 | 2 | | | | | | | | urban | (20% of BHT) | | | | | | | | | | MS velocity: 3 | | | | | km/h | | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
The layout of the simulated network deployment is shown in Figure 8.3-1.
{width="5.165972222222222in" height="3.077777777777778in"}
Figure 8.3-1: Layout of simulated network deployment for evaluation of BCCH
power reduction. Cell statistic area (yellow) and propagation wrap-around
shown for one DL co-channel interferer set (red)
#### 8.3.1.4 Output Power Reduction Settings on BCCH carrier
This clause lists the power reduction settings on BCCH carrier which were
evaluated.
For idle timeslots on BCCH carrier, different levels of power reduction were
evaluated: 0 dB (reference case), 2 dB, 4 dB and 6 dB. An exception is the
timeslot preceding the BCCH; a power reduction of 0 dB (reference case) or 2
dB (power reduction case) was applied in this case.
For the timeslots carrying the SDCCH no power reduction was applied.
For TCH channels, a power reduction of 0 dB up to the configured figure X for
idle channels was applied in 2 dB steps according to dynamic power control.
The considered reference case depicts the case of no power reduction on BCCH
carrier, whilst dynamic power control is active on hopping TCH layer.
In the evaluation following power reduction settings were thus compared:
\- no power reduction on BCCH carrier for idle time slots / TCH time slots (0
dB / 0 dB), reference case;
\- a fixed reduction of X dB on BCCH carrier for idle timeslots and a maximum
reduction of X dB for TCH time slots (X dB / X dB) with 2 dB steps on TCH time
slots and with X = 2, 4, 6. The actual reduction is determined by dynamic
power control.
#### 8.3.1.5 Employed Link-to-System Mapping
This clause contains a brief description of the implemented link-to-system
mapping in the network simulator used for the evaluation in clause 3.2. It
consists of a two stage mapping model including burst level mapping and block
level mapping.
For deriving the input to the burst level mapping, received carrier and
interferer power levels are determined on burst basis based on coupling loss,
addition of shadow fading and rayleigh fading. On BCCH layer correlated
rayleigh fading is used due to no frequency hopping and low MS speed of 3
km/h, whilst on TCH layer employing frequency hopping uncorrelated rayleigh
fading is added.
For a non SAIC MS, carrier to noise plus interference ratio C/(I+N) is then
calculated as input to the burst level mapping, which picks a value of the raw
BER distribution.
For a SAIC MS, carrier to noise plus strongest interferer ratio C/(I~1~+N) and
Dominant to Rest of Interference ratio (DIR) are determined as input to the
burst level mapping, which picks a value of the raw BER distribution.
In the block level mapping the accumulated raw BER over 8 bursts is mapped
onto the FER, which is derived according to the used codec AFS 12.2.
A user is included in the satisfied user rate, if the call is successfully
terminated or if the call needs to be cut and has reached a minimum duration
of 30 s.
### 8.3.2 Simulation Results
This clause presents the simulation results for depicted scenarios in clause
8.3.1.3.
#### 8.3.2.1 Scenario S1
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-5a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-5a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 100 % | 99.3 | 99.6 | 0 % | 0.26 | 0.11 | - | | / 0 | | % | % | | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 100 % | 100 % | 100 % | 0.24 | 0.59 | 0.29 | -7.2 | | / 2 | | | | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 100 % | 99.4 | 100 % | 0.51 | 0.28 | 0.15 | -17.0 | | / 4 | | % | | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 99.4 | 100 % | 100 % | 0 % | 0.29 | 0.18 | -26.5 | | / 6 | % | | | | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-5b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-5b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH~ Mean cumulated output power per cell
[dBm] Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB] Reduction of TRX power
consumption per cell 0 dB / 0 dB 43.2 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 42.0 1.2 7.1 % 4 dB / 4
dB 41.1 2.1 11.6 % 6 dB / 6 dB 40.4 2.8 15.7 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is met in all cases, the
actual levels being between 99 % and 100%.
\- Call block rate: remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed for the reference and
all three power reduction settings.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate which is still
in the order of the required level of 0.2 % except for the setting (2 dB/2
dB).
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 26.5 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to about
15.7 %.
#### 8.3.2.2 Scenario S2
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-6a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-6a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | - | 99.1 | 100 % | 0.29 | 0.27 | 0.24 | - | | / 0 | | % | | % | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | - | 99.0 | 99.7 | 0 % | 0.3 % | 0.33 | -21.0 | | / 2 | | % | % | | | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | - | 98.5 | 100 % | 0.54 | 0 % | 0 % | -26.2 | | / 4 | | % | | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | - | 99.1 | 100 % | 0 % | 0 % | 0 % | -26.7 | | / 6 | | % | | | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-6b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-6b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH~ Mean cumulated output power per cell
[dBm] Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB] Reduction of TRX power
consumption per cell 0 dB / 0 dB 43.0 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 41.7 1.3 7.6 % 4 dB / 4
dB 40.8 2.2 12.0 % 6 dB / 6 dB 40.2 2.8 15.7 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is met in all cases, the
actual levels being between 98.5 % and 100%. With the applied channel
allocation strategy 2 the TCH layer is not loaded in this scenario.
\- Call block rate: remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed in rare cases for two
power reduction settings.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate which is still
in the order of the required level of 0.2%.
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 26.7 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to about
15.7 %. The reference case for scenario S2 has a cumulative TRX power
consumption of 6.3 % less compared against the reference case of scenario S1.
#### 8.3.2.3 Scenario S3
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-7a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-7a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 98.9 | 100 % | 99.9 | 0.21 | 0.22 | 0.15 | - | | / 0 | % | | % | % | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 99.5 | 99.7 | 100 % | 0.21 | 0 % | 0 % | -19.2 | | / 2 | % | % | | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 99.3 | 99.7 | 100 % | 0.22 | 0.11 | 0.09 | -20.6 | | / 4 | % | % | | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 99.2 | 99.5 | 100 % | 0.23 | 0.12 | 0.11 | -27.3 | | / 6 | % | % | | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-7b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-7b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH~ Mean cumulated output power per cell
[dBm] Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB] Reduction of TRX power
consumption per cell 0 dB / 0 dB 43.7 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 42.6 1.1 6.8 % 4 dB / 4
dB 41.9 1.8 10.5 % 6 dB / 6 dB 41.4 2.3 14.1 %
* * *
**Observations:**
> \- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is met in all cases, the
> actual levels being between 98.9 % and 100%.
>
> \- Call block rate: remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
> capacity and due to insufficient radio quality.
>
> \- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed in rare cases for
> three power reduction settings.
>
> \- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate which is
> either below or close to the required level of 0.2 %.
>
> \- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power
> reduction. A reduction of up to 27.3 % is achieved.
>
> \- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to 14.1
> %.
#### 8.3.2.4 Scenario S4
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-8a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-8a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 96.1 | 98.5 | 99.7 | 0.18 | 0.98 | 0.56 | - | | / 0 | % | % | % | % | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 96.7 | 98.7 | 99.8 | 0.21 | 1.0 % | 0.71 | -12.0 | | / 2 | % | % | % | % | | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 96.7 | 98.5 | 99.8 | 0.06 | 0.92 | 0.63 | -17.9 | | / 4 | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 95.5 | 99.3 | 99.8 | 0.06 | 0.67 | 0.74 | -20.6 | | / 6 | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-8b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-8b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH~ Mean cumulated output power per cell
[dBm] Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB] Reduction of TRX power
consumption per cell 0 dB / 0 dB 44.2 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 43.3 0.9 4.9 % 4 dB / 4
dB 42.7 1.5 8.6 % 6 dB / 6 dB 42.3 1.9 11.2 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of satisfied users of 95 % are met
in all cases, the actual levels being between 95.5 % and 99.3 % on downlink
and close to 100% on UL.
\- Call block rate: remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality. It decreases along the level
of power reduction. This is reasoned by the slightly increased good server
cells, see Figures 8.3-2 and 8.3-3.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed for all settings.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures leading to an increased call drop rate
between 0.67 % and 1.0 %, thus exceeding the required level of 0.2 %. However
no increase of the call drop rate with regard to the reference is observed.
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 20.6 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to 11.2 %.
#### 8.3.2.5 Scenario M1
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-9a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-9a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | * | * | * | * | * | **Han |** Han | | Power | _Sati |_ Sati | _Sati |_ Call | _Call | dover | dover | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | Fa | rate | | ction | us | us | us | r | r | ilure | vs. | | on | ers_ _| ers_ _| ers_ _| ate_ _| ate_ _| R | r | | idle | | | | | | ate_ _| efere | | TS / |__DL |__DL |__UL | | | | nce_ _| | TS~T | TCH_ _| B | TCH_ _| | | | | | CH~__| | CCH_ * | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 100 % | 99.6 | 99.9 | 0.53 | 0.10 | 0.10 | - | | / 0 | | % | % | % | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 100 % | 99.9 | 100 % | 0.11 | 0 % | 0 % | -11.7 | | / 2 | | % | | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 100 % | 99.8 | 99.9 | 0.11 | 0 % | 0 % | -18.8 | | / 4 | | % | % | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 100 % | 99.9 | 99.8 | 0 % | 0 % | 0 % | -22.6 | | / 6 | | % | % | | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-9b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-9b: Power consumption metrics.
* * *
**Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH\ ~** **Mean cumulated output power per
cell [dBm]** **Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB]** **Reduction
of TRX power consumption per cell** 0 dB / 0 dB 43.1 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 42.2 0.9
4.3 % 4 dB / 4 dB 41.6 1.5 7.0 % 6 dB / 6 dB 41.2 1.9 8.9 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is met in all cases, the
actual levels being between 99 % and 100%.
\- Call block rate: decreases along the level of power reduction. This is
reasoned by the slightly increased good server cells, see Figures 8.3-2 and
8.3-3. In all cases it remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed only for the
reference case.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate which is still
below the required level of 0.2 %.
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 22.6 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to 8.9 %.
#### 8.3.2.6 Scenario M2
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-10a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-10a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 99.4 | 99.9 | 99.9 | 0.44 | 0 % | 0 % | - | | / 0 | % | % | % | % | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 100 % | 99.7 | 99.8 | 0.31 | 0.1 % | 0.09 | +0.5 | | / 2 | | % | % | % | | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 100 % | 100 % | 100 % | 0.11 | 0 % | 0 % | -10.0 | | / 4 | | | | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 100 % | 100 % | 100 % | 0.12 | 0 % | 0 % | -15.6 | | / 6 | | | | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-10b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-10b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
**Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH\ ~** **Mean cumulated output power per
cell [dBm]** **Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB]** **Reduction
of TRX power consumption per cell** 0 dB / 0 dB 43.1 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 42.2 0.9
4.1 % 4 dB / 4 dB 41.7 1.4 6.9 % 6 dB / 6 dB 41.3 1.8 9.2 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is met in all cases, the
actual levels being between 99 % and 100%.
\- Call block rate: decreases along the level of power reduction. This is
reasoned by the slightly increased good server cells, see Figures 8.3-2 and
8.3-3. In all cases it remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed only for one power
reduction setting (2 dB / 2 dB) in rare cases.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate which is below
the required level of 0.2 %.
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 15.6 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to 9.2 %.
#### 8.3.2.7 Impact on performance of neighbour cell identification in
connected mode
The impact of power reduction on BCCH carrier on the performance of neighbour
cell identification was investigated for MS\'s in connected mode for a medium
traffic load scenario. The measurement of neighbour cells in connected mode
follows the description in clauses 6.5.1.2 and 6.5.3 of the present document.
The modelling parameters for connected mode operation are summarized in table
8.3-11.
**Table 8.3-11: Additional modelling parameters for connected mode operation**
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Parameter | Value | Unit | Comment | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Scenario | S3 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Cell size | 2000 | m | Rural | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Number of samples | 8 | | | | per neighbour | | | | | cell per SACCH | | | | | frame | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BSIC detection | 9.6 | sec | Per neighbour | | rate | | | cell | | | | | | | | | | ([6], clause | | | | | 7.2 requires at | | | | | least every 10 | | | | | sec) | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | CIR threshold for | 8 / 7 | dB | for non-DARP MS / | | detection of BSIC | | | DARP MS | | failure | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Simulated time | 50 000 TDMA | | Equals about 230 | | | frames | | sec | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Modelling of BSIC detection for neighbour cells is done with a periodicity of
20 SACCH multiframes, i.e. 9.6 sec , for each neighbour cell during the active
connection. To identify the impact on handover measurements, the number of
BSIC decodable neighbour cells from the BA list, which determines the number
of cells included in the neighbour cell measurement report, has been logged
during the simulation and the average was calculated over the simulated time
and all MSs and was compared against the reference without power reduction.
Figure 8.3-2 depicts for the investigated scenario the difference in mean
number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells in connected mode.
{width="5.690277777777778in" height="2.9965277777777777in"}
Figure 8.3-2: Difference in mean number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells as
function of the power reduction on BCCH carrier for the investigated scenario
S3
It is observed that the mean number of neighbour cells which can be decoded
during the call (i.e. good neighbour cells) in order to perform an intercell
handover steadily increases along the maximum power reduction in the
considered APD range. The relative gain for the investigated scenario S3
versus the reference (no power reduction) is 0.42 cells (2 dB power
reduction), 0.83 cells (4 dB power reduction) and 1.09 cells (6 dB power
reduction) from the set of 12 neighbour cells the MS continuously measures.
This investigation confirms the behaviour already observed in [5]. Thus BCCH
power reduction overall has a positive impact on the number of BSIC decodable
neighbour cells in connected mode.
#### 8.3.2.8 Impact on performance of neighbour cell identification in idle
mode
The impact of power reduction on BCCH carrier on the performance of neighbour
cell identification was also investigated for MS\'s in idle mode for a medium
traffic load scenario. The measurement of neighbour cells in idle mode follows
the description in clause 6.5.1.1 of the present document.
The modelling parameters for idle mode operation are summarized in table
8.3-12.
**Table 8.3-12: Additional modelling parameters for idle mode operation**
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Comment Scenario S3  
Cell size 2000 m Rural BS_PA_MFRMS 4 DRX period = 942 ms Number of samples per
serving cell for cell reselection 20 4 paging bursts per DRX period Number of
samples per neighbour cell for cell (re)selection 5 1 sample per DRX period
Cell (re)selection based on C2 criterion 5 dB offset for cell reselection
within 15 sec after last one, acc. to [6] BSIC detection rate 4.7 sec ([6]
requires to measure the six strongest carriers once per reselection period (=5
sec) and BSIC detection of each neighbour cell at least every 30 sec) CIR
threshold for detection of BSIC failure 8 / 7 dB for non-DARP MS / DARP MS
Idle mode duration 28.2 sec Allowing 6 subsequent cell reselections after
initial cell selection, followed by call set up procedure Simulated time 50
000 TDMA frames Equals about 230 sec
* * *
Neighbour cell identification performance in idle mode was assessed by
recording the number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells from the list of non-
serving strongest 6 neighbour cells belonging to the BA list, after power
ranking. This list was recorded at cell reselection instants for all MSs. A
BSIC detection rate for reconfirmation of the 6 strongest neighbours of 4.7
sec was assumed for accurate modelling of the idle mode operation allowing for
6 cell reselections before call set-up is initiated. The average over the
simulated time and all MSs was then calculated and was compared against the
reference without power reduction. Figure 8.3-3 depicts for the investigated
scenario the difference in mean number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells in
idle mode.
{width="5.621527777777778in" height="2.986111111111111in"}
Figure 8.3-3: Difference in mean number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells in
idle mode at cell reselection instants as function of the power reduction\ on
BCCH carrier for the investigated scenario S3
It is observed that the mean number of cells which can be BSIC decoded at cell
reselection instants steadily increases also here along the maximum power
reduction in the considered APD range. The relative gain for the investigated
scenario S3 versus the reference (no power reduction) is 0.33 cells (2 dB
power reduction), 0.52 cells (4 dB power reduction) and 0.70 cells (6 dB power
reduction) from the set of strongest 6 neighbour cells the MS continuously
monitors. Thus BCCH power reduction overall has a positive impact on the
number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells also in idle mode.
For the idle mode operation, the number of cell reselections was evaluated and
the relative decrease compared against the reference case is reported in Table
8.3-13.
Table 8.3-13: Relative decrease in cell reselections in idle mode (Scenario
S3)
+-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Power reduction | Relative decrease in cell reselections [%] | | | | | on idle TS | | | | | | / TS~TCH~ | | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | 0 dB / 0 dB | - | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | 2 dB / 2 dB | 13.3 | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | 4 dB / 4 dB | 0 | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | 6 dB / 6 dB | 36.7 | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+
Thus a significant reduction of the number of cell reselections in idle mode
is observed. This is in line with the reduction of intercell handovers
depicted for Scenario 3 in Table 8.3-7a.
#### 8.3.2.9 Results for the alternative MS velocity
##### 8.3.2.9.1 Scenario S5
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-14a for DL and UL for the
alternative MS velocity of 50 km/h, where separate statistics for DL are
recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH layer.
Table 8.3-14a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 99.2 | 91.4 | 97.7 | 1.59 | 0.0 % | 0.0 % | - | | / 0 | % | % | % | % | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 98.8 | 93.6 | 98.8 | 2.10 | 0.36 | 0.35 | -3.2 | | / 2 | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 97.1 | 90.3 | 99.1 | 0.64 | 0.63 | 0.53 | +11.3 | | / 4 | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 95.4 | 91.7 | 98.2 | 0.36 | 0.54 | 0.62 | -13.3 | | / 6 | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-14b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-14b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH~ Mean cumulated output power per cell
[dBm] Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB] Reduction of TRX power
consumption per cell 0 dB / 0 dB 43.2 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 41.9 1.3 7.2 % 4 dB / 4
dB 41.1 2.1 11.6 % 6 dB / 6 dB 40.3 2.9 16.3 %
* * *
Observations:
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is fulfilled for UL, but
cannot be met for all DL channels, neither for the reference nor for the
candidate configurations. In particular channels on the BCCH layer are
impacted.
\- Call block rate: remains below or close to 2%. It includes blocking both
due to capacity and due to insufficient radio quality. It is observed to
decrease along power reduction in this scenario as an increased number of
cells can be BSIC decoded in idle mode (see clause 8.3.2.9.4).
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are more often than for the
reference velocity. They are observed for all three power reduction settings.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate being around
0.4-0.6% and hence above the required level of 0.2 % except for the reference
setting (0 dB/0 dB).
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction
with the exception of the 4 dB power reduction case. A reduction of up to
about 13 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to about
16.3 %.
##### 8.3.2.9.2 Scenario S6
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-15a for DL and UL for the
alternative MS velocity of 50 km/h, where separate statistics for DL are
recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH layer.
Table 8.3-15a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 95.2 | 91.4 | 96.8 | 2.23 | 0.54 | 0.34 | - | | / 0 | % | % | % | % | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 95.4 | 94.3 | 96.3 | 1.26 | 0.97 | 0.60 | -11.4 | | / 2 | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 93.7 | 92.6 | 96.4 | 0.89 | 1.03 | 0.70 | -2.8 | | / 4 | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 92.3 | 91.6 | 96.5 | 0.79 | 1.08 | 0.61 | +3.1 | | / 6 | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-15b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-15b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH~ Mean cumulated output power per cell
[dBm] Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB] Reduction of TRX power
consumption per cell 0 dB / 0 dB 43.6 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 42.5 1.1 5.9 % 4 dB / 4
dB 41.9 1.7 9.5 % 6 dB / 6 dB 41.4 2.2 12.1 %
* * *
Observations:
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is fulfilled for UL, but
cannot be met for all DL channels, neither for the reference nor for the
candidate configurations. In particular channels both on the BCCH layer and in
some cases on the TCH layer are impacted.
\- Call block rate: remains below or close to 2%. It includes blocking both
due to capacity and due to insufficient radio quality. It is observed to
decrease along power reduction in this scenario as an increased number of
cells can be BSIC decoded in idle mode (see clause 8.3.2.9.4).
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are more often than for the
reference velocity. They are observed for the reference and all three power
reduction settings in this scenario.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate being around
0.55-1.1% and hence above the required level of 0.2 % for the reference and
all three power reduction settings.
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction
with the exception of the 4 dB power reduction case. A reduction of up to
about 11.4 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to about
12.1 %.
##### 8.3.2.9.3 Impact on performance of neighbour cell identification in
connected mode
The impact of power reduction on BCCH carrier on the performance of neighbour
cell identification was also investigated for MS\'s in connected mode for
medium and low traffic load scenarios for the alternative MS velocity. The
modelling parameters are the same as described in clause 8.3.2.7. Figure 8.3-4
depicts for the investigated scenarios S5 and S6 the difference in mean number
of BSIC decodable neighbour cells in connected mode.
{width="5.569444444444445in" height="2.9923611111111112in"}
Figure 8.3-4: Difference in mean number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells as
function of the power reduction on BCCH carrier for the investigated scenarios
S5 and S6
It is observed that the mean number of neighbour cells which can be decoded
during the call (i.e. good neighbour cells) in order to perform an intercell
handover steadily increases along the maximum power reduction in the
considered APD range. The relative gain for the investigated scenario S5
versus the reference (no power reduction) is 0.5 cells (2 dB power reduction),
0.84 cells (4 dB power reduction) and 1.22 cells (6 dB power reduction) from
the set of 12 neighbour cells the MS continuously measures. For scenario S6
the corresponding figures are 0.44, 0.75 and 0.99 cells. Thus BCCH power
reduction overall has a positive impact on the number of BSIC decodable
neighbour cells in connected mode. It is in the same size as for the reference
MS speed of 3 km/h.
##### 8.3.2.9.4 Impact on performance of neighbour cell identification in idle
mode
The impact of power reduction on BCCH carrier on the performance of neighbour
cell identification was also investigated for MS\'s in idle mode for medium
and low traffic load scenarios for the alternative MS velocity. The modelling
parameters are the same as described in clause 8.3.2.8. Figure 8.3-5 depicts
for the investigated scenarios S5 and S6 the difference in mean number of BSIC
decodable neighbour cells in idle mode.
{width="5.569444444444445in" height="2.9923611111111112in"}
Figure 8.3-5: Difference in mean number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells in
idle mode at cell reselection instants as function of the power reduction\ on
BCCH carrier for the investigated scenarios S5 and S6
It is observed that the mean number of cells which can be BSIC decoded at cell
reselection instants steadily increases also here along the maximum power
reduction in the considered APD range, but lesser compared to the connected
mode. The relative gain for the investigated scenario S5 versus the reference
(no power reduction) is 0.37 cells (2 dB power reduction), 0.59 cells (4 dB
power reduction) and 0.72 cells (6 dB power reduction) from the set of 12
neighbour cells the MS continuously measures. For scenario S6 the
corresponding figures are 0.34, 0.49 and 0.57 cells. Thus BCCH power reduction
overall has a positive impact on the number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells
also in idle mode for the alternative MS velocity of 50 km/h.
For the idle mode operation and the alternative MS velocity of 50 km/h, the
number of cell reselections was evaluated and the relative decrease compared
against the reference case is reported in Table 8.3-16.
Table 8.3-16: Relative decrease in cell reselections in idle mode (Scenarios
S5 and S6)
+-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Power reduction | Relative decrease in | Relative decrease in | | | cell reselections | cell reselections | | on idle TS | [%], S5 | [%], S6 | | | | | | / TS~TCH~ | | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 0 dB / 0 dB | - | - | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 2 dB / 2 dB | 24.8 | 16.2 | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 4 dB / 4 dB | 15.5 | 10.1 | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 6 dB / 6 dB | 39.9 | 20.8 | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+
Also in this scenario a significant reduction of the number of cell
reselections in idle mode is observed, the extent being dependent on the
traffic load, i.e. for low traffic load the reduction in cell reselections is
higher than for the medium traffic load for all power reduction configurations
against the reference.
### 8.3.3 Impact to Specifications
This clause depicts the impact to GERAN specifications for the candidate
solution investigated in clause 8.
In order to investigate the benefit of this candidate solution, the
compatibility objective, i.e. the impact to legacy mobile stations has been
studied in clause 8.3.2 with the result that no negative impact was identified
in the considered APD range 2 dB...6 dB, instead a small positive impact on
call quality and cell reselection performance was evaluated.
Thus for the specification work different options exist as listed below.
8.3.3.1 Option 1: no provision of signalling support
In this option no signalling support is defined for the power reduction on
BCCH carrier.
Legacy mobiles and new mobiles are not aware of its usage by the network. This
option has the property that a supporting MS needs to spend effort to detect
the activation of this setting in the cell to improve the accuracy of power
measurements for candidate cells. On the other side, moving from the legacy
mode (hereafter called \"normal operation\") into the mode applying power
reduction on the BCCH carrier (hereafter called \"BCCH carrier power save mode
operation\") and vice versa can be done by the network without the need for
broadcasting or signalling any change in the setting. For instance the network
may decide to move from BCCH carrier power save mode operation into normal
mode to serve higher traffic loads and may reduce the APD per each modulation
stepwise along the traffic increase to reach the APD foreseen for normal
operation. In return when the traffic load decreases the network can choose to
apply higher APD values per each modulation to move to the BCCH carrier power
save mode operation.
For realizing this option in the specifications, modification of TS 45.008,
clause 7.1 is required, see the section below. This introduces the BCCH
carrier power save mode. Corresponding changes to TS 45.008 v12.4.0 are shown
using revision marks.
8.3.3.1.1 Example implementation of option 1 in the specifications
The following is a modified extract of TS 45.008 related to clause 7.1.
=========== Begin of modified extract of TS 45.008 ==============
7 Network pre-requisites
7.1 BCCH carriers
The BCCH carrier shall be continuously transmitted on all timeslots.
In normal operation, it shall be transmitted without variation of RF level in
case all timeslots on BCCH carrier are GMSK modulated and else in case of
different modulated timeslots with minimum variation of RF level as specified
below. An exception applies in case the BTS enters the BCCH carrier power save
mode, for the purpose of energy saving, where the variation of RF level for
all timeslots on BCCH carrier, except timeslots carrying BCCH/CCCH, is relaxed
as specified below.
The RF power level may be ramped down between timeslots for instance to
facilitate switching between RF transmitters.
A BTS that is switching transmission between two or more antennas, shall use
the same antenna for transmission on a CCCH slot and the slot immediately
preceding the CCCH slot (i.e. antenna switching shall be avoided immediately
before a CCCH slot in order to avoid unpredictable path loss changes at this
point).
In normal operation, for timeslots on the BCCH carrier which are transmitted
with modulations other than GMSK, the output power (as defined in 3GPP TS
45.005) may be lower than the output power used for GMSK modulated timeslots.
In this case, the maximum allowed difference in output power actually
transmitted by the BTS is listed for each respective modulation of EGPRS,
EGPRS2 and VAMOS in the table below.
In BCCH carrier power save mode operation, for timeslots on the BCCH carrier
which are transmitted with GMSK or modulations other than GMSK, except
timeslots carrying BCCH/CCCH, the output power (as defined in 3GPP TS 45.005)
may be lower than the output power used for timeslots carrying BCCH/CCCH. In
this case the maximum allowed difference in output power actually transmitted
by the BTS for each respective modulation of GSM, GPRS, EGPRS, EGPRS2 and
VAMOS is 6 dB.
Furthermore, in normal operation and in BCCH carrier power save mode
operation, between a timeslot used for BCCH/CCCH and the timeslot preceding
it, the difference in output power actually transmitted by the BTS shall not
exceed 3 dB.
NOTE: The allowed output power decrease does not refer to a difference between
nominal power levels, but to the difference in output power actually
transmitted.
Maximum output power decrease on BCCH carrier in normal operation.
+----------+------------+--------------+ | | Modulation | Output Power | | | | | | | | Decrease | +----------+------------+--------------+ | EGPRS | 8PSK | 4 dB | +----------+------------+--------------+ | EGPRS2-A | 16QAM | 6 dB | +----------+------------+--------------+ | EGPRS2-A | 32QAM | 6 dB | +----------+------------+--------------+ | EGPRS2-B | QPSK | 4 dB | +----------+------------+--------------+ | EGPRS2-B | 16QAM | 6 dB | +----------+------------+--------------+ | EGPRS2-B | 32QAM | 6 dB | +----------+------------+--------------+ | VAMOS | AQPSK | 4 dB | +----------+------------+--------------+
The MS requirements on signal strength measurements are defined for normal
operation of the BTS for the case when only GMSK modulation is used on the
BCCH carrier. There are no defined signal strength measurement requirements
for the MS in BCCH carrier power save mode or if other modulations are used on
the BCCH carrier.
On the PCH the network shall send valid layer 3 messages according to 3GPP TS
44.018. Unused signalling blocks on the CCCH/BCCH shall contain L2 fill
frames. Other unused timeslots shall transmit dummy bursts.
The number of neighbour cell BCCH carriers in the BCCH allocation shall not
exceed 32.
NOTE 1: This BCCH organization enables MS to measure the received signal level
from surrounding cells by tuning and listening to their BCCH carriers.
Providing that an MS tunes to the list of BCCH carriers indicated by the
network it will, providing the list is sufficiently complete, have listened to
all possible surrounding cells, i.e. the surrounding cell list for handover
purposes is effectively defined by the MS. Refer to 3GPP TS 43.022 for
definitions of the BCCH carrier lists. This can be achieved without inter‑base
station synchronization.
NOTE 2: If the operator decides to allow for the usage of modulation types
other than GMSK on the BCCH carrier in certain cells, the cell selection, cell
reselection and handover procedures involving these cells will be somewhat
sub-optimal. This is due to the fact that the signal level measured by the MS
at some instances in time will be affected by the possibly lower output power
level of the 8-PSK modulation type used in EGPRS, and by the output power
level of QPSK, 8-PSK, 16-QAM and 32-QAM modulation types used in EGPRS2, and
by the AQPSK modulation used in VAMOS respectively, and by the power
fluctuation resulting from these modulation types other than GMSK. The extent
of the performance degradation is dependent upon the measurement schedule in
each particular MS as well as upon the used output power decrease and the
current load of the modulation types other than GMSK on the BCCH carrier. By
limiting the maximum number of time slots, carrying modulation types other
than GMSK, being simultaneously allowed on the BCCH carrier, and/or carefully
selecting the values of involved network parameters, the impact on the above
mentioned procedures may be minimised. Additionally, in areas with very low
cell overlap, some coverage loss effects may have to be taken into account by
the operator when selecting network parameters.
NOTE 3: In the case that QPSK, AQPSK, 8-PSK, 16-QAM or 32-QAM modulation s
(see Note 2) are allowed on the BCCH carrier and frequency hopping including
the BCCH carrier is used, the reception quality in connected mode for some
fast moving MS (meaning MS experiencing Doppler frequencies of 100 Hz or more)
may be degraded. This may be seen as a backwards compatibility problem for
some existing MS, most likely occurring if the used APD is larger than 2 dB.
NOTE 4: In case the BTS supports operation in BCCH carrier power save mode, in
order to yield network energy savings, the usage of this mode by the operator
needs some consideration. For instance in areas with very low cell overlap,
some coverage loss effects may have to be taken into account. Additionally the
operated reduction of output power on timeslots of the BCCH carrier should be
similar in neighbouring cells, i.e. the usage of this mode should not be
applied cell specific, but applied to as many cells as possible in a certain
geographic area. The benefit of this mode in busy hour times was investigated
to be rather limited [TR 45.926]. Thus the actual level of operated power
reduction on timeslots using GMSK modulation should generally be reduced along
the increase of traffic load in cells and may be selected to be higher for
idle timeslots than for occupied timeslots. Usage of power reduction on
timeslots carrying SDCCH in BCCH carrier power save mode is not recommended.
=========== End of modified extract of TS 45.008 ==============
8.3.3.2 Option 2: provision of mobile station signalling support
To enable the network to decide on application of the BCCH carrier power save
mode and the level of power reduction based on the penetration of new mobile
stations supporting the BCCH carrier power save mode operation, the network is
made aware of the MS capability signalled at network attach indicating the
support of this feature. The capability is signalled as part of the Rel-13
features in TS 24.008 in MS CM3 and MS RAC. A single bit is required for the
support of this feature. In addition for verifying the improved neighbour cell
detection performance of the MS a test needs to be specified (e.g. in TS
45.008) such that the MS identifies the strongest candidate cell for a set of
candidate cells with active BCCH carrier power save mode in a predefined time
interval (neighbour cell identification test in BCCH carrier power save mode).
It is noted that option 2 includes the modification to TS 45.008 as depicted
for option 1. In addition clause 7.1 of TS 45.008 needs to include MS
requirements applicable in BCCH carrier power save mode by referring to the
new neighbour cell identification test.
This option can be specified independently from option 3, i.e. in combination
or in standalone manner.
##### 8.3.3.2.1 Example implementation of option 2 in the specifications
The following is an extract of clause 10.5.1.7 (Mobile Station Classmark 3) of
TS 24.008. For MS RAC (clause 10.5.5.12a MS Radio Access capability) the
corresponding changes apply.
=========== Begin of modified extract of TS 24.008 ==============
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \ ::= | | | | ... | | | | \ _\-- Release 12 starts here_ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ \-- _Late addition of a | | release 11 feature_ | | | | \ ; | | | | \ _\-- Release 13 | | starts here_ | | | | \ ::= | | | | \ \ \ \ | | ; | | | | \::= | | | | \ ; | | | | \ ::= | | | | \ ; | | | | \ ::= | | | | \ | | | | \ ; | | | | \ ::= | | | | \ ; | | | | \ ::= | | | | \ ; | | | | \ : := | | | | \ | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | \ ::= | | | | \ ; | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.5.1.7/3GPP TS 24.008 _Mobile Station Classmark 3_ information
element
Table 10.5.1.7/3GPP TS 24.008 (continued): _Mobile Station Classmark 3_
information element
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | **ER Band Support** (1 bit field) | | | | This field indicates whether the mobile station supports ER-GSM band | | (see 3GPP TS 45.005 [33]). It is coded as follows: | | | | Bit | | | | 0 ER-GSM not supported | | | | 1 ER-GSM supported | | | | NOTE: When ER-GSM is supported, the associated RF power capability | | is found in Mobile Station Classmark 1, Mobile Station Classmark 2 | | and/or Mobile Station Classmark 3. The ER-GSM band associated radio | | capability is the same as for the R-GSM band (see R-GSM band | | Associated Radio Capability). | | | | **UTRA Multiple Frequency Band Indicators support** (1 bit field) | | | | This field indicates whether the mobile station supports multiple | | radio frequency bands in UTRAN (see 3GPP TS 25.331 [23c]) and | | whether it understands signalling of overlapping UTRA frequency | | bands (see 3GPP TS 44.018 [84]). It is coded as follows: | | | | Bit | | | | 0 Multiple Frequency Band Indicators in UTRAN not supported | | | | 1 Multiple Frequency Band Indicators in UTRAN supported | | | | **E-UTRA Multiple Frequency Band Indicators support** (1 bit field) | | | | This field indicates whether the mobile station supports multiple | | radio frequency bands in E-UTRAN (see 3GPP TS 36.331 [129]) and | | whether it understands signalling of overlapping E-UTRA frequency | | bands (see 3GPP TS 44.018 [84]). It is coded as follows: | | | | Bit | | | | 0 Multiple Frequency Band Indicators in E-UTRAN not supported | | | | 1 Multiple Frequency Band Indicators in E-UTRAN supported | | | | **Extended TSC Set Capability support** (1 bit field) | | | | This field indicates whether the mobile station supports the | | extended TSC sets when operating in the PS or CS domain (see | | 3GPP TS 45.002 [32]). It is coded as follows: | | | | Bit | | | | 0 Extended TSC sets not supported | | | | 1 Extended TSC sets supported | | | | **Extended EARFCN value range** (1 bit field) | | | | This field indicates whether the mobile station supports the | | extended EARFCN value range in GERAN (see 3GPP TS 44.018 [84]). It | | is coded as follows: | | | | Bit | | | | 0 Extended EARFCN value range not supported | | | | 1 Extended EARFCN value range supported | | | | **BCCH carrier power save mode Support** (1 bit field) | | | | This field indicates whether the mobile station supports the BCCH | | carrier power save mode (see 3GPP TS 44.018 [84] and 3GPP TS | | 45.008 [34]). It is coded as follows: | | | | Bit | | | | 0 BCCH carrier power save mode not supported | | | | 1 BCCH carrier power save mode supported | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
=========== End of modified extract of TS 24.008 ==============
8.3.3.3 Option 3: provision of network signalling support
In this option signalling support is defined for the power reduction on BCCH
carrier being initiated by the network.
Thus new mobiles supporting the BCCH carrier power save mode operation can be
made aware of the non-constant output power on BCCH carrier due to this mode
if indicated by the base station in order to improve accuracy of received
power measurements in regard to the cell\'s carrier output power for candidate
cell measurements.
To this purpose for idle and connected mode operation the network broadcasts
on the BCCH of each cell, if power reduction is enabled on BCCH carrier of
this cell for all timeslots except those used for BCCH/CCCH, i.e. if it
operates the BCCH carrier power save mode. This indication may be sent as part
of System information, e.g. as part of the Control Channel Description
included in System Information Type 3, as depicted in the subsection below.
Changes to TS 44.018 v12.6.0 are shown using revision marks. Since SI 3 is
sent when TC=2 and TC=6 (acc. to TS 45.002), acquisition time is about 1 sec
to read this information. It is assumed that for a suitable candidate cell
after BSIC detection this time is acceptable to be taken into account in
possible subsequent cell reselections.
It is noted that option 3 includes the modification to TS 45.008 as depicted
for option 1. It can be specified independently from option 2, i.e. in
combination or in standalone manner.
##### 8.3.3.3.1 Example implementation of option 3 in the specifications
The following is an extract of clause 10.5.2.11 of TS 44.018.
=========== Begin of modified extract of TS 44.018 ==============
#### 10.5.2.11 Control Channel Description
The purpose of the _Control Channel Description_ information element is to
provide a variety of information about a cell.
The _Control Channel Description_ information element is coded as shown in
figure 10.5.2.11.1 and table 10.5.2.11.1.
The _Control Channel Description_ is a type 3 information element with 4
octets length.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
                   Control Channel Description IEI                       octet 1
MSCR ATT BS-AG-BLKS-RES CCCH-CONF octet 2
SI22IND CBQ3 **BCCH-PWR-SAVE** 0\ BS-PA-MFRMS octet 3  
spare
T 3212\ octet 4  
time-out value
* * *
Figure 10.5.2.11.1:  _Control Channel Description_ information element
Table 10.5.2.11.1:  _Control Channel Description_ information element
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **MSCR** , MSC Release (octet 2) | | | | Bit | | | | 8 | | | | 0 MSC is Release \'98 or older | | | | 1 MSC is Release \'99 onwards | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **ATT** , Attach-detach allowed (octet 2) | | | | Bit | | | | 7 | | | | 0 MSs in the cell are not allowed to apply IMSI attach and detach | | procedure. | | | | 1 MSs in the cell shall apply IMSI attach and detach procedure. | | | | **BS-AG-BLKS-RES** (octet 2) | | | | The BS-AG-BLKS-RES field is coded as the binary representation of | | the number of blocks reserved for access grant. | | | | Range | | | | 0 to 2 if CCCH-CONF = \"001\" | | | | 0 to 7 for other values of CCCH-CONF | | | | All other values are reserved in the first case | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **CCCH-CONF** (octet 2) | | | | bits | | | | 3 2 1 | | | | 0 0 0 1 basic physical channel used for CCCH, not combined with | | SDCCHs | | | | 0 0 1 1 basic physical channel used for CCCH, combined with SDCCHs | | | | 0 1 0 2 basic physical channel used for CCCH, not combined with | | SDCCHs | | | | 1 0 0 3 basic physical channel used for CCCH, not combined with | | SDCCHs | | | | 1 1 0 4 basic physical channels used for CCCH, not combined with | | SDCCHs | | | | all other values are reserved | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **SI22IND** , SYSTEM INFORMATION TYPE 22 indicator (octet 3) | | | | Bit | | | | 8 | | | | 0 SI22 is not broadcast. | | | | 1 SI22 is broadcast. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **CBQ3** , Cell Bar Qualify 3 (octet 3) | | | | Bits | | | | 7 6 | | | | 0 0 _Iu mode_ not supported | | | | 0 1 _Iu mode_ capable MSs barred | | | | 1 0 _Iu mode_ supported, cell not barred | | | | 1 1 _Iu mode_ supported, cell not barred. The network shall not use | | this value. | | | | **BCCH-PWR-SAVE** , BCCH carrier power save mode (octet 3) | | | | Bit | | | | 5 | | | | 0 BCCH carrier power save mode is not used | | | | 1 BCCH carrier power save mode is used | | | | > NOTE: See 3GPP TS 45.008 for information on Cell Bar Qualify 3 and | | > BCCH carrier power save mode. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **BS-PA-MFRMS** (octet 3) | | | | Bits | | | | 3 2 1 | | | | 0 0 0 2 multiframes period for transmission of PAGING REQUEST | | messages to the same paging subgroup | | | | 0 0 1 3 multiframes period for transmission of PAGING REQUEST | | messages to the same paging subgroup | | | | 0 1 0 4 multiframes period for transmission of PAGING REQUEST | | messages to the same paging subgroup. | | | | . | | | | . | | | | 1 1 1 9 multiframes period for transmission of PAGING REQUEST | | messages to the same paging subgroup | | | | NOTE: The number of different paging subchannels on the CCCH is: | | | | MAX(1,(3 - BS-AG-BLKS-RES)) * BS-PA-MFRMS | | | | if CCCH-CONF = \"001\" | | | | (9 - BS-AG-BLKS-RES) * BS-PA-MFRMS | | | | for other values of CCCH-CONF | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **T3212** timeout value (octet 4) | | | | The T3212 timeout value field is coded as the binary representation | | of the timeout value for periodic updating in decihours. | | | | Range: 1 to 255 | | | | The value 0 is used for infinite timeout value i.e. periodic | | updating shall not be used within the cell. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
NOTE: The MSC Release bit indicates the version of the MSC specific protocols
and is not applicable to access stratum protocols.
=========== End of modified extract of TS 44.018 ==============
## 8.4 Conclusion
The candidate technique \'output power reduction on BCCH carrier for GMSK\'
described in this clause has been evaluated for a series of scenarios, both
for the coverage layer and the capacity layer for the small site configuration
S(2/2/2) and the medium site configuration S(4/4/4) for low mobility users and
for the voice-only traffic scenario. From the results for the reference MS
velocity of 3 km/h it can be seen that in the investigated power reduction
range (APD range) up to 6 dB, savings in cumulated TRX power consumption up to
16 % are achieved for the small site configuration S(2/2/2) and up to 9 % for
the medium site configuration S(4/4/4), respectively, which is considered to
be substantial.
With regard to call quality, the level of satisfied users of 95 % is met in
all scenarios, the actual levels being all above 98.5 % except for the busy
hour scenario (Scenario S4), where the levels decrease to 95.5 % at most.
With regard to reliability of the evaluation results, satisfied user rates on
the BCCH carrier for the reference case in all investigated scenarios are
close to each other (i.e. between 98.5 % and 100%) and are impacted by the
handover penalty and handover rate in the different scenarios.
On the other side the handover rate is significantly reduced along the power
reduction, the reduction being in the order of 15...27 % against the reference
case depending on the scenario.
It is also observed that call blocking remains below 2% and call dropping
rates are generally not degraded against the reference case (except in one
scenario S1).
Impacts to neighbour cell identification performance in connected mode for
intercell handover and in idle mode for cell reselection were also studied by
evaluating the mean number of suitable candidate cells in idle and in
connected mode. It was observed that for the medium traffic load scenario S3
the average number of suitable candidate cells is increased up to 0.70 cells
in idle mode, and up to 1.09 cells in connected mode, respectively, for the
configured set of 12 neighbour cells. In both cases the number of good
neighbour cells is observed to steadily increase along the maximum power
reduction in the considered APD range. Furthermore the number of cell
reselections in idle mode is observed not to be increased compared to the
reference case.
Power reduction on BCCH layer for the APD range 2 dB to 6 dB is supposed to
improve system performance in interference limited scenarios yielding higher
spectral efficiency. It is noted that this APD range corresponds to the
allowed reduction of output power on the BCCH carrier up to 4 dB for 8PSK and
up to 6 dB for 16QAM and 32QAM ([6], clause 7.1).
Simulations have been also run for the capacity layer indicating the same
level of power saving as described for the coverage layer.
Simulations have been also run for the alternative MS velocity of 50 km/h for
the coverage layer and the small site configuration S(2/2/2). Also here BTS
energy savings in cumulated TRX power consumption up to around 16 % are
achieved for the low traffic load scenario and up to around 12 % for the
medium traffic load scenario, respectively. In these scenarios due to the
higher handover rate a negative impact to satisfied user rates in terms of
higher speech frame loss due to handover penalty and a negative impact to
handover failure rate are observed. Thus call drop rate increases along the
power reduction from about 0.55 % (reference) to around 1.1% (6 dB power
reduction). Neighbour cell identification performance is improved for power
reduction configurations similar as for the reference MS velocity and cell
reselections in idle mode are reduced in the range 10% to 40%. Thus power
reduction on BCCH carrier for the investigated APD range and for the
alternative MS velocity scenario is expected to yield sufficient system
performance, provided there is sufficient cell overlap.
From the obtained results, it is observed that the BCCH power saving candidate
technique employing an APD range of 2 dB... 6 dB depicts an attractive feature
for operators in saving OPEX, in particular in low and medium traffic load
scenarios where energy savings are larger than in the busy hour.
The impact on the specifications from introducing this candidate technique has
also been analysed. Solutions both without signalling support (option 1) and
with signalling support from the mobile station (option 2) and from the
network (option 3), respectively, have been studied. Impacts to TS 45.008
specifying the maximum allowed output power decrease, to TS 44.018 to support
the feature via broadcast signalling and to TS 24.008 to enable the mobile
station to inform the network about its capability to support this feature
have been described. The introduction of signalling support allows supporting
new mobile stations to improve accuracy and faster acquisition of candidate
cell measurements both in idle and connected mode. In order to allow for
timely introduction of this feature, nevertheless option 1 is proposed to be
specified in Rel-13, whilst option 2 and option 3 may serve as future
enhancements for new mobile stations combined with the support of other
features.
# 9 Summary and Conclusions
The BTSEnergy study has investigated candidate techniques for BTS energy
saving solutions. The major focus in the study was on energy saving in regard
to RF output power reduction. In particular RF output power reduction for the
BCCH carrier was investigated for different scenarios in regard to traffic
load profiles (low load, medium term load and busy hour load) and site
configurations (three sectorized sites with 2 TRX, 4TRX and 8 TRX per cells).
The study has defined performance objectives and compatibility objectives as
depicted in clause 5.
In regard to the evaluation of candidate solutions, two performance metrics
have been defined, one assessing the savings in cumulated RF output power over
all carriers of the cell and one assessing the savings in cumulated TRX power
consumption over all TRXs of the cell.
The candidate solution \"BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology\", depicted
in clause 7.1, foresees to reduce the transmit power on the BCCH carrier for
idle timeslots and for timeslots used for traffic channels. Two variants have
been investigated, one applying power reduction for traffic channels only for
DTX silence periods (variant 1) and one applying power reduction for traffic
channels both for DTX silence and active periods (variant 2). The level of
power reduction of 2 dB against the reference case, not applying any power
reduction, was evaluated for both variants for different load profiles and
different site configurations defined as part of the common assumptions in
clause 6\. The candidate has impacts to network KPI. The total handover number
slightly decreases when it is applied. The percentage of satisfied users may
decrease but be within a 95% target in most cases, especially when the
reference case meets the target. It also has limited impacts to the call drop
rate. It was observed that the investigated power reduction for the BCCH
carrier is up to 12.5 % for the small site configuration S(2/2/2) and up to 10
% for the medium site configuration S(4/4/4), respectively. It is noted that
the evaluation was not in alignment with the common assumptions in clause 6.2
requiring the evaluation of the cumulated TRX power consumption over all
carriers of the base station. Thus the observed gains can be seen rather as
indicative for a possible significant power saving.
The candidate solution \"Output Power Reduction on BCCH Carrier for GMSK\",
depicted in clauses 8.1 and 8.2 (concept description), foresees to apply a
reduced output power on the BCCH carrier for all time slots carrying GMSK
modulation except time slots carrying BCCH and CCCH channels as well as
timeslots preceding them. For the latter a limited power reduction of up to 2
dB is proposed, whilst for the other time slots a reduction in the range 2 dB
to 6 dB is proposed. The concept is evaluated in clause 8.3 investigating both
call quality metrics and power consumption metrics. According to the
candidate\'s conclusion in clause 8.4 the considered APD range 2dB...6 dB,
which is identical to that one allowed for higher order modulations on BCCH
carrier in [6], will generally have a positive impact on call quality metrics
-- such as satisfied user rates, handover failures and call drops -- when
compared against the reference case not applying any power reduction on BCCH
carrier. In addition a small positive impact on cell reselection performance
in idle mode is observed. In regard to power consumption metrics, the
candidate solution for small and medium size configurations at different
traffic loads and for MS velocities of 3 km/h and 50 km/h has shown to yield
improvements in output power reduction up to 2.8 dB and savings in cumulated
TRX power consumption up to 16 % for the small site configuration S(2/2/2) and
up to 9 % for the medium site configuration S(4/4/4), respectively, which is
considered to be substantial.
Thus it is proposed to proceed along the depicted approach in clause 8.4 in
the normative work in order to allow the network to configure the BCCH carrier
power save mode for the purpose of network energy savings.
###### ### Annex A: Bibliography
[7-1] System Simulation on BCCH Carrier Power Reduction; ZTE Corporation. BTS
Energy Teleconference #1; 19th Jan 2011.
[7-2] GP110155 - BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology; ZTE Corporation.
GERAN #49, Chengdu, Feb 28th \~ Mar 4th, 2011.
[7-3] BTSEnergy_simulation_Huawei; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; BTS Energy
Teleconference #3; 4th May 2011.
[7-4] GP110528 Enhancement on BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology; ZTE
Corporation. GERAN #50, Dallas, May 16th \~ May 20th, 2011.
[7-5] GP-111210 BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology; ZTE Corporation.
GERAN #51, Goteborg, Sweden, August 29th \~ September 2nd, 2011.
[7-6] BTS Energy Draft TR459xx GSM BTS Energy Saving v010; SI Rapporteur,
GERAN #51, Goteborg, Sweden, 29th August \~ 2nd September 2011.
[7-7] GP-111210 BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology; ZTE Corporation.
GERAN #52, Bratislava, Slovakia, November 21th \~ November 25, 2011.
[7-8] 3GPP TR 45.926 V030 (2011-11) Solutions for GSM/EDGE BTS Energy Saving
(Release 11)
[7-9] GP-120105 Evaluation on BCCH Carrier Power Reduction; ZTE Corporation.
GERAN #53, Hamburg, Germany. Februry 27^th^ -- March 2^nd^ 2012.
[8-1] GP-101638, \"New Study Item on Solutions for GSM/EDGE BTS Energy
Saving\", source Vodafone Group Plc, Alcatel-Lucent, Nokia Siemens Networks,
China Mobile Comm Corp, Telecom Italia S.p.A., Huawei Technologies Co.Ltd, ZTE
Corporation, Telefon AB LM Ericsson, GERAN#47.
[8-2] GP-101880 -- \"Output power decrease on BCCH carrier for GMSK\", Nokia
Siemens Networks, GERAN#48
[8-3] \"Mobile Communications Engineering\", William C.Y. Lee, 1982, McGraw-
Hill, p.44
#