# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 32.140: \"Subscription Management (SuM) requirements\".**
TS 32.141: \"Subscription Management (SuM) architecture\".
**TS 32.171: \"Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".**
TS 32.172: \"Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
**TS 32.176:** \"**Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions** \"**.**
Subscription Management (SuM) is a feature which will develop over a number of
3GPP releases. It is intended to permit Service Providers, Value Added Service
Providers and Mobile Operators to provision services for a specific
subscriber. The feature is necessary to allow Service Providers and Operators
to provision, control, monitor and bill the configuration of services that
they offer to their subscribers. SuM focuses on the OAM processes to manage
subscription information. These correspond to the \'Fulfilment\' Process areas
of the TeleManagement Forum Telecom Operations Map [3].
Within the current version of the present document this is limited to a single
operator\'s network.
SuM is an area of service operation management that sets a complex challenge
for Service Providers and Operators in their support of new or existing
subscribers during their every day network operation.
In 2G solutions the main repository of the subscription information is in the
Home Locations Register (HLR). However the management and administration
interfaces for controlling this information is proprietary to each vendor. The
use of proprietary interfaces is inconvenient for those Operators using
multiple vendors\' equipment since their provisioning systems have to
accommodate multiple proprietary interfaces, which perform essentially
identical functions. Moreover, it makes it more difficult to generate customer
self care applications that allow subscribers to provision, and amend
subscription data.
The 3G environment requires more complex service delivery mechanisms than in
2G and SuM is no longer simply an internal matter for a single operator but a
capability that is achieved by linking together features across multiple
Service Providers and Operators Operations Support Systems (OSS).
Historically, the services provided by Operators have been defined within
standards groups such as ETSI or 3GPP. With the advent of Open Services Access
(OSA) being adopted by 3GPP the User Service Definitions will be replaced by
Service Capabilities traded amongst Service Providers and Network Operators.
This will allow Operators and Service Providers to define customized service
environments that roam with users as they move amongst networks - this is the
Virtual Home Environment (VHE) 3GPP TR 22.121 [9]. This customized service
environment means that subscription information is held in a number of
locations including the Home Network, the Visited Network, the User Equipment,
Application VASP Equipment (e.g. servers accessed by the subscriber for
content and information based services) and the Operations Systems of the
Service Providers, and Operators supporting the subscriber\'s service
subscription.
Service delivery and support across multiple vendors\' solutions and
organizations is a feature of other industries, and the solutions adopted are
secure supply chain solutions based upon mainstream e-commerce principles,
methods and technologies.
Integration Reference Points (IRPs) are specified in separate TSs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the service requirements and high-level
architecture for SuM.
SuM is expected evolve in stages over several releases of 3GPP specifications.
The present document provides additional supporting material, which whilst not
within the scope of this release, provides an insight towards the future
evolution. This is in order that initial work may be done with an appreciation
of the wider context expected in future releases of 3GPP specifications.
SuM for 3GPP is primarily concerned with the ability to define subscription
profiles and associate the profile with subscribers, users and services that
are authorized by agreements. The subscription profile may be used in the
process of configuring various network resources (access and core) to make the
service a reality for the user.
The management capabilities extend to the creation, modification,
synchronization, and re application of subscription profiles.
The present document is oriented towards a standardized interface into the
Home Subscriber Server (HSS) in order that services can be provisioned and
maintained.
The present document includes information applicable to Network Operators,
content providers, and terminal and network manufacturers.
The present document contains the core requirements for SuM, which are
sufficient to provide management services.
The method by which applications subscribe to OSA is not within the scope of
the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[3] GB910 Telecom Operations Map v 2.1 (TeleManagement Forum).
[4] MWIF MTR-002 (Annex A): \"Architecture requirements\".
[5] ebXML Transport Routing and Packaging Overview and Requirements 26th May
2000 v0-96.
[6] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organisation of subscriber data\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TR 22.121: \"Service aspects; The Virtual Home Environment; Stage
1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.198-03: \"Open Service Access (OSA) Application Programming
Interface (API); Part 3: Framework\".
[11] - [12] Void
[13] 3GPP TS 22.041: \"Operator Determined Call Barring\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.015: \"Technical realisation of Operator Determined Barring
(ODB)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[16] - [17] Void
[18] 3GPP TS 32.803: \"Telecommunication management; Process guide; Use cases
in Unified Modelling Language (UML)\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation M.3050.1 (2004) Enhanced Telecom Operations Map
(eTOM) -- The business process framework.
[20] ITU-T Recommendation M.3050.2 (2004) Enhanced Telecom Operations Map
(eTOM) -- Process decompositions and descriptions.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply:
**actor:** entity, party, person or organization playing one or more roles.
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [15].
**Network Operator (NO):** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**organization:** \'legal entity\' that may perform one or more \'business
roles\' when interacting with other organizations.
**PLMN operator:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**reseller Service Provider (SP):** actor that resells services provided and
defined technically by another service provider. The reseller may re-brand the
service or offer a modified tariff package to its customers.
**retailer:** organization that sells 3GPP User Equipment (UE) and services to
retail customers.
**role:** defined by a set of properties or attributes that describe the
capabilities of an entity that can be performed on behalf of other role(s). An
activity performed by an actor. Each actor can play many roles.
**service:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**service integrator:** organization that takes a set of services from other
providers and derives an end-to-end set of services. It has responsibility for
the end to end service QoS to the customer.
**Service Profile (SProf): a service specific subscription profile
component.**
**Service Provider (SP):** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**subscribed services profile:** contains identifications of subscribed
services, their status and reference to service preferences; this is a
component of the subscriber profile.
**subscriber:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**subscriber profile:** The set of data managed and stored by Subscription
Management (SuM) for a subscriber for the management of associated users and
subscribed services and the limits relative to their use.
**subscription:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Subscription Management (SuM):** set of capabilities that allow Operators,
Service Providers (SPs), and indirectly subscribers, to provision, control,
monitor the subscription profile.
**subscription profile:** The set of data managed and stored by network
domains and subsystems for the operation and execution of the services
provided to a specific user associated with a subscriber.
**subscription profile component:** discrete subset of the subscription
profile that may be stored or managed separately from other subsets e.g.
components that may be stored in different domains, subsystems or replicated
using different synchronization rules.
**trusted third party:** organization that performs an agreed role on behalf
of two or more other organizations (e.g. authentication, trust, market place
services etc.).
**user:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Value Added Service Provider (VASP):** See 3GPP TR21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
2G Second Generation Mobile
3G Third Generation Mobile
API Application Programming Interface
AuC Authentication Center
B2B Business to Business
CS Circuit Switch
DDM Data Definition Method
EIR Equipment Identity Register
GTT Global Text Telephony
HLR Home Location Register
HSS Home Subscriber Server
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IRP Integration Reference Point (see 3GPP TS 32.102 [15])
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
MWIF Mobile Wireless Internet Forum
NPDB Number Portability Data Base
OAM Operations, Administration and Maintenance
OSA Open Services Access
OSS Operations Support System
PS Packet Switch
QoS Quality of Service
SP Service Provider
SProf Service Profile
SuM Subscription Management
eTOM enhanced Telecom Operations Map (TMF/ITU-T)
UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
VASP Value Added Service Provider
VHE Virtual Home Environment
VPLMN Visited Public Land Mobile Network
# 4 General description
## 4.1 Subscription Management (SuM) concept
The 3G environment requires more complex service delivery mechanisms than in
2G. The following drivers are leading to a need to standardize SuM Interfaces:
  * Use of different vendor\'s equipment for 2G/2.5G and 3G.
  * The trend in 2/2.5G toward the support of Virtual Network Operators > and Content Providers requiring standardized interfaces amongst > them.
Service delivery and support across multiple vendors\' solutions and
organizations is a feature of other industries, and the solutions are adopted
are secure supply chain solutions based upon mainstream e-commerce principles,
methods and technologies.
SuM is an area of service operation management that permits Service Providers
and Operators to provision services for a specific customer service
subscription.
Specific 3G areas that SuM requirements must address are:
  * Subscription information is distributed across in a number of > locations including the Home Network, the Visited Network, the > User Equipment, Application VASP equipment (e.g. servers accessed > by the subscriber for content and information based services).
  * SuM will allow Service Providers and Operators to provision, control > and monitor the subscription information.
  * SuM is not simply an internal matter for a single operator but a > capability that is achieved by linking together features across > multiple Operators\' Operations Support Systems (OSSs).
  * SuM will need to manage subscription information in e.g. the OSSs, > HSS, UE, OSA, MMS and IMS subsystems.
The conceptual model for SuM is illustrated in figure 1.
Figure 1: High level view of Subscription Management (SuM)
SuM is concerned with provisioning the subscription profile throughout all the
systems and trading partners needed to realize the customer service, SuM
provides specifications that define the interfaces and the procedures that
interconnect the three points of the SuM triangle: Customer Care Center, the
User and the network (s) where the Subscription profile resides (such as HSS,
USIM, etc.).
## 4.2 Partnership with Enhanced Telecom Operations Map (eTOM)
The Enhanced Telecom Operations Map as defined in ITU-T M.3050 [19] [20]
provides a comprehensive framework for operating and running a network.
SuM, in particular the configuration of resources, aligns with subset of the
eTOM model in the area of fulfilment.
Table 1: Relationship between SuM and the eTOM model ITU-T M3050.2 [20]
* * *
eTOM Fulfilment Processes eTOM level 2 process Applicable to SuM eTOM level 3
processes applicable to this SuM release CRM Fulfilment Order Handling **No**  
Marketing Fulfilment Response **No**  
Selling **No**  
SM&O Service Configuration and Activation **Yes** Implement, Configure &
Activate Service RM&O Resource Provisioning **Yes** Configure & Activate
Resource S/P Relationship Management S/P Requisition Management **No**
* * *
## 4.3 SuM operations viewpoint
Figure 2 positions SuM from the viewpoint of operations management.
Figure 2: SuM context within operations management
SuM manages Subscriptions in the form of Subscription profile components. The
subscription profile components may be distributed across Service Management
&Operations (SM&O), Resource Management & Operations (RM&O) and Network
domains in order to easily configure resources and support services at the
Network Operations Management level.
There may also be mappings of subscription profile components between the
SM&O, RM&O and Network domains. In particular, such mapping may exist between
a model of services and service parameters in the SM&O layer and the model of
service parameters in the SuM NRM. Similarly, such mapping may also exists for
identifiers and the concepts of user and subscriber as found in the SuM NRM
to/from other representations of these concepts in the SM&O layer. These
mappings are outside the scope of the SuM NRM.
### 4.3.1 Functional overview
As the telecommunications now entering into the 3G, more powerful terminal and
access technology allows the telecommunications networks to offer new wireless
Multimedia and Internet services.
Accordingly, SuM is a telecommunications management framework that allows the
Operators to leverage their network resources to:
  * Validate (register, authenticate, and authorise.) a request for service from a user;
  * Collect, store, update, and distribute the Service Profile information for the user;
  * Select the trusted network resources to manage access, distribution, and control of the profile data information for the user; and
  * Direct the network resources to promptly deliver the service requested to the user according to said profile information.
SuM fulfils the following essential 3G requirements:
  * The \"**Device Diversity** \" allows access to telecommunications networks by a variety of UEs and devices that are available for the user at the time.
  * The \"**Access Diversity** \" allows the telecommunications networks to offer a variety of access network options such as UTRAN, GERAN, WLAN, etc. to the user.
  * The \"**Service Diversity** \" allows the Telecommunications networks to provide a variety of services delivered to the user from third party application Service Providers (VASP) or from other telecommunications networks (VPLMN).
## 4.4 Management of subscription profiles
Figure 2: Architecture for management of subscription profile components
### 4.4.1 Requirements for subscription profile component management
SuM does not extend to the management of services.
However it is necessary to provide network entities with the subscription
profile components needed for service fulfilment:
1\. Subscription profile management shall support the fulfilment of requests
for service from users, application services, and user equipment.
2\. Subscription profile management shall support requests for subscription
creation, modification and deletion. These requests may originate from users,
subscribers, Network Operators, and Service Providers.
3\. The above requests may be associated with service entities such as the
MMS, IMS etc.
4\. It shall be possible to relate each request for service with the
corresponding Service Profile (SProf) information
5\. The subscription profile information shall be maintained in the HSS.
6\. In order to fulfil services, subscription profile information shall be
distributed among the various network entities.
7\. A subscription profile log shall be created to track changes related to
creation and modification of subscription profiles and subscription profile
components.
8\. A backup copy of the subscription profile shall be created.
9\. Subscription profile information shall be secured by authorised access and
control mechanisms.
### 4.4.2 Requirements for network and terminal provisioning
Figure 3: SuM network and service provisioning
The following steps define a logical sequence of events required for granting
a request for service.
a) A request for service is issued by a user (via the UE).
b) Network receives the request for service and attempts to locate a >
subscriber ID.
c) Once a subscriber ID is identified, it is authenticated if there has > not
already been an initial authentication.
d) A request for service shall be denied if the subscriber cannot be >
identified and authenticated.
e) For those requests for service that are authenticated, the > corresponding
subscription profile components are obtained if they > have not already been
obtained at initial authorization.
f) The subscription profile component provides information on the > services
that are available to the subscriber and correlate the > service request with
a specific subscribed service.
The service is properly set up according to the profile (e.g. QoS, etc.) in
order to prepare for the fulfilment and delivery of the service.
### 4.4.3 Profile management evolution
For SuM stage 2 or 3, SP can expand from the current definition of subscriber
data (e.g. 3GPP TS 23.008 [7]) when appropriate.
Subscription profile supports:
  * Preference management;
  * Service customization;
  * Terminal management;
  * Information sharing;
  * Access permission via a unique key identifier.
The profile data will be distributed (using the Service Profile download
capability) to configure the necessary architectural entities (UE, Servers
etc.).
Subscription profile data needs to be consistently managed across all the
entities within the network that use the profile. The data may be controlled
from a central point, or be distributed, hence the logical database depicted
in figure 4.\ The management capabilities relate to the definition,
modification and synchronization of the data mainly in core network entities.
This may extend to data needed in Terminal Devices, Network Elements, Core
Network entities and Application Servers.
## 4.5 SuM: relationship to Network Entities and other subsystems
### 4.5.1 General
The SuM Feature provides management functions for subsystems, domains and
components some of which are defined in the 3GPP Network Architecture 3GPP TS
23.002 [2]. However the Network Architecture does not address the Mobile
Equipment or the Open Services Architecture nor non 3GPP defined subsystems.
Figure 5 shows this relationship with these entities, many of which are
closely related to the Home Subscriber Server (HSS).
Figure 4: Examples of SuM relationships with Network Architecture
Figure 5 is based upon entities identified in the 3GPP Network Architecture
3GPP TS 23.002 [2].
The Network Architecture identifies a number of entities that use subscription
profile information for their operation.
The SuM feature provisions and audits the subscription profile information
(either directly, or indirectly):
  * **Core Network entities:**
1) Home Subscriber Server (HSS) including Home Location Register (HLR),
Authentication Centre and HSS Logical functions;
2) Visitor Location Register (VLR);
3) Equipment Identity Register (EIR);
4) SMS.- GMSC;
5) SMS Interworking MSC.
  * **Circuit Switched Domain:**
1) MSC Server;
2) Gateway MSC (GMSC).
  * **User Equipment/Mobile Station:**
```{=html}
``` \- Specific entities of the Mobile System as:
    1.  IP Multimedia System (IMS);
    2.  CAMEL Entities;
    3.  Number Portability Database (NPDB);
    4.  Global Text Telephony (GTT) entities.
SuM also provides capabilities to support B2B trading interfaces to other
trading partners: VASP, Virtual mobile Operators etc.
Figure 5 also implies a set of relationships from SuM to:
  * User Equipment Management that is assumed to configure and provision > all aspects of the User Equipment and Terminals, including the > possibility of configuring UICC/USIM profile information, using > MeXe where appropriate.
  * Application Service provided by third parties including trusted > third parties that may configure some USIM via network interfaces, > for example banks and other financial institutions. These services > may also be provided by the Network Operator performing the role > of Application Service provider.
  * Network Service provided by Network Operators (e.g. SMS, presence).
### 4.5.2 Void
# 5 SuM assumptions and methods
The following assumptions are made in developing the SuM requirements.
## 5.1 Business model assumptions
1\. The provider of the service package to the subscriber may be different
from either the Service Provider or the Network Operator.
2\. The model shall allow for retailers, distributors and third parties that
are independent of the Service Provider and the Network Operator.
## 5.2 Network and control assumptions
1\. The invocation of a service feature in real time shall be the
responsibility of the network and any associated control.
## 5.3 Use case method
Use cases are developed using the techniques defined in 3GPP TR 32.803 [18].
An illustrative set of use cases using the method can be found in annex B.
# 6 High-level requirements
## 6.1 General
Figure 5: SuM Entities - Relations
Figure 7 shows the relationships between users, subscribers, subscriptions and
services.
According to the way in which Operators do business:
  * Each Operator has many subscribers;
  * Each subscriber can have several users; and
  * Users can request a service. The request will be granted if for the > user, a contract for the requested service has been signed between > the service provider and a subscriber.
### 6.1.1 Pre-requisites for service
These assertions address some of the operator\'s concerns, prior to granting a
service request to a user:
1\. find a subscriber entity that can match with the user;
2\. identify and verify the subscriber\'s subscription profile; and
3\. ensure the request for service is consistent with the subscription
profile.
## 6.2 Feature requirements
SuM shall provide:
1\. The management of the subscription profile information in the home PLMN.
> 2\. It shall be possible to replicate and distribute the subscription
> profile components.
\- Support for subscription profile information across administrative, network
and systems domains (e.g. VLR in visited networks).
3\. The control and modification of subscription profile information
consistent with the customer care needs including self help, self diagnosis
and fault diagnosis.
\- SuM shall provide a process to support subscribers wishing to check their
Subscription Configuration (e.g. support self care).
### 6.2.1 Requirements on HSS/HLR
The master database where subscription profile components are stored is in the
HSS/HLR, which is used by the network for distribution and replication of this
data in other subsystems such as the PS, CS and IM domains, CAMEL, etc.
1\. SuM shall allow for the creating, reading, updating and deleting of
subscription profile data in the HSS/HLR.
2\. SuM shall support the data described in 3GPP TS 23.008 [7].
### 6.2.1.1 PS domain
1\. SuM shall manage subscription profile components within the HSS for the PS
Domain.
### 6.2.1.2 CS domain
1\. SuM shall manage subscription profile components within the HSS for the CS
Domain.
### 6.2.1.3 IM CN Sub-system (IMS)
1\. SuM shall manage subscription profile components within the HSS for the
IMS defined in reference 3GPP TS 23.228 [8].
### 6.2.1.4 Authentication Center (AuC)
1\. SuM shall be able to manage subscription profile components in the HSS for
the Authentication Center.
### 6.2.1.5 Equipment Identity Register (EIR)
1\. SuM shall be able to manage relevant subscription profile components in
the HSS for the EIR
2\. SuM shall support Subscription Data defined in reference 3GPP TS 22.041
[13], 3GPP TS 23.015 [14].
## 6.3 Security
1\. Specific local, national, and regional security regulations shall be
complied with.
2\. SuM data shall be safeguarded against unapproved disclosure or usage.
3\. SuM data shall be provided in a secure and reliable manner that ensures
the information is neither lost nor corrupted.
4\. Access to SuM data shall only be permitted in an authorised and secure
manner
5\. Secure mechanisms shall be available for the transfer of SuM data to, from
or between authorised entities.\ The secure mechanisms to be applied shall be
appropriate to the level of confidentiality of the data, the endpoints of the
transfer and the routes that are available for the transfer of the data.
6\. Audit records should be maintained for all SuM transactions to facilitate
resolution of security violations.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Business model
# A.1 Processes
Processes involved in SuM can be described by the e-Business Telecom
Operations Map (TOM) version 2.1. It is the Fulfilment part that describes
those processes. The present document mainly focus on the Development and
Operations Process, Network and System Management Processes and on the Network
Element Management process.
The MWIF business model MTR-002 [4] shows an organizational model for Trading
partners co-operating to provide wireless mobile services, the terms used in
this example may not coincide exactly with those used in other parts of the
present document, e.g. Subscriber and Customer are believed to be equivalent.
{width="6.652083333333334in" height="3.670138888888889in"}
Figure A.1: Assumed Business Model
In this business model the Subscriber is a customer of the Service Provider
(SP).
Commercial agreements are set up and maintained between them for the provision
of services from the SP to the User via the Network Operator.
The Subscriber may have contracts with multiple SPs and maintains these on
behalf of one or more users.
The Subscriber informs the SP which services each user should have access to
and may choose to set limits on how much a User can use a particular service.
For instance the Subscriber may authorize \$x a day of video calls with a high
QoS and unlimited video calls with a lower QoS.
The SP must enter into contract(s) with one or more Network Operators in order
to deliver services to Users. Other companies may wish to sell services
without having a contract with a Network Operator. This can be achieved by
adopting the role of Third Party Service Provider and selling service via the
SP. Other Companies may wish to sell just content. This is made possible by
developing a commercial relationship with either a SP or a Third Party Service
Provider.
It is important to note that Service Use, Customer Service Negotiation, etc
are roles , and that one Actor may adopt more than one role. For instance an
individual may adopt the roles of both Service Use and Customer Service
Negotiation. A Company may adopt the roles of Network Operator, SP and Content
Provider.
A user initiates a service by requesting it from the Service Provider, not the
Network Operator. On receipt of a service request the Service Provider uses
Network Operators and Third Party Service Providers to service the request in
the best way possible. In the example of the video call the Service Provider
may choose to use different Network Operators for high and low QoS calls.
Taking the VHE concept, where HE, HE-VASP are defined and VASP is used:
  * The roles Service Provider and Network Operator can be mapped to the > actor HE (See 3GPP TS 22.121 [9]).
  * The role Service Provider can be mapped to the actor VASP.
  * The role Third Party Service Provider can be mapped to the actor > HE-VASP, because they both provide services on behalf of an actor > having the Service Provider role.
The Subscriber-to-Service Provider relation (indicated as a Commercial Link
between Service Provider and Subscriber) defines the agreements under which
the Service Provider provides services to a Subscriber. The users associated
to the Subscriber consume these services. (See Subscriber definition in 3GPP
TR 21.905 [1].)
There are also Business-to-Business relations in the picture, where several
actors may be involved in the delivery of services. Examples of such are the
Commercial Link between Service Provider and Third Party Service Provider, the
Commercial Link between Third Party Service Provider and Content Provider and
the Commercial Link between Service Provider and Network Operator.
The present document has the focus on the Subscriber-Service Provider role
relation.
# A.2 Assumptions concerning actors and roles
Below follows assumptions originated from figure A.1:
  * An actor taking the role as a Service Provider offers services to > one or several Subscribers.
  * An actor Network Operator can take the role as a Service Provider > and provide access network services (e.g. PLMN services according > to 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] definition) to one or several Subscribers.
  * An actor Service Provider may fulfil his role and provide value > added services to one or several Subscribers. He can do so by:
```{=html}
``` \- A pure value added service offering, which may result in established >
B2B agreements with Network Operators.
  * An aggregated offering of access network services (Network Operator > role) and value added services (offering a home environment).
```{=html}
``` \- An actor Service Provider may establish B2B agreements with Network >
Operators and become an MVNO.
  * An actor Service Provider may have B2B agreements with one or > several Content Providers, from which he can provide content based > services.
  * An actor Service Provider may have B2B agreements with and one or > several 3^rd^ party Service Providers, from which he can package > and provide services from.
  * An actor 3^rd^ party Service Provider may have B2B agreements with > one or several Content Providers, which can provide content.
  * An actor taking the role as a Service Provider may establish one or > several subscriptions with a Subscriber.
  * When, based on an agreement between a Subscriber and a Service > Provider, an access to a provided service exists; it can be > associated to a subscription.
  * A User consumes services, where the user role in this context is > defined by the service consumed.
# A.3 SuM scope from actor/role model
SuM is about managing subscriptions tied to one actor taking the Service
Provider Role. Systems affected are those within the Service Provider domain
(systems that a Service Provider controls and manages) and those systems
outside that take part in the service delivery to the user of the service
provided. The latter means: Actors having those systems have B2B agreements
with a Service Provider for the purpose of delivering services (examples are:
3^rd^ party Service Providers, Content Providers and Network Operators).
# A.4 Business model requirements
1\. SuM feature shall support the distribution of SuM components across intra
operator organizations and administrative domains to support industry business
model.\ Annex A provides an example business model from MWIF MTR-002 [4].
2\. SuM shall allow for the optional use of third parties to facilitate
trading relationship between organizations. This requirement is needed for
trusted third parties but not limited to trusted third parties
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example use case
There are an expanding number of services that 3G can offer. The network and
infrastructure resources that are needed to support the new services are
complex, and require a systematic technique to consider the many factors
involved.
Use cases provide an iterative analysis technique helpful in determining
market potential, business transactions, and the user interactions, etc.
When a use case has been developed (i.e. become stable), possible network
solution(s) may be developed.
It is anticipated that future complex services will require a systematic
analysis method to evaluate the network impacts.
There is a desire to migrate away from developing a solution for each service
opportunity on an individual case-by-case basis, and to deploy a consistent
approach in order that the network architecture solution may be used to
provide many different service needs.
# B.1 Create a subscription for a new subscriber
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \>\ | | | Specification | Related use case | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To fulfil a | | | | subscription for a | | | | new subscriber with | | | | one or more users in | | | | order to allow the | | | | users access to the | | | | subscribed services. | | | | | | | | Performance: Near | | | | real time | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Service Provider | | | Role(s)** | | | | | Network Operator | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | (a) Subscriber | | | | credit worthiness | | | | has been determined | | | | by other systems, | | | | techniques and | | | | mechanisms which are | | | | outside the | | | | subscription | | | | management system | | | | boundary. | | | | | | | | (b) Levels of | | | | trust for | | | | subscribers and | | | | users have been | | | | determined by other | | | | systems, techniques | | | | and mechanisms | | | | outside of the | | | | subscription | | | | management system | | | | boundary | | | | | | | | (c) The Contract | | | | contains the number | | | | of users and the set | | | | of services these | | | | may use. | | | | | | | | (d) For each user | | | | the services she/he | | | | may use are also | | | | defined base on the | | | | above mentioned set | | | | of subscribed | | | | services. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | (a) The services | | | | that can be offered | | | | by the network have | | | | been defined. | | | | | | | | (b) Sufficient | | | | resources are | | | | available to support | | | | the anticipated take | | | | up of services by | | | | users. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | A subscriber has | | | | signed a new | | | | contract with the | | | | Service Provider | | | | and/or Network | | | | Operator | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1** | Create the | | | | subscriber profile | | | | and populate it with | | | | the set of services | | | | subscribed to the | | | | subscriber including | | | | subscriber specific | | | | settings and | | | | preferences for the | | | | subscribed services. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscriber Profile, | | | | Subscribed Services | | | | Profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2** | For each user create | Create a | | | a subscription | subscription for a | | | profile using the | new user | | | Create a | | | | subscription for a | | | | new user use case | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3** | For each user modify | Modify a | | | her/his subscription | subscription for an | | | profile to fulfil | existing user | | | the services in the | | | | network using the | | | | Modify a | | | | subscription for an | | | | existing user use | | | | case. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | The network allows | | | | the users to use | | | | their subscribed | | | | services | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition | | | | has been | | | | encountered. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | A subscriber profile | | | | has been created and | | | | populated with the | | | | set of subscribed | | | | services.\ | | | | The subscription | | | | profiles for each | | | | user have been | | | | created and | | | | populated with data | | | | necessary for the | | | | usage of their | | | | subscribed services. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscriber Profile, | | | | Subscribed Services | | | | Profile, | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | Requirements: | | | | | | | | Each type of | | | | services offered | | | | requires the ability | | | | to uniquely identify | | | | it. | | | | | | | | To support self care | | | | it will be necessary | | | | to be able to | | | | correlate services | | | | references in a | | | | subscription, to the | | | | subscription | | | | profiles in the | | | | network. | | | | | | | | It will be necessary | | | | to be able to audit | | | | the capabilities in | | | | a subscription | | | | against the | | | | subscription | | | | profile(s) in the | | | | network elements. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# **B.2 Modify subscription for an existing subscriber**
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use case | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To modify the | | | | services and related | | | | terms and conditions | | | | which apply to a | | | | particular | | | | subscription. | | | | | | | | This is expected to | | | | result from contract | | | | re-negotiation, | | | | where the resulting | | | | changes need to be | | | | applied to the | | | | affected users | | | | within the network. | | | | | | | | Performance: Near | | | | real time | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Network Operator | | | Role(s)** | | | | | Service Provider | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | The Contract changes | | | | are known and may be | | | | any variation of: | | | | | | | | removal of users, | | | | | | | | addition of new | | | | users, | | | | | | | | removal of services | | | | subscribed, | | | | | | | | newly subscribed | | | | services, | | | | | | | | modified subscribed | | | | services | | | | | | | | The subscriber is | | | | still credit and | | | | trust worthy.\ | | | | (The checks for this | | | | are performed | | | | outside of SuM, but | | | | SuM needs to have | | | | access to this kind | | | | of information) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | (a) The services | | | | that can be offered | | | | by the network have | | | | been defined. | | | | | | | | (b) Sufficient | | | | resources are | | | | available to support | | | | the anticipated take | | | | up of services by | | | | users. | | | | | | | | (c) The Subscriber | | | | already exists in | | | | the network. | | | | | | | | (d) Users to be | | | | modified or deleted | | | | already exist in the | | | | network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The contractual | | | | details have been | | | | modified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1** | Modify the list of | | | | subscribed services | | | | in the subscriber | | | | profile including | | | | subscriber specific | | | | settings for the | | | | subscribed services. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscriber Profile, | | | | Subscribed Services | | | | Profile. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2** | For each user no | Delete a | | | longer part of this | subscription from an | | | subscription remove | existing user | | | her/his subscription | | | | profile by utilizing | | | | the Use Case Delete | | | | a subscription from | | | | an existing user | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3** | For each new user | Create a | | | create a | subscription for a | | | subscription profile | new user | | | using the Create a | | | | subscription for a | | | | new user use case | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4** | For each new user | Modify a | | | add their subscribed | subscription for an | | | services to | existing user | | | | | | | her/his subscription | | | | profile using the | | | | Modify a | | | | subscription for an | | | | existing user use | | | | case. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 5** | For each already | Modify a | | | existing user | subscription for an | | | subject to | existing user | | | subscription and | | | | service changes | | | | modify her/his | | | | subscription profile | | | | to fulfil the | | | | services in the | | | | network using the | | | | Modify a | | | | subscription for an | | | | existing user use | | | | case. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | The network allows | | | | the users to use | | | | their subscribed | | | | services within the | | | | modified contract | | | | limits | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition | | | | has been | | | | encountered. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | Services in the | | | | contract align with | | | | services in the | | | | subscriber profile | | | | and the subscription | | | | profiles. Number of | | | | users in the | | | | contract aligns with | | | | the number of users | | | | in the network under | | | | this subscription. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscriber Profile, | | | | Subscribed Services | | | | Profile, | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | Requirements: | | | | | | | | (a) Each type of | | | | services offered | | | | requires the ability | | | | to uniquely identify | | | | it. | | | | | | | | (b) To support | | | | self care it will be | | | | necessary to be able | | | | to correlate | | | | services references | | | | in a subscription, | | | | to the subscription | | | | profiles in the | | | | network. | | | | | | | | (c) It will be | | | | necessary to be able | | | | to audit the | | | | capabilities in a | | | | subscription against | | | | the subscription | | | | profile(s) in the | | | | network elements. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# **B.3 Delete subscription from an existing subscriber**
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use case | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | Remove the | | | | Subscriber and all | | | | users contained in | | | | the contract. | | | | | | | | Performance: Near | | | | real time | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Network Operator | | | Role(s)** | | | | | Service Provider | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | There is a way of | | | | confirming that a | | | | user is to be | | | | removed from using | | | | network services. | | | | | | | | This is to ensure | | | | compliance with any | | | | country or region | | | | specific legislation | | | | regarding access to | | | | such things as | | | | emergency calls. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | (a) The Subscriber | | | | to be deleted exists | | | | in the network | | | | | | | | (b) Users to be | | | | deleted exist in the | | | | network | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | A subscription | | | | expires or has been | | | | terminated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1** | Remove each user | Delete a | | | contained within the | subscription from an | | | subscription using | existing user | | | the Delete a | | | | subscription from an | | | | existing user use | | | | case. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2** | Delete the | | | | subscriber profile | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscriber Profile, | | | | Subscribed Services | | | | Profile. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | The users who were | | | | contained in the | | | | contract are no | | | | longer able to use | | | | services in this | | | | network | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition | | | | has been | | | | encountered. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The subscriber\'s | | | | subscriber profile | | | | and subscription | | | | profiles have been | | | | removed from the | | | | network elements in | | | | this operator\'s | | | | network. | | | | | | | | Trace Logs, and | | | | contractual | | | | references are not | | | | automatically | | | | removed in case of | | | | any legal issues | | | | that require | | | | closure. | | | | | | | | Subscription profile | | | | data, which would | | | | enable access to | | | | services, is | | | | removed. Subscriber | | | | profile data is | | | | removed. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscriber Profile, | | | | Subscribed Services | | | | Profile, | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# **B.4 Get subscription details of an existing subscriber**
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | Get subscription | | | | details on number of | | | | users and their | | | | subscribed services | | | | stored in the | | | | network. | | | | | | | | Performance: Near | | | | real time | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Network Operator | | | Role(s)** | | | | | Service Provider\ | | | | Subscriber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | The information | | | | provided for Network | | | | Operator is broader | | | | than for Subscriber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | The Subscriber | | | | already exists in | | | | the network | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | Network Operator, | | | | Service Provider or | | | | Subscriber request | | | | information on | | | | subscription stored | | | | in the network | | | | elements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1** | Get information | | | | contained in | | | | Subscriber's | | | | subscriber profile | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscriber Profile, | | | | Subscribed Services | | | | Profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2** | For each user | Get subscription | | | contained within the | details of an | | | subscription get the | existing user | | | information | | | | contained in her/his | | | | subscription profile | | | | using the use case | | | | 'Get subscription | | | | details of an | | | | existing user' | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | The subscriber\'s | | | | subscriber profile | | | | and subscription | | | | profiles have been | | | | read from the | | | | network elements in | | | | this operator's | | | | network | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition | | | | has been | | | | encountered. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The details | | | | contained in the | | | | contract and stored | | | | in network elements | | | | are unchanged. | | | | | | | | The subscriber's | | | | subscriber profile | | | | and subscription | | | | profiles details are | | | | provided to the | | | | requestor. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscriber Profile, | | | | Subscribed Services | | | | Profile, | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# B.5 Create a subscription profile for a new user
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \>\ | | | Specification | Related use case | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Goal** | To add a new user | | | | associated with a | | | | subscription to the | | | | network. | | | | | | | | Performance: Near real | | | | time | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Service Provider | | | Role(s)** | | | | | Network Operator | | | | | | | | Subscriber | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Assumptions** | (a) The services | | | | that can be offered by | | | | the network have been | | | | defined. | | | | | | | | (b) Sufficient | | | | resources are | | | | available to support | | | | the delivery of | | | | services to users. | | | | | | | | (c) The Contract | | | | contains the set of | | | | services the user may | | | | use. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | (a) The Subscriber | | | | already exists in the | | | | network | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Begins when** | A subscriber has | | | | signed a new contract | | | | with the Service | | | | Provider and/or | | | | Network Operator or | | | | has extended an | | | | existing contract with | | | | additional user(s). | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 1** | Create the user's | | | | subscription profile | | | | and populate it with | | | | the set of | | | | identifications and | | | | other data common to | | | | services. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Ends when** | The user is known in | | | | the network. | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition has | | | | been encountered. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The network holds the | | | | subscription profile | | | | for the user. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
# **B.6 Modify a subscription for an existing user**
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use case | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Goal** | To modify the set of | | | | identifications and/or | | | | the services and | | | | related settings and | | | | preferences which | | | | apply to a particular | | | | user. | | | | | | | | This is expected to | | | | result either from a | | | | new contract or from | | | | contract | | | | re-negotiation, where | | | | the resulting changes | | | | need to be applied to | | | | the affected users | | | | within the network. | | | | | | | | Performance: Near real | | | | time | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Network Operator | | | Role(s)** | | | | | Service Provider | | | | | | | | Subscriber | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Assumptions** | The Contract changes | | | | are known and may be | | | | any variation of: | | | | | | | | Change of user's set | | | | of identifications, | | | | | | | | removal of services | | | | subscribed, | | | | | | | | newly subscribed | | | | services, | | | | | | | | modified service | | | | settings and | | | | preferences | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | The user already | | | | exists in the network | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Begins when** | The user has been | | | | newly added to the | | | | network | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | the contractual | | | | details concerning a | | | | user or the services | | | | subscribed for him | | | | have changed (which | | | | may be both additions | | | | and/or withdrawals) | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 1** | IF the user's set of | | | | identifications and | | | | other data common to | | | | services are to be | | | | modified, align | | | | her/his subscription | | | | profile. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 2** | IF the user has access | Delete Service | | | to services which are | | | | no longer part of the | | | | contract, then delete | | | | them from the user's | | | | Subscription Profile | | | | using the Use Case | | | | Delete Service | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 3** | Modify the existing | Add Service | | | subscription profile | | | | to fulfil the | | | | subscribed services in | | | | the network using the | | | | Add Service use case.\ | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 4** | Modify existing | Modify Service | | | service profiles in | | | | the user's | | | | subscription profile | | | | to fulfil the services | | | | in the network using | | | | the Modify Service use | | | | case.\ | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Ends when** | The network allows the | | | | user to use his | | | | subscribed services | | | | within the contract | | | | limits | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition has | | | | been encountered. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | Services in the | | | | contract align with | | | | services in the | | | | subscription profile. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
# **B.7 Delete a subscription from an existing user**
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use case | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Goal** | Remove a user | | | | contained in the | | | | contract | | | | | | | | Performance: Near real | | | | time | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Network Operator | | | Role(s)** | | | | | Service Provider | | | | | | | | Subscriber | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Assumptions** | There is a way of | | | | confirming that a user | | | | is to be removed from | | | | using network | | | | services. | | | | | | | | This is to ensure | | | | compliance with any | | | | country or region | | | | specific legislation | | | | regarding access to | | | | such things as | | | | emergency calls. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | The user already | | | | exists in the network | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Begins when** | A subscription expires | | | | or the number of users | | | | contained in the | | | | subscription is | | | | reduced | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 1** | Remove the user that | | | | is no longer contained | | | | within the | | | | subscription by | | | | deleting relevant | | | | subscription profile. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Ends when** | The user who was | | | | removed from the | | | | subscription is no | | | | longer able to use | | | | services in this | | | | network | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition has | | | | been encountered. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The user\'s | | | | subscription profile | | | | has been removed from | | | | the network elements | | | | in this operator\'s | | | | network. | | | | | | | | Trace Logs, and | | | | contractual references | | | | are not automatically | | | | removed in case of any | | | | legal issues that | | | | require closure. | | | | | | | | Only subscription | | | | profile data which | | | | would enable access to | | | | services are removed. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
# **B.8 Get subscription details of an existing user**
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Goal** | Get details for the user | | | | contained in the | | | | subscription and stored | | | | in the network | | | | | | | | Performance: Near real | | | | time | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actor(s) and Role(s)** | Network Operator | | | | | | | | Service Provider | | | | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | | | | User | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | The information provided | | | | for Network Operator is | | | | broader than for | | | | Subscriber, which might | | | | still be broader than | | | | that for the user. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre conditions** | The user already exists | | | | in the network | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | Network Operator, | | | | Subscriber or User | | | | request information on | | | | User stored in the | | | | network elements | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1** | Get the information | | | | contained in the | | | | subscription profile for | | | | the user | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): Subscription | | | | Profile, Service Profile | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | The user\'s subscription | | | | profile has been read | | | | from the network | | | | elements in this | | | | operator's network. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of this | | | | use case fails | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The details contained in | | | | the contract and stored | | | | in network elements are | | | | unchanged | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): Subscription | | | | Profile, Service Profile | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
# B.9 Add service
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \>\ | | | Specification | Related use case | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Goal** | Allow the user | | | | accessing a service in | | | | the case of | | | | | | | | fulfilling a | | | | subscription for a new | | | | subscriber | | | | | | | | or subscription | | | | extension for an | | | | existing subscriber | | | | with one or more users | | | | | | | | or a service has been | | | | added to the contract | | | | for the user | | | | | | | | Performance: Near real | | | | time. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Service Provider | | | Role(s)** | | | | | Network Operator | | | | | | | | Subscriber | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Assumptions** | (a) The services | | | | that can be offered by | | | | the network have been | | | | defined. | | | | | | | | (b) Sufficient | | | | resources are | | | | available to support | | | | the delivery of | | | | services to users.\ | | | | (c) The Contract | | | | contains this service | | | | the user wants to use. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | (a) The user already | | | | exists in the network | | | | | | | | (b) The user has no | | | | access to the service | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Begins when** | A subscriber has | | | | signed a new contract | | | | with the service | | | | provider or has | | | | extended an existing | | | | contract with | | | | additional user(s) | | | | | | | | or has extended the | | | | services the existing | | | | user may use. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 1** | Within the user's | | | | subscription profile, | | | | update the service | | | | profile and populate | | | | it with the set of | | | | preferences and | | | | settings subscribed. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Ends when** | The user can use the | | | | service in the | | | | network. | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition has | | | | been encountered. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The network holds the | | | | extended subscription | | | | profile for the user. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
# **B.10 Modify service**
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use case | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Goal** | To modify the set of | | | | settings and | | | | preferences which | | | | apply to a service for | | | | a particular user. | | | | | | | | This is expected to | | | | result from contract | | | | re negotiation, where | | | | the resulting changes | | | | need to be applied to | | | | the affected users | | | | within the network | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | subscriber or user | | | | initiated changes. | | | | | | | | Performance: Near real | | | | time | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Network Operator | | | Role(s)** | | | | | Service Provider | | | | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | | | | User | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Assumptions** | The Contract changes | | | | are known and may be | | | | any variation of: | | | | | | | | Change of user's | | | | preferences | | | | | | | | Change of user's | | | | service related | | | | settings | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | (a) The user already | | | | exists in the network | | | | | | | | (b) The user has | | | | access to the service | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Begins when** | The contractual | | | | details have been | | | | modified\ | | | | or a decision for | | | | settings and | | | | preferences changes | | | | has been taken | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 1** | Within the user's | | | | subscription profile | | | | modify the existing | | | | service profile to | | | | change the service | | | | preferences and | | | | settings in the | | | | network | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Ends when** | The network allows the | | | | user to use his | | | | subscribed services | | | | within the contract | | | | limits. | | | | | | | | The updated set of | | | | settings and | | | | preferences are now | | | | operative. | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition has | | | | been encountered. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The service settings | | | | and preferences | | | | defined and agreed in | | | | the contract or wanted | | | | by the user now align | | | | with service settings | | | | and preferences in the | | | | service profile. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
# **B.11 Delete service**
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use case | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Goal** | Remove a service | | | | contained in the | | | | contract for one user | | | | | | | | Performance: Near real | | | | time | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Network Operator | | | Role(s)** | | | | | Subscriber | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Assumptions** | There is a way of | | | | confirming that a user | | | | is to be denied access | | | | to certain network | | | | services. | | | | | | | | This is to ensure | | | | compliance with any | | | | country or region | | | | specific legislation | | | | regarding access to | | | | such things as | | | | emergency calls. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | (a) The user already | | | | exists in the network | | | | | | | | (b) The user has | | | | access to the service | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Begins when** | A subscription expires | | | | | | | | or Subscriber credit | | | | worthiness or trust | | | | have been lost | | | | | | | | or existing user(s) | | | | are deleted from the | | | | contract | | | | | | | | or a service is | | | | deleted from the | | | | contract for all or | | | | only for one user | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 1** | In the user's | | | | subscription profile | | | | delete the existing | | | | service profile to | | | | inhibit access to the | | | | service in the network | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Ends when** | The user\'s | | | | subscription profile | | | | has been removed from | | | | the network elements | | | | in this operators | | | | network. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Post Condition** | The user who was | | | | contained in the | | | | contract is no longer | | | | able to use services | | | | in this network. | | | | | | | | Trace Logs, and | | | | contractual references | | | | are not automatically | | | | removed in case of any | | | | legal issues that | | | | require closure. | | | | | | | | Only subscription | | | | profile data which | | | | would enable access to | | | | services are removed. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile, | | | | Service Profile | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
# **B.12 Get service details**
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Goal** | Get details (settings | | | | and preferences) of the | | | | user's access to a | | | | service stored in the | | | | network | | | | | | | | Performance: Near real | | | | time | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actor(s) and Role(s)** | Service Provider | | | | | | | | Network Operator | | | | | | | | Subscriber | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | There is a way of | | | | confirming that a user | | | | is to be denied access | | | | to certain network | | | | services. | | | | | | | | This is to ensure | | | | compliance with any | | | | country or region | | | | specific legislation | | | | regarding access to such | | | | things as emergency | | | | calls. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre conditions** | (a) The user already | | | | exists in the network | | | | | | | | (b) The user has | | | | access to the service | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | A subscription expires | | | | | | | | or Subscriber credit | | | | worthiness or trust have | | | | been lost | | | | | | | | or existing user(s) are | | | | deleted from the | | | | contract | | | | | | | | or a service is deleted | | | | from the contract for | | | | all or only for one user | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1** | In the user's | | | | subscription profile, | | | | update the existing | | | | service profile to | | | | inhibit access to the | | | | service in the network | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): Subscription | | | | Profile, Service Profile | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | The user who was | | | | contained in the | | | | contract is no longer | | | | able to use the service | | | | in this network | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition has | | | | been encountered. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of this | | | | use case fails | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Condition** | The user\'s subscription | | | | profile has been updated | | | | and related service | | | | profile has been removed | | | | from the network | | | | elements in this | | | | operator's network. | | | | | | | | Trace Logs, and | | | | contractual references | | | | are not automatically | | | | removed in case of any | | | | legal issues that | | | | require closure. | | | | | | | | Only subscription | | | | profile data which would | | | | enable access to | | | | services are removed. | | | | | | | | Associated information | | | | element(s): Subscription | | | | Profile, Service Profile | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
# **B.13 Create and activate prepaid subscription for a new subscriber**
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use case | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | Create a prepaid | | | | subscription for a | | | | subscriber and | | | | associate (activate) | | | | it to all users in | | | | the contract. | | | | | | | | Performance: Near | | | | real time | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Network Operator | | | Role(s)** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | (a) Payment is | | | | handled by | | | | mechanisms outside | | | | of the subscription | | | | management system | | | | boundary. | | | | | | | | (b) The Contract | | | | contains the number | | | | of users and the set | | | | of services these | | | | may use. | | | | | | | | (c) For each user, | | | | the services she/he | | | | may use are also | | | | defined based on the | | | | above mentioned set | | | | of subscribed | | | | services. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | (a) Services that | | | | can be used by a | | | | prepaid user are | | | | offered by the | | | | network. | | | | | | | | (b) Sufficient | | | | resources should be | | | | available to support | | | | the anticipated take | | | | up of services by | | | | users. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | A subscriber has | | | | signed a new | | | | contract with the | | | | operator as a | | | | prepaid subscriber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1** | Create the | | | | subscriber profile | | | | and populate it with | | | | the set of services | | | | entitled to by the | | | | Contract for the | | | | prepaid | | | | subscription, | | | | including subscriber | | | | specific settings | | | | and preferences for | | | | the subscribed | | | | services. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscriber Profile, | | | | Subscribed Services | | | | Profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2** | For each new user | Create a | | | create a | subscription for a | | | subscription profile | new user | | | using the Create a | | | | subscription for a | | | | new user use case | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription Profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3** | For each new user | Modify a | | | add their subscribed | subscription for an | | | services to | existing user | | | | | | | her/his subscription | | | | profile by using the | | | | Modify a | | | | subscription for an | | | | existing user use | | | | case. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | The network allows | | | | the users to use | | | | their subscribed | | | | services within the | | | | contract limits for | | | | the prepaid | | | | subscription | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | an error condition | | | | has been | | | | encountered. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post Condition** | A subscriber profile | | | | has been created and | | | | populated with the | | | | set of subscribed | | | | service(s).\ | | | | The subscription | | | | profiles for each | | | | user have been | | | | created and | | | | populated with data | | | | necessary for the | | | | usage of their | | | | subscribed services. | | | | | | | | Associated | | | | information | | | | element(s): | | | | Subscriber Profile, | | | | Subscribed Services | | | | Profile, | | | | Subscription | | | | Profile, Service | | | | Profile. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# **B.14 Delete prepaid subscription**
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use case | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | Remove the | | | | Subscriber of the | | | | prepaid subscription | | | | and all users in the | | | | contract. | | | | | | | | Performance: Near | | | | real time | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actor(s) and | Network Operator | | | Role(s)** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | Same as for Use Case | | | | Delete subscription | | | | from an existing | | | | subscriber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre conditions** | Same as for Use Case | | | | Delete subscription | | | | from an existing | | | | subscriber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The prepaid | | | | subscription has | | | | been inactive for a | | | | pre-defined period | | | | of time, triggering | | | | the deletion of the | | | | prepaid subscription | | | | | | | | OR | | | | | | | | another condition | | | | tiggers the | | | | termination of the | | | | subscription. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1** | Delete the | Delete subscription | | | subscription through | from an existing | | | the Use Case Delete | subscriber | | | subscription from an | | | | existing subscriber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | The subscriber\'s | | | | subscriber profile | | | | for the prepaid | | | | subscription and | | | | subscription | | | | profiles have been | | | | removed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | Any of the steps of | | | | this use case fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post Condition** | Same as for Use Case | | | | Delete subscription | | | | from an existing | | | | subscriber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#