# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.361: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\"
32.362: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"
> **32.366: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set
> (SS) definitions\"**
The present document is part of a set of technical specifications defining the
Telecommunication Management (TM) of 3G systems. The TM principles are
described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1]. The TM architecture is described in 3GPP TS
32.102 [2]. The other specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the
managing system (manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and
the managed system (agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the
managed NE itself. The Itf-N is composed of a number of Integration Reference
Points (IRPs) defining the information in the agent that is visible for the
manager, the operations that the manager may perform on this information and
the notifications that are sent from the agent to the manager. EP (Entry
Point) IRP is one of these IRPs with special function.
It\'s difficult for an NM to discover all IRPs in the environment that there
are several managed systems and/or if there are multiple IRPs related to each
managed systems. This Entry Point is proposed to provide a convenient
mechanism for NM to discover the managed systems and their related IRPs.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Solution Set definitions for the IRP whose
semantics are specified in the Entry Point IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS
32.362 [6]).
This Solution Set definitions specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.362
V10.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.361: \"Telecommunication management; **Entry Point (EP)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements** \".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.362: \"Telecommunication management; **Entry Point (EP)
Integration Reference Point (IRP):** Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.306: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[8] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[9] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation Q.816.1 Recommendation \"**CORBA based TMN services:
Extensions to support coarse‑grained interfaces\".**
**[11]** OMG TC Document telecom/98-12-09: \"CORBAservices: Common Object
Services Specification\". http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[12] ISO 8859-1: \"Information technology - 8-bit single-byte coded graphic
character sets - Part 1: Latin alphabet No. 1\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.336: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.316: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[17] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-
SOAP-20000508/)
[18] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-
xpath-19991116)
[19] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[20] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions defined in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.361 [3], 3GPP TS 32.331
[14], 3GPP TS 32.150 [16] and the following apply:
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
EM Element Manager
EP Entry Point
EPIRP Entry Point IRP
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NL Notification Log
NM Network Manager
SS Solution Set
WSDL Web Service Description Language
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Solution Set definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP EP IRP Solution Set definitions:
  * 3GPP EP IRP CORBA SS (Annex A)
  * 3GPP EP IRP XML definitions (Annex B)
  * 3GPP EP IRP SOAP Solution Set (Annex C)
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in EP IRP: Information Service (TS 32.362 [6]).
# A.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of EP IRP is specified in 3GPP TS 32.362
[6].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names and Versions
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [9].
The version of this IRP is represented as a string (see also clause 3 for
versions).
## A.1.2 Notifications
Notifications are sent according to the Notification IRP: CORBA SS (see 3GPP
TS 32.306 [7]).
The contents of the EP IRP notifications are defined in the present document.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 Operation and Notification mapping
EPIRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.362 [6]) defines semantics of operation and notification
visible across the EPIRP.
Table A.2.1 indicates the mapping of these operations and notifications to
their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table A.2.1: Mapping from IS Operations and Notification to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operations/ notification TS 32.362 [6] SS Method Qualifier getIRPOutline
get_irp_outline M getIRPReference get_irp_reference M releaseIRPReference
release_irp_reference M notifyIRPInfoChanges push_structured_event (See clause
A.3.1) M getIRPVersion (see note) get_ep_irp_versions M getOperationProfile
(see note) get_ep_irp_operations_profile O getNotificationProfile (see note)
get_ep_irp_notification_profile O NOTE: This operation is of ManagedGenericIRP
IOC specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [4]. The EPIRP IOC of 3GPP TS 32.362 [6]
inherits from it.
* * *
## A.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
The EPIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.362 [6] defines semantics of parameters carried in
operations across the EPIRP. The following tables indicate the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table A.2.2.1: Mapping from IS getIRPOutline parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | supportedIRPList | EPIRPCo | M | | | nstDefs::SupportedIRPList | | | | supported_irp_list | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | EPIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | GetIRPOutline, | | | | InvalidIRPVersion | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.2: Mapping from IS getIRPReference parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerIdentifier | EPIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::ManagerIdentifier | | | | manager_identifier | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | systemDn | EPIRPConstDefs::DN | M | | | system_dn | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | rDN | EPIRPConstDefs::RDN r_DN | M | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPReference | string irp_reference | M | | | (stringified IOR) | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | EPIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | GetIRPReference, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.3: Mapping from IS releaseIRPReference parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerIdentifier | EPIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::ManagerIdentifier | | | | manager_identifier | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPReference | string irp_reference | M | | | (stringified IOR) | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | EPIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | ReleaseIRPReference, | | | | UnknownIRPReference | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.4: Mapping from IS getIRPVersion parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | versionNumberSet | Return value of type | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPCo | | | | nstDefs::VersionNumberSet | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | GetEPIRPVersions | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.5: Mapping from IS getOperationProfile parameters to SS
equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | operationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | operationParameterProfile | ManagedGeneri | | | | cIRPConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | G | | | | etEPIRPOperationsProfile, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.6: Mapping from IS getNotificationProfile parameters to SS
equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | not | ManagedGeneri | | | ificationParameterProfile | cIRPConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | Get | | | | EPIRPNotificationProfile, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## A.2.3 Notification parameter mapping
The EPIRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.362 [6]) defines semantics of parameters carried in
notifications. The following table indicates the mapping of these parameters
to their OMG CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG Notification Service [8])
equivalents. The composition of OMG Structured Event, as defined in the OMG
Notification Service [8], is:
Header
Fixed Header
domain_name
type_name
event_name
Variable Header
Body
filterable_body_fields
remaining_body
The following table lists all OMG Structured Event attributes in the second
column. The first column identifies the EPIRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.362 [6]) defined
notification parameters.
Table A.2.3: Mapping for notifyIRPInfoChanges
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | clause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | ET_I | | | | | RPINFO_CHANGES | | | | | of module of | | | | | EPIRPSystem. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [7]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [7]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [7]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [7]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | iRPDn | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the IRP_DN | | | | | of interface | | | | | Notif | | | | | yIRPInfoChanges | | | | | of module | | | | | EPIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | EPIR | | | | | PConstDefs::DN. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | changeMode | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | CHANGE_MODE of | | | | | interface | | | | | Notif | | | | | yIRPInfoChanges | | | | | of module | | | | | EPIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | EPIRPConstDe | | | | | fs::ChangeMode. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | additionalText | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | A | | | | | DDITIONAL_TEXT | | | | | of interface | | | | | Notif | | | | | yIRPInfoChanges | | | | | of module | | | | | EPIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# A.3 EPIRPNotification Interface
OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
EPIRPNotifications. All the notifications in this interface are implemented
using this push_structured_event method.
## A.3.1 Method push (M)
module CosNotifyComm {
> ...
>
> Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
>
> void push_structured_events(
>
> in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
>
> raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
>
> ...
>
> }; // SequencePushConsumer
>
> ...
}; // CosNotifyComm
1) The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
Service [8]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
Upon invocation, this parameter shall contain a sequence of Structured Events
being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
2) The maximum number of events that shall be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter.
3) The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of Structured
Events shall accumulate individual events into the sequence before invoking
this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration parameter as well.
4) IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
# A.4 Solution Set definitions
## A.4.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.4.2 defines the constants and types used by the EP IRP.
Clause A.4.3 defines the operations which are performed by the EP IRP agent.
Clause A.4.4 defines the notifications which are performed by the EP IRP
agent.
## A.4.2 IDL specification "EPIRPConstDefs.idl"
//File: EPIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _EP_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _EP_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: EPIRPSystem
*/
module EPIRPConstDefs
{
enum Result {OK, FAILURE};
/*
The RDN carries an optional instance class name and a mandatory
instance identifier. This type (a string) may contain 0 or 1
equal sign. If an equal sign is present, the substring before
the equal sign is the class name, and the substring after the
equal sign is the instance identifier. If the equal sign is
absent, the entire string is the instance identifier.
*/
typedef string RDN;
typedef string DN;
typedef sequence\ DNList;
/*
IRPManagementScopeOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union IRPManagementScopeOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: DNList value;
};
/*
The IRPElement defines the structure to be returned as part of
get_irp_outline().
*/
struct IRPElement
{
RDN r_DN;
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet irp_versions;
IRPManagementScopeOpt irp_management_scope;
};
/*
List of all IRPElement and their associated parameters.
*/
typedef sequence\ IRPList;
struct SupportedIRP
{
DN system_dn;
IRPList irp_list;
};
typedef sequence\ SupportedIRPList;
typedef string ManagerIdentifier;
enum ChangeMode {REGISTER, DEREGISTER, MODIFY};
/*
Define the parameters specified in
the notifyEpInfoChanges notification.
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string IRP_DN = \"IRP_DN\";
const string CHANGE_MODE = \"CHANGE_MODE\";
const string ADDITIONAL_TEXT = \"ADDITIONAL_TEXT\";
};
};
#endif // _EP_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
## A.4.3 IDL specification "EPIRPSystem.idl"
//File: EPIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _EP_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _EP_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: EPIRPSystem
*/
module EPIRPSystem
{
exception InvalidIRPVersion { string reason; };
exception UnknownIRPReference { string reason; };
/*
System fails to complete the operation. System can provide reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception GetIRPOutline { string reason; };
exception GetIRPReference { string reason; };
exception ReleaseIRPReference { string reason; };
exception GetEPIRPVersions { string reason; };
exception GetEPIRPOperationsProfile { string reason; };
exception GetEPIRPNotificationProfile { string reason; };
interface EPIRP
{
/**
* The IRPManager uses this operation to request the EPIRP to
* return the outline information of the supported IRPs. The EPIRP
* shall return the outline information of all the IRPs supported by the
* IRPAgent that contains the EPIRP. The EPIRP may
* additionally return the outline information of all the IRPs supported
* by other IRPAgents.
*/
EPIRPConstDefs::Result get_irp_outline(
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version,
out EPIRPConstDefs::SupportedIRPList supported_irp_list
)
raises (GetIRPOutline, InvalidIRPVersion);
/**
* The IRPManager uses this operation to request the EPIRP to return
* the stringified IOR of the IRP identified by system_dn and r_DN.
*/
EPIRPConstDefs::Result get_irp_reference(
in EPIRPConstDefs::ManagerIdentifier manager_identifier,
in EPIRPConstDefs::DN system_dn,
in EPIRPConstDefs::RDN r_DN,
out string irp_reference
)
raises (GetIRPReference,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/**
* The IRPManager uses this operation to request the IRPAgent to
* release a specific IRP reference. Whether the IRP reference
* is really released or not in the IRPAgent is outside the
* scope of this document.
*/
EPIRPConstDefs::Result release_irp_reference(
in EPIRPConstDefs::ManagerIdentifier manager_identifier,
in string irp_reference
)
raises (ReleaseIRPReference,
UnknownIRPReference);
/**
* Return the list of all supported EPIRP versions.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet get_ep_irp_versions (
)
raises (GetEPIRPVersions);
/**
* Return the list of all supported operations and their supported
* parameters for a specific EPIRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList get_ep_irp_operations_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version
)
raises (GetEPIRPOperationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/**
* Return the list of all supported notifications and their supported
* parameters for a specific EPIRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList get_ep_irp_notification_profile
(
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version
)
raises (GetEPIRPNotificationProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
};
};
#endif // _EP_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
## A.4.4 IDL specification "EPIRPNotifications.idl"
//File: EPIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _EP_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _EP_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: EPIRPNotifications
*/
module EPIRPNotifications
{
interface NotifyIRPInfoChanges: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string ET_IRPINFO_CHANGES = \"notifyIrpInfoChanges\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the iRPDn property.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is DN.
*/
const string IRP_DN =
EPIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::IRP_DN;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the changeMode property.
* The data type for the value of this property is ChangeMode.
*/
const string CHANGE_MODE =
EPIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::CHANGE_MODE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the additionalText property.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string ADDITIONAL_TEXT =
EPIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::ADDITIONAL_TEXT;
};
};
#endif // _EP_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
# A.5 Convention when using INS to fulfill part of EPIRP functions
The implementation of the EPIRP and in particular, the management of CORBA
object references within EPIRP, is not a subject matter for 3GPP
standardization.
ITU-T SG4 Framework for CORBA-Based Telecommunications Management Network
Interfaces (ITU-T Recommendation Q.816.1 [10]) uses OMG Interoperable Naming
Service (INS) [11] for the management of CORBA object references. Furthermore,
it specifies a convention to name and populate the CORBA object entries within
the INS.
This Annex notes that, in the event that an EPIRP implementation uses INS to
fulfill part of EPIRP functions, it is advantageous to populate the INS using
the ITU-T defined convention.
**Convention**
The OMG INS CORBA _name component_ (in short, called CORBA compound name) has
the following IDL definition:
> // IDL
>
> typedef string Istring;
>
> struct NameComponent {
>
> Istring id;
>
> Istring kind;
>
> };
Istring is a placeholder for a future IDL internationalized string. The id and
kind attributes must be composed of characters from the ISO 8859-1 [12]
character set, excluding the null character and other non-printable
characters. The strings cannot exceed 255 characters. The id attribute cannot
be an empty string but the kind attribute can be an empty string.
The CORBA compound name (see Name below) is defined as a sequence of name
components:
> // IDL
>
> typedef sequence\ Name;
The 3GPP defined DN (in short, called DN) of a managed object is represented
by the CORBA _compound name_. For example, a DN, quoted from 3GPP TS 32.300
[9], say
"DC=se.companyZ.lmc,Network=9,SubNetwork=1,IRPAgent=1,AlarmIRP.iRPId=2", shall
be represented by a sequence of 6 _name components_ where the _id_ and _kind_
of the first _name component_ shall be "se_companyZ_lmc" and "DC"
respectively. The CORBA _compound name_ , shall be:
* * *
index kind id 0 "DC" "se_companyZ_lmc" 1 "Network" "9" 2 "SubNetwork" "1" 3
"IRPAgent" "1" 4 "AlarmIRP.iRPId" "2" 5 "" "Object"
* * *
The CORBA _compound name_ , in stringified name form, shall be
"se_companyZ_lmc.DC/9.Network/1.SubNetwork/1.IRPAgent/2.AlarmIRP.iRPId/Object".
NOTE 1: DN appears in interactions (e.g. operations, notifications) across the
Itf‑N.
NOTE 2: The CORBA compound name is used internally with the IRPAgent (and its
INS) and does not appear in interactions across the Itf-N.
The use of the last row of the CORBA _compound name_ , i.e. kind == "" and id
=="Object", is in accordance to the convention standardized by ITU-T
Recommendation Q.816.1 [10]. According to convention standardized by ITU-T
Recommendation Q.816.1 [10], the use of index 0 to 4 inclusive is to indicate
the naming context of the object and the use of index 0 to 5 inclusive is to
indicate the object itself.
DN DC component is composed of multiple words separated by separator, i.e. a
dot. It is suggested that the applications (e.g. IRPAgent codes) that process
CORBA compound name and DN should map the dot, used as separator in DN DC
component, with underscore. This mapping is necessary because in the
stringified CORBA _compound name_ , the dot is used for the separation of _id_
and _kind_. This replacement rule also implies that underscore should not be
used as character of DC words.
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML definitions
The annex specifies the XML Definitions for the EP Integration Reference Point
(IRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance with EP IRP IS definitions [6],
for usage with the Notification Log IRP XML Definitions [13].
# B.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of EP IRP is specified in 3GPP TS 32.352
[6].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the XML Schema
definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [9].
# B.2 Mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
Clause B.3.2 provides a graphical representation of the XML elements.
Clause B.3.3 provides XML definitions of EP IRP notifications as defined in
3GPP TS 32.362 [6].
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
{width="6.704861111111111in" height="2.2465277777777777in"}
NOTE: The use of XML schema key word "sequence" to support IS-defined set (not
sequence) is for the purpose of XML processor efficiency. This shall not imply
the use of "sequence" in other technology.
### B.3.3 XML Schema "ePIRPNotif.xsd"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex C (normative): SOAP Solution Set
The overall architectural feature of the Entry Point IRP is specified in 3GPP
TS 32.362 [6]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the SOAP
solution set.
# C.1 Architectural Features
## C.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names and versions
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [9].
The version of this IRP is represented as a string (see also clause 3.1).
## C.1.2 General
The SOAP 1.1 specification [17] and WSDL 1.1 specification [19] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [20] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [18]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
The Entry Point IRP SOAP SS uses the Notification IRP SOAP SS of 3GPP TS
32.306 [7]. The IRPAgent shall support the push interface model, which means
that the IRPAgent sends Entry Point notifications to the IRPManager as soon as
new events occur. The IRPManager does not need to check (\"pull\") for events.
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table C.1.2
Table C.1.2: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** (no prefix) http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ entryPointIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.366#EntryPointIRPSystem
entryPointIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.366#EntryPointIRPData xn
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.626#genericNrm
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.316#GenericIRPSystem
genericIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.316#GenericIRPData
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.306#NotificationIRPNtfSystem
* * *
# C.2 Mapping
## C.2.1 Operation and Notification mapping
The Entry Point IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.362 [6]) defines the operations and their
semantics.
Table C.2.1 maps the operations defined in the Entry Point IRP IS to their
equivalent types, messages, port type operation, and binding operation in this
Solution Set (SS).
Table C.2.1 also maps the notifications of the Entry Point IRP IS, as well as
inherited operations.
Table C.2.1 also qualifies if an operation is Mandatory (M) or Optional (O).
Table C.2.1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operation in 3GPP TS 32.362 [6] SS: Operation for WSDL port type and WSDL
binding SS: Port of EntryPointIRPService Qualifier
getIRPOutline getIRPOutline (note 1) EntryPointIRPPort M
getIRPReference getIRPReference (note 1) EntryPointIRPPort M
releaseIRPReference releaseIRPReference (note 1) EntryPointIRPPort M
notifyIRPInfoChanges notify (note 2) NotificationIRPNtfPort M
getIRPVersion (note 3) See TS 32.316 [15] GenericIRPPort M
getOperationProfile (note 3) See TS 32.316 [15] GenericIRPPort O
getNotificationProfile (note 3) See TS 32.316 [15] GenericIRPPort O
NOTE 1: The operation is under the port type
entryPointIRPSystem:EntryPointIRPPortType and under the binding
entryPointIRPSystem:EntryPointIRPBinding.
NOTE 2: The IS equivalent maps to an XML definition specified in Annex B, and
this being an input parameter to the operation notify under the port type
ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf and under the binding
ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf of 3GPP TS 32.306 [7]. This binding is
linked to a port of the EntryPointIRPService as indicated in the table above.
NOTE 3: The IS operation is inherited from the ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified
in 3GPP TS 32.312 [4].\  
This inheritance is by the EPIRP IOC of 3GPP TS 32.362 [6] inheriting from the
ManagedGenericIRP IOC. The corresponding binding is linked to a port of the
EntryPointIRPService as indicated in the table above.
* * *
## C.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
The Entry Point IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.362 [6]) defines semantics of parameters
carried in the operations. The tables below show the mapping of these
parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
### C.2.2.1 Operation getIRPOutline
#### C.2.2.1.1 Input parameters
Table C.2.2.1.1: Mapping from IS getIRPOutline input parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding input message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table C.2.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | iRPVersion | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### C.2.2.1.2 Output parameters
Table C.2.2.1.2: Mapping from IS getIRPOutline output parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding output message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table C.2.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | supportedIRPList | supportedIRPList | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | status | status | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### C.2.2.1.3 Fault definition
Table C.2.2.1.3: Mapping from IS getIRPOutline exceptions to SS equivalents
+-------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | Assertion name | SS WSDL type enumeration value | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding fault message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table C.2.1 | | +-------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | invalidIRPVersion | InvalidIRPVersion | M | +-------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | operationFailed | OperationFailed | M | +-------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
### C.2.2.2 Operation getIRPReference
#### C.2.2.2.1 Input parameters
TableC.2.2.2.1: Mapping from IS getIRPReference input parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding input message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table C.2.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | managerIdentifier | managerIdentifier | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | systemDN | systemDN | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | rDN | rDN | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### C.2.2.2.2 Output parameters
TableC.2.2.2.2: Mapping from IS getIRPReference output parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding output message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table C.2.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | iRPReference | iRPReference | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | status | status | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### C.2.2.2.3 Fault definition
TableC.2.2.2.3: Mapping from IS getIRPReference exceptions to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | Assertion name | SS WSDL type enumeration | Qualifier | | | value | | | | | | | | used in corresponding | | | | fault message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port | | | | type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table | | | | C.2.1 | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | i | I | M | | nvalidRequestedParameters | nvalidRequestedParameters | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | operationFailed | OperationFailed | M | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
### C.2.2.3 Operation releaseIRPReference
#### C.2.2.3.1 Input parameters
TableC.2.2.3.1: Mapping from IS releaseIRPReference input parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding input message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table C.2.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | managerIdentifier | managerIdentifier | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | iRPReference | iRPReference | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### C.2.2.3.2 Output parameters
Table C.2.2.3.2: Mapping from IS releaseIRPReference output parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding output message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table C.2.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | status | status | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### C.2.2.3.3 Fault definition
Table C.2.2.3.3: Mapping from IS releaseIRPReference exceptions to SS
equivalents
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | Assertion name | SS WSDL type enumeration value | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding fault message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table C.2.1 | | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | unknownIRPReference | UnknownIRPReference | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | operationFailed | OperationFailed | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
# C.3 Solution Set definitions
## C.3.1 WSDL definition structure
Clause C.3.2 provides a graphical representation of the EP IRP service.
Clause C.3.3 defines the services which are supported the EP IRP agent.
## C.3.2 Graphical Representation
The WSDL structure is depicted in Figure C.3.2 below, depicting port type,
binding and service. The port type contains port type operations, which again
contains input, output and fault messages. The binding contains binding
operations, which have the same name as the port type operations. The binding
connects to a port inside the service.
{width="5.990277777777778in" height="2.1375in"}
Figure C.3.2: Entry Point IRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
## C.3.3 WSDL specification "EntryPointIRPSystem.wsdl"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#