# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.411: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements\"**
32.412: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\"
32.416: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions\"
The present document is part of a TS-family which describes the requirements
and information model necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of
3G systems. The TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS
32.101 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [3].
A 3G system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of various
types and, typically, different vendors, which inter-operate in a co-ordinated
manner in order to satisfy the network users\' communication requirements.
Any evaluation of PLMN-system behaviour will require performance data
collected and recorded by its NEs according to a schedule established by the
EM.
This aspect of the management environment is termed Performance Management
(PM). The purpose of any PM activity is to collect performance related data,
which can be used to locate potential problems in the network.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the overall requirements for the Performance
Management Integration Reference Point (PMIRP) as it applies to the Network
Elements (NE), Element Manager (EM) and Network Manager (NM).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.6xy: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.111-2 to ‑5: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management;
Parts 2-5: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.30x: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.341: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.412: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation Q.822: \"Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3 Description for
the Q3 Interface -- Performance Management (04/94)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**alarm notification:** notification used to inform the recipient about the
occurrence of an alarm
**event:** generic term for any type of occurrence within a network
entity**\** A notification or event report may be used to inform one or more
OS(s) about the occurrence of the event
**granularity period:** the time between the initiation of two successive
gatherings of measurement data
**measurement job:** task for collecting performance measurements
**measurement schedule:** specifies the time frames during which the
measurement job will be active. The measurement schedule contains one or
several recording intervals
**recording interval:** the time period during which the measurement data is
collected within the NE. The length of a recording interval will be a multiple
of the granularity period
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
EM Element Manager
FT File Transfer
FTIRP File Transfer Integration Reference Point
FTP File Transfer Protocol
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
Itf-N management Interface between the Network and the Network Manager
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
OS Operations System
PM Performance Management
PMIRP Performance Management Integration Reference Point
# 4 PM concept and requirements
Refer to 3GPP TS 32.401 [4].
# 5 Detailed requirements
## 5.1 Overall PM concept of Itf-N
An operations system on the network management layer (i.e. the NM) provides
performance management services and functions required by the 3G operator on
top of the element management layer.
The N interface (Itf-N) may connect the Network Management system either to
Element Managers (EMs) or directly to the Network Elements (NEs). This is done
by means of Integration Reference Points (IRPs). In the following, the term
\"subordinate entities\" defines either EMs or NEs, which are in charge of
supporting the N interface.
This clause describes the properties of an interface enabling a NM to
supervise a 3G-telecommunication network including - if necessary - the
managing EMs. To provide to the NM the Performance Management capability for
the network implies that the NM and the subordinate entities have to agree on
the following:
  * The identification of the performance measurements for each relevant > network resource class, or for instances of a network resource > class.
  * The identification of the network resource instances whose > performance measurements are required by NM.
  * The identification of the performance measurement attributes that > can serve as a threshold and the identification of the > corresponding threshold value(s).
  * The identification of the files containing collected performance > measurements for retrieval by NM.
  * Notification of available files containing collected performance > measurements for retrieval by NM.
  * The network configuration (due to the fact that measurement results, > performance alarms and related state change information are always > originated by network resources, see the Configuration > Management (CM) NRM IRPs in 3GPP TS 32.6xy [1]). This is, > however, not part of the PM functionality.
## 5.2 Management of network performance measurements
The IRPManager shall be able to request the IRPAgent to:
  * Collect specific performance measurements on specific network > resources. The network resources, whose performance measurements > are to be managed or collected, must have been modelled by the > 3GPP Network Resource IRP or vendor-specific extended NRM and must > be visible via the Bulk or Basic CM IRP.
  * Collect the performance measurements in a file. The data format of > this file shall be specified in the 3GPP defined set of PM > Specifications.
  * Emit notification announcing the availability of such file(s).
  * Create measurement jobs.
  * Suspend, Resume, and Stop running measurement jobs.
  * Define measurement job schedule, including the definition of the > recording interval(s), job start time and job stop time.
  * Stop scheduled measurement jobs.
  * Report status of the running and scheduled measurement jobs (as response to corresponding queries from the IRPManager).
It is noted that the IRPAgent can only derive or determine the value of a
performance measurement at the end of a granularity period (status inspection
and discrete event registration). The IRPAgent may also have to reset the
value of a performance measurement at the beginning of a granularity period.
The above IRPAgent behaviours are dependent on the nature of the performance
measurement types (cumulative counter, status inspection, gauge, and discrete
event registration).
## 5.3 Management of threshold alarms
The IRPManager shall be able to request the IRPAgent to:
  * Set threshold values to specific performance measurements of specific network resources.
  * Emit an alarm notification (including clearing) when:\
    * (a) the threshold value(s) have been crossed and not just reached, in a similar fashion as that defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.822 [9]\ or\
    * (b) the threshold value(s) have been reached.\ \ It is the IRPAgent's choice to support (a) or (b) (but not both). The support is on an IRPAgent system wide basis and is not on a per threshold basis. The IRPAgent's behaviour regarding which approach (i.e., (a) or (b) above) to use, shall be the same for emitting alarms and for clearing alarms.
## 5.4 Management of measurement events
The IRPManager shall be able to:
  * Subscribe to notifications that carry threshold alarms and > information on the availability of performance measurement data > files.
## 5.5 Management of measurement files
The IRPManager shall be able to:
  * Manage the transfer of data files containing performance measurement > data.
  * Request a list of available files, including the specification of > filter.
For information:
  * The requirements for measurement file management may be satisfied by > a separate File Transfer IRP.
# 6 Overview of IRPs related to PM
The N interface is built up by a number of IRPs. The basic structure of the
IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [3].
For the purpose of PM the following IRPs are needed:
  * Performance Management IRP (PMIRP), i.e. 3GPP TS 32.41x-series.
  * Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-series [5]).
  * Notification IRP (3GPP TS 32.30x [6]).
  * File Transfer IRP (3GPP TS 32.341 [7]).
For an IRPAgent to be compliant to the PMIRP IS (3GPP TS 32.412 [8]), it shall
minimally include the following:
  1. The support of all mandatory items defined in the PM IRP IS specification (3GPP TS 32.412 [8]\ (e.g., mandatory operations defined within a mandatory interface, mandatory notifications defined within a mandatory interface).
  2. An FTIRP (3GPP TS 32.341 [7]) that shall have:
a. An FTP Server capability.
b. The capability to emit notifyFileReady and notifyFilePreparationError.
c. A listAvailableFiles operation.
NOTE: Bullet 2 will be replaced with \"A compliant FTIRP\" if the mandatory
operations & notifications in FTIRP IS are finalised and identical to that
defined above.
  1. A compliant NotificationIRP (3GPP TS 32.30x [6]).
  2. A compliant AlarmIRP [5] if the PM IRPAgent PMIRP supports the threshold monitoring capabilities.
It is noted that the NotificationIRP (3GPP TS 32.30x [6]) may not be
exclusively used by the PMIRP. It may be shared by other xxxIRP(s) such as
BasicCMIRP in the sense that in a single subscribe operation, the IRPManager
can subscribe for both PM and CM related notifications. Whether the
NotificationIRP (3GPP TS 32.30x [6]) is shared or not is a vendor-specific
design choice.
It is noted that the AlarmIRP [5] may not be exclusively used by the PMIRP.
Its AlarmList may contain non-PM related alarms, for example. Such usage of
AlarmIRP [5] is a vendor-specific design choice.
It is also noted that the FTIRP (3GPP TS 32.341 [7]) may or may not be
exclusively used by the PMIRP.
#