# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
32.411: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements\"
**32.412: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\"**
32.416: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions\"
The present document is part of a set of TSs which describes the requirements
and information model necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of
3G systems. The TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
A 3G system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of various
types and, typically, different vendors, which inter-operate in a co-ordinated
manner in order to satisfy the network users\' communication requirements. Any
evaluation of PLMN-system behaviour will require performance data collected
and recorded by its NEs according to a schedule established by the EM.
This aspect of the management environment is termed Performance Management.
The purpose of any Performance Management activity is to collect performance
related data, which can be used to locate potential problems in the network.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Information Service for the Performance
Management Integration Reference Point (PM IRP) as it applies to the Itf-N.
This IRP IS defines the semantics of operations (and their parameters) visible
across the Itf-N in a protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define
the syntax or encoding of the operations and their parameters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation X.721 (1992): \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Structure of management information: Definition of
management information\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and Requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.411: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[13] Void.
[14] Void.
[15] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements; Definitions and template\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions defined in
3GPP TS 32.411 [8] and 3GPP TS 32.401 [7] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
EM Element Manager
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
PMIRP Performance Management Integration Reference Point
UML Unified Modelling Language
# 4 System Overview
## 4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [15] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 4.1: System Context A
**Figure 4.2: System Context B**
## 4.2 Compliance rules
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for _operations_ , _notifications_ _and_
_parameters_ (of operations and notifications) please refer to 3GPP TS 32.102
[2].
# 5 Void
# 6 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 6.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], information object class, Top
Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], information object class, IRPAgent IRPAgent 3GPP TS
32.312 [5], information object class, ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP 3GPP
TS 32.602 [9], information object class, ManagedEntity ManagedEntity 3GPP TS
32.302 [12], information object class, NotificationIRP NotificationIRP 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [4], information object class, AlarmIRP AlarmIRP 3GPP TS 32.342 [10],
information object class, FileTransferIRP FileTransferIRP
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause introduces the set of Information Object Classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate information within the IRPAgent. The intent is to identify the
information required for the PMIRP Agent implementation of its operations and
notification emission. This clause provides the overview of all support object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these support object classes.
{width="6.351388888888889in" height="5.258333333333334in"}
Figure 6.2.1(a): Information Object Class UML Diagram - Measurement
{width="6.2034722222222225in" height="6.8597222222222225in"}
Figure 6.2.1(b): Information Object Class UML Diagram - Thresholding
{width="6.781944444444444in" height="6.441666666666666in"}
Figure 6.2.1(c): Information Object Class UML Diagram - Combined
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
{width="6.876388888888889in" height="4.656944444444444in"}
Figure 6.2.2: Information Object Class Inheritance UML Diagram
## 6.3 Information Object Class (IOCs) definitions
### 6.3.1 MeasurementJob
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
It represents a task that monitors and collects the performance measurement
data, i.e. values of multiple measurementTypes of multiple ManagedEntity
instances, at regular time intervals defined in JobMeasurementSchedule.
The target measurementTypes are those measurementTypes, whose names are in the
related MeasuredAttribute. measurementTypeName, of the related ManagedEntity
instances. The attributes of MeasurementJob, JobMeasurementSchedule and
MeasuredAttribute can not be modified (except jobStatus) once a measurement
job is created.
The MeasurementJob shall use its information and the information of the
related JobMeasurementSchedule and the information of MeasuredAttribute(s) to
perform measurement data collection during the MeasurementJob life-time. At
the time of data collection, if MeasurementJob suspects the validity of the
collected monitored values, the MeasurementJob should convey the fact to the
IRPManager using the suspectFlag (3GPP TS 32.401 [7]) of the Report. The
MeasurementJob will not emit any notification about this fact. Furthermore,
the MeasurementJob shall continue to monitor the same target measurementTypes.
Even in the worst possible case when the MeasurementJob cannot collect a
single value from the target measurementTypes, the MeasurementJob must
continue its activities according to the schedule created at MeasurementJob
creation time.
The PMIRP Agent may decide to stop a MeasurementJob because of a PMIRP Agent
internal problem or other problems such as in the case when the related
managed resource is not accessible (e.g. uninstalled) or there exist a
prolonged communication link problem between the PMIRP Agent and the related
managed resource. In such case, the PMIRP Agent can stop the MeasurementJob
resulting in the MeasurementJob.jobStatus == \"Stopped\". Additionally, \"
notifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged\" notification shall be emitted to notify
all subscribed IRPManagers about the stopping of a MeasurementJob.
The PMIRP Agent may also selectively suspend one or more MeasurementJobs
without any operator's action in case of overload. In such case, the PMIRP
Agent suspends all the chosen MeasurementJob(s) resulting in the
MeasurementJob.jobStatus == "Suspended" and emit
"notifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged" notification for each MeasurementJob to
notify all subscribed IRPManager(s) about the suspension. The behaviour on
threshold monitors of PMIRP Agent after suspending is the same as the one
after calling suspendMeasurementJob.
Then it should be possible, at any time, for the operator to resume a
MeasurementJob suspended by the system. PMIRP agent may also resume the
measurementJob by itself after detecting the end of the overload. When PMIRP
Agent does not support the resumeMeasurementJob operation, PMIRP Agent shall
resume the measurementJob automatically after detecting the end of overload.
The behaviour of PMIRP Agent after resuming the measurementJob is the same as
the one after calling resumeMeasurementJob. PMIRPAgent may suspend the
corresponding measurementJob(s) when it can decide which one/ones cause(s) the
overload; otherwise, PMIRP Agent can take jobPriority as a reference. The
criterion for suspending one or another measurementJob of equal job priority
is vendor specific.
The way to detect the beginning and the end of overload is out of the scope of
the present document.
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
jobId + M M - jobGranularityPeriod + M M - jobReportingPeriod + M M -
jobStatus + M M - jobPriority + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 State diagram
Figure 6.3.1.3.1: State Diagram for MeasurementJob
Figure 6.3.1.3.2: SubState Diagram of Active
The detailed description and state transition scenarios for MeasurementJob are
in annex A.
### 6.3.2 JobMeasurementSchedule
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
JobMeasurementSchedule is the representation of the time intervals when the
measurement job monitors and collects the performance measurement data. The
attributes of JobMeasurementSchedule can not be modified once a measurement
job is created.
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
jobStartTime + M M - jobStopTime + M M - jobSchedule + M M -
* * *
### 6.3.3 PMIRP
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
PMIRP is the representation of the performance management capabilities
specified by the present document. This IOC inherits from ManagedGenericIRP
IOC specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [5].
#### 6.3.3.2 Attribute
There is no additional attribute defined for this IOC besides those inherited.
#### 6.3.3.3 Notification
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes
notifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged M See clause 7.6.1.
notifyThresholdMonitorObjectCreation M (see note) See clause 7.7.1.
notifyThresholdMonitorObjectDeletion M (see note) See clause 7.7.2.
notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChanged O (see note) See clause 7.7.3.
NOTE: This notification is defined within the PMIRPNotification_2 Interface
(see clause 7.7) which is qualified as optional.\  
If the Interface is supported, then the qualifier defined here is relevant.\  
Otherwise, the qualifier is irrelevant.
* * *
### 6.3.4 MeasurementJobList
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
MeasurementJobList is the representation of the list of MeasurementJobs.
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
jobListId + M M -
* * *
### 6.3.5 MeasuredAttribute
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
It represents the name of the measurementType of the related ManagedEntity
instance whose value is to be monitored and collected. The name of the
monitored and collected measurementType is captured by measurementTypeName.
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
measurementTypeName + M M -
* * *
### 6.3.6 MeasurementReader
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
It represents the capability to read the value of the measurementType of the
related ManagedEntity instance.\ The value of the monitored and collected
measurementType is captured by measurementResultValue.
#### 6.3.6.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
measurementResultValue + M M - probableCause + M M - specificProblem + M M -
direction + M M -
* * *
### 6.3.7 ManagedEntity
#### 6.3.7.1 Definition
The IOC ManagedEntity represents an IOC defined in Network Resources Models,
e.g. Generic Network Resource Model, Core Network Resource Model, UTRAN
Network Resource Model or GERAN Network Resource Model. It also can represent
VSE subclass of 3GPP defined NRM IOCs or VSE defined NRM IOCs. Besides, it can
also represent a "private Object Class" as defined in TS 32.404, e.g. RA.
ManagedEntity is used in the specification of PMIRP operations to represent an
IOC defined in these Network Resource Models and private Object Classes.
### 6.3.8 Monitor
#### 6.3.8.1 Definition
It represents a capability to determine the (a) threshold-crossing or (b)
threshold-reaching and the threshold-clearing. This class is abstract in that
it cannot be instantiated. The ThresholdMonitor inherits this class.
It is the IRPAgent's choice to support (a) or (b) (but not both). The support
is on an IRPAgent system wide basis and is not on a per threshold basis. The
IRPAgent's behaviour regarding which approach (i.e., (a) or (b) above) to use,
shall be the same for emitting alarms and for clearing alarms.
The instances of a class derived from this abstract class shall emit
notifyThresholdMonitorObjectCreation when they are first created; and shall
emit a notifyThresholdMonitorObjectDeletion when deleted.
The instances of a class derived from this abstract class shall also emit
notifyNewAlarm, notifyChangedAlarm and notifyClearedAlarm according to the
rules specified in Annex B: Threshold Alarm Triggering Events.\ The
objectClass and objectInstance parameter of these notifications carry the
class and DN of the ManagedEntity whose measurementType is being monitored and
whose threshold condition has been triggered. The eventType of these
notifications carry \"Quality of Service Alarm\". See 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [4].
#### 6.3.8.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
monitorId + M M - monitorGranularityPeriod + M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.8.3 Notification
* * *
Notification name Note notifyThresholdMonitorCreation See clause 7.1 (class
diagram). notifyThresholdMonitorDeletion See clause 7.1 (class diagram).
* * *
### 6.3.9 ThresholdMonitorList
#### 6.3.9.1 Definition
ThresholdMonitorList is the representation of the list of ThresholdMonitors.
#### 6.3.9.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
monitorListId + M M -
* * *
### 6.3.10 ThresholdMonitor
#### 6.3.10.1 Definition
In order to monitor the overall health of the network, the thresholds are set
by the authorized users to generate network performance related alarms. The
ThresholdMonitor contains the values of the threshold settings for the PM
parameters. If the threshold is (a) crossed or (b) reached (see 6.3.8.1 for
clarification of the alternatives (a) and (b)), a performance alarm will be
emitted (see 3GPP TS 32.401 [7]). The name of the monitored measurementType is
captured by MeasuredAttribute.measurementTypeName and the value of it is
captured by MeasurementReader.measurementResultValue.
#### 6.3.10.2 Attribute
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
thresholdMonitorStatus + M M -
* * *
### 6.3.11 ThresholdLevel
#### 6.3.11.1 Definition
It defines the thresholding criteria (via ThresholdLevel.thresholdValue and
ThresholdLevel.hysteresis) for a measurementType. It also specifies the
thresholdSeverity level (via ThresholdLevel.thresholdSeverity) carried in the
alarm triggered by the (a) threshold crossing or (b) threshold reaching event.
(See 6.3.8.1 for clarification of the alternatives (a) and (b)).
#### 6.3.11.2 Attribute
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
thresholdValue + M M - thresholdSeverity + M M - hysteresis + M M -
* * *
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 relation-pmIRP-measurementJobList (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between PMIRP and MeasurementJobList.
#### 6.4.1.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theMeasurementJobList It represents the MeasurementJobList.
thePMIRP It represents the PMIRP.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition uniqueJobListId The jobListIds playing the role of
theMeasurementJobList, are unique within a particular PMIRP.
* * *
### 6.4.2 relation-measurementJobList-measurementJob (M)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between MeasurementJobList and
MeasurementJob.
#### 6.4.2.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theMeasurementJob It represents the MeasurementJob.
theMeasurementJobList It represents the MeasurementJobList.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition uniqueJobId The jobIds of all MeasurementJobs, playing the
role of theMeasurementJob, are unique within a particular PMIRP and
MeasurementJobList.
* * *
### 6.4.3 relation-measurementJob-jobMeasurementSchedule (M)
#### 6.4.3.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between MeasurementJob and
JobMeasurementSchedule.
#### 6.4.3.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theJobSchedule It represents the JobMeasurementSchedule.
theMeasurementJob It represents the MeasurementJob.
* * *
### 6.4.4 relation-measurementJob-measurement (M)
#### 6.4.4.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between MeasurementJob and MeasurementReader.
#### 6.4.4.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theMeasurement It represents the MeasurementReader.
theMeasurementJob It represents the MeasurementJob.
* * *
### 6.4.5 relation-measuredAttribute-managedEntity (M)
#### 6.4.5.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between MeasuredAttribute and ManagedEntity.
#### 6.4.5.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theMeasuredAttribute The MeasuredAttribute, when playing this
role, reads the monitored measurement types of the related ManagedEntity
instances. The names of measurement types are captured by the
MeasuredAttribute.MeasurementTypeName . When playing this role, the
MeasuredAttribute is aware of the class name and DN of the ManagedEntity.
theME The ManagedEntity, when playing this role, represents the actual network
resource instance under measurement or whose measurementTypes are being
monitored for (a) threshold-crossing or (b) threshold-reaching and threshold-
clearing. (See 6.3.8.1 for clarification of the alternatives (a) and (b))
* * *
#### 6.4.5.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition applyToSameObjectClass The MeasuredAttribute, which playing
the role of \"theMeasuredAttribute\", can monitor the thresholds of the
measurementTypes of one or multiple managed object instances of the same
managed object class, which playing the role of \"theME\".
* * *
### 6.4.6 relation-pmIRP-thresholdMonitorList (M)
#### 6.4.6.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between PMIRP and ThresholdMonitorList.
#### 6.4.6.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theThresholdMonitorList It represents the
ThresholdMonitorList. thePMIRP It represents the PMIRP.
* * *
#### 6.4.6.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition uniqueMonitorListId The monitorListIds playing the role of
theThresholdMonitorList, are unique within a particular PMIRP.
* * *
### 6.4.7 relation-thresholdMonitorList-thresholdMonitor (M)
#### 6.4.7.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between ThresholdMonitorList and
ThresholdMonitor.
#### 6.4.7.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theThresholdMonitor It represents the ThresholdMonitor.
theThresholdMonitorList It represents the ThresholdMonitorList.
* * *
#### 6.4.7.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition uniqueMonitorId The monitorIds of all ThresholdMonitors,
playing the role of theThresholdMonitor, are unique within a particular
ThresholdMonitorList.
* * *
### 6.4.8 relation-thresholdMonitor-measurement (M)
#### 6.4.8.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between ThresholdMonitor and
MeasurementReader.
#### 6.4.8.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theMeasurement It represents the MeasurementReader.
theThresholdMonitor It represents the ThresholdMonitor.
* * *
### 6.4.9 relation-measuredAttribute-thresholdLevels (M)
#### 6.4.9.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between MeasuredAttribute and ThresholdLevel.
#### 6.4.9.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theMeasuredAttribute The MeasuredAttribute, when playing this
role, can have 1..4 ThresholdLevel associates with it to set the (a)
threshold-crossing or (b) threshold reaching and the clearing criteria (i.e.
ThresholdLevel.thresholdValue, ThresholdLevel.hysteresis) and associated
thresholdSeverity (i.e. ThresholdLevel.thresholdSeverity) of the monitored
measurementType. (see 6.3.8.1 for clarification of the alternatives (a) and
(b)) theThresholdLevel When playing this role, the ThresholdLevel captures the
(a) threshold-crossing or (b) threshold-reaching and the threshold-clearing
criteria and its associated thresholdSeverity level. (see 6.3.8.1 for
clarification of the alternatives (a) and (b))
* * *
#### 6.4.9.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition noMoreThanFourLevels A MeasuredAttribute may have no more than
four ThresholdLevels associated with it.
* * *
## 6.5 Information attribute definition
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | direction | For some | Possible values are: | | | measurementType, the | \"Increasing\", | | | higher its | \"Decreasing\" | | | thresholdValue, the | | | | higher is the | | | | thresholdSeverity. | | | | For others, the | | | | lower its | | | | thresholdValue, the | | | | higher is its | | | | thresholdSeverity. | | | | This attribute | | | | identifies if the | | | | measurementType is | | | | of the former | | | | ( | | | | i.e. \"Increasing\") | | | | or latter type (i.e. | | | | \"Decreasing\"). | | | | | | | | If it is | | | | \"Increasing\", the | | | | threshold event is | | | | triggered when the | | | | value first equals | | | | or exceeds (when | | | | compared against the | | | | last read value) a | | | | threshold value. The | | | | threshold is said to | | | | be cleared when the | | | | measurementType | | | | value falls below | | | | (when compared | | | | against the last | | | | read value) one or | | | | more threshold | | | | values. | | | | | | | | If it is | | | | \"Decreasing\", the | | | | threshold event is | | | | triggered when the | | | | measurementType | | | | value first equals | | | | or falls below one | | | | or more threshold | | | | values. The | | | | threshold is said to | | | | be cleared when the | | | | measurementType | | | | value rises above | | | | the threshold value. | | | | | | | | See annex B | | | | (Threshold Related | | | | Performance Alarm | | | | Triggering Events) | | | | for details of the | | | | behaviour of | | | | multiple thresholds. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hysteresis | A threshold has a | Any positive value | | | value. It can have a | | | | hysteresis. A | | | | threshold with a | | | | hysteresis has a | | | | threshold‑high and a | | | | threshold‑low value | | | | that are different | | | | from the threshold | | | | value. | | | | | | | | A hysteresis, | | | | therefore, defines | | | | the threshold-high | | | | and threshold-low | | | | levels within which | | | | the measurementType | | | | value is allowed to | | | | oscillate without | | | | triggering a (a) | | | | threshold-crossing | | | | or (b) | | | | threshold-reaching | | | | or a | | | | threshold-clearing | | | | condition. (See | | | | 6.3.8.1 for | | | | clarification of the | | | | alternatives (a) and | | | | (b)) | | | | | | | | threshold-high = | | | | threshold + | | | | hysteresis | | | | | | | | threshold-low = | | | | threshold - | | | | hysteresis | | | | | | | | See annex B | | | | (Threshold Related | | | | Performance Alarm | | | | Triggering Events). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobGranularityPeriod | It specifies the | The value can be 5 | | | period between two | minutes, 15 minutes, | | | successive | 30 minutes, 1 hours, | | | measurements. | 12 hours and 24 | | | | hours. | | | | | | | | The minimum | | | | granularity period | | | | is 5 minutes in most | | | | cases, but for some | | | | measurements it may | | | | only make sense to | | | | collect data in a | | | | larger granularity | | | | period. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobId | It identifies the | Any identifier | | | MeasurementJob | except: | | | instance (and | | | | distinguishes it | 1. Those that | | | from all other | > identify | | | existing and stopped | > MeasurementJob | | | MeasurementJob | > instances | | | instances of the | > whose | | | PMIRP Agent). | > Measuremen | | | | tJob.jobStatus(s)are | | | | > Scheduled, | | | | > Active, | | | | > Suspended or | | | | > Stopped; and | | | | | | | | 2. Those that | | | | > appear in | | | | > filenames of | | | | > files ready | | | | > for IRPManager | | | | > retrieval. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobListId | It identifies the | Any identifier. | | | singleton | | | | MeasurementJobList | | | | of the PMIRP Agent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobReportingPeriod | It specifies the | Its value should be | | | period between two | one or multiple of | | | successive emissions | j | | | of notifyFileReady | obGranularityPeriod. | | | or | | | | notify | | | | FilePreparationError | | | | [10]. The two | | | | notifications are | | | | related to the same | | | | Job. See constraints | | | | reportTime in clause | | | | 6.5.2. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobSchedule | It specifies the | Its value is only | | | detailed time frames | one of the | | | during which the | following, | | | Meas | dailyScheduling or | | | urementJob.jobStatus | weeklyScheduling. | | | = Active and its | The legal values for | | | substate = Busy. | them refer to ITU-T | | | | Recommendation X.721 | | | | [3]. | | | | | | | | The legal values for | | | | them are as follows. | | | | | | | | dailyScheduling: | | | | | | | | {{ intervalStart | | | | {hour 0, minute 0}, | | | | | | | | intervalEnd {hour | | | | 23, minute 59}}} | | | | | | | | weeklyScheduling: | | | | | | | | {{ daysOfWeek | | | | \'1111111\'B, | | | | | | | | > intervalsOfDay | | | | > dailyScheduling}} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobStartTime | It specifies the | All values that | | | begin time from | indicate valid | | | which the | timestamp. | | | MeasurementJob will | | | | be active. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobStatus | It specifies the | Its value should be | | | status of | one of the | | | MeasurementJob. | following: | | | | Scheduled, | | | | | | | | Active, | | | | | | | | Suspended | | | | | | | | Stopped | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobPriority | It specifies the | Its value should be | | | priority of | one of the | | | MeasurementJob | following: | | | | | | | | Low, | | | | | | | | Medium, | | | | | | | | High | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobStopTime | It specifies the end | All values that | | | time after which the | indicate valid | | | MeasurementJob will | timestamp and it | | | be stopped. | should be later than | | | | jobStartTime.It\'s | | | | not necessary that | | | | jobStartTime and | | | | jobStopTime | | | | specifies time | | | | within the same day. | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | carry the value | | | | \"indefinitely\". | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | me | It identifies the | Any valid | | asurementResultValue | value of a | measurement result | | | measurement type. | value. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measurementTypeName | It identifies a name | Any valid | | | of one measurement | measurement type | | | type whose value is | name as defined by | | | being collected and | the measurement | | | monitored. | definition template | | | | in 3GPP TS 32.404 | | | | [16]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | moni | It specifies the | It can be 5 minutes, | | torGranularityPeriod | period between two | 15 minutes, | | | successive reading | 30 minutes, 1 hour, | | | of the | 12 hours or | | | thresholdValue to | 24 hours.\ | | | determine (a) | It has to be a | | | threshold-crossing | multiple of the | | | or (b) | jobGranularityPeriod | | | threshold-reaching | if the | | | and | MeasurementJob | | | threshold-clearing. | monitoring the same | | | (See 6.3.8.1 for | measurementType | | | clarification of the | exists. | | | alternatives (a) and | | | | (b)) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | monitorId | It identifies the | Any identifier | | | ThresholdMonitor | except those that | | | instance (and | are currently used. | | | distinguishes it | | | | from all other | | | | existing | | | | ThresholdMonitor | | | | instances of the | | | | PMIRP Agent). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | monitorListId | It identifies the | Any identifier. | | | singleton | | | | ThresholdMonitorList | | | | in the PMIRP Agent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | probableCause | It identifies the | \"Threshold | | | probable cause (of | Crossed\" | | | the (a) threshold | | | | crossing or (b) | | | | threshold reaching) | | | | carried by the | | | | threshold crossing | | | | or reaching alarm. | | | | (See 6.3.8.1 for | | | | clarification of the | | | | alternatives (a) and | | | | (b)) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | thresholdSeverity | It identifies the | Warning, Minor, | | | thresholdSeverity of | Major, Critical | | | the (a) threshold | | | | crossing or (b) | | | | threshold reaching | | | | event. (See 6.3.8.1 | | | | for clarification of | | | | the alternatives (a) | | | | and (b)) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | specificProblem | It identifies the | Any valid | | | specific problem | specificProblem as | | | (causing the (a) | defined by | | | threshold crossing | 3GPP TS 32.111-2 | | | or (b) threshold | [4]. | | | reaching) carried by | | | | the threshold | | | | crossing or reaching | | | | alarm. (See 6.3.8.1 | | | | for clarification of | | | | the alternatives (a) | | | | and (b)) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | th | It specifies the | Active - | | resholdMonitorStatus | current status of | ThresholdMonitor is | | | the | working; | | | ThresholdMonitor. | | | | | Suspended - | | | | ThresholdMonitor is | | | | suspended. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | thresholdValue | It defines the | If the monitored | | | threshold value of | measurementType is | | | the monitored | of Gauge type, this | | | measurementTypes. If | thresholdValue shall | | | the value is (a) | be of the same type. | | | crossed or (b) | | | | reached, the | If the monitored | | | performance alarm | measurementType is | | | shall be emitted | of counter type, | | | depending on the | then this value | | | value of the | should be expressed | | | thr | as a rate, i.e., the | | | esholdMonitorStatus. | number of units of | | | (See 6.3.8.1 for | type of the | | | clarification of the | monitored | | | alternatives (a) and | measurementType over | | | (b)) | unit of time. | | | | | | | | Note this rate is | | | | independent from the | | | | monit | | | | orGranularityPeriod. | | | | This means that | | | | changes in the | | | | moni | | | | torGranularityPeriod | | | | should not impact | | | | the rate used for | | | | threshold | | | | monitoring. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.5.2 Constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | firstReportTime | If the jobReportingPeriod is n | | | times the jobGranularityPeriod, | | | then the first report time shall | | | be immediately after the | | | completion of the n-th | | | successful measurementType | | | reading. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | measurementTypeReadTimes | The measurementType reading | | | times are determined by the | | | following rules. | | | | | | - If jobGranularityPeriod is 5 | | | minutes, then read on every | | | 5^th^ minute of the hour. | | | | | | - If jobGranularityPeriod is 15 | | | minutes, then read on every | | | 15^th^ minute of the hour. | | | | | | - If jobGranularityPeriod is 30 | | | minutes, then read on every | | | 30^th^ minute of the hour | | | | | | - If jobGranularityPeriod is 1 | | | hour, then read on every hour of | | | the day | | | | | | - If jobGranularityPeriod is 12 | | | hours, then the first read shall | | | be as soon as possible on the | | | hour and subsequent reads shall | | | be at 12 hours interval. | | | | | | - If jobGranularityPeriod is 24 | | | hours, then the first read shall | | | be as soon as possible on the | | | hour and subsequent reads shall | | | be at 24 hours interval. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | multiLevelSeverity | For each | | HysteresisOverlap | T | | | hresholdLevel.thresholdSeverity, | | | there may be a | | | ThresholdLevel.hysteresis value | | | corresponding to it. These | | | multi-level values of | | | ThresholdLevel.hysteresis, | | | relating to one | | | ThresholdMonitor, shall not | | | overlap. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | multiLevelSeverityOrder | The multiple ThresholdLevel(s), | | | related to one ThresholdMonitor, | | | shall be of the following order. | | | If | | | ThresholdLevel.thresholdSeverity | | | of one instance is higher than | | | that of the other instance and | | | the direction is \'Increasing\', | | | then the | | | ThresholdLevel.thresholdValue is | | | higher than that of the other. | | | If | | | ThresholdLevel.thresholdSeverity | | | of one instance is higher than | | | that of the other instance and | | | the direction is \'Decreasing\', | | | then the | | | ThresholdLevel.thresholdValue is | | | lower than that of the other. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | numberOfT | In relation-tMonitor-tLevel, the | | hresholdLevelPerThresholdMonitor | multiplicity of | | | theThresholdLevel is \"1..4\". | | | | | | If PMIRP supports multi-level | | | thresholdSeverity, then there | | | are at most 4 ThresholdLevels | | | relating to one | | | ThresholdMonitor. All | | | ThresholdLevel.thresholdSeverity | | | instances shall hold a different | | | value that is chosen from the | | | following: \'Critical\', | | | \'Major\', 'Warning\' and | | | \'Minor\'. | | | | | | If PMIRP does not support | | | multi-level thresholdSeverity, | | | then there is only one | | | ThresholdLevel relating to one | | | ThresholdMonitor. The sole | | | ThresholdLevel.thresholdSeverity | | | shall hold one of the following: | | | \'Critical\', \'Major\', | | | 'Warning\' or \'Minor\'. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 7 Interface definition
## 7.1 Class diagram
{width="7.074305555555555in" height="4.429861111111111in"}
NOTE 1: PMIRPNotifications_2 is mandatory if PMIRPOperations_2 is supported.
NOTE 2: The suspendMeasurementJob and resumeMeasurementJob operations are
optional.
Figure 7.1: Class Diagram
## 7.2 Generic rules
\- **Rule 1:** each operation with at least one input parameter supports a
pre-condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 2:** each operation with at least one optional input parameter
supports a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where
\"xxx\" is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition
indicates that the operation supports the named optional input parameter.
Additionally, each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 3:** each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
NOTE: These rules are mapped at the solution set level. Pre-conditions and
exceptions, generated by these rules, need not appear explicitly in the
present document.
## 7.3 PMIRPOperations_1 Interface (M)
### 7.3.1 Operation createMeasurementJob (M)
#### 7.3.1.1 Definition
This operation supports IRPManager\'s request to create a MeasurementJob
through Itf-N.
Once created, the attributes of MeasurementJob (except
MeasurementJob.jobStatus) and the related JobMeasurementSchedule and
MeasuredAttribute will not be modified during the life-time of the
MeasurementJob.
One MeasurementJob can collect the value of one or multiple measurementTypes.
When a measurementType is collected by one MeasurementJob for a given
instance, another MeasurementJob which wants to collect the same
measurementType for the same instance with different or the same
jobGranularityPeriod may be rejected. This behaviour shall be consistent for a
given implementation by a specific vendor.
#### 7.3.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | iOCName | M | ManagedEnt | It specifies | | | | ity.objectClass | one Managed | | | | | Entity class | | | | | name. | | | | | IRPManager | | | | | requests that | | | | | one or more | | | | | mea | | | | | surementType(s) | | | | | of the | | | | | instances of | | | | | this class to | | | | | be monitored. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | iOCInstanceList | M | List of | It specifies | | | | \ | ManagedEntity | | | | | instances whose | | | | | mea | | | | | surementType(s) | | | | | are to be | | | | | collected. | | | | | | | | | | ManagedEntity | | | | | instance(s) can | | | | | be added in the | | | | | network | | | | | regardless of | | | | | whether a | | | | | MeasurementJob | | | | | exists or not. | | | | | | | | | | An empty list | | | | | means that all | | | | | instances known | | | | | by PMIRP shall | | | | | be monitored. | | | | | | | | | | The support of | | | | | the use of | | | | | empty list to | | | | | indicate all | | | | | instances is | | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | MeasurementJob | | | | | is created | | | | | using empty | | | | | list, there are | | | | | two possible | | | | | im | | | | | plementations:\ | | | | | 1) PMIRP shall | | | | | monitor all | | | | | instances known | | | | | by PMIRP at the | | | | | time of | | | | | MeasurementJob | | | | | creation, and | | | | | it will not | | | | | monitor | | | | | instances added | | | | | later.\ | | | | | 2) PMIRP shall | | | | | monitor all | | | | | instances known | | | | | by PMIRP at the | | | | | time of | | | | | MeasurementJob | | | | | creation, and | | | | | it shall | | | | | monitor | | | | | instances added | | | | | later. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | measurem | M | List of \ | corresponding | | | | | name of | | | | | measurementType | | | | | to be measured. | | | | | | | | | | The element of | | | | | measurem | | | | | entCategoryList | | | | | could be one of | | | | | the following:\ | | | | | - The form | | | | | \"famil | | | | | y.measurementNa | | | | | me.subcounter\" | | | | | can be used in | | | | | order to | | | | | retrieve a | | | | | specified | | | | | subcounter of a | | | | | M | | | | | easurementType. | | | | | | | | | | - The form | | | | | \"family.me | | | | | asurementName\" | | | | | can be used in | | | | | order to | | | | | retrieve a | | | | | specific | | | | | M | | | | | easurementType. | | | | | In case the | | | | | MeasurementType | | | | | includes | | | | | subcounters, | | | | | all subcounters | | | | | will be | | | | | retrieved. | | | | | | | | | | - The form | | | | | \"family\" can | | | | | be used in | | | | | order to | | | | | retrieve all | | | | | M | | | | | easurementTypes | | | | | in this family. | | | | | | | | | | At least, one | | | | | element of | | | | | measurem | | | | | entCategoryList | | | | | shall be | | | | | specified. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | gr | M | Measu | See clause | | anularityPeriod | | rementJob.jobGr | 6.5.1 | | | | anularityPeriod | (definition and | | | | | legal values). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reportingPeriod | M | Mea | See clause | | | | surementJob.job | 6.5.1 | | | | ReportingPeriod | (definition and | | | | | legal values). | | | | | | | | | | PMIRP will | | | | | periodically | | | | | monitor the | | | | | performance | | | | | data according | | | | | to the | | | | | \"re | | | | | portingPeriod\" | | | | | parameter and | | | | | produces an | | | | | aggregated | | | | | report in one | | | | | or more files. | | | | | These files | | | | | shall be | | | | | transferred | | | | | through file | | | | | transfer | | | | | mechanism | | | | | covered by the | | | | | File Transfer | | | | | IRP IS (see TS | | | | | 32.342 [10]). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | startTime | O | JobMe | See clause | | | | asurementSchedu | 6.5.1 | | | | le.jobStartTime | (definition and | | | | | legal values). | | | | | | | | | | Default value | | | | | is \"start | | | | | now\". If | | | | | startTime is in | | | | | the past, the | | | | | current time | | | | | will be used | | | | | and the job | | | | | will start | | | | | immediately. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | stopTime | O | JobM | See clause | | | | easurementSched | 6.5.1 | | | | ule.jobStopTime | (definition and | | | | | legal values). | | | | | | | | | | Default value | | | | | for jobStopTime | | | | | is to run | | | | | indefinitely. | | | | | StopTime shall | | | | | be later than | | | | | startTime and | | | | | current time. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | schedule | O | JobM | See clause | | | | easurementSched | 6.5.1 | | | | ule.jobSchedule | (definition and | | | | | legal values). | | | | | | | | | | Default value | | | | | is \"daily\". | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | priority | O | Measurement | See clause | | | | Job.jobPriority | 6.5.1 | | | | | (definition and | | | | | legal values). | | | | | | | | | | Default value | | | | | is "Medium" | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.3.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | jobId | M | Measu | Unique | | | | rementJob.jobId | identifier of | | | | | the | | | | | MeasurementJob | | | | | from all the | | | | | existing and | | | | | stopped | | | | | MeasurementJobs | | | | | in a PMIRP | | | | | Agent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | unsupportedList | M | List of \ | The reason can | | | | | be any of: | | | | | | | | | | meas | | | | | urementTypeName | | | | | is unknown to | | | | | the PMIRP. | | | | | | | | | | meas | | | | | urementTypeName | | | | | is invalid. | | | | | | | | | | meas | | | | | urementTypeName | | | | | is not | | | | | supported in | | | | | the specific | | | | | implementation. | | | | | | | | | | The related IOC | | | | | Instance is | | | | | unknown | | | | | (e.g. it does | | | | | not exist at | | | | | the time of | | | | | this operation | | | | | invocation) to | | | | | the PMIRP. | | | | | | | | | | Insufficient | | | | | capacity to | | | | | monitor the | | | | | related IOC | | | | | Instance(s). | | | | | | | | | | meas | | | | | urementTypeName | | | | | is already | | | | | monitored for | | | | | the IOC | | | | | instance with | | | | | the same or | | | | | another | | | | | granularity | | | | | period. | | | | | | | | | | When the input | | | | | parameter | | | | | iOCInstanceList | | | | | is empty, the | | | | | unsupportedList | | | | | shall be empty. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Success, | An operation | | | | Failure, | may fail | | | | PartialSuccess) | because of a | | | | | specified or | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reason. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.3.1.4 Pre-condition
atLeastOneValidMeasurementType AND validStartTime AND validStopTime AND
validSchedule AND validGranularityPeriod AND validReportingPeriod AND
sufficientCapacity AND validPriority.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition atLeastOneValidMeasurementType At least one input
measurementType is valid. The word valid means that the PMIRP is aware of this
measurementType name, is aware of the ManagedEntity holding such
measurementType and that the MeasurementJob created can monitor its value
according to the monitoring criteria, e.g. granularity period, given in the
input parameter. validStartTime The startTime is valid. validStopTime The
stopTime is valid. validSchedule The schedule is valid. validGranularityPeriod
The granularityPeriod is valid. validReportingPeriod The reportingPeriod is
valid. sufficentCapacity The resource of EM and NE can support the requested
measurement. validPriority The priority is valid.
* * *
#### 7.3.1.5 Post-condition
someMeasurementTypeNamesMonitored AND
notifyMeasurementJobStatusChangedMayBeEmitted.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition someMeasurementTypeNamesMonitored At least one input
measurementTypeName is monitored by the newly created MeasurementJob.
notifyMeasurementJobStatusChangedMayBeEmitted If start time is \"start now\",
the MeasurementJob.jobStatus turns \"Active\" and a
notifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged is emitted.
* * *
#### 7.3.1.6 Exceptions
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | invalidStartTime | **Condition:** validStartTime is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** Name of the | | | exception; status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | invalidStopTime | **Condition:** validStopTime is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** Name of the | | | exception; status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | invalidSchedule | **Condition:** validSchedule is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** Name of the | | | exception; status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | invalidGranularityPeriod | **Condition:** validGranularityPeriod is | | | false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** Name of the | | | exception; status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | invalidReportingPeriod | **Condition:** validReportingPeriod is | | | false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** Name of the | | | exception; status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | highWorkLoad | **Condition:** sufficientCapacity is | | | false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** Name of the | | | exception and the detailed reason which | | | is one of: emCpuBusy; emHDShortage, | | | emLowMemory, {neCpuBusy, | | | neObjectInstList}, {neHDShortage | | | neObjectInstList}, {neLowMemory, | | | neObjectInstList}, maxJobReached, | | | otherReason; status is set to | | | \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | invalidPriority | **Condition:** validPriority is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** Name of the | | | exception; status is set to 'Failure'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | noValidMeasurementType | **Condition:** | | | (atLeastOneValidMeasurementType) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
### 7.3.2 Operation stopMeasurementJob (M)
#### 7.3.2.1 Definition
This operation supports IRPManager\'s request to stop a MeasurementJob through
Itf-N, after which, the MeasurementJob may still be visible via Itf-N. Whether
the MeasurementJob is removed from the managed system is vendor specific and
out of scope of the present document.
The behaviour of the IRPAgent when the job is stopped is vendor specific,
which means the job could be stopped at the end of the GranularityPeriod or
immediately.
After the job has been stopped, the notifyFileReady or
notifyFilePreparationError notification shall be emitted immediately or when
the next reporting period is reached.
#### 7.3.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment JobId M MeasurementJob.jobId
It specifies the MeasurementJob to be stopped.
* * *
#### 7.3.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment Status M ENUM
(Success,Failure) An operation may fail because of a specified or unspecified
reason.
* * *
#### 7.3.2.4 Pre-condition
measurementJobExists AND measurementJobCanBeStopped.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition measurementJobExists MeasurementJob specified in the
input parameter exists. measurementJobCanBeStopped MeasurementJob specified in
the input parameter can be stopped now.
* * *
#### 7.3.2.5 Post-condition
measurementJobIsStopped AND notifyMeasurementJobStatusChangedEmitted.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition measurementJobIsStopped. The MeasurementJob
identified by jobId is stopped but may still be visible via Itf-N. The Job
state is \"Stopped\". notifyMeasurementJobStatusChangedEmitted The
notifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged is emitted.
* * *
#### 7.3.2.6 Exceptions
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | unknownJob | **Condition:** (MeasurementJobExists) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output parameter | | | status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | jobCannotBeStopped | **Condition:** (measurementJobCanBeStopped) | | | not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output parameter | | | status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 7.3.3 Operation suspendMeasurementJob (O)
#### 7.3.3.1 Definition
This operation supports IRPManager\'s request to suspend a MeasurementJob
through Itf-N. When the MeasurementJob is suspended, the collection of
measurement result data by the MeasurementJob will stop, regardless of its
schedule, but the MeasurementJob still exists. The suspend operation is
necessary in following situation:
\- High work load experienced by managed system.
\- The specified measurement data is not needed in a specific duration.
\- Other specific requirement.
After the job has been suspended, the notifyFileReady or
notifyFilePreparationError notification shall be emitted immediately or when
the next reporting period is reached.
#### 7.3.3.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment jobId M MeasurementJob.jobId
It specifies the MeasurementJob to be suspended.
* * *
#### 7.3.3.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM
(Success,Failure) An operation may fail because of a specified or unspecified
reason.
* * *
#### 7.3.3.4 Pre-condition
measurementJobExists AND measurementJobIsNotSuspended.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition measurementJobExists The MeasurementJob specified in
the input parameter exists. measurementJobIsNotSuspended The MeasurementJob
specified in the input parameter is not suspended.
* * *
#### 7.3.3.5 Post-condition
measurementJobIsSuspended AND notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChangedEmitted AND
notifyMeasurementJobStatusChangedEmitted.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MeasurementJobIsSuspended | The MeasurementJob identified by | | | measurementJobId is suspended. | | | It means the following. | | | | | | (a) All files open for | | | capturing measurement results | | | are closed. | | | | | | (b) If one of the files closed | | | contain measurement data, a | | | notifyFileReady is emitted | | | indicating the availability of | | | the file(s). | | | | | | (c) No more reading of | | | measurementType values. | | | | | | (d) The MeasurementJob.jobStatus | | | is set to \'Suspended\'. | | | | | | (e) For an IRPAgent using the | | | measurement result data for | | | threshold monitoring, the | | | detection of the related | | | performance alarm conditions | | | is suspended. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | notifyThre | The | | sholdMonitorStatusChangedEmitted | not | | | ifyThresholdMonitorStatusChanged | | | is emitted, if the | | | ThresholdMonitor behaviour is | | | dependent on the availability of | | | the measurement result. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | notifyMe | The | | asurementJobStatusChangedEmitted | n | | | otifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged | | | is emitted. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.3.3.6 Exceptions
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | unknownJob | **Condition:** (measurementJobExists) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output parameter | | | status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | jobAlreadySuspended | **Condition:** (measurementJobIsNotSuspended) | | | not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output parameter | | | status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
### 7.3.4 Operation resumeMeasurementJob (O)
#### 7.3.4.1 Definition
This operation supports IRPManager\'s request to resume a suspended
MeasurementJob. When the MeasurementJob is resumed, it will work according to
criteria (e.g. granularity period, startTime, stopTime, schedule) set up by
the corresponding createMeasurementJob operation.
#### 7.3.4.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment jobId M MeasurementJob.jobId
It specifies the MeasurementJob to be resumed.
* * *
#### 7.3.4.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (Success,
Failure) An operation may fail because of a specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
#### 7.3.4.4 Pre-condition
measurementJobExists AND measurementJobIsSuspended AND sufficientCapacity.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition measurementJobExists MeasurementJob specified by the
input parameter exists. measurementJobIsSuspended MeasurementJob specified by
the input parameter is suspended. sufficientCapacity The resource of EM and NE
can support the requested measurement.
* * *
#### 7.3.4.5 Post-condition
measurementJobIsResumed AND notifyMeasurementJobStatusChangedEmitted.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | measurementJobIsResumed | The MeasurementJob identified by | | | MeasurementJobId is resumed., It | | | means the following. This | | | resumed MeasurementJob shall | | | behave as it did when it was | | | first created by | | | createMeasurementJob. | | | | | | Depending on the current time | | | and the | | | J | | | obMeasurementSchedule.startTime, | | | the MeasurementJob.jobStatus | | | will be set accordingly. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | notifyMe | The | | asurementJobStatusChangedEmitted | n | | | otifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged | | | is emitted. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.3.4.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | unknownJob | **Condition:** (measurementJobExists) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output parameter | | | status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | jobIsNotSuspended | **Condition:** (measurementJobIsSuspended) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output parameter | | | status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | highWorkLoad | **Condition:** sufficientCapacity is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** Name of the exception | | | and the detailed reason which is one of: | | | emCpuBusy; emHDShortage, emLowMemory, | | | {neCpuBusy, neObjectInstList}, {neHDShortage | | | neObjectInstList}, {neLowMemory, | | | neObjectInstList}, maxJobReached, otherReason; | | | status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 7.3.5 Operation listMeasurementJobs (M)
#### 7.3.5.1 Definition
This operation supports IRPManager\'s request to list the information of all
or a set of specified current MeasurementJobs.
#### 7.3.5.2 Input parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | jobIdList | M | List of | This parameter | | | | \ | criteria to | | | | | list the | | | | | M | | | | | easurementJobs. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | parameter | | | | | specifies the | | | | | list of jobId | | | | | to be | | | | | retrieved, then | | | | | the | | | | | corresponding | | | | | information of | | | | | jobs will be | | | | | returned. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | parameter | | | | | contains no | | | | | information, | | | | | all the | | | | | MeasurementJobs | | | | | are retrieved. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.3.5.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | jobInfoList | M | List of\ | then | | | | | iOCInstanceList | | | | | here shall | | | | | contain the DNs | | | | | of the | | | | | supported IOC | | | | | instances. | | | | | | | | | | If the job is | | | | | created using | | | | | empty | | | | | i | | | | | OCInstanceList, | | | | | then | | | | | iOCInstanceList | | | | | here shall be | | | | | empty as well. | | | | | This case is | | | | | valid only if | | | | | IRPAgent | | | | | support the use | | | | | of empty list. | | | | | (see clause | | | | | 7.3.1.2) | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Success, | An operation | | | | Failure) | may fail | | | | | because of a | | | | | specified or | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reason. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.3.5.4 Pre-condition
jobIdListIsValid.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition jobIdListIsValid jobIdList specified in the input
parameter is valid.
* * *
#### 7.3.5.5 Post-condition
measurementJobsAreReturned AND measurementJobNotAffected.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition measurementJobsAreReturned The information of
required MeasurementJobs are returned in the output parameters.
measurementJobNotAffected The current MeasurementJob(s) are not affected by
the operation.
* * *
#### 7.3.5.6 Exceptions
+------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | invalidJobIdList | **Condition:** (jobIdListIsValid) not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output parameter | | | status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
## 7.4 PMIRPOperations_2 Interface (O)
### 7.4.1 Operation createThresholdMonitor (M)
#### 7.4.1.1 Definition
This operation supports IRPManager\'s request to create a ThresholdMonitor
that defines the thresholds for some specific measurementTypes. If the
threshold defined is (a) crossed or (b) reached, the related performance
alarms will be emitted to subscribed IRPManager(s).
Two cases are allowed:
\- One case only accepts threshold monitoring of measurementType(s) that are
already under monitoring by an existing MeasurementJob. This kind of PMIRP
will not monitor a measurementType for (a) threshold-crossing or (b) threshold
reaching or for clearing if that measurementType is not already subject to a
MeasurementJob monitoring. This kind of PMIRP will only determine the (a)
threshold crossing or (b) threshold reaching and clearing events when the
related MeasurementJob(s) are in Active states. The IRPManager, when
interacting with this kind of PMIRP, must first start a MeasurementJob to
monitor the measurementTypes and then invoke this operation for the same
measurementTypes.
  * The other case is that it can accept threshold monitoring of measurementType(s) regardless if they are already under monitoring by existing MeasurementJob(s). ThresholdMonitor is independent of any existing MeasurementJob(s) and no new MeasurementJob(s) are created for threshold monitoring purposes.
> (See 6.3.8.1 for clarification of the alternatives (a) and (b))
#### 7.4.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | iOCName | M | ManagedEnt | It specifies | | | | ity.objectClass | the | | | | | ManagedEntity | | | | | class name of | | | | | the instances | | | | | specified by | | | | | i | | | | | OCInstanceList. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | iOCInstanceList | M | List of | It specifies | | | | \ | instances whose | | | | | m | | | | | easurementTypes | | | | | are to be | | | | | monitored. | | | | | | | | | | At least, one | | | | | instance shall | | | | | be specified. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | th | M | List of\ | It specifies | | resholdInfoList | | \ | | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | thresholdPack | | | | | is list of | | | | | thresh | | | | | oldPackElement. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | thres | | | | | holdPackElement | | | | | is STRUCT | | | | | | | | | | \ | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | monitorGr | M | Mo | See clause | | anularityPeriod | | nitor.monitorGr | 6.5.1 | | | | anularityPeriod | (definition and | | | | | legal values). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.4.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | monitorId | M | ThresholdMon | It specifies | | | | itor.monitorId. | the unique | | | | | identifier of | | | | | the | | | | | T | | | | | hresholdMonitor | | | | | in the PMIRP | | | | | Agent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | unsupportedList | M | List of \ | (a) The PMIRP | | | | | has trouble | | | | | starting | | | | | monitoring the | | | | | threshold of | | | | | this | | | | | m | | | | | easurementType. | | | | | | | | | | (b) The | | | | | measurementType | | | | | is illegal. | | | | | | | | | | (c) The | | | | | measurementType | | | | | exists but it | | | | | is not | | | | | currently under | | | | | monitoring by | | | | | any | | | | | MeasurementJob | | | | | and that the | | | | | PMIRP requires | | | | | that it be | | | | | under | | | | | monitoring by | | | | | MeasurementJob | | | | | (before it can | | | | | be monitored | | | | | for | | | | | thresholding). | | | | | | | | | | (d) | | | | | Hysteresis is | | | | | overlapped. | | | | | | | | | | This parameter | | | | | is used only | | | | | when the | | | | | operation | | | | | returns | | | | | \'Pa | | | | | rtialSuccess\'. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | An operation | | | | (S | may fail | | | | uccess,Failure, | because of a | | | | PartialSuccess) | specified or | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reason. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.4.1.4 Pre-condition
validGranularityPeriod AND someValidMeasurementType AND validDirection AND
validNumberOfThresholdPackElements AND validOrderOfThresholdPackElements.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | validGranularityPeriod | The monitorGranularityPeriod is | | | valid. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | someValidMeasurementType | At least one requested | | | measurementType can be monitored | | | for thresholding. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | validDirection | The direction is valid. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | va | If PMIRP supports multi-level | | lidNumberOfThresholdPackElements | thresholdSeverity, it is valid | | | if the number of elements in | | | thresholdPack is 1, 2, 3 or 4. | | | | | | If PMIRP does not support | | | multi-level thresholdSeverity, | | | it is valid if the number is 1. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | v | This assertion is applicable if | | alidOrderOfThresholdPackElements | PMIRP supports multi-level | | | thresholdSeverity. It is valid | | | if it satisfies the constraint | | | defined by | | | multiLevelSeverityOrder of | | | clause 6.5.2 (constrains). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.4.1.5 Post-condition
thresholdMonitorIsCreated AND notifyObjectCreationEmitted.
+------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | thresholdMonitorIsCreated | The ThresholdMonitor identified by | | | monitorId exists. And the | | | performance alarm shall be emitted | | | if the thresholds are (a) crossed or | | | (b) reached and the | | | thresholdMonitorStatus is | | | \"Active\". (See 6.3.8.1 for | | | clarification of the alternatives | | | (a) and (b)) | | | | | | The | | | Thr | | | esholdMonitor.thresholdMonitorStatus | | | will be Active. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | notifyObjectCreationEmitted. | The notifyObjectCreation is emitted | | | to indicate the creation of a | | | ThresholdMonitor. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
#### 7.4.1.6 Exceptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | invalidClassOrInstances | **Condition:** | | | (validClassAndInstances) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | invalidGranularityPeriod | **Condition:** | | | (validGranularityPeriod) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** Name | | | of the exception; status is set | | | to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | noValidMeasurementType | **Condition:** | | | (someValidMeasurementType) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | inva | **Condition:** | | lidNumberOfThresholdPackElements | 4(val | | | idNumberOfThresholdPackElements) | | | not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | inv | **Condition:** | | alidOrderOfThresholdPackElements | (va | | | lidOrderOfThresholdPackElements) | | | not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | invalidDirection | **Condition:** (validDirection) | | | not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 7.4.2 Operation deleteThresholdMonitor (M)
#### 7.4.2.1 Definition
This operation supports IRPManager\'s request to delete a specified
ThresholdMonitor.
At the time of the removal, all outstanding (a) threshold-crossing or (b)
threshold reaching alarms will stay (i.e. the FMIRP Agent\'s AlarmList will
contain an AlarmInformation indicating (a) threshold-crossing or (b) threshold
reaching). The IRPManager needs to use other means to remove the
AlarmInformation in the FMIRP AlarmList. (See 6.3.8.1 for clarification of the
alternatives (a) and (b))
#### 7.4.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment monitorId M
ThresholdMonitor.monitorId It specifies the ThresholdMonitor to be stopped and
removed.
* * *
#### 7.4.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (Success,
Failure) An operation may fail because of a specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
#### 7.4.2.4 Pre-condition
thresholdMonitorExists.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition thresholdMonitorExists ThresholdMonitor specified in
the input parameters exists.
* * *
#### 7.4.2.5 Post-condition
thresholdMonitorIsDeleted AND notifyObjectDeletionEmitted..
* * *
Assertion Name Definition thresholdMonitorIsDeleted ThresholdMonitor
identified by monitorId ceases to exist. notifyObjectDeletionEmitted The
notifyObjectDeletion is emitted to indicate the deletion of a
ThresholdMonitor.
* * *
#### 7.4.2.6 Exceptions
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | unknownThresholdMonitor | **Condition:** (thresholdMonitorExists) | | | not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
### 7.4.3 Operation listThresholdMonitors (M)
#### 7.4.3.1 Definition
This operation supports IRPManager\'s request to list detailed information
about all or specified ThresholdMonitors.
#### 7.4.3.2 Input parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | monitorIdList | M | List of | This parameter | | | | \ | Th | | | | | resholdMonitors | | | | | to be listed. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | parameter | | | | | specifies the | | | | | list of | | | | | monitorIds, | | | | | then the | | | | | corresponding | | | | | information of | | | | | Th | | | | | resholdMonitors | | | | | will be | | | | | returned. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | parameter | | | | | contains no | | | | | information, | | | | | all the | | | | | Th | | | | | resholdMonitors | | | | | in the PMIRP | | | | | Agent will be | | | | | returned. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.4.3.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | monitorInfoList | M | List of \ | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Success, | An operation | | | | Failure) | may fail | | | | | because of a | | | | | specified or | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reason. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.4.3.4 Pre-condition
monitorIdListIsValid.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition monitorIdListIsValid monitorIdList specified in the
input parameter is valid.
* * *
#### 7.4.3.5 Post-condition
thresholdMonitorsAreReturned AND thresholdsAreUnaffected.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition
thresholdMonitorsAre\ The information of required ThresholdMonitors are
returned in the output parameters. Returned
thresholdsAreUnaffected The ThresholdMonitors are not affected.
* * *
#### 7.4.3.6 Exceptions
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | invalidMonitorIdList | **Condition:** (monitorIdListIsValid) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output parameter | | | status is set to \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
## 7.5 PMIRPOperations_3 Interface (O)
### 7.5.1 Operation suspendThresholdMonitor (M)
#### 7.5.1.1 Definition
This operation supports IRPManager\'s request to suspend the ThresholdMonitor.
If the operation succeed, its thresholdMonitorStatus shall be set to
\"Suspended\". PMIRP shall not emit performance alarms related to this
ThresholdMonitor. The ThresholdMonitor shall still exist.
#### 7.5.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment monitorId M
ThresholdMonitor.monitorId It specifies the ThresholdMonitor to be suspended.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (Success,
Failure) An operation may fail because of a specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.4 Pre-condition
thresholdMonitorExists AND thresholdMonitorIsNotSuspended.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition thresholdMonitorExists ThresholdMonitor specified in
the input parameter exists. thresholdMonitorIsNotSuspended ThresholdMonitor
specified in the input parameter is not suspended.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.5 Post-condition
thresholdMonitorIsSuspended AND notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChangedEmitted.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | thresholdMonitorIsSuspended | The ThresholdMonitor identified | | | by monitorId is suspended, that | | | means it will not work until it | | | is resumed. | | | | | | The | | | Thresho | | | ldMonitor.thresholdMonitorStatus | | | will be \'Suspended\'. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | notifyThre | The | | sholdMonitorStatusChangedEmitted | not | | | ifyThresholdMonitorStatusChanged | | | is emitted. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.5.1.6 Exceptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | unknownThresholdMonitor | **Condition:** | | | (thresholdMonitorExists) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | thresholdMonitorAlreadySuspended | **Condition:** | | | (thresholdMonitorIsNotSuspended) | | | not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 7.5.2 Operation resumeThresholdMonitor (M)
#### 7.5.2.1 Definition
This operation supports IRPManager\'s request to resume a suspended
ThresholdMonitor.
#### 7.5.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment monitorId M
ThresholdMonitor.monitorId It specifies the ThresholdMonitor to be resumed.
* * *
#### 7.5.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (Success,
Failure) An operation may fail because of a specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
#### 7.5.2.4 Pre-condition
thresholdMonitorExists AND thresholdMonitorIsSuspended.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition thresholdMonitorExists ThresholdMonitor specified in
the input parameter exists. thresholdMonitorIsSuspended ThresholdMonitor
specified in the input parameter is suspended.
* * *
#### 7.5.2.5 Post-condition
thresholdMonitorIsResumed AND notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChangedEmitted.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition thresholdMonitorIsResumed. The ThresholdMonitor
identified by monitorId is resumed, that means it will work again. The
ThresholdMonitor.thresholdMonitorStatus will be 'Active\'.
notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChangedEmitted The
notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChanged is emitted.
* * *
#### 7.5.2.6 Exceptions
+--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | unknownThresholdMonitor | **Condition:** | | | (thresholdMonitorExists) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | thresholdMonitorIsNotSuspended | **Condition:** | | | (thresholdMonitorIsSuspended) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | \'Failure\'. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+
## 7.6 PMIRPNotification_1 Interface (M)
### 7.6.1 notifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged (M)
#### 7.6.1.1 Definition
The PMIRP Agent notifies all subscribed IRPManagers about the status changes
of a MeasurementJob. The status changes in that case include
Suspended=>Scheduled, Active=>Suspended, Scheduled=>Suspended,
Suspended=>Active, Scheduled=>Active, Active=>Stopped, Suspended=>Stopped,
Scheduled=>Stopped.
#### 7.6.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M, Y
PMIRP.objectClass Notification header - see [12]. It shall carry the PMIRP
class name. objectInstance M, Y PMIRP.objectInstance Notification header - see
[12]. It shall carry the DN of the PMIRP. eventTime M, Y -- Notification
header - see [12]. notificationType M, Y \"notifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged\"
Notification header - see [12]. systemDN C, Y -- Notification header - see
[12]. notificationId M, N -- Notification header - see [12]. jobId M, Y
MeasurementJob.jobId  
jobStatus M, N MeasurementJob.jobStatus The new status of the MeasurementJob.
reason O, N -- It carries one or several of the assertion names of the From-
state of Triggering Event.
* * *
#### 7.6.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 7.6.1.3.1 From-state
failToReadMeasurementTypesForExtendedProlongPeriod OR internalProblem OR
stopMeasurementJob OR stopTimeReached OR resumeMeasurementJob OR
suspendMeasurementJob OR startTimeReached OR suspendMeasurementJobBySystem
* * *
Assertion Name Definition failToReadMeasurementTypesForExtendedProlongPeriod
Because the PMIRP Agent have failed to read the monitored measurementType (s)
from managed resources for one or more times, the PMIRP Agent decides that it
will not try to read in the future and place the MeasurementJob in \"Stopped\"
state. internalProblem Because of an unspecified internal problem, PMIRP Agent
decides that it no longer can maintain the MeasurementJob in any jobStatus but
\"Stopped\". stopMeasurementJob The stopMeasurementJob returns success.
stopTimeReached The stop time for MeasurementJob has been reached.
resumeMeasurementJob The resumeMeasurementJob returns success.
suspendMeasurementJob The suspendMeasurementJob returns success.
startTimeReached The start time for MeasurementJob has been reached.
suspendMeasurementJobBySystem The MeasurementJob has been suspended by the
system in case of overload
* * *
##### 7.6.1.3.2 To-state
measurementJobStatusChanged
* * *
Assertion Name Definition measurementJobStatusChanged The
MeasurementJob.jobStatus changed to a new value.
* * *
### 7.6.2 Void
## 7.7 PMIRPNotification_2 Interface (O)
### 7.7.1 notifyThresholdMonitorObjectCreation (M)
#### 7.7.1.1 Definition
IRPAgent notifies the subscribed IRPManager that a new Monitor instance has
been created and that the notification satisfies the filter constraint
expressed in IRPManager's subscribe operation (see TS 32.302 [12]).
#### 7.7.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M, Y
PMIRP.objectClass See Table 7.6.1.2. objectInstance M, Y PMIRP.objectInstance
See Table 7.6.1.2. notificationId M. N -- See Table 7.6.1.2. eventTime M, Y
ManagedEntity.creationTime See Table 7.6.1.2. systemDN C, Y -- See Table
7.6.1.2. notificationType M, Y "notifyThresholdMonitorObjectCreation"
Notification header - see [12]. monitorId M, N Monitor.monitored See monitorId
definition in clause 6.5.1. monitorGranularityPeriod M, N
Monitor.monitorGranularityPeriod See monitorGranularityPeriod definition in
clause 6.5.1. thresholdMonitorStatus M, N
ThresholdMonitor.thresholdMonitorStatus See thresholdMonitorStatus definition
in clause 6.5.1.
* * *
#### 7.7.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 7.7.1.3.1 From-state
stateBeforeObjectCreation.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateBeforeObjectCreation The number of instances of
the IOC ManagedEntity is equal to N.
* * *
##### 7.7.1.3.2 To-state
stateAfterObjectCreation.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateAfterObjectCreation The number of instances of
the IOC ManagedEntity is equal to N + 1.
* * *
### 7.7.2 notifyThresholdMonitorObjectDeletion (M)
#### 7.7.2.1 Definition
IRPAgent notifies the subscribed IRPManager of a deleted Monitor instance. The
IRPAgent invokes this notification because the subject notification satisfies
the filter constraint expressed in the IRPManager subscribe operation (see TS
32.302 [12]).
#### 7.7.2.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M, Y
PMIRP.objectClass See Table 7.6.1.2. objectInstance M, Y PMIRP.objectInstance
See Table 7.6.1.2. notificationId M, N -- See Table 7.6.1.2. eventTime M, Y
ManagedEntity.deletionTime See Table 7.6.1.2. systemDN C, Y -- See Table
7.6.1.2. notificationType M, Y "notifyThresholdMonitorObjectDeletion"
Notification header - see [12]. monitorId M, Y Monitor.monitored See monitorId
definition in clause 6.5.1.
* * *
#### 7.7.2.3 Triggering Event
##### 7.7.2.3.1 From-state
stateBeforeObjectDeletion.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateBeforeObjectDeletion The number of instances of
the IOC ManagedEntity is equal to N.
* * *
##### 7.7.2.3.2 To-state
stateAfterObjectDeletion.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateAfterObjectDeletion The number of instances of
the IOC ManagedEntity is equal to N - 1.
* * *
### 7.7.3 notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChanged (O)
#### 7.7.3.1 Definition
The PMIRP Agent notifies all subscribed IRPManagers about the status changes
of a ThresholdMonitor.\ The status changes in that case include
Suspended=>Active, Active=>Suspended.
NOTE: The notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChanged notification is mandatory if
PMIRPOperations_2 is supported.
#### 7.7.3.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M, Y
PMIRP.objectClass See Table 7.6.1.2. objectInstance M, Y PMIRP.objectInstance
See Table 7.6.1.2. eventTime M, Y -- See Table 7.6.1.2. notificationType M, Y
\"notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChanged\". See Table 7.6.1.2. systemDN C, Y --
See Table 7.6.1.2. notificationId M, N -- See Table 7.6.1.2. monitorId M, Y
Monitor.monitorId  
monitorStatus M, N ThresholdMonitor.thresholdMonitorStatus The new status of
the ThresholdMonitor. reason O, N -- It carries one or several of the
assertion names of the From-state of Triggering Event.
* * *
#### 7.7.3.3 Triggering Event
##### 7.7.3.3.1 From-state
resumeThresholdMonitor OR suspendThresholdMonitor
* * *
Assertion Name Definition resumeThresholdMonitor The resumeThresholdMonitor
returns success. suspendThresholdMonitor The suspendThresholdMonitor returns
success.
* * *
##### 7.7.3.3.2 To-state
thresholdMonitorStatusChanged
* * *
Assertion Name Definition thresholdMonitorStatusChanged The
ThresholdMonitor.thresholdMonitorStatus changed to a new value.
* * *
# 8 Scenarios
## 8.1 createMeasurementJob
{width="4.897916666666666in" height="5.800694444444445in"}
Figure 8.1: Scenario1 of Performance Management
## 8.2 stopMeasurementJob
{width="5.256944444444445in" height="3.879166666666667in"}
Figure 8.2: Scenario2 of Performance Management
## 8.3 stopMeasurementJob/listMeasurementJobs/listFiles
{width="4.940972222222222in" height="6.345833333333333in"}
Figure 8.3: Scenario3 of Performance Management
## 8.4 suspendMeasurementJob/resumeMeasurementJob
{width="5.270833333333333in" height="5.280555555555556in"}
Figure 8.4: Scenario4 of Performance Management
###### ## Annex A (normative): Illustration of the state described in the
state Diagram
# A.1 Definition of state
## A.1.1 Scheduled
\"Scheduled\" means that the job has been created and the start time has not
been reached.
## A.1.2 Suspended
\"Suspended\" means that the job has been suspended for some reason.
## A.1.3 Active
\"Active\" means that the start time of a MeasurementJob has been reached.
There are two sub-states: \"Busy\" and \"Idle\".
\"Busy\" means that the MeasurementJob is monitoring the measurementTypes.
\"Idle\" means that the MeasurementJob is not monitoring the measurementTypes.
When a MeasurementJob becomes active, it does not mean that the job is
immediately busy. IRPManager can set the detailed time frame (e.g.
dailySchedule or weeklySchedule) for a MeasurementJob to be busy. If there is
no time frame schedule for a job, it immediately monitors the measurement
types when it becomes active.
## A.1.4 Stopped
\"Stopped\" means that the MeasurementJob is deleted via the Itf-N. Whether
the managed system removes the MeasurementJob immediately or later is vendor
specific.
# A.2 State transition scenarios
The following scenarios give examples of state transitions.
## A.2.1 Scenario 1
A MeasurementJob is created at 11:00, and the startTime is 14:00, stopTime is
18:00. At 12:00, the MeasurementJob is suspended, and at 13:00, the
MeasurementJob is resumed.
At 11:00: the MeasurementJob becomes scheduled after it was created.
At 12:00: the MeasurementJob is suspended and the jobStatus is \"Suspended\".
At 13:00: the MeasurementJob is resumed, and the jobStatus is \"Scheduled\"
because the start time has not been reached.
At 14:00: the MeasurementJob becomes active because start time has been
reached.
Figure A.2.1: Scenario 1
## A.2.2 Scenario 2
A MeasurementJob is created at 11:00, and the startTime is 12:00, stopTime is
18:00. At 13:00, the MeasurementJob is suspended, and at 14:00, the
MeasurementJob is resumed.
At 11:00: the MeasurementJob becomes scheduled after it was created.
At 12:00: the start time is reached, and the jobStatus is \"Active\".
At 13:00: the MeasurementJob is suspended, and the jobStatus is \"Suspended\".
At 14:00: the MeasurementJob is resumed, and the jobStatus is \"Active\".
Figure A.2.2: Scenario 2
## A.2.3 Scenario 3
A MeasurementJob is created at 11:00 and the startTime is 12:00, stopTime is
never stop. There is no other schedule defined. IRPManager stops the job at
14:00.
At 12:00: the MeasurementJob becomes active when start time is reached. Since
there is no schedule for the job, it starts monitoring measurement types
immediately.
At 14:00: the MeasurementJob is stopped when IRPManager stops the job.
Figure A.2.3: Scenario 3
## A.2.4 Scenario 4
A MeasurementJob is created at 11:00 and the startTime is 12:00, stopTime is
14:00. There is no other schedule defined.
At 12:00: the MeasurementJob becomes active when start time is reached. Since
there is no schedule for the job, it starts monitoring measurement types
immediately.
At 14:00: the MeasurementJob is stopped automatically when stop time is
reached.
Figure A.2.4: Scenario 4
## A.2.5 Scenario 5
A MeasurementJob is created at 11:00 and the startTime is 12:00, stopTime is
\"never stop\". There is a dailySchedule defined, which is 13:00\~14:00 and
15:00\~16:00 every day.
At 12:00: the MeasurementJob becomes active when start time has been reached.
Since there is a schedule for the job, the job monitors measurement types only
during the specified schedule. During other times, the job is idle.
> At 13:00 and 15:00: the MeasurementJob becomes busy when the daily schedule
> has been reached.
Figure A.2.5: Scenario 5
## A.2.6 Scenario 6
A MeasurementJob is created at 11:00 and the startTime is 12:00, stopTime is
13:30. The MeasurementJob.granularityPeriod is 30 minutes and the
MeasurementJob.reportingPeriod is 1 hour. There is no other schedule defined.
At 12:00: the MeasurementJob becomes active when start time is reached. Since
there is no detailed time frame for the job, the job begins to work at the
same time.
At 13:00: the file(s) of the MeasurementJob are available, and PMIRP emits the
notifyFileReady notification to subscripted IRPManager.
At 13:30: the MeasurementJob is automatically stopped when stop time is
reached.
At 14:00: PMIRP will emit the last notifyFileReady notification.
Figure A.2.6: Scenario 6
###### ## Annex B (normative): Threshold related performance alarms Triggering
Events
This annex defines the Triggering Events for the various performance alarms.
The Triggering Events normally are defined by each notification type, such as
notifyChangedAlarm, under the clause \"Triggering Events\". The Triggering
Events related to thresholding are defined here collectively for ease of
reference.
The Triggering Events are defined in a state transition table. The column
labels (e.g. 0, 1, 2, 3 of table in clause B.1) denote the to-state while the
row labels denote the from-state. The cell denotes the emission action.
There are two clauses. Clause B.1 defines the Triggering Events for IRPAgent
that supports notifyChangedAlarm. Clause B.2 defines those for IRPAgent that
does not support notifyChangedAlarm.
Clause B.3 provides samples of triggering events.
# B.1 IRPAgent supporting notifyChangedAlarm
Table B.1
* * *
                 To State-0             To State-1             To State-2             To State-3             To State-4
From State-0 no emission 1 notifyNewAlarm 1 notifyNewAlarm 1 notifyNewAlarm 1
notifyNewAlarm From State-1 1 notifyClearedAlarm no emission 1
notifyChangedAlarm 1 notifyChangedAlarm 1 notifyChangedAlarm From State-2 1
notifyClearedAlarm 1 notifyChangedAlarm no emission 1 notifyChangedAlarm 1
notifyChangedAlarm From State-3 1 notifyClearedAlarm 1 notifyChangedAlarm 1
notifyChangedAlarm no emission 1 notifyChangedAlarm From State-4 1
notifyClearedAlarm 1 notifyChangedAlarm 1 notifyChangedAlarm 1
notifyChangedAlarm no emission
* * *
The horizontal \'0\', \'1\', \'2\', \'3\' and \'4\' are the to-states
indicating the current measurementType value with respect to the different
threshold levels. Threshold levels are associated with severity level
(thresholdSeverity). Higher threshold level associates with higher severity
level (thresholdSeverity).
EXAMPLE: If direction = \'Increasing\', state-0 means the measurementType
value is below all thresholds. State‑2 means that the measurementType value is
above threshold level 2 but below threshold level 3. If direction =
\'Decreasing\', state-0 means the measurementType value is above all
thresholds. State‑2 means that the measurementType value is below threshold
level 2 but above threshold level 3.
The vertical \'0\', \'1\', \'2\'\', \'3\' and \'4\' are the from-states
indicating the last-read measurementType value with respect to the threshold
levels.
A threshold has a value and may have a hysteresis. A threshold with hysteresis
has a threshold‑high value and a threshold‑low value that are different from
the threshold value. A threshold without hysteresis can be considered as a
threshold whose threshold-high and threshold-low values are equal to the
threshold value.
For the direction = \'Increasing\', the shaded cells indicate transitions
caused by measurementType values (a) rising across or (b) reach one or more
threshold‑high values. The non-shaded cells indicate transition caused by
measurementType values falling across one or more threshold‑low values.
For the direction = \'Decreasing\', the shaded cells indicate transitions
caused by measurementType values (a) falling across or (b) reach one or more
threshold‑low values. The non-shaded cells indicate transition caused by
measurementType values rising across one or more threshold‑high values.
Each cell indicates the performance alarm emission when from-state transits to
to-state. The notifyNewAlarm and notifyChangedAlarm shall carry the severity
level (perceivedSeverity) associated with the to-state (thresholdSeverity).
The ThresholdMonitor determines, at monitorGP=X, if a threshold has been (a)
crossed or (b) reached by comparing the value read at monitorGP==X with the
value read at monitorGP==X-1. In initial condition (i.e. when the
ThresholdMonitor reads the value at monitorGP=1), the (hypothetical) value
read at monitorGP==X-1 is assumed to be at state-0.
(See 6.3.8.1 for clarification of the alternatives (a) and (b))
# B.2 IRPAgent not supporting notifyChangedAlarm
Table B.2
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | To | To | To | To | To | | | State-0 | State-1 | State-2 | State-3 | State-4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | From | no | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | | State-0 | emission | notify | notify | notify | notify | | | | NewAlarm | NewAlarm | NewAlarm | NewAlarm | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | From | 1 | no | 1 | 1 | 1 | | State-1 | no | emission | no | no | no | | | tifyClea | | tifyClea | tifyClea | tifyClea | | | redAlarm | | redAlarm | redAlarm | redAlarm | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | | | notify | notify | notify | | | | | NewAlarm | NewAlarm | NewAlarm | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | From | 1 | 1 | no | 1 | 1 | | State-2 | no | no | emission | no | no | | | tifyClea | tifyClea | | tifyClea | tifyClea | | | redAlarm | redAlarm | | redAlarm | redAlarm | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | 1 | 1 | | | | notify | | notify | notify | | | | NewAlarm | | NewAlarm | NewAlarm | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | From | 1 | 1 | 1 | no | 1 | | State-3 | no | no | no | emission | no | | | tifyClea | tifyClea | tifyClea | | tifyClea | | | redAlarm | redAlarm | redAlarm | | redAlarm | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | 1 | | | | notify | notify | | notify | | | | NewAlarm | NewAlarm | | NewAlarm | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | To | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | no | | State-4 | no | no | no | no | emission | | | tifyClea | tifyClea | tifyClea | tifyClea | | | | redAlarm | redAlarm | redAlarm | redAlarm | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | | | notify | notify | notify | | | | | NewAlarm | NewAlarm | NewAlarm | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The Monitor determines, at monitorGP=X, if a threshold has been crossed by
comparing the value read at monitorGP ==X with the value read at monitorGP
==X-1. In initial condition (i.e. when the Monitor reads the value at
monitorGP =1), the (hypothetical) value read at monitorGP ==X-1 is assumed to
be at state-0.
# B.3 Examples
## B.3.1 Example 1
Figure B.3.1 illustrates multi-level thresholdSeverity thresholding behaviour.
The horizontal axis indicates the time intervals specified by the
Monitor.monitorGranularityPeriod (monitorGP). The vertical axis indicates the
monitored measurementType values. The measurementType of this example is of
type gauge. The Monitor.direction is set to \"Increasing\".
Further suppose that the measurementType is monitored for a (a) two-level-
severity-threshold-crossings or (b) two-level-severity-threshold reaching.
(See 6.3.8.1 for clarification of the alternatives (a) and (b))
The threshold for the lower-level-severity is set to 3 with a hysteresis low
and high levels set to 2 and 4 respectively (i.e. hysteresis value = 1). The
thresholdSeverity level is Minor.
The threshold for the higher-level-severity is set to 7 with a hysteresis low
and high levels set to 6 and 8 respectively (i.e. hysteresis value = 1). The
thresholdSeverity level is Major.
The performance alarm triggering events are:
1\. At monitorGP interval 3, trigger a notifyNewAlarm with perceivedSeverity
(ps) = Minor.
2\. At monitorGP interval 5, if the IRPAgent supports notifyChangedAlarm,
trigger a notifyChangedAlarm with ps = Major; else a notifyClearAlarm and a
notifyNewAlarm with ps = Major.
3\. At monitorGP interval 8, if the IRPAgent supports notifyChangedAlarm,
trigger a notifyChangedAlarm with ps = Minor; else a notifyClearAlarm and a
notifyNewAlarm with ps = Minor.
4\. At monitorGP interval 15, trigger a notifyClearedAlarm clearing the last
emitted Minor alarm.
Figure B.3.1
## B.3.2 Example 2
Figure B.3.2 illustrates another multi-level thresholdSeverity thresholding
behaviour for IRPAgent supporting notifyChangedAlarm. The horizontal axis
indicates the time intervals specified by the GP. The vertical axis indicates
the monitored measurementType values. The measurementType of this example is
of type gauge. The Monitor.direction is set to \"Decreasing\".
Further suppose that the measurementType is monitored for a two-level
thresholdSeverity (a) threshold-crossing or (b) threshold reaching. (See
6.3.8.1 for clarification of the alternatives (a) and (b))
The threshold for the major-level thresholdSeverity is set to 7 with a
hysteresis high and low levels set to 6 and 8 respectively.
The threshold for the minor-level thresholdSeverity is set to 9 with a
hysteresis high and low levels set to 8 and 10 respectively.
The performance alarm triggering events are:
1\. At monitorGP interval 1, trigger a notifyNewAlarm with ps = Major. See
table B.1 table for transition State‑0 to State-2.
2\. At monitorGP interval 5, trigger a notifyChangedAlarm with ps = Minor. See
table B.1 for transition State‑2 to State‑1.
3\. At monitorGP interval 8, trigger a notifyChangedAlarm with ps = Major. See
table B.1 for transition State‑1 to State‑2.
Figure B.3.2
## B.3.3 Example 3
Figure B.3.3 illustrates a single-level thresholding behaviour. The horizontal
axis indicates the time intervals specified by the monitorGP. The vertical
axis indicates the monitored measurementType values. The measurementType of
this example is of type gauge. The Monitor.direction is set to \"Increasing\".
The threshold is set to 4 with a hysteresis high and low levels set to 5 and 3
respectively. The thresholdSeverity level is Critical.
The performance alarm triggering events are:
1\. At monitorGP interval 3, trigger a notifyNewAlarm with ps = Critical.
2\. At monitorGP interval 11, trigger a notifyClearedAlarm with ps = Cleared.
Figure B.3.3
#