# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.409: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.410: \"Telecommunication management; Key Performance Indicators
(KPI) for UMTS and GSM\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS 21.905
[1] and the following apply.
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
KPI Key Performance Indicator
# 4 KPI definitions template
KPI definitions template refers to 3GPP TS 32.410 [3].
# 5 IMS KPI definitions
## 5.1 Accessibility KPI
### 5.1.1 Initial Registration Success Rate of S-CSCF
a) Initial registration success rate of S-CSCF
b) This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
initial registration procedures of S-CSCF to the number of attempted initial
registration procedures of S-CSCF for IMS network and is used to evaluate
accessibility performance provided by IMS and network performance.
c) This KPI is obtained by successful initial registration procedures of
S-CSCF divided by attempted initial registration procedures of S-CSCF.
d)
e) UR.AttInitReg\ UR.SuccInitReg\ **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 [2])
f) IMS
g) Accessibility
h) Percentage
i) RATIO
### 5.1.2 Session Setup Time (Mean)
a) Session setup time (Mean)
b) This KPI provides the mean setup time of the sessions.
c) This KPI is obtained by performance measurement: successful session
establishment time (Mean).
d) SSTOI= SC.SessionEstabTimeMean.MediaName
e) SC.SessionEstabTimeMean.MediaName (See **in** 3GPP TS 32.409 [2]).
f) IMS
g) Accessibility
h) milliseconds
i) MEAN
### 5.1.3 Session Establishment Success Rate
a) Session Establishment Success Rate
b) This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successful originating
session establishment to the number of attempted originating session
establishment and the ratio of the number of successful terminating session
establishment to the number of attempted terminating session establishment for
IMS network and is used to evaluate accessibility performance provided by IMS
and network performance.\ If it is calculated by I-CSCF, it includes the
successful rate of terminating session establishment of the own subscribers
and the outbound roamers.\ If it is calculated by P-CSCF, it includes the
successful rate of terminating session establishment of the own subscribers
and the inbound roamers.
c) This KPI is obtained by the number of successful session establishments
divided by the number of attempted session establishments for originating side
and terminating side respectively for IMS.
d)
e) SC.AttSessionOrig\ SC.SuccSessionOrig._type_ type: SIP_180, SIP_200_OK.\
SC.AttSessionTerm\ SC.SuccSessionTerm._type_ type: SIP_180, SIP_200_OK.\
**(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 [2])
f) IMS
g) Accessibility
h) Percentage
i) RATIO
### 5.1.4 Third Party Registration Success Rate
a) Third party registration success rate
b) This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed third
party registration procedures to the number of attempted third party
registration procedures for IMS network and is used to evaluate accessibility
performance provided by IMS and network performance.
c) This KPI is obtained by successful third party registration procedures
divided by attempted third party registration procedures.
d)
e) UR.Att3rdPartyReg\ UR.Succ3rdPartyReg **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 [2])
f) IMS
g) Accessibility
h) Percentage
i) RATIO
### 5.1.5 Re-registration Success Rate of S-CSCF
a) Re-registration success rate of S-CSCF
b) This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed re-
registration procedures of S-CSCF to the number of attempted re-registration
procedures of S-CSCF for IMS network and is used to evaluate accessibility
performance provided by IMS and network performance.
c) This KPI is obtained by successful re-registration procedures of S-CSCF
divided by attempted re-registration procedures of S-CSCF.
d)
e) UR.AttReReg\ UR.SuccReReg **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 [2])
f) IMS
g) Accessibility
h) Percentage
i) RATIO
### 5.1.6 Session Setup Time Originated from IMS (Mean)
a) Session setup time originated from IMS (Mean)
b) This KPI provides the mean setup time of the successful IM CN subsystem
originated calls.
c) This KPI is obtained by performance measurement: call set-up time (mean),
IM CN originated
d) MSSTOI= CC.SetupTimeImOrigMean.
e) CC.SetupTimeImOrigMean **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 [2]).
f) IMS
g) Accessibility
h) Millisecond
i) MEAN
### 5.1.7 Session Setup Time Originated from CS (Mean)
a) Session setup time originated from CS (Mean)
b) This KPI provides the mean setup time of the successful CS **network**
originated calls.
c) This KPI is obtained by performance measurement: call set-up time (Mean),
CS network originated
d) MSSTOC= CC.SetupTimeCsOrigMean.
e) CC.SetupTimeCsOrigMean. **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 [2]).
f) IMS
g) Accessibility
h) Millisecond
i) MEAN
### 5.1.8 Immediate Messaging Success Rate
a) Immediate messaging success rate
b) This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successful immediate
messaging procedures to the number of attempted immediate messaging procedures
for IMS network and is used to evaluate accessibility performance provided by
IMS and network performance.
c) This KPI is obtained by the number of successful immediate messaging
procedures divided by the number of attempted immediate messaging procedures.
d)
e) SC.AttImMsg\ SC.SuccImMsg\ **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 [2])
f) IMS
g) Accessibility
h) Percentage
i) RATIO
## 5.2 Retainability KPI
### 5.2.1 Call Drop Rate of IMS Sessions
a) Call drop rate of IMS sessions
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of number of** dropped sessions **to the**
number of successful session establishments **and is used to** evaluate
retainability for IMS**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of** dropped sessions **divided by
the** number of successful session establishments**.**
d)
e) SC.DroppedSession\ SC.SuccSession._type_ type: SIP_180, SIP_200_OK.\ **(See
in** 3GPP TS 32.409 [2])
f) IMS
g) Retainability
h) Percentage
i) RATIO
## 5.3 Utilization KPI
### 5.3.1 Mean Session Utilization
a) Mean simultaneous online and answered sessions utilization
b) This KPI describes the ratio of the mean number of simultaneous online and
answered sessions to the maximum number of sessions provided by IMS network,
and it is used to evaluate utilization performance of IMS network.
c) This KPI is obtained by the mean number of simultaneous online and answered
sessions divided by the system capacity.
d)
e) SC.NbrSimulAnsSessionMean **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 [2])\ Capacity
indicates maximum number of sessions provided by IMS node.
> Editor notes: Capacity definition is FFS.
f) IMS
g) Utilization
h) Percentage
i) RATIO
###### ## Annex A (informative): Use case for KPIs
## A.1 Use case for initial registration success rate of S-CSCF related KPI
It is useful to evaluate accessibility performance provided by IMS and network
performance. This KPI is helpful to learn the user registration status. This
KPI is focusing on network and user view.
## A.2 Use case for session setup time (mean) related KPI
It is necessary to evaluate accessibility performance provided by IMS and
network performance. This KPI can influence the users' satisfaction directly
and reflect network transaction performance. This KPI is focusing on network
and user view.
## A.3 Use case for session establishment success rate related KPI
It is necessary to evaluate the session establishment performance provided by
IMS including user behaviour factors. This KPI is focusing on network and user
view. It is necessary to define session establishment success rate (SESR) with
differentiating originating and terminating, otherwise when the operator wants
to consider SESR from whole IMS network perspective, the value of SESR will be
much bigger than real situation due to one success session being counted twice
(both at originating side and terminating side).
## A.4 Use case for third party registration success rate related KPI
It is useful to evaluate accessibility performance provided by IMS and network
performance. Third Party Registration is the process of S-CSCF to inform the
Application Server (AS) about the user's registration status and it is a
necessary procedure to perform services involving AS. This KPI (Third Party
Registration Success Rate) is defined to fulfil the need of the operator to
evaluate the service and network accessibility performance. This KPI is
focusing on network and user view.
## A.5 Use case for re-registration success rate of S-CSCF related KPI
Periodic application level re-registration is initiated by the UE either to
refresh an existing registration or in response to a change in the
registration status of the UE. A re-registration procedure can also be
initiated when the capabilities of the UE have changed or the IP CAN has
changed [3GPP TS 23.228]. This KPI is useful for evaluate accessibility of the
IMS network, including the user behaviour factors. This KPI is helpful to
learn the user's re-registration status. This KPI is focusing on network and
user view.
## A.6 Use case for call drop rate of IMS sessions related KPI
It is necessary to evaluate retainability performance of IMS including user
causes, as well as IMS reliability and stability should be reflected. This KPI
is focusing on network view.
## A.7 Use case for session set-up time originated from CS and IMS related KPI
When IMS operator provides transit functionality to other network operators,
in this case the operator is serving as an IMS session based routing backbone
for a PSTN operator or another IP network and provides connectivity to both
PSTN and IP endpoints. So it is necessary to define session set-up time
originated from CS and IMS KPI to indicate accessibility performance of IMS
network for other networks, also it is useful for other network operators to
do trouble shooting.
This KPI is focusing on network and user view.
## A.8 Use case for mean session utilization related KPI
The mean number of simultaneous online and answered sessions together with
maximum number of sessions provided by IMS network can reflect system resource
utilization. If the value of this KPI is very high, it indicates system
capacity is not enough, and needs to be increased.
This KPI is focusing on network view.
## A.9 Use case for immediate messaging success rate related KPI
With Immediate messaging the sender expects immediate message delivery in what
is perceived as real time. Immediate messaging allows the exchange of any type
of multimedia content, now the immediate messaging services are widely used
both in the wired and wireless environment. If the immediate messaging success
rate is very low, it will impact on the satisfactory of user and service
providers. So it is necessary to evaluate immediate messaging success rate
performance provided by IMS.
This KPI is focusing on network and user view.
#