# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.521: Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
**32.522: Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)**
32.526: Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
Self Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP,
through which an IRPAgent can communicate management information to one or
several IRPManagers concerning SON policies. The SON policy NRM IRP comprises
a set of specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral Information
Service and one or more Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the protocol neutral SON policy NRM IRP:
Information Service (IS).
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface IRP such
as the \"Basic CM IRP\" is needed (3GPP TS 32.602 [11]). However, which
Interface IRP is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
The present document also contains stage 2 descriptions for those
functionalities for the Self-**Optimization OAM**.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.521: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements\".
> [6] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
> Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio Resource Control
> (RRC); Protocol specification\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
> Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); X2 Application
> Protocol (X2AP)\".
>
> [8] _3GPP TS 32.425:_ \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
> Aspects; Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM);
> Performance measurements; Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
> (E-UTRAN)\"
[9] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\"
[10] 3GPP TS 32.762: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) network
resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network Resource Model (NRM)\"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
> [12] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
> Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); S1 Application
> Protocol (S1AP)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.314: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Layer 2 - Measurements\".
[14] 3GPP TS 36.300: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2 \".
> [15] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection
> for Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2], TS 32.150 [3] and TR 21.905 [4] and the
following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same term, if any, in TS 32.521 [5], TS 32.101 [1], TS
32.102 [2] and TR 21.905 [4], in that order.
**Target:** See 3GPP TS 32.521 [5].
**Trigger condition:** See 3GPP TS 32.521 [5].
**Hand-Over parameter Optimisation** : See clause 4.3 of this document and
Mobility Robustness Optimisation (MRO) are synonyms (see TS 36.300 [14]).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[4], TS 32.521 [5] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [4] and TS 32.521 [5].
CAC Composite Available Capacity
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
EM Element Manager
eNodeB, eNB evolved NodeB
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
HO Handover
HOO HandOver parameter Optimization
ICIC Inter Cell Interference Coordination
IOC Information Object Class
LB Load Balancing
LBO Load Balancing Optimization
MRO Mobility Robustness Optimisation
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
OAM Operation Administration Maintenance
RO RACH Optimization
SON Self Organizing Networks
UE User Equipment
# 4 SON Policy and Optimization Function Definitions
## 4.1 Monitoring and Management Operations for Self-Optimization
### 4.1.1 Monitoring and Management Function
#### 4.1.1.1 Usage of Itf-N
For specifically defined Itf-N NRM Interface see clause 5.
## 4.2 Load Balancing Optimization Function
### 4.2.1 Objective and Targets
The objective of LB Optimization is to cope with undesired traffic load
distribution and to minimize the number of handovers and redirections needed
to achieve the load balancing. One of the following targets or the combination
of the following targets shall be used. The specific target value or values
shall be configured by operators. Operators should assign weights for targets
being used.
Targets drawn from the following table can be configured for LBO:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Target Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RRC connection | The number of Failed | Integer | | establishments | RRC connection | | | failure rate related | establishments | [0..100] in unit | | to load | related to load/ The | percentage | | | total number of | | | | Attempted RRC | | | | connection | | | | establishments. | | | | | | | | The target is met if | | | | the actual rate is | | | | smaller than the | | | | target value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-RAB setup failure | The number of E-RAB | Integer | | rate related to load | setup failure | | | | related to load/ The | [0..100] in unit | | | total number of | percentage | | | attempted E-RAB | | | | setup | | | | | | | | For E-RAB setup | | | | failure related to | | | | load, the causes | | | | "Reduce load in | | | | serving cell" and | | | | "Radio resources not | | | | available" defined | | | | in TS 36.413 [12] | | | | could be used. | | | | | | | | The target is met if | | | | the actual rate is | | | | smaller than the | | | | target value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RRC Connection | The number of | Integer | | Abnormal Release | abnormal RRC | | | Rate Related to Load | connection release | [0..100] in unit | | | related to load/ The | percentage | | | total number of RRC | | | | connection release. | | | | | | | | The target is met if | | | | the actual rate is | | | | smaller than the | | | | target value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-RAB Abnormal | The number of E-RAB | Integer | | Release Rate Related | abnormal release | | | to Load | related to load/ The | [0..100] in unit | | | total number of | percentage | | | E-RAB release | | | | | | | | For E-RAB setup | | | | failure related to | | | | load, the causes | | | | "Reduce load in | | | | serving cell" and | | | | "Radio resources not | | | | available" defined | | | | in TS 36.413 [12] | | | | could be used. | | | | | | | | The target is met if | | | | the actual rate is | | | | smaller than the | | | | target value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Rate of failures | (_the number of | Integer | | related to handover | failure events | | | | related to | [0..100] in unit | | | handover_) / (the | percentage | | | total number of | | | | handover events) | | | | | | | | The target is met if | | | | the actual rate is | | | | smaller than the | | | | target value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
For the following targets out of the above table, the target values depend on
the composite available capacity range in the cell and are defined separately
for uplink and downlink. For these tuples can be configured, indicating the
capacity ranges together with the target value valid in that range.
RRC connection establishments failure rate related to load,
E-RAB setup failure rate related to load,
RRC Connection Abnormal Release Rate Related to Load,
E-RAB Abnormal Release Rate Related to Load
For the following targets shall be identical with the corresponding targets
defined in Handover Optimization.
> Rate of failures related to handover
### 4.2.2 Parameters To Be Optimized
To reach load optimization target, LBO may optimize some mobility settings (HO
and/or idle mobility configuration) defined in TS 36.331 [6].
### 4.2.3 Optimization Method
#### 4.2.3.1 Problem Detection
The problem detection is out of scope of this specification.
#### 4.2.3.2 Problem Solution
The problem solution is out of scope of this specification.
### 4.2.4 Architecture
#### 4.2.4.1 Definition of Logical Functions
**LB Monitor Function:** This function is used for monitoring the load balance
optimization (e.g. Monitoring related performance counters or alarms).
**LB Policy control function:** This function is used for configuring the load
balance optimization policies.
#### 4.2.4.2 Location of Logical Functions
For Load Balancing, the SON LB decision algorithm is located in eNB. The
detailed SON functionalities in eNB are out of scope of this specification.
### 4.2.5 PM
IRPManager may collect Load balancing related performance measurements.
Performance Measurements related with Load balancing are captured in the table
below:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Performance | Description | Related targets | | measurement name | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The number of Failed | Refer to _3GPP TS | RRC connection | | RRC connection | 32.425 [8]_ | establishments | | establishments | | failure rate related | | related to load | Failed RRC | to load | | | connection | | | | establishments | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The total number of | Refer to _3GPP TS | RRC connection | | Attempted RRC | 32.425 [8]_ | establishments | | connection | | failure rate related | | establishments | Attempted RRC | to load | | | connection | | | | establishments | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The number of E-RAB | Refer to _3GPP TS | E-RAB setup failure | | setup failure | 32.425 [8]_ | rate related to load | | related to load | | | | | Number of initial | | | | SAE Bearers failed | | | | to setup | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The total number of | Refer to _3GPP TS | E-RAB setup failure | | attempted E-RAB | 32.425 [8]_ | rate related to load | | setup | | | | | Number of initial | | | | SAE Bearers | | | | attempted to setup | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The number of | Number of UE CONTEXT | _RRC Connection | | abnormal RRC | Release Request | Abnormal Release | | connection release | initiated by eNodeB | Rate Related to | | related to load | | Load_ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The total number of | Number of Successful | _RRC Connection | | RRC connection | UE Context Release | Abnormal Release | | release | | Rate Related to | | | | Load_ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The number of E-RAB | Refer to _3GPP TS |_ E-RAB Abnormal | | abnormal release | 32.425 [8]_| Release Rate Related | | related to load | | to Load_ | | | Number of SAE | | | | Bearers requested to | | | | release initiated by | | | | eNodeB per cause | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The total number of | Refer to _3GPP TS |_ E-RAB Abnormal | | E-RAB release | 32.425 [8]_| Release Rate Related | | | | to Load_ | | | Number of SAE | | | | Bearers successfully | | | | released | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | _the number of | Refer to 4.3.5 |_ Rate of failures | | failure events | | related to handover _| | related to handover_ | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | the total number of | Refer to 4.3.5 | _Rate of failures | | handover events | | related to handover_ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE: The monitoring of performance measurements will make use of existing PM
IRP.
## 4.3 Handover (HO) Parameter Optimization Function
### 4.3.1 Objective and Targets
For intra-LTE, one of the following targets or the combination of the
following targets shall be used. The specific target value shall be configured
by operators. Operators should assign weights for targets being used.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Target Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Rate of failures | (the number of | Integer | | related to handover | failure events | | | | related to handover) | [0..100] in unit | | | / (the total number | percentage | | | of handover events) | | | | | | | | The target is met if | | | | the actual rate is | | | | smaller than the | | | | target value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The objective of minimizing the number of unnecessary handovers shall always
be pursued in case the other target/s configured by the operator is/are
achieved. This objective may not need configuration of a target value.
### 4.3.2 Parameters To Be Optimized
The tables below summarise the handover parameters in TS 36.331 [6].
Table 4.3.2-1. Handover parameters that may be optimized for intra-frequency
and inter-frequency handovers
* * *
Event Summary Tunable parameters A3 Neighbour becomes offset better than
serving Ofn, Ofs, Ocn, Ocs, Hys, Off, timeToTrigger A4 Neighbour becomes
better than threshold Ofn, Ocn, Hys, Thresh, Off, timeToTrigger A5 Serving
becomes worse than threshold1 and neighbour becomes better than threshold2
Ofn, Ocn, Hys, Thresh1, Thresh2, Off, timeToTrigger
* * *
Table 4.3.2-2. Handover parameters that may be optimised for inter RAT
handover
* * *
Event Summary Tunable parameters B1 Inter RAT Neighbour becomes better than
threshold Ofn, Hys, Thresh, timeToTrigger B2 Serving becomes worse than
threshold1 and inter RAT neighbour becomes better than threshold2 Ofn, Hys,
Thresh1, Thresh2, timeToTrigger
* * *
### 4.3.3 Optimization Method
#### 4.3.3.1 Problem Detection
HO Parameter Optimization Function shall focus on detecting the problem
scenarios described in TS 32.521 [5]; namely: too early handovers, too late
handovers and inefficient use of NW resources due to HOs. For more information
about these scenarios see TS 32.521 [5] section 6.1.3.
The following inputs may be used for the identification of the problem
scenarios:
\- Event capture and analysis
\- UE measurements
\- Performance measurements
In event capture and analysis, the eNodeB exploits event information
associated with a UE context, such as evidence of previous handovers (UE
History, see TS 36.423 [7]) and HO failure details (such as in which cell the
handover failed and where the UE re-established the connection).
UE measurements are sent within UE measurement reports and they may indicate
whether HOs are too early or too late.
HO-related performance measurements (PMs) collected at the source and / or
target eNB can be useful in detecting HO-related issues on the cell level.
Since the impact of incorrect HO parameter setting will also be on the cell-
level, PMs can provide useful information that can be used to detect and
resolve HO-related issues due to incorrect parameter settings.
#### 4.3.3.2 Problem Solution
HO Parameter Optimization Function will aim at optimizing the HO parameters
listed in Section 4.3.2 in such way to mitigate the problem scenarios
discussed in Section 4.3.3.1. The optimization algorithms will not be
specified. The exact set of HO parameters that may be adjusted by the
algorithms is dictated by the choice of triggered HO measurements made by the
RRM entity in an eNodeB.
### 4.3.4 Architecture
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition of Logical Functions
**HO Parameter Optimization Monitor Function:** This function is used for
monitoring the handover parameter optimization (e.g. monitoring related
performance counters or alarms).
**HO Parameter Optimization Policy Control Function:** This function is used
for configuring the handover parameter optimization policies.
#### 4.3.4.2 Location of Logical Functions
For HandOver (HO) parameter optimization there are several options for the
location of the SON algorithm:
  1. The SON algorithm is located in the eNB(s).
  2. The SON algorithm is located in the EM, the parameter changes are executed in the eNBs.
An example for the first option is shown in figure 4.3.4.2:
Figure 4.3.4.2: Example when the SON algorithm is located in the eNB(s)
The detailed SON functionalities in eNB are out of scope of this
specification.
### 4.3.5 PM
IRPManager shall collect HO-related performance measurements from the source
and / or target eNB which can be useful in detecting HO-related issues on the
cell level. The following input can be used for the identification of the
problem scenarios specified:
The number of RLF event happened within an interval after handover success.
Performance Measurements related to handover failure are captured in the table
below.
The Performance Measurements are for outgoing handovers. Further, they should
be available on a cell relation basis.
* * *
Performance measurement name Description Related targets Number of handover
events Includes successful handovers plus all identified failures Rate of
failures related to handover Number of HO failures All failure cases Rate of
failures related to handover Number of too early HO failures Too early HO
failure cases Rate of failures related to handover Number of too late HO
failures Too late HO failure cases Rate of failures related to handover Number
of HO failures to wrong cell HO failures to wrong cell Rate of failures
related to handover
* * *
NOTE: The monitoring of performance measurements will make use of existing PM
IRP.
## 4.4 Interference Control Function
## 4.5 Capacity and Coverage Optimization Function
### 4.5.1 Objective and Targets
The objective of capacity and coverage optimization is to provide optimal
coverage and capacity for the radio network. A tradeoff between capacity and
coverage needs to be considered.
The detailed target(s) FFS.
### 4.5.2 Parameters to be optimized
To reach capacity and coverage optimization targets, the following parameters
may be optimized:
  * Downlink transmit power
  * Antenna tilt
  * Antenna azimuth
### 4.5.3 Optimization Method
#### 4.5.3.1 Problem Detection
The main symptoms of capacity and coverage optimization problems (see TS
37.320 [15]) are:
**Coverage hole:** A coverage hole is an area where the pilot signal strength
is below a threshold which is required by a UE to access the network, or the
SINRs of both serving and neighbor cells is below a level needed to maintain
the basic service. Coverage holes are usually caused by physical obstructions
such as new buildings, hills, or by unsuitable antenna parameters, or just
inadequate RF planning. UE in coverage hole will suffer from call drop and
radio link failure. Typical phenomenon of coverage hole is either HO failure
happens frequently and cannot be optimized by HO parameter optimization or
call drop happens frequently and cannot be rescued by RRC re-establishment.
**Weak coverage:** Weak coverage occurs when the pilot signal strength or the
SNR (or SINR) of serving cell is below the level needed to maintain a planned
performance requirement (e.g. cell edge bit-rate).
**Pilot pollution:** In areas where coverage of different cells overlap a lot,
interference levels are high, power levels are high, energy consumption is
high and cell performance may be low. Typically in this situation UEs may
experience high SNR to more than one cell and high interference levels.
**Overshoot coverage:** Overshoot occurs when coverage of a cell reaches far
beyond what is planned. It can occur as an "island" of coverage in the
interior of another cell, which may not be a direct neighbor. Reasons for
overshoot may be reflections in buildings or across open water, lakes etc. UEs
in this area may suffer call drops or high interference.
**DL and UL channel coverage mismatch:** DL channel coverage is larger than UL
channel coverage is one typical scenario of DL and UL channel coverage
mismatch. The UE will suffer UL problems when it moves into the mismatch area.
In a realistic network, these symptoms may be tolerated to a certain level.
These symptoms may indicate a real problem when combined with other factors
such as frequency of symptoms, duration of symptoms, or affected population.
The following inputs may be used for the identification of the problem
scenarios:
  * UE measurements
  * Performance measurements
  * Alarms, other monitoring information e.g. trace data
UE measurements are sent within UE measurement reports and they may indicate
the capacity and coverage problem.
Capacity and coverage related performance measurements collected at the source
and / or target eNB can be useful in detecting capacity and coverage related
issues on the cell level. Minimizing Driver Test (MDT) or HO-related
performance measurements may be used also in detecting capacity and coverage
related issues on the cell level.
Alarms, other monitoring information e.g. trace data can be correlated to get
an unambiguous indication of capacity and coverage problem.
#### 4.5.3.2 Problem Solution
Capacity and coverage optimization function will aim at optimizing the
parameters listed in Section 4.5.2 in such way to mitigate the problem
scenarios discussed in Section 4.5.3.1.
### 4.5.4 Architecture
#### 4.5.4.1 Definition of Logical Functions
**CCO Monitor Function:** This function is used for monitoring the capacity
and coverage optimization (e.g. monitoring related performance counters, UE
measurements or alarms).
**CCO Policy Control Function:** This function is used for configuring the
capacity and coverage optimization policies.
#### 4.5.4.2 Location of Logical Functions
For capacity and coverage optimization (CCO), there are several options for
the location of the centralized CCO SON algorithm:
  1. The CCO SON algorithm is located in the DM. The capacity and coverage optimization decision is made by the DM centralized CCO algorithm.
  2. The CCO SON algorithm is located in the NM. The capacity and coverage optimization decision is made by the NM centralized CCO algorithm.
An example for the first option is shown in figure 4.5.4.2:
Figure 4.5.4.2: Example when the CCO SON algorithm is located in DM
The detailed CCO SON algorithm in OAM (NM centralized or EM centralized) is
out of scope of this specification.
4.5.5 PM
The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the IRPManager to collect CCO
related performance measurements to know the situation of coverage or
interference which may then trigger corresponding optimization procedures.
Performance measurements related with CCO are captured in the table below:
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Performance measurement | Description | Comment | | name | | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Maximum carrier transmit | Refer to _3GPP TS 32.425 | | | power | [8]_ | | | | | | | | Maximum value of the total | | | | carrier power transmitted | | | | in a cell. | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Mean carrier transmit | Refer to _3GPP TS 32.425 | | | power | [8]_ | | | | | | | | Mean value of the total | | | | carrier power transmitted | | | | in a cell. | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
## 4.6 RACH Optimization Function
### 4.6.1 Objective and Targets
The objective of RACH Optimization is to automatically set several parameters
related to the performance of RACH. One of the following targets shall be
used. The specific target value shall be configured by operators.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Target Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Access Probability, | The probability that | CDF of access | | _AP_ | the UE has access | attempts. See | | | after a certain | section 5.5.1 | | | random access | | | | attempt number. | | | | | | | | The target is met if | | | | the actual access | | | | probability is | | | | higher than the | | | | target probability | | | | value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Access Delay | The probability | CDF of delays. See | | Probability, _ADP_ | distribution of | section 5.5.1 | | | Access Delay | | | | expected to be | | | | experienced by UEs | | | | accessing the RACH | | | | Channel. | | | | | | | | The target is met if | | | | the actual access | | | | probability is | | | | higher than the | | | | target probability | | | | value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.6.2 Parameters to be optimized
To achieve RACH optimization target, RACH optimization function may optimize
several parameters defined in TS 36.300 [14] section 22.4.3.
### 4.6.3 Optimization Method
#### 4.6.3.1 Problem Detection
The problem detection is out of scope of this specification since the RACH
optimization entity resides in the eNB.
#### 4.6.3.2 Problem Solution
The problem solution is out of scope of this specification since the RACH
optimization entity resides in the eNB.
### 4.6.4 PM
The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the IRPManager to collect
RACH optimization related performance measurements. Performance measurements
related with RACH optimization are captured in the table below:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Performance | Description | Related targets | | measurement name | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distribution of RACH | Refer to _3GPP TS | Access Probability, | | preambles sent | 32.425 [8]_ | AP | | | | | | | Cumulative | | | | Distribution of RACH | | | | preambles sent by UE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distribution of RACH | Refer to 3GPP TS | Access Delay | | access delay | 32.425 [8] | Probability, ADP | | | | | | | Cumulative | | | | Distribution of RACH | | | | Access Delay | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 4.7 Optimization coordination
### 4.7.1 Introduction
For coordination of SON Functions whose outputs are not standardized, the
context of optimization coordination is:
  1. IRPManager uses standardized capabilities to set the SON Function(s) targets, and where needed their weights.
> Operators should assign weights for targets being used. The weights are used
> also for the evaluation of the targets. For details see Annex A.
For coordination of SON Functions whose outputs are standardized, the context
of optimization coordination is FFS.
### 4.7.2 Coordination between **SON functions below Itf-N and CM operations
over itf-N**
FFS
### 4.7.3 Coordination between different SON functions
Note: The coordination between different SON functions should be decided case
by case.
#### 4.7.3.1 Coordination between Cell Outage Compensation and Energy Saving
Management
##### 4.7.3.1.1 Description
A conflict could arise between energy saving and cell outage compensation in
the following scenario.
One or more candidate cells are configured to possibly take coverage of the
original cell. The original cell is in energySaving state or is about to enter
energySaving state. One or more candidate cells go into outage with the
consequence that coverage of the original cell can not be provided any more.
##### 4.7.3.1.2 Prevention
Prevention is hardly possible, except making the cells as outage proof as
possible. But cell outages can happen even to the most stable cell in a
network.
##### 4.7.3.1.3 Resolution
If the original cell is in energySaving state, it shall leave energySaving
state.
If the original cell is about to enter energySaving state, it shall not go
into energySaving state until candidate cell outage is recovered and candidate
cell is able to provide the coverage.
The original cell may go into the energySaving state after the candidate cell
outage is recovered and coverage of the original cell can be taken over by
candidate cell again.
# 5 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 5.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label **3GPP TS 32.622 [9], IOC,** Top Top **3GPP TS
32.622 [9], IOC,** SubNetwork SubNetwork **3GPP TS 32.762 [10], IOC,**
ENBFunction ENBFunction **3GPP TS 32.762 [10], IOC,** EUtranRelation
EUtranRelation **3GPP TS 32.762 [10], IOC,** EUtranGenericCell
EUtranGenericCell
* * *
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
{width="5.99375in" height="4.053472222222222in"}
NOTE 1: IOC SONControl shall be instantiated whenever one or more IOC
SONTargets are instantiated.
Figure 5.2.1-1: Cell view of SON Policy NRM
{width="6.076388888888889in" height="5.4875in"}
Figure 5.2.1-2: ES Policies NRM IOCs (Containment Relationship)
NOTE 2: Also IOC SONControl is used for ES purposes -- see clause 5.3.2.2 --
but is not shown in Figure 5.2.1-2 to avoid the impression that there would an
additional instance of this IOC be needed for ES.
{width="1.9381944444444446in"
height="2.5840277777777776in"}{width="1.8847222222222222in"
height="2.5840277777777776in"}
Figure 5.2.1-3: IOCs to control SON on cell or E-UTRAN relation level
(Containment Relationship)
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
{width="3.972916666666667in" height="2.276388888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1: SON Policy NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
Figure 5.2.2-2: ES Polices NRM IOCs (Inheritance Relationship)
Figure 5.2.2-3: Inheritance for IOC to control SON on cell level
## 5.3 Information Object Class (IOC) definitions
### 5.3.1 SONTargets
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents targets for SON functions and their relative weights.
Target hierarchy rule:
> An NRM IOC instance X may name-contain an IOC SONTargets instance T. The
> rule states that:
\- If X name-contains a SONTargets instance T, then T is applicable to X.
\- If X and all its superior instances do not name-contain any SONTargets
instance, then no SONTargets instance is applicable to X.
\- If X does not name-contain any SONTargets instance, but one or more of X's
superior instances name-contain a SONTargets instance, then the SONTargets
instance of the superior instance closest to X, in X's naming tree, is
applicable to X.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
hoFailureRate O *) M M rrcConnectionEstablishmentFailureRateCharacteristic O
*) M M rrcConnectionAbnormalReleaseRateCharacteristic O *) M M
eRabSetupFailureRateCharacteristic O *) M M
eRabAbnormalReleaseRateCharacteristic O *) M M rachOptAccessProbability CM **)
M M rachOptAccessDelayProbability CM **) M M
* * *
*) Note 1: At least one of the attributes shall be supported.
**) Note 2: Only one of these attributes shall be present.
#### 5.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition rachOptAccessProbability CM Support Qualifier RACH
Optimization is supported and Access Probability is supported as target.
rachOptAccessDelayProbability CM Support Qualifier RACH Optimization is
supported and Access Delay Probability is supported as target.
* * *
#### 5.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 5.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 5.3.2 SONControl
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents the possibility to switch on or off SON functions. This is
provided for Handover optimization, Load Balancing optimization, Energy Saving
and Cell Outage Compensation. For other SON functions like Coverage and
Capacity optimization, RACH optimization etc. this is FFS.
#### 5.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
hooSwitch CM M M lboSwitch CM M M esSwitch CM M M roSwitch CM M M cocSwitch CM
M M
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition hooSwitch CM Support Qualifier Handover (HO) parameter
Optimization function is supported. lboSwitch CM Support Qualifier Load
Balancing Optimization function is supported. esSwitch Support Qualifier The
condition is "Distributed or EM-Centralized ESM architecture is supported".
roSwitch CM Support Qualifier RACH Optimization is supported. cocSwitch
Support Qualifier The condition is "CoC is supported". Only allowed to be
present, if SONControl is contained in subnetwork IOC instance.
* * *
#### 5.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 5.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 5.3.3 ESPolicies
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents the energy saving policies information. This object class
is valid in a distributed ES architecture or in an EM-centralized ES
architecture.
#### 5.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
esActivationOriginalCellLoadParameters CM M M
esActivationCandidateCellsLoadParameters CM M M
esDeactivationCandidateCellsLoadParameters CM M M
* * *
#### 5.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
#### 5.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 5.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions
### 5.3.4 EUtranCellSON
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC represents the parameters for control of SON functions on E-UTRAN
cell level.
#### 5.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier** id
M M - maximumDeviationHoTrigger CM M M minimumTimeBetweenHoTriggerChange CM M
M
* * *
#### 5.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
#### 5.3.4.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 5.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 5.3.5 Void
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
None.
## 5.5 Information attribute definitions
### 5.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 5.5.1.1 defines the attributes that are present in the Information
Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Table 5.5.1.1: Attributes definitions and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cocSwitch | This attribute | Enumerated {on, off} | | | allows the operator | | | | to enable/disable | | | | the COC | | | | functionality. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eRabAbnormalRelea | The target is on the | lowerEndOfCacRange | | seRateCharacteristic | number of E-RAB | and | | | abnormal release | upperEndOfCacRange: | | | related to load | | | | divided by the total | Integer 0..10000 | | | number of attempted | | | | E-RAB setups. | eRabAbnorm | | | | alReleaseRateTarget: | | | This attribute | | | | allows to define for | Integer 0..100 | | | a value the | (representing a | | | composite available | percentage) | | | capacity (CAC) range | | | | in which the target | targetWeight: | | | is valid. For this, | | | | it contains one | Integer 1..N. The | | | characteristic | higher the number | | | dependent on Uplink | the higher the | | | CAC, one for | weight. | | | Downlink CAC: | | | | eRabA | | | | bnormalReleaseRateCh | | | | aracteristicDownlink | | | | and | | | | eRabA | | | | bnormalReleaseRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink.\ | | | | At least one of | | | | these charateristics | | | | must be present. | | | | | | | | Together with the | | | | characteristic its | | | | targetWeight as a | | | | SON target is | | | | defined as part of | | | | this attribute. | | | | | | | | The characteristics | | | | have the following | | | | structure: | | | | | | | | eRabAbn | | | | ormalReleaseRateChar | | | | acteristicDownlink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | eRabAbnor | | | | malReleaseRateTarget | | | | | | | | eRabA | | | | bnormalReleaseRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | eRabAbnor | | | | malReleaseRateTarget | | | | | | | | Remark: | | | | | | | | Formula for | | | | composite available | | | | capacity:\ | | | | Available Capacity = | | | | Cell Capacity Class | | | | Value * Capacity | | | | Value | | | | | | | | For definition of | | | | Cell Capacity Class | | | | Value and Capacity | | | | Value see TS 36.331 | | | | [6]. These | | | | definitions lead to | | | | a value range of a | | | | composite available | | | | capacity from | | | | 0..10000.\ | | | | 36.423 [7] has | | | | cell capacity class | | | | value as optional | | | | parameter in case of | | | | intra-LTE load | | | | balancing. If cell | | | | capacity class value | | | | is not present, than | | | | 36.423 assumes that | | | | bandwidth should be | | | | used instead to | | | | assess the capacity. | | | | | | | | This target is | | | | suitable for LBO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eRabSetupFailu | The target is on the | lowerEndOfCacRange | | reRateCharacteristic | number of E-RAB | and | | | setup failures | upperEndOfCacRange | | | related to load | and targetWeight: | | | divided by the total | | | | number of attempted | See | | | E-RAB setups. | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | | seRateCharacteristic | | | For E-RAB setup | | | | failure related to | eRabSet | | | load the causes | UpFailureRateTarget: | | | "Reduce load in | | | | serving cell" and | Integer 0..100 | | | "Radio resources not | (representing a | | | available" defined | percentage) | | | in TS 36.413 are | | | | used. | | | | | | | | This attribute | | | | allows to define for | | | | a value the | | | | composite available | | | | capacity (CAC) range | | | | in which the target | | | | is valid. For this, | | | | it contains one | | | | characteristic | | | | dependent on Uplink | | | | CAC, one for | | | | Downlink CAC: | | | | eR | | | | abSetupFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicDownlink | | | | and | | | | eR | | | | abSetupFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink.\ | | | | At least one of | | | | these charateristics | | | | must be present. | | | | | | | | Together with the | | | | characteristic its | | | | targetWeight as a | | | | SON target is | | | | defined as part of | | | | this attribute. | | | | | | | | The characteristics | | | | have the following | | | | structure: | | | | | | | | eRab | | | | SetupFailureRateChar | | | | acteristicDownlink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | LowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | UpperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | eRabSe | | | | tUpFailureRateTarget | | | | | | | | eR | | | | abSetupFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | LowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | UpperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | eRabSe | | | | tUpFailureRateTarget | | | | | | | | For CAC see | | | | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | | seRateCharacteristic | | | | | | | | This target is | | | | suitable for LBO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | esActivationOrigin | This attributes is | Threshold: Integer | | alCellLoadParameters | relevant, if the | 0..100 (Percentage | | | cell acts as an | of PRB usage, see | | | original cell. | 3GPP TS 36.314 | | | | [13]) | | | This attribute | | | | indicates the | TimeDuration: | | | traffic load | Integer (in unit of | | | threshold and the | seconds) | | | time duration, which | | | | are used by | | | | distributed ES | | | | algorithms to allow | | | | a cell to enter the | | | | energySaving state. | | | | The time duration | | | | indicates how long | | | | the load needs to | | | | have been below the | | | | threshold. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | esActivationCandidat | This attributes is | Threshold: Integer | | eCellsLoadParameters | relevant, if the | 0..100 (Percentage | | | cell acts as a | of PRB usage (see | | | candidate cell. | 3GPP TS 36.314 | | | | [13]) ) | | | This attribute | | | | indicates the | TimeDuration: | | | traffic load | Integer (in unit of | | | threshold and the | seconds) | | | time duration, which | | | | are used by | | | | distributed ES | | | | algorithms level to | | | | allow a n 'original' | | | | cell to enter the | | | | energySaving state. | | | | Threshold and | | | | duration are applied | | | | to the candidate | | | | cell(s) which will | | | | provides coverage | | | | backup of an | | | | original cell when | | | | it is in the | | | | energySaving state. | | | | The threshold | | | | applies in the same | | | | way for a candidate | | | | cell, no matter for | | | | which original cell | | | | it will provide | | | | backup coverage. | | | | | | | | The time duration | | | | indicates how long | | | | the traffic in the | | | | candidate cell needs | | | | to have been below | | | | the threshold before | | | | any original cell | | | | which will be | | | | provided backup | | | | coverage by the | | | | candidate cell | | | | enters energy saving | | | | state. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | es | This attributes is | Threshold: Integer | | DeactivationCandidat | relevant, if the | 0..100 (Percentage | | eCellsLoadParameters | cell acts as a | of PRB usage (see | | | candidate cell. | 3GPP TS 36.314 | | | | [13]) ) | | | This attribute | | | | indicates the | TimeDuration: | | | traffic load | Integer (in unit of | | | threshold and the | seconds) | | | time duration which | | | | is used by | | | | distributed ES | | | | algorithms to allow | | | | a cell to leave the | | | | energySaving state. | | | | Threshold and time | | | | duration are applied | | | | to the candidate | | | | cell when it which | | | | provides coverage | | | | backup for the cell | | | | in energySaving | | | | state. The threshold | | | | applies in the same | | | | way for a candidate | | | | cell, no matter for | | | | which original cell | | | | it provides backup | | | | coverage. | | | | | | | | The time duration | | | | indicates how long | | | | the traffic in the | | | | candidate cell needs | | | | to have been above | | | | the threshold to | | | | wake up one or more | | | | original cells which | | | | have been provided | | | | backup coverage by | | | | the candidate cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | esSwitch | This attribute | On, off | | | determines whether | | | | the energy saving | | | | function is enabled | | | | or disabled. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hoFailureRate | This indicates the | A set of two | | | assigned HOO target | numbers: | | | of the number of | | | | failure events | the first indicates | | | related to handover | a percentage, the | | | divided by the total | second a | | | number of handover | targetWeight (see | | | events, together | eRabAbnormalRelease | | | with its | RateCharacteristic). | | | targetWeight. | | | | | | | | This target is | | | | suitable for HOO or | | | | LBO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hooSwitch | This attribute | On, off | | | determines whether | | | | the Handover | | | | parameter | | | | Optimization | | | | Function is | | | | activated or | | | | deactivated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | when naming an | | | | instance of the | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lboSwitch | This attribute | On, off | | | determines whether | | | | the Load Balancing | | | | Optimization | | | | Function is | | | | activated or | | | | deactivated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxim | This parameter | Integer (+1..+96) | | umDeviationHoTrigger | allows the | | | | IRPManager to define | Unit: 0.5 dB | | | the maximum allowed | | | | absolute deviation | | | | of the cell pair | | | | specific part of | | | | Handover Trigger (as | | | | defined in [14] | | | | (§22.4.1.4), from | | | | the default point of | | | | operation. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minimumTimeBe | This parameter | Integer (0..1440) | | tweenHoTriggerChange | defines the minimum | | | | allowed time | Unit: Minutes | | | interval between two | | | | changes of the | | | | Handover Trigger | | | | performed by MRO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rachOptAc | This is a list of | Each element of the | | cessDelayProbability | target Access Delay | list, **_AD~Pn,~_** | | | probability | is a pair (_a, b_) | | | (_AD~P~_) for the | where _a_ is the | | | RACH optimization | targetProbability | | | function. | (in %) and _b_ is | | | | the access delay (in | | | Each instance | milliseconds). | | | _AD~P~_ of the list | | | | is the target time | The legal values for | | | before the UE gets | _a_ are 25, 50, 75, | | | access on the random | 90. | | | access channel, for | | | | the _P_ percent of | The legal values for | | | the successful RACH | _b_ are 10 to 560. | | | Access attempts with | | | | lowest access delay, | If **_AD~Px~_** 's | | | over an unspecified | _a_ is larger than | | | sampling period. | that of | | | | **_AD~Py~_** , then | | | This target is | **_AD~Px~_** 's _b_ | | | suitable for RO. | must be larger than | | | | that of | | | | **_AD~Py~_**. | | | | | | | | The number of | | | | elements specified | | | | is 4. The number of | | | | elements supported | | | | is vendor specific. | | | | The choice of | | | | supported values for | | | | _a_ and _b_ is | | | | vendor-specific. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rach | This is a list of | Each element of the | | OptAccessProbability | target Access | list, **_AP~n,~_** | | | Probability | is a pair (_a_ , _n_) | | | (_AP~n~_) for the | where _a_ is the | | | RACH optimization | targetProbability | | | function. | (in %) and _n_ is | | | | the access attempt | | | Each instance | number. | | | _AP~n~_ of the list | | | | is the probability | The legal values for | | | that the UE gets | _a_ are 25, 50, 75, | | | access on the random | 90. | | | access channel | | | | within _n_ number of | The legal values for | | | attempts, over an | _n_ are 1 to 200. | | | unspecified sampling | | | | period. | If **_AP~x~_** 's _a_ | | | | is larger than that | | | This target is | of **_AP~y~_** , then | | | suitable for RO. | **_AP~x~_** 's _n_ | | | | must be larger than | | | | that of **_AP~y~_**. | | | | | | | | The number of | | | | elements specified | | | | is 4. The number of | | | | elements supported | | | | is vendor specific. | | | | The choice of | | | | supported values for | | | | _a_ and _n_ is | | | | vendor-specific. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | roSwitch | This attribute | On, off | | | determines whether | | | | the RACH | | | | Optimization | | | | function is | | | | activated or | | | | deactivated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rrcCon | The target is on the | lowerEndOfCacRange | | nectionAbnormalRelea | number of abnormal | and | | seRateCharacteristic | RRC connection | upperEndOfCacRange | | | releases related to | and targetWeight: | | | load divided by the | | | | total number of RRC | See | | | connection releases. | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | | seRateCharacteristic | | | This attribute | | | | allows to define for | rrcConnectionAbnorm | | | a value the | alReleaseRateTarget: | | | composite available | | | | capacity (CAC) range | Integer 0..100 | | | in which the target | (representing a | | | is valid. For this, | percentage) | | | it contains one | | | | characteristic | | | | dependent on Uplink | | | | CAC, one for | | | | Downlink CAC: | | | | rrcConnectionA | | | | bnormalReleaseRateCh | | | | aracteristicDownlink | | | | and | | | | rrcConnectionA | | | | bnormalReleaseRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink.\ | | | | At least one of | | | | these charateristics | | | | must be present. | | | | | | | | Together with the | | | | characteristic its | | | | targetWeight as a | | | | SON target is | | | | defined as part of | | | | this attribute. | | | | | | | | The characteristics | | | | have the following | | | | structure: | | | | | | | | rrcConnectionAbn | | | | ormalReleaseRateChar | | | | acteristicDownlink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | rrcConnectionAbnor | | | | malReleaseRateTarget | | | | | | | | rrcConnect | | | | ionAbnormalReleaseCh | | | | aracteristicUplink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | rrcConnectionAbnor | | | | malReleaseRateTarget | | | | | | | | For CAC see | | | | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | | seRateCharacteristic | | | | | | | | This target is | | | | suitable for LBO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rrcConnecti | The target is on the | lowerEndOfCacRange | | onEstablishmentFailu | number of RRC | and | | reRateCharacteristic | connection | upperEndOfCacRange | | | establishment | and targetWeigth: | | | failures related to | | | | load divided by the | See | | | total number of | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | attempted RRC | seRateCharacteristic | | | connection | | | | establishments. | rrcC | | | | onnectionEstablishme | | | This attribute | ntFailureRateTarget: | | | allows to define for | | | | a value the | Integer 0..100 | | | composite available | (representing a | | | capacity (CAC) range | percentage) | | | in which the target | | | | is valid. For this, | | | | it contains one | | | | characteristic | | | | dependent on Uplink | | | | CAC, one for | | | | Downlink CAC: | | | | rrcConnectionEstabl | | | | ishmentFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicDownlink | | | | and | | | | rrcConnectionEstabl | | | | ishmentFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink.\ | | | | At least one of | | | | these charateristics | | | | must be present. | | | | | | | | Together with the | | | | characteristic its | | | | targetWeigth as a | | | | SON target is | | | | defined as part of | | | | this attribute. | | | | | | | | The characteristics | | | | have the following | | | | structure: | | | | | | | | r | | | | rcConnectionEstablis | | | | hmentFailureRateChar | | | | acteristicDownlink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | rrc | | | | ConnectionEstablishm | | | | entFailureRateTarget | | | | | | | | rrcConnectionEstabl | | | | ishmentFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | rrc | | | | ConnectionEstablishm | | | | entFailureRateTarget | | | | | | | | For CAC see | | | | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | | seRateCharacteristic | | | | | | | | This target is | | | | suitable for LBO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 5.6 Common Notifications
### 5.6.1 Configuration notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): Target Achievement Evaluation
> To evaluate the result of the optimization the target achievement needs to
> be evaluated. This can be done by calculating the Total Target Achievement
> as follows.
>
> The Total Target Achievement is the sum of the products of the individual
> target achievement (difference between target and performance) and the
> individual targetWeights:
>
> Total Target Achievement =\ Sum ~i=1..n~ [ ( minTarget ~i~ -- performance
> ~i~ ) x weight~i~ ]\ \+ Sum ~j=1..n~ [ performance ~j~ -- maxTarget ~j~ ) x
> weight ~j~ ]
>
> where minTarget is a target to be minimized and maxTarget is a target to be
> maximized.
>
> For targets with a substructure (like *Characteristic, see §5.5.1) the above
> formula is applied to each individual substructure target.
>
> The higher the Total Target Achievement, the better is the result of the
> optimization.
#