# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**TS 32.551: Energy Savings Management (ESM); Concepts and Requirements**
Stage 2 for Energy Savings Management is contained in:
TS 32.522 [5]: Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)
TS 32.762 [4]: Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Information Service
(IS)
This work is based on the Study contained in TR 32.826 [2] Study on Energy
Savings Management (ESM).
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the concepts and requirements how energy
savings functionalities are managed what requirements need to be met to
support this. The document also describes if a requirement shall be met via
the Itf-N interface or via other means.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 32.826: \"Telecommunication management; Study on Energy Savings
Management (ESM)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.762: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.522: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.500: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON); Concepts and requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Centralized ES:** ES solution where ES algorithms are executed in the OAM
system. Centralized ES has two variants:
  * **NM-Centralized ES:** ES solution where ES algorithms are executed at the Network Management level.
  * **EM-Centralized ES:** ES solution where ES algorithms are executed at the Element Management level.
**Distributed ES:** ES solution where ES algorithms are executed at the
Network Element level.
**notEnergySaving state: the default state in peak-traffic situation, with no
specific energy saving in progress.**
**energySaving state: in an off-peak-traffic situation, some functions of a
cell or a network element are powered-off or restricted in resource usage in
other ways, whereas the cell or network element is still controllable.**
**_compensatingForEnergySaving state:_** in an off-peak traffic situation, a
network element is remaining powered on, e.g. taking over the coverage areas
of neighbor base station in _energySaving state_.
**ES activation:** the procedure to switch off a cell or network element or
restrict the usage of physical resources for energy saving purposes. As a
result, a specific network element transitions is in energySaving state.
**ES compensation: the** procedure to change a cell's or network element's
configuration to remain powered on for compensating energy saving activation
on other cells or network elements, e.g. by increasing a base station's
coverage area. As a result, the network element is in
_compensatingForEnergySaving_ state.
**ES deactivation:** the procedure to switch on a cell ornetwork element or
resume the usage of physical resources which had been ES activated before. As
a result, a specific network element is in notEnergySaving state.
**Enable ES:** ES (including ES activation/compensation/deactivation, related
computations etc.) is allowed to be performed.
**Disable ES:** ES is prohibited to be performed. When ES is disabled, subject
cells or NEs are in notEnergySaving state.
**Candidate cell:** candidate cell is a cell which can provide coverage when
the original cell goes into energySaving state.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ES Energy Saving
ESM Energy Saving Management
# 4 Concepts and Backgrounds
## 4.1 Energy Savings Management (ESM) concept
Protecting the environment and combating climate change are challenges that we
face today. In the telecom environment, as energy prices increase, there is
added incentive for Network Operators to look for means to reduce energy
costs.
OAM of mobile networks can contribute to energy saving by allowing the
operator to set policies to minimize consumption of energy, while maintaining
coverage, capacity and quality of service. The permitted impact on coverage,
capacity and quality of service is determined by operator's policy.
In addition, the use of the renewable energy sources (e.g. wind, solar energy)
should be encouraged in mobile networks.
The following ESM concepts can apply to different RATs, e.g. UMTS and LTE.
Nevertheless some of these ESM concepts may be limited to specific RATs and
network elements, and specific solutions may be required for them.
### 4.1.1 Fundamental concepts
Two energy saving states can be conceptually identified for a cell or a
network element:
Conceptually, a cell or a network element may be on one of these two states
with respect to energy saving:
\- notEnergySaving state
\- energySaving state
_Based on the above energy saving states, a full energy saving solution
includes two elementary procedures:_
\- Energy saving activation
\- Energy saving deactivation
### 4.1.2 Additional concepts for selected uses cases
For selected ESM use cases, a network element may additionally transition to
the
\- compensatingForEnergySaving.
_Correspondingly, such use cases may provide these additional procedures:_
\- Energy saving compensation activation.
\- Energy saving compensation deactivation: the procedure to decrease a
previously increased coverage area.
### 4.1.3 Operator control
Three general architectures are candidates to offer energy savings
functionalities:
Distributed, NM-Centralized, EM-Centralized as defined in TS 32.500 [6].
Energy savings in cells can be initiated in several different ways. Some of
the mechanisms are:
\- IRPManager instructs the cells to move to energySaving state.
\- IRPManager sets policies and conditions and when these policies/conditions
are met, the cells will move to energy saving state.
\- The eNB moves itself to energySaving state autonomously based on its
knowledge of the network without any input for energy savings from the
IRPManager and/or based on operators instruction/policies/conditions set in
non-standard manner.
When a cell is in energy savings state it may be need that neighboring cells
to pick up the load. However a cell in energySaving state cannot cause
coverage holes or create undue load on the surrounding cells. All traffic on
that cell is expected to be drained to other overlaid/umbrella cells before
any cells moves to energySaving state.
A cell in energySaving state is not considered a cell outage or a fault
condition. No alarms should be raised to the IRPManager for any condition that
is a consequence of a NE moving into energySavings state.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
REQ-32.551-CON-01
The acceptable impact on services shall be determined based on operator's
policy.
Remark: What exactly is meant with "operator's policy", what impacted services
could be and what the consequences of not meeting the policy may be needs
further discussion.
REQ-32.551-CON-02
The IRPManager shall be able to monitor how the network and the user service
quality are influenced by energy saving function.
REQ-32.551-CON-03
IRPManager shall be able to monitor the performance of the energy saving
function.
REQ-32.551-CON-04
The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the IRPManager to retrieve
energy consumption information for each of its managed NEs.
REQ-32.551-CON-05
The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing the IRPManager to configure
for each of its managed NEs the period of time for which energy consumption
information will be provided.
REQ-32.551-CON-06
The IRPManager shall be able to initiate energy saving compensation activation
and/or deactivation on one or multiple cells or network elements.
This requirement applies for the use case capacity limited network, for other
use cases it is FFS.
REQ-32.551-CON-07
IRPManager shall be able to enable and disable energy saving for a selected
part of the network.
REQ-32.551-CON-08
The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the IRPManager to initiate
energy saving activation/deactivation on one or multiple cells or network
elements in the network.
REQ-32.551-CON-09
When a NE is in energySaving state the IRPAgents shall not consider the NE as
a fault, and no alarms shall be raised to the IRPManager for any condition
that is a consequence of an energySaving NE.
REQ-32.551-CON-10
The IRP Agent shall be able to allow the IRPManager to define a list of cells
to prevent them from going into energySaving state.
REQ-32.551-CON-11
The IRPAgent shall allow the IRPManager to query for all switched off cells in
the network under its domain.
Remark: The reason for the switching off can be ES or something else.
REQ-32.551-CON-12
The IRPAgent shall support a capability to notify the IRPManager when a cell
goes into or out of energySaving state.
REQ-32.551-CON-13
The IRPAgent shall notify the IRPManager when a cell fails to re-start as a
result of going out of energySaving state.
REQ-32.551-CON-14
The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing the IRPManager to configure
a cell traffic load threshold to be used for the decision if a network element
goes into energySaving state.
REQ-32.551-CON-15
The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing the IRPManager to configure
a cell traffic load threshold to be used for the decision if a network element
goes out of energySaving state.
REQ-32.551-CON-16
The system shall bring cells within one eNB into energySaving state in the
most energy efficient sequence.
REQ-32.551-CON-17
A cell must not go into energySaving state until emergency calls or Wireless
Priority Service calls in the cell are completed. Forcing handovers of such
calls because of ES shall be avoided.
REQ-32.551-CON-18
The IRPManager shall be able to access location and coverage information for
each of its managed NEs.
REQ-32.551-CON-19
The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to allow the IRPManager to configure
one or more related cells as the candidate cells to take over the coverage
when the original cell is going into energySaving state.
This requirement applies to the eNodeB overlaid use case.
REQ-32.551-CON-20
The IRPAgent shall provide a capability to allow the IRPManager to indicate
cell outage of an overlay cell that is a candidate cell that can take over the
coverage for another cell.
This requirement applies to the eNodeB overlaid use case.
REQ-32.551-CON-21
A cell or a network element in energySaving state is a planned condition and
should not be considered as an outage.
## 5.2 Actor roles
TBD
## 5.3 Telecommunication resources
TBD
## 5.4 High level use cases
### 5.4.1 eNB overlaid use case
In this use case an eNB can only enter into an energy saving state if there is
radio coverage by other radio systems -- be it another eNB or an entity of
another radio access technology - for the whole coverage area of the eNB in
question.
### 5.4.2 Capacity limited network use case
In this use case the coverage area of a group of eNBs is taken care of by one
or more of its eNBs while the others go into energy saving state.
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Common requirements
REQ-ComES-FUN-01
The IRPManager shall be able to monitor how the network and the user service
quality are influenced by energy saving function.
REQ-ComES-FUN-02
IRPManager shall be able to monitor the performance of the energy saving
function.
REQ-ComES-FUN-03
The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the IRPManager to retrieve
energy consumption information for each of its managed NEs.
REQ-ComES-FUN-04
The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing the IRPManager to configure
for each of its managed NEs the period of time for which energy consumption
information will be provided.
REQ-ComES-FUN-05
When a NE is in energySaving state the IRPAgents shall not consider the NE as
a fault, and no alarms shall be raised to the IRPManager for any condition
that is a consequence of an energySaving NE.
REQ-ComES-FUN-06
The IRPAgent shall allow the IRPManager to query for all switched off cells in
the network under its domain.
Remark: The reason for the switching off can be ES or something else.
REQ-ComES-FUN-07
The IRPAgent shall support a capability to notify the IRPManager when a cell
goes into or out of energySaving state.
REQ-ComES-FUN-08
The IRPAgent shall notify the IRPManager when a cell fails to re-start as a
result of going out of energySaving state.
### 6.1.2 Requirements for NM Centralized ES
REQ-NCES-FUN-01
The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the IRPManager to initiate
energy saving compensation activation to one or multiple cells or network
elements.
This requirement applies for the use case capacity limited network.
REQ-NCES-FUN-05
The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the IRPManager to initiate
energy saving compensation deactivation to one or multiple cells or network
elements.
This requirement applies for the use case capacity limited network.
Editor's note: this requirement is here presented not in sequential order for
readability purpose.
REQ-NCES-FUN-02
The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the IRPManager to initiate
energy saving activation to one or multiple cells or network elements.
REQ-NCES-FUN-03
The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the IRPManager to initiate
energy saving deactivation to one or multiple cells or network elements.
REQ-NCES-FUN-04
The IRPAgent shall provide a capability allowing the IRPManager to monitor the
network load.
### 6.1.3 Requirements for EM Centralized ES
See all requirements for Distributed ES.
### 6.1.4 Requirements for Distributed ES
REQ-DIES-FUN-01
The IRP Agent shall be able to allow the IRPManager to define a list of cells
to prevent them from going into energySaving state.
REQ-DIES-FUN-02
The IRPAgent shall provide the IRPManager the possibility to define that a
cell is prohibited to be reconfigured for Energy Saving purposes.
NOTE: This requirement applies for the capacity limited use case.
REQ-DIES-FUN-03
The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing the IRPManager to define a
traffic threshold and a time duration: If the traffic in the active neighbor
cells is above this threshold longer than this time duration, then the cell
can leave the energySaving state.
REQ-DIES-FUN-04
The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to allow the IRPManager to configure
one or more related cells as the candidate cells to take over the coverage
when the original cell is going into energySaving state.
This requirement applies for the eNodeB overlaid use case.
REQ-DIES-FUN-05
The IRPAgent shall provide a capability to allow the IRPManager to indicate
cell outage of an overlay cell that is a candidate cell that can take over the
coverage for another cell.
This requirement applies for the use case eNodeB overlaid.
REQ-DIES-FUN-06
The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing the IRPManager to define a
traffic threshold (threshold1) for the cell, a traffic threshold (threshold2)
for the neighbour cells and a time duration; if the traffic in the cell is
below this threshold1 longer than this time duration and the traffic in active
neighbor cells is below this threshold2 longer than this time duration, then
the cell can enter the energySaving state.
Editor's note: Details of the traffic thresholds will be defined in stage 2.
REQ-DIES-FUN-07
Void.
REQ-DIES-FUN-08
The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing the IRPManager to define in
a uniform way on subnetwork level or for many cells the circumstances when
entering or leaving the energy saving is allowed.
REQ-DIES-FUN-09
IRPManager shall be able to enable and disable energy saving for a selected
part of the network.
## 6.2 Actor roles
TBD
## 6.3 Telecommunication resources
TBD
## 6.4 High level use cases
### 6.4.1 Energy saving activation on selected network elements
(**_Centralized ES on NM layer_**)
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Activating energy saving | | | | for a selected network | | | | elements in a part of | | | | the network | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements (NEs) | | | | and their OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | **_Centralized ES on NM | | | | layer is performed._** | | | | | | | | The network operator has | | | | decided to activate | | | | energy saving on | | | | selected network | | | | elements in a part of | | | | the network (network | | | | elements, e.g. base | | | | stations). This requires | | | | to activate energy | | | | saving on some network | | | | elements and to activate | | | | com | | | | pensatingForEnergySaving | | | | on others. | | | | | | | | IRPManager is | | | | continuously monitoring | | | | load on NEs. | | | | | | | | An interference control | | | | function is available to | | | | support the coverage | | | | adjustment process among | | | | NEs in ES-Compensate and | | | | energySaving state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The network topology | | | | should allow | | | | transferring some | | | | network elements into | | | | energySaving _state_ | | | | while maintaining | | | | coverage by transferring | | | | some other into | | | | _ES-Compensate state._ | | | | | | | | Network elements (e.g. | | | | base stations) are not | | | | in a faulty state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The IRPManager decides | | | | to activate energy | | | | saving on selected | | | | network elements in a | | | | part of the network** | | | | based on monitored | | | | decreased network load. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The IPRManager makes a | | | | decision on which NEs | | | | should enter | | | | energySaving _state_ , | | | | _com | | | | pensatingForEnergySaving | | | | state_ , or | | | | _notEnergySaving state_ | | | | based on network load, | | | | geographic positions and | | | | maximum coverage of base | | | | stations. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | Based on the output of | | | | step1, the IRPManager | | | | initiates energy saving | | | | activation and energy | | | | saving compensation | | | | activation on the NEs | | | | selected for the | | | | respective state | | | | transition. | | | | | | | | The energy saving | | | | compensation activation | | | | is achieved by | | | | reconfiguration of | | | | coverage related | | | | parameters over Itf-N. | | | | Such coverage related | | | | parameters are | | | | parameters to be | | | | optimized in use case | | | | Capacity and Coverage | | | | Optimization (See | | | | 32.522). | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | After the completion of | | | | the energy saving | | | | activation process, the | | | | IRPAgent informs the | | | | IRPManager on the result | | | | of the process. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **The selected network | | | | elements are in | | | |_energySaving state_ , | | | | and other selected | | | | network elements are in | | | | _com | | | | pensatingForEnergySaving | | | | state_.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy saving activation | | | | has been performed on | | | | some selected NEs. Other | | | | selected NEs are in | | | | _comp | | | | ensatingForEnergySaving_ | | | | state. The network | | | | coverage is maintained. | | | | The network capacity is | | | | adapted to the reduced | | | | load. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ-NCES-FUN-01**,** | | | | REQ-NCES-FUN-02, | | | | REQ-NCES-FUN-04 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
### 6.4.2 Deactivation of energy saving on selected network elements
(**_Centralized ES on NM layer_**)
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Deactivating energy | | | | saving for a selected | | | | part of the network | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements (NEs) | | | | and their OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | **_Centralized ES on NM | | | | layer_** is performed. | | | | | | | | The network operator has | | | | decided to activate | | | | energy saving on | | | | selected network | | | | elements in a part of | | | | the network (network | | | | elements, e.g. base | | | | stations). This requires | | | | to activate energy | | | | saving on some network | | | | elements and to activate | | | | energy saving | | | | compensation on others. | | | | | | | | The IRPManager is | | | | continuously monitoring | | | | load on NEs. | | | | | | | | An interference control | | | | function is available to | | | | support the coverage | | | | adjustment process among | | | | NEs in | | | | com | | | | pensatingForEnergySaving | | | | and energySavingstate. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The affected network | | | | elements are in | | | | energySaving _state or in | | | | ES-Compensate state._ | | | | | | | | Network elements (base | | | | stations) are not in a | | | | faulty state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The IRPManager decides | | | | to deactivate | | | | energySaving for | | | | selected network | | | | elements in a part of | | | | the network** based on | | | | network load. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The IPRManager makes a | | | | decision on which NEs | | | | should remain in | | | | _energySaving state_ or | | | | _com | | | | pensatingforEnergySaving | | | | state_ , or enter | | | | _notEnergySaving state_ | | | | based on network load, | | | | geographic positions and | | | | maximum coverage of base | | | | stations. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | Based on the output of | | | | step1, the IRPManager | | | | initiates energy saving | | | | deactivation and energy | | | | saving compensation | | | | deactivation on the NEs | | | | selected for the | | | | respective state | | | | transition. | | | | | | | | The energy saving | | | | compensation | | | | deactivation is achieved | | | | by reconfiguration of | | | | coverage related | | | | parameters over Itf-N. | | | | Such coverage related | | | | parameters are | | | | parameters to be | | | | optimized in use case | | | | Capacity and Coverage | | | | Optimization (See | | | | 32.522). | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | After the completion of | | | | the energy saving | | | | deactivation process, | | | | the IRPAgent informs the | | | | IRPManager on the result | | | | of the process. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **The selected network | | | | elements are in No-_ES | | | | state_.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy saving | | | | deactivation has been | | | | performed on the | | | | selected NEs. The | | | | selected NEs are in | | | | notEnergySaving state. | | | | The network coverage is | | | | maintained. The network | | | | capacity accommodates | | | | the increased load. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ-NCES-FUN-01**,** | | | | REQ-NCES-FUN-03, | | | | REQ-NCES-FUN-04 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
### 6.4.3 Energy saving activation on selected network elements (Distributed
ES)
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Activating energy saving | | | | for a selected network | | | | elements in a part of | | | | the network | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements (NEs) | | | | and their OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The network operator has | | | | enabled the distributed | | | | energy saving function | | | | on selected network | | | | elements in a part of | | | | the network (network | | | | elements, e.g. base | | | | stations). This allows | | | | to activate energy | | | | saving on some network | | | | elements and to activate | | | | energy saving | | | | compensation on others. | | | | | | | | An interference control | | | | function is available to | | | | support the coverage | | | | adjustment process among | | | | NEs in | | | | com | | | | pensatingForEnergySaving | | | | and energySaving state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The network topology | | | | should allow | | | | transferring some | | | | network elements into | | | | energySavingstate while | | | | maintaining coverage by | | | | transferring some others | | | | into ES-Compensate | | | | state. | | | | | | | | Network elements (e.g. | | | | base stations) are not | | | | in a faulty state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The distributed | | | | algorithm decides to | | | | activate energy saving | | | | on selected network | | | | elements in a part of | | | | the network** based on | | | | monitored decreased | | | | network load. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The NE executes the | | | | energy saving algorithm | | | | to determine which | | | | neighboring NEs should | | | | enter energySaving, | | | | comp | | | | ensatingForEnergySaving, | | | | or notEnergySaving | | | | state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | Based on the output of | | | | step 1, those NEs that | | | | have been selected to be | | | | transferred to | | | | com | | | | pensatingForEnergySaving | | | | state, initiate energy | | | | saving compensation and | | | | inform the IRPManager. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | Based on the output of | | | | step 1, those NEs that | | | | have been selected to be | | | | transferred to | | | | energySaving state, | | | | perform energy saving | | | | activation and inform | | | | the IRPManager. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **The selected base | | | | stations are in | | | | energySaving state, and | | | | other selected base | | | | stations are in** | | | | com | | | | pensatingForEnergySaving | | | | **state.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy saving activation | | | | has been performed on | | | | some selected NEs. Other | | | | selected NEs are in | | | | com | | | | pensatingForEnergySaving | | | | state. The network | | | | coverage is maintained. | | | | The network capacity is | | | | adapted to the reduced | | | | load. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
### 6.4.4 Energy saving deactivation on selected network elements (Distributed
ES)
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Deactivating energy | | | | saving for a selected | | | | part of the network | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements (NEs) | | | | and their OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The network operator has | | | | enabled the energy | | | | saving distributed | | | | function on selected | | | | network elements in a | | | | part of the network, so | | | | that the NEs can | | | | deactivate energy saving | | | | state depending on load | | | | conditions. | | | | | | | | An interference control | | | | function is available to | | | | support the coverage | | | | adjustment process among | | | | NEs in | | | | com | | | | pensatingForEnergySaving | | | | and energySaving state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The affected network | | | | elements are in | | | | energySaving state or in | | | | com | | | | pensatingForEnergySaving | | | | state. | | | | | | | | Network elements (e.g. | | | | base stations) are not | | | | in a faulty state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | The **distributed | | | | algorithm decides to | | | | deactivate energy saving | | | | for a selected part of | | | | the network** based on | | | | network load. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The NE executes the | | | | energy saving algorithm | | | | that decides which NEs | | | | remain in energySaving | | | | state or | | | | _com | | | | pensatingforEnergySaving | | | | state_ or enter | | | | notEnergySaving state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | Based on the output of | | | | step 1, those NEs that | | | | in energySaving state or | | | | _com | | | | pensatingforEnergySaving | | | | state which_ have been | | | | selected to be | | | | transferred to | | | | notEnergySaving state, | | | | initiate energy saving | | | | deactivation or energy | | | | saving compensation | | | | deactivation and inform | | | | the IRPManager. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **The selected network | | | | elements are in No-ES | | | | state.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy saving | | | | deactivation has been | | | | performed on the | | | | selected NEs. The | | | | selected NEs are in | | | | notEnergySaving state. | | | | The network coverage is | | | | maintained. The network | | | | capacity accommodates | | | | the increased load. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
### 6.4.5 Coordination between Energy Saving and Cell outage
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Goal (*) | The NE energy saving | | | | function and cell | | | | outage handling | | | | function are well | | | | coordinated. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | 1. The operator has | | | | configured energy | | | | saving policies | | | | for the network | | | | elements. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The network is | | | | properly installed and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | IRPManager got | | | | information about a | | | | cell outage. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | IRPManager sends the | | | | outage indications to | | | | the IRPAgents of | | | | related network | | | | elements. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | If the related network | | | | elements are in energy | | | | saving state and the | | | | cell in outage was the | | | | last or only one to | | | | provide overlay | | | | coverage for these | | | | NEs, they perform | | | | energy saving | | | | deactivation. The | | | | related network | | | | elements shall not | | | | re-activate energy | | | | saving before the cell | | | | outage is recovered or | | | | another NE provides | | | | overlay coverage. The | | | | related network | | | | elements will take | | | | over some or all the | | | | coverage of the cell | | | | that is in outage | | | | state. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | IRPManager sends | | | | indication to the | | | | related network | | | | elements in case the | | | | cell outage has been | | | | restored. The related | | | | network elements can | | | | activate energy saving | | | | state according to | | | | their energy saving | | | | policy. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when (*) | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | No cell outage exist, | | | | ES can act undisturbed | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
###### ## Annex A (informative): Use case details: Capacity-limited network
use case
**Capacity-limited networks (e.g. UMTS networks in an urban environment) are
normally dimensioned to cope with peak time traffic demand and can hence be
under-utilized in off-peak times, e.g. at certain hours of the night, when the
overall load as well as the load distribution onto the different cells may
differ significantly from peak times.**
**For energy saving management in such networks, the objective is therefore to
adapt the network to these changing conditions by activating energy saving on
selected cells. One approach is to concentrate the load into a few selected**
cells **that remain active during low traffic demand periods with increased
coverage area and to deactivate the remaining less loaded** cells**.**
_This use case is generally RAT-independent, but may provide specific
requirements and leverage specific mechanisms of individual RATs. This use
case is only applicable to macro base stations._
##### **Overview** {#overview .H6}
_In this use case the coverage area of a cell can be configured dynamically,
where an operator would employ smaller coverage areas per cell (to increase
capacity per geographic area) in a peak traffic situation. In that case some
base stations would be enabled to adjust their transmission power and other
configuration parameters for their cells at off-peak times in order to provide
coverage for other neighboring cells -- which could then be transferred to
energy saving state, after handing currently associated UEs over to remaining
neighboring cells. Activating energy saving on certain base stations and
modifying radio parameters for increasing coverage for other cells can lead to
different neighbor relations as well as different cell and frequency layouts,
which should be addressed by automatic neighbor relation, interference
control, e.g. through OAM-driven configuration or SON functions, depending on
the specific RAT in use. Depending on the specific scenarios, activating
energy saving on base stations could ultimately lead to switching off all
radio-transmission-related functions at a site, which would lead to reduced
energy consumption and could implicitly lead to even further energy saving,
e.g. when air condition systems at a site adapt to the reduced cooling
requirements -- which is not considered here in detail._
_The energy saving management in the scenario would ideally lead to situation
for an off-peak time as depicted in figure A.1 -- where one base station would
remain powered one (depicted as ES-Compensate), taking over the coverage areas
of neighbor base stations in energySaving state (depicted as eSaving)._
Figure A.1: Different network arrangements corresponding to capacity demand
variation for energy saving purposes
As depicted in figure A.1, a certain part of a network, e.g. base stations in
a geographical area, can be in two different situations:
1\. Peak traffic situation: no particular energy saving is on-going, and
network elements are in No-ES state.
2\. Off-peak Traffic situation: energy saving is on-going, and some network
elements may be in energySaving state, while others are in
compensatingForEnergySaving state.
_Peak-traffic situation_ and _off-peak-traffic situation_ refer to the
disposition of a network. For this use case, the following three different
states are applicable to individual network elements: 1) notEnergySaving, 2)
energySaving, and 3) compensatingForEnergySaving state.
These states are entered and left using the procedures energy saving
activation, energy saving deactivation, energy saving compensation activation,
and energy saving compensation deactivation.
It should be noted that the concrete actions for transferring a network
element into an energySaving state (depicted as "eSaving" in figure A.1)
depend on the specific scenario and capabilities of the network element.
This use case can be implemented in the ES-below-Itf-N architecture and in the
ES-above-Itf-N architecture. Depending on the architecture, energy saving
decisions and corresponding state transfers are made by network elements (or
element / domain managers) or by network management systems.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Use Case details: eNB overlaid use case
In order to assure the service connectivity and make no side effect on the
service (there is a possible case that a UE may power on in the area of an eNB
in ES), only the eNB overlaid by other eNBs (i.e. the area served by the eNB
also covered by other eNBs) can enter into ES.
In this scenario, legacy systems, e.g. 2G/3G provide radio coverage together
with E-UTRAN. Another case similar with this is that an area covered by
different frequencies in E-UTRAN, i.e. inter-frequency case.
{width="3.627083333333333in" height="1.6270833333333334in"}
Figure B.1: ENB Overlaid Scenario
According to the definition of base station classes in [3] section 4.2, base
stations can be categorized by Macro Cell (Wide Area Base Station), Micro Cell
(Medium Range Base Station), Pico Cell (Local Area Base Station) and Femto
Cell (characterized by Home Base Station). This category of base station can
be applied to enhance the scenarios of inter-frequency eNB overlaid.
**UC1: Inter-Frequency E-UTRAN eNB/Cell Coverage**
In this scenario, two E-UTRAN cells (Cell A, Cell B) with separate frequency
bands cover the same geographical area. Cell B has a smaller size (Pico Cell
or Micro Cell) than Cell A (Macro Cell) and is covered totally by Cell A.
Generally, Cell A is deployed to provide continuous coverage of the area,
while Cell B increases the capacity of the special sub-areas, such as hot
spots. The energy saving procedure in the coverage of Cell B (ES area) may be
triggered in case that light traffic in Cell B is detected. Cell B
deactivation of energy saving may also be triggered when the traffic of ES
area (measured by Cell A) resumes to a high level.
Figure B.2: Inter-Frequency E-UTRAN Cell Coverage
The inter-frequency E-UTRAN cell coverage use case also has a variation of
hybrid deployment of Macro Cell and Femto Cell, which means different cell
classes (Macro and Femto) cover the same geography area.
**UC1a: Hybrid E-UTRAN Macro Cell and Femto Cell Coverage**
In this scenario, two E-UTRAN cells (Cell A, Cell B) with different cell types
cover the same geographical area. Cell B (Femto Cell) is covered totally by
Cell A (Macro Cell). Generally, Cell A is deployed by eNB to provide
continuous coverage of the area, while Cell B is deployed by Home eNB to
increase the capacity of the special sub-areas, such as home or business mall
or office. The energy saving procedure in the coverage of Cell B (ES area) may
be triggered in case that light traffic or no traffic in Cell B is detected.
Cell B deactivation of energy saving may also be triggered when the traffic of
ES area resumes to a high level. Home eNB which deploys the femto cell can be
totally switched off during the ES procedure.
Figure B.3: Hybrid E-UTRAN Macro Cell and Femto Cell Coverage
**UC2: Inter-RAT Cell Coverage**
In this scenario, E-UTRAN Cell B is totally covered by inter-RAT Cell A (such
as legacy system UMTS or GSM). Cell A is deployed to provide basic coverage of
the voice or medium/low-speed data services in the area, while Cell B enhances
the capability of the area to support high-speed data or multi-media services.
The energy saving procedure in the coverage of Cell B (ES area) may be
triggered in case that no high-speed data or multi-media traffic in Cell B is
detected. Cell B deactivation of energy saving may be triggered when the high-
speed data or multi-media service request in ES area is restarted again.
Figure B.4: Inter-RAT Cell Coverage
#