# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.571 **"** Telecommunication management; Home Node B (HNB) and Home eNode B
(HeNB) management; Type 2 interface concepts and requirements"
**32.572: "Telecommunication management; Home Node B (HNB) and Home eNode B
(HeNB) management; Type 2 interface models and mapping functions"**
# 1 Scope
The present document describes requirements and concepts including
architecture supporting Home NB and Home eNB OAM&P for interface Type 2.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Generic network resources Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Network Resource Model (NRM)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.583 Procedure flows for Type 1 interface HNB to HMS
[6] 3GPP TS 32.602 Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602 Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)
[8] 3GPP TS 32.593 Procedure flows for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB
Management System
[9] 3GPP TS 32.584 XML definitions for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management
System
[10] 3GPP TS 32.594 XML definitions for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB
Management System
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: "Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)"
[12] 3GPP TS 32.582: "Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB)
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Information
model for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.342 File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)
[14] 3GPP TS 32.772 Home Node B Subsystem (HNS); Network Resource Model (NRM);
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of this document, the terms and definitions given in TS
21.905 [1], TS 32.101 [2] and TS 32.102 [3] and in the following sub-clause
3.1 apply. Same term may be defined in different documents. The precedence
rule, applicable to this document, is in the order of: this document, TS
32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3], TS 21.905 [1].
## 3.1 Definitions
There is no additional definition defined in this subclause.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
FT File Transfer
HNB Home Node B
HeNB Home eNode B
HMS HNB Management System
HeMS HeNB Management System
HNS Home Node B Subsystem
IOCs Information Object Classes
IRP Integration Reference Point
NRM Network Resource Model
# 4 Basic Aspects
## **4.1 General**
## 4.2 System context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [1] subclause 4.7. Only System Context A applies to this
document. In addition, the IRP(s) relevant to the present document are shown.
Figure 1: System Context
# 5 Information Object Classes
This specification does not define its own classes. It uses those defined in
Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) [14].
# 6 Interface Definition
This document does not define its own Interface definition. It re-uses Alarm
IRP [11], FT IRP [13], Basic CM IRP [6] and Bulk CM IRP [7].
# 7 Mapping Function
## 7.1 General
## 7.2 Configuration management
### 7.2.1 HNB provisioning support (O)
This subclause applies to HNB case.
IRPManager needs to create an HNBProfile instance. Before doing so, IRPManager
a) Creates a dataset holding information that will be referred to by > the to-
be-created HNBProfile.configuration. IRPManager names this > dataset using the
File Naming Convention of Annex A of [13]. The > file name shall contain the
specificIRP_extension field which is > set to "HNB". The file schema is
defined in subclause 4.2.2 of > [9].
b) Prepares the value of the attribute criterion and attribute > userLabel of
the to-be-created HNBProfile.
c) Creates the HNBProfile instance using Basic CM IRP IS createMO of > [6] or
using Bulk CM IRP IS BulkCmCreateMo (Create MO > Sub-operation) of [7]..
In case Basic CM IRP is used for the instance creation, IRPManager reception
of:
  * A createMO positive response or a notifyObjectCreation means:
```{=html}
``` \- The instance has been created successfully;
```{=html}
``` \- A createMO negative response means:
```{=html}
``` \- The instance has not been created and the response can include the
failure reason.
In case Bulk CM IRP is used for the instance creation, IRPManager reception
of:
  * A notifyObjectCreation means:
```{=html}
``` \- The instance has been created successfully;
It is noted that in case Bulk CM IRP is used for the instance creation, the
BulkCMIRP can record the outcome of the instance creation attempt in the
session log. The IRPManager can obtain the session log (see clause 7.3.6 of
[7]) if it wants to determine if the instance is created successfully or not.
The above description is part of interaction 1.
IRPManager should not remove the dataset referred to by
HNBProfile.configuration as long as the HNBProfile instance exists. This is
because an IRPAgent may not make a local copy of the dataset during HNBProfile
instance creation and therefore needs to read the dataset during the HNB
registration.
IRPManager should not modify the dataset referred to by
HNBProfile.configuration as long as the HNBProfile instance exists. This is to
guarantee an IRPAgent behaviour that is independent of the IRPAgent
implemention choices, such as:
  1. IRPAgent creates its local copy of the dataset when the HNBProfile > is in existence and uses the local copy during HNB registration;
  2. IRPAgent does not make a local copy of the dataset but reads the dataset during HNB registration.
Interaction 2 is the interactions 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.3-bis and 5.4-bis of
Clause 5.2.1 of [5].
Via interaction 5.1 (see Clause 5.2.1 of [5]), HNB informs IRPAgent- Serving
HMS of the HNB location, the HNB ID, etc, called (in the context of this
document) the registration information.
IRPAgent- Serving HMS identifies a stored HNBProfile.criterion that
corresponds to the registration information. It then identifies the
corresponding HNBProfile.configuration.
In case IRPAgent- Serving HMS identifies more than one stored
HNBProfile.criterion that corresponds to the registration information. It then
identifies the corresponding HNBProfile.configuration, IRPAgent- Serving HMS
would decide which HNBProfile.configuration would be used.
Via interaction 5.3 or 5.4-bis (see Clause 5.2.1 of [5]), IRPAgent -- Serving
HMS configures the HNB using the identified HNBProfile.configuration.
### 7.2.2 HeNB provisioning support (O)
This subclause applies to HeNB case.
This subclause is identical to 7.2.1 except:
  * 'HNB' is replaced by 'HeNB'
  * 'HMS' is replaced by 'HeMS'
  * References [5] and [9] are replaced by [8] and [10].
## 7.3 Fault management
### 7.3.1 Handling of "Expedited handling" and "Queued handling" alarms
HNB raises alarms of various categories, two of which are called "Expedited
handling" and "Queued handling". HNB uses TR-069 RPC Methods to send the
"Expedited handling" and "Queue handling" categories of alarms (see Clause
6.2.4 of [12]). HNB does not use TR-069 RPC Methods to send other categories
of alarms.
On reception of the HNB alarms sent by TR-069 RPC Methods, the mapping
function (F) shall process the alarm and decide if
a) There exists no AlarmInformation [11] in AlarmList [11] corresponding to
the newly received alarm or
b) There exists an AlarmInformation in AlarmList corresponding to the newly
received alarm. There is a difference in value of perceivedSeverity of the
newly received alarm and that of the corresponding AlarmInformation and the
former value is not Cleared.
c) There exists an AlarmInformation in AlarmList corresponding to the newly
received alarm. There is a difference in value of perceivedSeverity of the
newly received alarm and that of the corresponding AlarmInformation and the
former value is Cleared.
In case of a), a new AlarmInformation is added in the AlarmList. The
IRPManager, who has a subscription with NotificationIRP, is notified via
notifyNewAlarm if the added AlarmInformation satisfies the subscription filter
constraint.
In case of b), the corresponding AlarmInformation perceivedSeverity is
changed. The IRPManager, who has a subscription with NotificationIRP, is
notified via notifyChangedAlarm if the subject AlarmInformation satisfies the
subscription filter constraint.
In case of c), the corresponding AlarmInformation is removed from the
AlarmList if it has been acknowledged; else its perceivedSeverity is changed
to Cleared. The IRPManager, who has a subscription with NotificationIRP, is
notified via notifyClearedAlarm if the subject AlarmInformation satisfies the
subscription filter constraint.
#