# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.641: \"Configuration Management (CM); UTRAN Network Resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
**32.642:** \"Configuration Management (CM); **UTRAN Network Resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network Resource Model (NRM)\".**
**32.646: Configuration Management (CM); UTRAN Network Resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G-network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the NEs and NRs, and they may be initiated by the operator or
functions in the OSs or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as a single action on a Network Element (NE) of
the 3G-network or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
NEs.
The Itf-N interface for Configuration Management is built up by a number of
Integration Reference Points (IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which
realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure
of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]. For CM, a
number of IRPs (and the Name Convention) are defined herein, used by this as
well as other technical specifications for telecom management produced by
3GPP.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Solution Sets for the UTRAN NRM IRP.
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.642 V10.3.X [4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.306: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.616: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[8] W3C REC-xml-20001006: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second
Edition)\".
[9] W3C REC-xmlschema-0-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 0: Primer\".
[10] W3C REC-xmlschema-1-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 1: Structures\".
[11] W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
[12] W3C REC-xml-names-19990114: \"Namespaces in XML\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For terms and definitions please refer to 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102
[2], 3GPP TS 32.600 [3] and 3GPP TS 32.642 [4].
**XML file:** file containing an XML document
**XML document:** composed of the succession of an optional XML declaration
followed by a root XML element
NOTE: See [8]; in the scope of the present document.
**XML declaration:** it specifies the version of XML being used
NOTE: See [8].
**XML element:** has a type, is identified by a name, may have a set of XML
attribute specifications and is either composed of the succession of an XML
start-tag followed by the XML content of the XML element followed by an XML
end-tag, or composed simply of an XML empty-element tag; each XML element may
contain other XML elements
NOTE: See [8].
**empty XML element:** having an empty XML content; an empty XML element still
possibly has a set of XML attribute specifications; an empty XML element is
either composed of the succession of an XML start-tag directly followed by an
XML end-tag, or composed simply of an XML empty-element tag
NOTE: See [8].
**XML content (of an XML element):** empty if the XML element is simply
composed of an XML empty-element tag; otherwise the part, possibly empty, of
the XML element between its XML start-tag and its XML end-tag
**XML start-tag:** the beginning of a non-empty XML element is marked by an
XML start-tag containing the name and the set of XML attribute specifications
of the XML element
NOTE: See [8].
**XML end-tag:** the end of a non-empty XML element is marked by an XML end-
tag containing the name of the XML element
NOTE: See [8].
**XML empty-element tag:** composed simply of an empty-element tag containing
the name and the set of XML attribute specifications of the XML element.
NOTE: See [8].
**XML attribute specification:** has a name and a value
NOTE: See [8].
**DTD:** defines structure and content constraints to be respected by an XML
document to be valid with regard to this DTD
NOTE: See [8].
**XML schema:** more powerful than a DTD, an XML schema defines structure and
content constraints to be respected by an XML document to conform with this
XML schema; through the use of XML namespaces several XML schemas can be used
together by a single XML document; an XML schema is itself also an XML
document that shall conform with the XML schema for XML schemas
NOTE: See [9], [10] and [11].
**XML namespace:** enables qualifying element and attribute names used in XML
documents by associating them with namespaces identified by different XML
schemas
NOTE: See [12], in the scope of the present document.
**XML complex type:** defined in an XML schema; cannot be directly used in an
XML document; can be the concrete type or the derivation base type for an XML
element type or for another XML complex type; ultimately defines constraints
for an XML element on its XML attribute specifications and/or its XML content
NOTE: See [9], [10] and [11].
**XML element type:** declared by an XML schema; can be directly used in an
XML document; as the concrete type of an XML element, directly or indirectly
defines constraints on its XML attribute specifications and/or its XML
content; can also be the concrete type or the derivation base type for another
XML element type
NOTE: See [9], [10] and [11].
For additional terms and definitions please refer to 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP
TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.600 [3] and 3GPP TS 32.642 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
DTD Document Type Definition
EDGE Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IS Information Service
IDL Interface Definition Language (OMG)
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
SIPTO Selected IP Traffic Offload
SS Solution Set
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Solution Set Definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP UTRAN NRM IRP Solution Set
Definitions:
  * 3GPP UTRAN NRM IRP CORBA SS (Annex A)
  * 3GPP UTRAN NRM IRP XML Definitions (Annex B)
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in UTRAN NRM IRP: Information Service (TS 32.642 [4]).
# A.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of UTRAN Network Resources IRP is specified
in 3GPP TS 32.642 [4].\ This clause specifies features that are specific to
the CORBA SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
## A.1.2 Rules for NRM extensions
This clause discusses how the models and IDL definitions provided in the
present document can be extended for a particular implementation and still
remain compliant with 3GPP SA5\'s specifications.
### A.1.2.1 Allowed extensions
Vendor-specific MOCs may be supported. The vendor-specific MOCs may support
new types of attributes.\ The 3GPP SA5-specified notifications may be issued
referring to the vendor-specific MOCs and vendor-specific attributes. New MOCs
shall be distinguishable from 3GPP SA5 MOCs by name. 3GPP SA5-specified and
vendor-specific attributes may be used in vendor-specific MOCs. Vendor-
specific attribute names shall be distinguishable from existing attribute
names.
NRM MOCs may be subclassed. Subclassed MOCs shall maintain the specified
behaviour of the 3GPP SA5\'s superior classes. They may add vendor-specific
behaviour with vendor-specific attributes. When subclassing, naming attributes
cannot be changed. The subclassed MOC shall support all attributes of its
superior class. Vendor-specific attributes cannot be added to 3GPP SA5 NRM
MOCs without subclassing.
When subclassing, the 3GPP SA5-specified containment rules and their specified
cardinality shall still be followed.\ As an example, ManagementNode (or its
subclasses) shall be contained under SubNetwork (or its subclasses).
Managed Object Instances may be instantiated as CORBA objects. This requires
that the MOCs be represented in IDL. 3GPP SA5\'s NRM MOCs are not currently
specified in IDL, but may be specified in IDL for instantiation or subclassing
purposes. However, management information models should not require that
IRPManagers access the instantiated managed objects other than through
supported methods in the present document.
Extension rules related to notifications (Notification categories, Event
Types, Extended Event Types etc.) are for further study.
### A.1.2.2 Extensions not allowed
The IDL specifications in the present document cannot be edited or altered.
Any additional IDL specifications shall be specified in separate IDL files.
IDL interfaces (note: not MOCs) specified in the present document may not be
subclassed or extended. New interfaces may be defined with vendor-specific
methods.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 General mapping
Attributes modelling associations as defined in the NRM (here also called
\"reference attributes\") are in this SS mapped to attributes. The names of
the reference attributes in the NRM are mapped to the corresponding attribute
names in the MOC. When the cardinality for an association is 0..1 or 1..1 the
datatype for the reference attribute is defined as an MOReference. The value
of an MO reference contains the distinguished name of the associated MO. When
the cardinality for an association allows more than one referred MO, the
reference attribute will be of type MOReferenceSet, which contains a sequence
of MO references.
## A.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
This Solution Set supports reference attributes for relations other than
containment relations between objects. Reference attributes are therefore
introduced in each MOC where needed.
### A.2.2.1 IOC RncFunction
Mapping from NRM IOC RncFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC RncFunction
attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | Rn | | | | | | | cFunction | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | id | rncF | string | M | M | - | | | unctionId | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | mcc | mcc | long | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | mnc | mnc | long | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | rncId | rncId | long | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | sipto | sipto | short | M | M | - | | Supported | Supported | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | tc | tc | GenericN | CM | M | M | | eIDMappin | eIDMappin | RMAttribu | | | | | gInfoList | gInfoList | teTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TceIDM | | | | | | | appingInf | | | | | | | oListType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.2 IOC UtranGenericCell
Mapping from NRM IOC UtranGenericCell attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC UtranGenericCell attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | Assoc | A | | Qualifier | | | | iations/A | ttributes | | | | | | ttributes | | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | UtranGe | | | | | | | nericCell | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | id | id | string | M | M | _ | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | cId | cId | long | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | lo | lo | long | M | M | M | | calCellId | calCellId | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | relatedAn | relatedAn | G | O | M | M | | tennaList | tennaList | enericNet | | | | | | | workResou | | | | | | | rcesIRPSy | | | | | | | stem::Att | | | | | | | ributeTyp | | | | | | | es::MORef | | | | | | | erenceSet | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | maximu | maximu | short | M | M | M | | mTransmis | mTransmis | | | | | | sionPower | sionPower | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | lac | lac | long | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | pichPower | pichPower | float | CM | M | O | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | pchPower | pchPower | float | CM | M | O | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | fachPower | fachPower | float | CMO | M | O | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | rac | rac | long | CM | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | sac | sac | long | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | uraList | uraList | Gen | CM | M | M | | | | ericNetwo | | | | | | | rkResourc | | | | | | | esIRPSyst | | | | | | | em::Attri | | | | | | | buteTypes | | | | | | | ::LongSet | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | Associa | utranCe | Generic | M | M | - | | tedWith/\ | llIubLink | NetworkRe | | | | | utranCel | | sourcesIR | | | | | l-IubLink | | PSystem:: | | | | | | | Attribute | | | | | | | Types::MO | | | | | | | Reference | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | cellMode | cellMode | GenericN | M | M | - | | | | RMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | CellMod | | | | | | | eEnumType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | operati | operati | S | O | M | - | | onalState | onalState | tateManag | | | | | | | ementIRPO | | | | | | | ptConstDe | | | | | | | fs::Opera | | | | | | | tionalSta | | | | | | | teTypeOpt | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | hsFlag | hsFlag | short | CM | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | hsEnable | hsEnable | short | CM | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | numO | numO | short | CM | M | - | | fHspdschs | fHspdschs | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | num | num | short | O | M | - | | OfHsscchs | OfHsscchs | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | fr | fr | short | CO | M | - | | ameOffset | ameOffset | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | ce | ce | float | CO | M | - | | llIndivid | llIndivid | | | | | | ualOffset | ualOffset | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | hcsPrio | hcsPrio | short | CO | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | maxim | maxim | short | CO | M | - | | umAllowed | umAllowed | | | | | | UlTxPower | UlTxPower | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | snaIn | snaIn | Gen | CO | M | - | | formation | formation | ericNetwo | | | | | | | rkResourc | | | | | | | eMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | snaInform | | | | | | | ationType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | qrxlevMin | qrxlevMin | short | CO | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | delta | delta | short | CO | M | - | | Qrxlevmin | Qrxlevmin | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | qhcs | qhcs | short | CO | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | pe | pe | short | CO | M | - | | naltyTime | naltyTime | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | re | re | short | CO | M | - | | ferenceTi | ferenceTi | | | | | | meDiffere | meDiffere | | | | | | nceToCell | nceToCell | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | readSFN | readSFN | boolean | CO | M | - | | Indicator | Indicator | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | restric | restric | Gen | CO | M | - | | tionState | tionState | ericNetwo | | | | | Indicator | Indicator | rkResourc | | | | | | | eMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | restri | | | | | | | ctionStat | | | | | | | eEnumType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | dp | dp | Gen | CO | M | - | | cModeChan | cModeChan | ericNetwo | | | | | geSupport | geSupport | rkResourc | | | | | Indicator | Indicator | eMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | pcModeCha | | | | | | | ngeSuppor | | | | | | | tEnumType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | relat | relat | GenericNe | O | M | | | edTmaList | edTmaList | tworkReso | | | | | | | urceIRPSy | | | | | | | stem::Att | | | | | | | ributeTyp | | | | | | | es::MORef | | | | | | | erenceSet | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | rela | rela | Generi | O | M | | | tedSector | tedSector | cNetworkR | | | | | Equipment | Equipment | esourceIR | | | | | | | PSystem:: | | | | | | | Attribute | | | | | | | Types::MO | | | | | | | Reference | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"O\", | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CO\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CM\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.3 IOC NodeBFunction
Mapping from NRM IOC NodeBFunction attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC NodeBFunction attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | Node | | | | | | | BFunction | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | id | nodeBF | string | M | M | - | | | unctionId | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | Con | no | Generic | M | M | - | | nectedTo/ | deBFuncti | NetworkRe | | | | | | onIubLink | sourcesIR | | | | | nod | | PSystem:: | | | | | eBFunctio | | Attribute | | | | | n-IubLink | | Types::MO | | | | | | | Reference | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.4 IOC IubLink
Mapping from NRM IOC IubLink attributes and associations to SS equivalent MOC
IubLink attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | IubLink | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | id | iubLinkId | string | M | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | Associ | iubLink | G | M | M | M | | atedWith/ | UtranCell | enericNet | | | | | | | workResou | | | | | iubLink- | | rcesIRPSy | | | | | UtranCell | | stem::Att | | | | | | | ributeTyp | | | | | | | es::MORef | | | | | | | erenceSet | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | Con | iu | Generic | M | M | - | | nectedTo/ | bLinkNode | NetworkRe | | | | | | BFunction | sourcesIR | | | | | iub | | PSystem:: | | | | | Link-Node | | Attribute | | | | | BFunction | | Types::MO | | | | | | | Reference | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | Associa | iubLin | Generic | M | M | - | | tedWith1/ | kATMChann | NetworkRe | | | | | | elTermina | sourcesIR | | | | | iubLink | tionPoint | PSystem:: | | | | | -ATMChann | | Attribute | | | | | elTermina | | Types::MO | | | | | tionPoint | | Reference | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.5 IOC ExternalUtranGenericCell
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalUtranGenericCell attributes and associations to
SS equivalent MOC ExternalUtranGenericCell attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | Extern | | | | | | | alUtranGe | | | | | | | nericCell | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | cId | cId | long | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | Mcc | mcc | short | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | Mnc | mnc | short | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | rncId | rncId | long | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | cellMode | cellMode | Generi | M | M | - | | | | cNRMAttri | | | | | | | buteTypes | | | | | | | ::CellMod | | | | | | | eEnumType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | lac | lac | long | M | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | rac | rac | long | CM | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | contr | contr | Generic | O | M | - | | ollingRnc | ollingRnc | NetworkRe | | | | | | | sourcesIR | | | | | | | PSystem:: | | | | | | | Attribute | | | | | | | Types::MO | | | | | | | Reference | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | hsFlag | hsFlag | short | CM | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | fr | fr | short | CO | M | - | | ameOffset | ameOffset | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | ce | ce | long | CO | M | - | | llIndivid | llIndivid | | | | | | ualOffset | ualOffset | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | hcsPrio | hcsPrio | short | CO | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | maxim | maxim | short | CO | M | - | | umAllowed | umAllowed | | | | | | UlTxPower | UlTxPower | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | qrxlevMin | qrxlevMin | short | CO | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | delta | delta | short | CO | M | - | | Qrxlevmin | Qrxlevmin | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | Qhcs | qhcs | short | CO | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | pe | pe | short | CO | M | - | | naltyTime | naltyTime | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | re | re | short | CO | M | - | | ferenceTi | ferenceTi | | | | | | meDiffere | meDiffere | | | | | | nceToCell | nceToCell | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | readSFN | readSFN | boolean | CO | M | - | | Indicator | Indicator | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | restric | restric | Gen | CO | M | - | | tionState | tionState | ericNetwo | | | | | Indicator | Indicator | rkResourc | | | | | | | eMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | restri | | | | | | | ctionStat | | | | | | | eEnumType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | dp | dp | Gen | CO | M | - | | cModeChan | cModeChan | ericNetwo | | | | | geSupport | geSupport | rkResourc | | | | | Indicator | Indicator | eMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | pcModeCha | | | | | | | ngeSuppor | | | | | | | tEnumType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | snaIn | snaIn | Gen | CO | M | - | | formation | formation | ericNetwo | | | | | | | rkResourc | | | | | | | eMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | snaInform | | | | | | | ationType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"O\", | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CO\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CM\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.6 Void
### A.2.2.7 IOC ExternalRncFunction
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalRncFunction attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC ExternalRncFunction attributes
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC ExternalRncFunction in TS 32.642 [4] SS Attributes SS
Type Support Qualifier Read Write id externalRncFunctionId string M M - mcc
mcc long M M M mnc mnc long M M M rncId rncId long M M M controlledCellList
controlledCellList
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::MOReferenceSet O M - NOTE:
For all support qualifiers with the value \"O\", see attribute constraints in
TS 32.642 [4].
* * *
### A.2.2.8 UtranCellFDD
Mapping from NRM IOC UtranCellFDD attributes and associations to SS equivalent
MOC UtranCellFDD attributes
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC UtranCellFDD in TS 32.642 [4] SS Attributes SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Write uarfcnUl uarfcnUl short O M M uarfcnDl uarfcnDl
short O M M primaryScramblingCode primaryScramblingCode short O M M
primaryCpichPower primaryCpichPower float O M M primarySchPower
primarySchPower float O M M secondarySchPower secondarySchPower float O M M
bchPower bchPower float O M M aichPower aichPower float O M - qqualMin
qqualMin float CO M - cellCapabilityContainerFDD cellCapabilityContainerFDD
FDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes:: CellCapabilityContainerFDDType CO M -
txDiversityIndicator txDiversityIndicator FDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes::
txDiversityIndicatorEnumType CO M - temporaryOffset1 temporaryOffset1 short CO
M - temporaryOffset2 temporaryOffset2 short CO M - sttdSupportIndicator
sttdSupportIndicator FDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes:: sttdSupportEnumType
CO M - closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator
FDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes:: closedLoopMode1EnumType CO M - NOTE: For
all support qualifiers with the value \"CO\" see attribute constraints in TS
32.642 [4].
* * *
### A.2.2.9 UtranCellTDD
Mapping from NRM IOC UtranCellTDD attributes and associations to SS equivalent
MOC UtranCellTDD attributes
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC UtranCellTDD in TS 32.642 [4] SS Attributes SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Write uarfcn uarfcn short O M M cellParameterId
cellParameterId long O M M primaryCcpchPower primaryCcpchPower float O M M
cellCapabilityContainerTDD cellCapabilityContainerTDD
TDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes:: CellCapabilityContainerTDDType CO M -
sctdIndicator sctdIndicator TDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes::
sctdSupportEnumType CO M - dpchConstantValue dpchConstantValue long CO M -
NOTE: For all support qualifiers with the value \"CO\" see attribute
constraints in TS 32.642 [4].
* * *
### A.2.2.10 UtranCellTDDLcr
Mapping from NRM IOC UtranCellTDDLcr attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC UtranCellTDDLcr attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | UtranC | | | | | | | ellTDDLcr | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | uarf | uarf | TDDN | O | M | M | | cnLCRList | cnLCRList | RMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | Ua | | | | | | | rfcnLCRLi | | | | | | | stConfigS | | | | | | | tructType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | d | d | float | O | M | M | | wPchPower | wPchPower | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | f | f | float | O | M | O | | pachPower | pachPower | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | tstd | tstd | TDDN | CO | M | - | | Indicator | Indicator | RMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | tst | | | | | | | dIndicato | | | | | | | rEnumType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | timeSl | timeSl | TDDN | O | M | M | | otLCRList | otLCRList | RMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | imeSlotLi | | | | | | | stConfigS | | | | | | | tructType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CO\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.11 UtranCellTDDHcr
Mapping from NRM IOC UtranCellTDDHcr attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC UtranCellTDDHcr attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | UtranC | | | | | | | ellTDDHcr | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | schPower | schPower | float | O | M | M | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | tempora | tempora | short | CO | M | - | | ryOffset1 | ryOffset1 | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | syncCase | syncCase | short | CO | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | timeS | timeS | short | CO | M | - | | lotForSch | lotForSch | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | sc | sc | short | CO | M | | | hTimeSlot | hTimeSlot | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | timeSl | timeSl | TDDN | O | M | M | | otHCRList | otHCRList | RMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | imeSlotLi | | | | | | | stConfigS | | | | | | | tructType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CO\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.12 ExternalUtranCellFDD
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalUtranCellFDD attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC ExternalUtranCellFDD attributes
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC UtranCellTDDHcr in TS 32.642 [4] SS Attributes SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Write uarfcnUl uarfcnUl short O M M uarfcnDl uarfcnDl
short O M M primaryScramblingCode primaryScramblingCode short O M M
primaryCpichPower primaryCpichPower float O M M qqualMin qqualMin long CO M -
cellCapabilityContainerFDD cellCapabilityContainerFDD
FDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes:: CellCapabilityContainerFDDType CO M -
txDiversityIndicator txDiversityIndicator FDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes::
txDiversityIndicatorEnumType CO - temporaryOffset1 temporaryOffset1 short CO M
- temporaryOffset2 temporaryOffset2 short CO M - sttdSupportIndicator
sttdSupportIndicator FDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes:: sttdSupportEnumType
CO M - NOTE: For all support qualifiers with the value \"CO\" see attribute
constraints in TS 32.642 [4].
* * *
### A.2.2.13 ExternalUtranCellTDD
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalUtranCellTDD attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC ExternalUtranCellTDD attributes
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC UtranCellTDDHcr in TS 32.642 [4] SS Attributes SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Write uarfcn uarfcn short O M M cellParameterId
cellParameterId long O M - primaryCcpchPower primaryCcpchPower float O M -
cellCapabilityContainerTDD cellCapabilityContainerTDD
TDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes:: CellCapabilityContainerFDDType CO M -
sctdIndicator sctdIndicator TDDNetworkResourceMAttributeTypes::
sctdSupportEnumType CO M - dpchConstantValue dpchConstantValue long CO M -
NOTE: For all support qualifiers with the value \"CO\" see attribute
constraints in TS 32.642 [4].
* * *
### A.2.2.14 ExternalUtranCellTDDHcr
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalUtranCellTDDHcr attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC ExternalUtranCellTDDHcr attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | UtranC | | | | | | | ellTDDLcr | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | tempora | tempora | short | CO | M | - | | ryOffset1 | ryOffset1 | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | syncCase | syncCase | short | CO | M | - | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | timeS | timeS | short | CO | M | - | | lotForSch | lotForSch | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | sc | sc | short | CO | M | - | | hTimeSlot | hTimeSlot | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | timeSl | timeSl | TDDN | O | M | - | | otHCRList | otHCRList | RMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | imeSlotLi | | | | | | | stConfigS | | | | | | | tructType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CO\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.15 ExternalUtranCellTDDLcr
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalUtranCellTDDLcr attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC ExternalUtranCellTDDLcr attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | UtranC | | | | | | | ellTDDLcr | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | tstd | tstd | TDDN | CO | M | - | | Indicator | Indicator | RMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | tst | | | | | | | dIndicato | | | | | | | rEnumType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | timeSl | timeSl | TDDN | O | M | - | | otLCRList | otLCRList | RMAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | imeSlotLi | | | | | | | stConfigS | | | | | | | tructType | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CO\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.16 Void
### A.2.2.17 IOC UtranRelation
Mapping from NRM IOC UtranRelation attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC UtranRelation attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | Utra | | | | | | | nRelation | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | id | utranR | string | M | M | - | | | elationId | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | adj | adj | Generic | M | M | M | | acentCell | acentCell | NetworkRe | | | | | | | sourcesIR | | | | | | | PSystem:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Attribute | | | | | | | Types::MO | | | | | | | Reference | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | isRemo | isRemo | boolean | CM | M | M | | veAllowed | veAllowed | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | is | is | boolean | CM | M | M | | HOAllowed | HOAllowed | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nditional | | | | | | | qu | | | | | | | alifiers, | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.18 IOC EP_IuCS
Mapping from NRM IOC EP_IuCS attributes and associations to SS equivalent MOC
EP_IuCS attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | EP_IuCS | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | conn | conn | unsigned | CO | M | - | | MscNumber | MscNumber | short | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CO\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.19 IOC EP_IuPS
Mapping from NRM IOC EP_IuPS attributes and associations to SS equivalent MOC
EP_IuPS attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | EP_IuCS | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | connS | connS | unsigned | CO | M | - | | gsnNumber | gsnNumber | short | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CO\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
### A.2.2.20 IOC EP_Iur
Mapping from NRM IOC EP_Iur attributes and associations to SS equivalent MOC
EP_Iur attributes
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NRM | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | A | A | | Qualifier | | | | ttributes | ttributes | | | | | | of IOC | | | | | | | EP_Iur | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | conne | conne | unsigned | CO | M | - | | ctedRncId | ctedRncId | short | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | q | | | | | | | ualifiers | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"CO\" | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nstraints | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 32.642 | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+
# A.3 Solution Set definitions
## A.3.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.3.2 defines the MO classes for the UTRAN NRM IRP.
## A.3.2 IDL specification \"UtranNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl\"
//File:UtranNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl
#ifndef __UTRANNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS__ IDL_
#define __UTRANNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS__ IDL_
#include \"GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl\"
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/**
* This module defines constants for each MO class name and
* the attribute names for each defined MO class.
*/
module UtranNetworkResourcesNRMDefs
{
/**
* Definitions for MO class RncFunction
*/
interface RncFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"RncFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string rncFunctionId = \"rncFunctionId\";
const string mcc= \"mcc\";
const string mnc= \"mnc\";
const string rncId= \"rncId\";
const string siptoSupported= \"siptoSupported\";
const string tceIDMappingInfoList= \"tceIDMappingInfoList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class UtranGenericCell
*/
interface UtranGenericCell : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"UtranGenericCell\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string utranCellIubLink = \"utranCellIubLink\";
const string cId= \"cId\";
const string localCellId= \"localCellId\";
const string maximumTransmissionPower= \"maximumTransmissionPower\";
const string relatedAntennaList= \"relatedAntennaList\";
const string bchPower= \"bchPower\";
const string fpachPower= \"fpachPower\";
const string pichPower= \"pichPower\";
const string pchPower= \"pchPower\";
const string fachPower= \"fachPower\";
const string cellMode = \"cellMode\";
const string lac= \"lac\";
const string rac= \"rac\";
const string sac= \"sac\";
const string uraList= \"uraList\";
const string operationalState = \"operationalState\";
const string relatedTmaList = \"relatedTmaList\";
const string hsFlag = \"hsFlag\";
const string hsEnable = \"hsEnable\";
const string numOfHspdschs = \"numOfHspdschs\";
const string numOfHsscchs = \"numOfHsscchs\";
const string snaInformation = \"snaInformation\";
const string frameOffset = \"frameOffset\";
const string cellIndividualOffset = \"cellIndividualOffset\";
const string hcsPrio = \"hcsPrio\";
const string maximumAllowedUlTxPower = \"maximumAllowedUlTxPower\";
const string qrxlevMin = \"qrxlevMin\";
const string deltaQrxlevmin = \"deltaQrxlevmin\";
const string qhcs = \"qhcs\";
const string penaltyTime = \"penaltyTime\";
const string referenceTimeDifferenceToCell =
\"referenceTimeDifferenceToCell\";
const string readSFNIndicator = \"readSFNIndicator\";
const string restrictionStateIndicator = \"restrictionStateIndicator\";
const string dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator =
\"dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator\";
const string relatedSectorEquipment = \"relatedSectorEquipment\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class NodeBFunction
*/
interface NodeBFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"NodeBFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string nodeBFunctionId = \"nodeBFunctionId\";
const string nodeBFunctionIubLink = \"nodeBFunctionIubLink\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class IubLink
*/
interface IubLink : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"IubLink\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string iubLinkId = \"iubLinkId\";
const string iubLinkNodeBFunction = \"iubLinkNodeBFunction\";
const string iubLinkUtranCell = \"iubLinkUtranCell\";
const string iubLinkATMChannelTerminationPoint =
\"iubLinkATMChannelTerminationPoint\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class UtranRelation
*/
interface UtranRelation : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Top
{
const string CLASS = \"UtranRelation\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string utranRelationId = \"utranRelationId\";
const string adjacentCell = \"adjacentCell\";
const string isRemoveAllowed = \"isRemoveAllowed\";
const string isHOAllowed = \"isHOAllowed\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class ExternalUtranGenericCell
*/
interface ExternalUtranGenericCell :
GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalUtranGenericCell\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string cId= \"cId\";
const string mcc= \"mcc\";
const string mnc= \"mnc\";
const string rncId= \"rncId\";
const string cellMode = \"cellMode\";
const string cellParameterId= \"cellParameterId\";
const string lac= \"lac\";
const string rac= \"rac\";
const string controllingRnc = \"controllingRnc\";
const string hsFlag = \"hsFlag\";
const string frameOffset = \"frameOffset\";
const string cellIndividualOffset = \"cellIndividualOffset\";
const string hcsPrio = \"hcsPrio\";
const string maximumAllowedUlTxPower = \"maximumAllowedUlTxPower\";
const string qrxlevMin = \"qrxlevMin\";
const string deltaQrxlevmin = \"deltaQrxlevmin\";
const string qhcs = \"qhcs\";
const string penaltyTime = \"penaltyTime\";
const string referenceTimeDifferenceToCell =
\"referenceTimeDifferenceToCell\";
const string readSFNIndicator = \"readSFNIndicator\";
const string restrictionStateIndicator = \"restrictionStateIndicator\";
const string dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator =
\"dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class ExternalRncFunction
*/
interface ExternalRncFunction :
GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalRncFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string externalRncFunctionId = \"externalRncFunctionId\";
const string mcc = \"mcc\";
const string mnc = \"mnc\";
const string rncId = \"rncId\";
const string controlledCellList = \"controlledCellList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class UtranCellFDD
*/
interface UtranCellFDD : UtranGenericCell
{
const string CLASS = \"UtranCellFDD\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string uarfcnUl = \"uarfcnUl\";
const string uarfcnDl = \"uarfcnDl\";
const string primaryScramblingCode = \"primaryScramblingCode\";
const string primaryCpichPower = \"primaryCpichPower\";
const string primarySchPower = \"primarySchPower\";
const string secondarySchPower = \"secondarySchPower\";
const string bchPower = \"bchPower\";
const string aichPower = \"aichPower\";
const string qqualMin = \"qqualMin\";
const string cellCapabilityContainerFDD = \"cellCapabilityContainerFDD\";
const string txDiversityIndicator = \"txDiversityIndicator\";
const string temporaryOffset1 = \"temporaryOffset1\";
const string temporaryOffset2 = \"temporaryOffset2\";
const string sttdSupportIndicator = \"sttdSupportIndicator\";
const string closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator =
\"closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class UtranCellTDD
*/
interface UtranCellTDD : UtranGenericCell
{
const string CLASS = \"UtranCellTDD\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string uarfcn = \"uarfcn\";
const string cellParameterId = \"cellParameterId\";
const string primaryCcpchPower = \"primaryCcpchPower\";
const string cellCapabilityContainerTDD = \"cellCapabilityContainerTDD\";
const string sctdIndicator = \"sctdIndicator\";
const string dpchConstantValue = \"dpchConstantValue\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class UtranCellTDDLcr
*/
interface UtranCellTDDLcr : UtranCellTDD
{
const string CLASS = \"UtranCellTDDLcr\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string uarfcnLCRList = \"uarfcnLCRList\";
const string fpachPower = \"fpachPower\";
const string dwPchPower = \"dwPchPower\";
const string tstdIndicator = \"tstdIndicator\";
const string timeSlotLCRList = \"timeSlotLCRList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class UtranCellTDDHcr
*/
interface UtranCellTDDHcr : UtranCellTDD
{
const string CLASS = \"UtranCellTDDHcr\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string schPower = \"schPower\";
const string temporaryOffset1 = \"temporaryOffset1\";
const string syncCase = \"syncCase\";
const string timeSlotForSch = \"timeSlotForSch\";
const string schTimeSlot = \"schTimeSlot\";
const string timeSlotHCRList = \"timeSlotHCRList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class ExternalUtranCellFDD
*/
interface ExternalUtranCellFDD : ExternalUtranGenericCell
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalUtranCellFDD\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string uarfcnUl = \"uarfcnUl\";
const string uarfcnDl = \"uarfcnDl\";
const string primaryScramblingCode = \"primaryScramblingCode\";
const string primaryCpichPower = \"primaryCpichPower\";
const string qqualMin = \"qqualMin\";
const string cellCapabilityContainerFDD = \"cellCapabilityContainerFDD\";
const string txDiversityIndicator = \"txDiversityIndicator\";
const string temporaryOffset1 = \"temporaryOffset1\";
const string temporaryOffset2 = \"temporaryOffset2\";
const string sttdSupportIndicator = \"sttdSupportIndicator\";
const string closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator =
\"closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class ExternalUtranCellTDD
*/
interface ExternalUtranCellTDD : ExternalUtranGenericCell
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalUtranCellTDD\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string uarfcn = \"uarfcn\";
const string cellParameterId = \"cellParameterId\";
const string primaryCcpchPower = \"primaryCcpchPower\";
const string cellCapabilityContainerTDD = \"cellCapabilityContainerTDD\";
const string sctdIndicator = \"sctdIndicator\";
const string dpchConstantValue = \"dpchConstantValue\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class ExternalUtranCellTDDHcr
*/
interface ExternalUtranCellTDDHcr : ExternalUtranCellTDD
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalUtranCellTDDHcr\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string temporaryOffset1 = \"temporaryOffset1\";
const string syncCase = \"syncCase\";
const string timeSlotForSch = \"timeSlotForSch\";
const string schTimeSlot = \"schTimeSlot\";
const string timeSlotHCRList = \"timeSlotHCRList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class ExternalUtranCellTDDLcr
*/
interface ExternalUtranCellTDDLcr : ExternalUtranCellTDD
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalUtranCellTDDLcr\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string tstdIndicator = \"tstdIndicator\";
const string timeSlotLCRList = \"timeSlotLCRList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class EP_IuCS
*/
interface EP_IuCS : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::EP_RP
{
const string CLASS = \"EP_IuCS\";
// Attribute Name
//
const string connMscNumber = \"connMscNumber\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class EP_IuPS
*/
interface EP_IuPS : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::EP_RP
{
const string CLASS = \"EP_IuPS\";
// Attribute Name
//
const string connSgsnNumber= \"connSgsnNumber\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class EP_Iur
*/
interface EP_Iur : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::EP_RP
{
const string CLASS = \"EP_Iur\";
// Attribute Name
//
const string connectedRncId= \"connectedRncId\";
};
};
/**
* This module adds datatype definitions for both FDD and TDD mode
* attributes used in the NRM which are not the basic datatypes
* already defined in CORBA.
*/
module GenericNRMAttributeTypes
{
enum CellModeEnumType
{
FDDMode,
TDDMode_1_28Mcps,
TDDMode_3_84Mcps
};
enum RestrictionStateEnumType
{
cellReservedForOperatorUse,
cellAccessible
};
enum DpcModeChangeEnumType
{
dpcModeChange_supported,
dpcModeChange_not_supported
};
typedef long SNAC;
struct snaInformationType
{
long mcc;
long mnc;
sequence\ snaList;
};
struct TceIDMappingInfo
{
short tceID;
string tceIPAddr;
};
typedef sequence\ TceIDMappingInfoListType;
};
/**
* This module adds datatype definitions for FDD mode attributes
* used in the NRM which are not the basic datatypes already defined
* in CORBA.
*/
module FDDNRMAttributeTypes
{
enum SttdSupportEnumType
{
active,
inactive
};
enum txDiversityIndicatorEnumType
{
none,
primaryCpichBroadcastFrom2Antennas,\ sttdAppliedToPrimaryCCPCH,
tstdAppliedToPrimarySchAndSecondarySch
};
enum ClosedLoopMode1EnumType
{
closedLoopMode1_supported,
closedLoopMode1_not_supported
};
typedef octet CellCapabilityContainerFDDBit;
//CellCapabilityContainerFDDBits:
const unsigned long Flexible_Hard_Split_Support_Indicator = 0;
const unsigned long Delayed_Activation_Support_Indicator = 1;
const unsigned long HS_DSCH_Support_Indicator = 2;
const unsigned long DSCH_Support_Indicator = 3;
const unsigned long F_DPCH_Support_Indicator = 4;
const unsigned long E_DCH_Support_Indicator = 5;
const unsigned long E_DCH_TTI2ms_Support_Indicator = 6;
const unsigned long E_DCH_2sf2and2sf4_and_all_inferior_SFs_Support_Indicator =
7;
const unsigned long E_DCH_2sf2_and_all_inferior_SFs_Support_Indicator = 8;
const unsigned long E_DCH_2sf4_and_all_inferior_SFs_Support_Indicator = 9;
const unsigned long E_DCH_sf4_and_all_inferior_SFs_Support_Indicator = 10;
const unsigned long E_DCH_sf8_and_all_inferior_SFs_Support_Indicator = 11;
const unsigned long E_DCH_HARQ_IR_Combining_Support_Indicator = 12;
const unsigned long E_DCH_HARQ_Chase_Combining_Support_Indicator = 13;
typedef sequence \
CellCapabilityContainerFDDType;
};
/**
* This module adds datatype definitions for TDD mode attributes
* used in the NRM which are not the basic datatypes already defined
* in CORBA.
*/
module TDDNRMAttributeTypes
{
enum ActivityStatusType
{
active,
inactive
};
typedef ActivityStatusType TstdIndicatorEnumType;
typedef ActivityStatusType SctdSupportEnumType;
typedef ActivityStatusType TimeSlotStatusType;
typedef octet CellCapabilityContainerTDDBit;
const unsigned long Delayed_Activation_Support_Indicator = 0;
const unsigned long HS_DSCH_Support_Indicator = 1;
const unsigned long DSCH_Support_Indicator = 2;
typedef sequence \
CellCapabilityContainerTDDType;
enum TimeSlotDirectionType
{
UL,
DL
};
struct TimeSlotConfigStructType
{
short timeSlotId;
TimeSlotDirectionType timeSlotDirection;
TimeSlotStatusType timeSlotStatus;
};
typedef sequence\ TimeSlotListConfigStructType;
struct UarfcnLCRConfigStructType
{
short uarfcn;
TimeSlotListConfigStructType timeSlotLCRList;
};
typedef sequence\ UarfcnLCRListConfigStructType;
};
#endif //__UTRANNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS__ IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML Definitions
This annex contains the XML Definitions for the UTRAN NRM IRP as it applies to
Itf-N, in accordance with UTRAN NRM IRP IS definitions [4].
# B.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of UTRAN Network Resources IRP is specified
in 3GPP TS 32.642 [4].\ This clause specifies features that are specific to
the Schema definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
# B.2 Mapping
### B.2.1 General mapping
An IOC maps to an XML element of the same name as the IOC\'s name in the IS.
An IOC attribute maps to a sub-element of the corresponding IOC\'s XML
element, and the name of this sub-element is the same as the attribute\'s name
in the IS.
### B.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
The overall description of the file format of configuration data XML files is
provided by 3GPP TS 32.616 [7].
Annex B.3.3 of the present document defines the NRM-specific XML schema
utranNrm.xsd for the UTRAN Network Resources IRP NRM defined in 3GPP TS 32.642
[4].
XML schema utranNrm.xsd explicitly declares NRM-specific XML element types for
the related NRM.
The definition of those NRM-specific XML element types complies with the
generic mapping rules defined in 3GPP TS 32.616 [7].
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
Not present in the current version of this specification.
## B.3.3 XML schema \"utranNrm.xsd\"
\\ \ \\ \ \\ \ \\
\\
\\ \\ \
\\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \ \\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \
\\ \\ \
\\
\\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \
\\ \
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \
\\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\
\\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\ \
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\ \
\
\
\\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\ \
\
\
\\ \
\
\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \
\\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \
\
\
\\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#