# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.641: \"Configuration Management (CM); UTRAN network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
**32.642: \"Configuration Management (CM); UTRAN network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Network Resource Model (NRM)\".**
**32.646:** \"**Configuration Management (CM); UTRAN network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions** \"**.**
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources, and they
may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations Systems
(OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
CM, in general, provides the operator with the ability to assure correct and
effective operation of the 3G network as it evolves. CM actions have the
objective to control and monitor the actual configuration on the NEs and
Network Resources, and they may be initiated by the operator or by functions
in the OSs or NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the UTRAN network resource information that can
be communicated between an IRPAgent and one or several IRPManagers for network
management purposes.
The present document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information
object class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.433: \"UTRAN Iub Interface NBAP Signalling\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.652: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] Void.
[8] 3GPP TS 32.672: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[12] Void.
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[17] Void.
[18] Void.
[19] Void.
[20] Void.
[21] 3GPP TS 25.466: \"UTRAN Iuant interface: Application Part\".
[22] Void.
[23] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling\".
[24] 3GPP TS 32.792: \"Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[25] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[26] 3GPP TS 32.762: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[27] 3GPP TS 25.423: \"UTRAN Iur interface Radio Network Subsystem Application
Part (RNSAP) signalling\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [14].
**Antenna** : Within the present document an Antenna is the set of radiating
elements involved in the transmission and reception of Radio Frequency energy
to support the Uu interface of a UTRAN cell. See Annex B for more detail.
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
1) name bindings,
2) reference attributes, and
3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams).
**Managed Element (ME)** : An instance of the Information Object Class
ManagedElement defined in TS 32.622 [16].
**Managed Object (MO)** : In the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is
instance of a MO class defined in a MIM/NRM. This class, called **Information
Object Class (IOC)** has [attributes]{.underline} that provide information
used to characterize the objects that belong to the class (the term
\"attribute\" is taken from TMN and corresponds to a \"property\" according to
CIM). Furthermore, the IOC can have [operations]{.underline} that represent
the behaviour relevant for that class (the term \"operation\" is taken from
TMN and corresponds to a \"method\" according to CIM). The IOC may support the
emission of [notifications]{.underline} that provide information about an
event occurrence within a network resource.
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : Also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below.
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : A model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP. An NRM identifies and describes the IOCs, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
**Node B:** A logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment.\ It terminates the Iub interface
towards the RNC.
**TMA Subunit** : See TS 25.466 [21].
**Tower Mounted Amplifier:** See TS 25.466 [21].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CIM Common Information Model
CN Core Network
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
EM Element Manager
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FM Fault Management
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
Iub Interface between RNC and Node B
Mcps Mega-chips per second
ME Managed Element
MIM Management Information Model
MO Managed Object
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Neighbour cell Relation
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
PS Packet Switched
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
RET Remote control of Electrical Tilting (RET) antenna
RNC Radio Network Controller
TDD Time Division Duplex
TMA Tower Mounted Amplifier
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 Void
## 4.2 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP defined by the present
document:
\- The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. The
IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to mandatory as
well as optional attributes/associations without failure; however the
IRPManager does not have to support handling of the optional
attributes/associations.
\- The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It may
support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional information object classes, attributes and associations
without requiring the IRPManager to have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that
\- rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, and
\- many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may exist,
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
The modelling approach adopted and used in this IRP is described in TS 32.622
[16].
# 6 Information Object Classes
## 6.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [16], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement 3GPP TS 32.622 [16], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP
TS 32.622 [16], IOC, MeContext MeContext 3GPP TS 32.622 [16], IOC, SubNetwork
SubNetwork 3GPP TS 32.622 [16], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [16], IOC,
VsDataContainer VsDataContainer 3GPP TS 32.622 [16], IOC, EP_RP EP_RP 3GPP TS
32.652 [6], IOC, GsmRelation GsmRelation 3GPP TS 32.672 [8], attribute,
operationalState operationalState 3GPP TS 32.792 [24], IOC, AntennaFunction
AntennaFunction 3GPP TS 32.792 [24], IOC, TmaFunction TmaFunction 3GPP TS
32.792 [24], IOC, SectorEquipmentFunction SectorEquipmentFunction 3GPP TS
32.762 [26], attribute, EUtranRelation EUtranRelation
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. This clause provides the overview of all information object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these information object classes.
The following figures show the containment/naming hierarchy and the
associations of the information object classes defined in the present
document. They are split in several figures only for a readability purpose.
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
NOTE 2: The IOC AntennaFunction is required when supporting RET, For a
description and clarification of RET, please refer to Annex B.
NOTE 3: The instances of the AntennaFunction associated with a particular
instance of NodeBFunction shall be contained by the same ManagedElement
instance.
NOTE 4: The instances of the TmaFunction associated with a particular instance
of NodeBFunction shall be contained by the same ManagedElement instance.
NOTE 5: Please see TS 32.792 [24] for the definitions of the associations
EUtranCell-AntennaRelation, EUtranCell-SectorRelation, EUtranCell-TmaRelation,
SectorEquipment-AntennaRelation and SectorEquipment-TmaRelation.
Figure 6.2.1.1: Transport view UTRAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association
diagram
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="5.715972222222222in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
NOTE 2: The relation between GsmRelation and GsmCell is optional. It may be
present if both the UtranGenericCell and the GsmCell are managed by the same
management node.
NOTE 3: The UtranRelation and GsmRelation can be name-contained under IOCs
defined in other NRMs.
NOTE 4: ExternalUtranGenericCell is contained under SubNetwork or
ExternalRncFunction.
Figure 6.2.1.2: Cell view UTRAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC.\ The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
Figure 6.2.1.3: VsDataContainer Containment/Naming and Association in UTRAN
NRM diagram
NOTE 1: The ATMChannelTerminationPoint is name-contained under IOCs defined in
the Transport Network NRM.
NOTE 2: The group of ATMChannelTerminationPoints associated with an IubLink\
(the relation AssociatedWith1) represent the RNC end of the ATM Virtual
Channel Connections (transport connection) between an RNC and a NodeB.
NOTE 3: An ATMChannelTerminationPoint can be associated with more than one
IubLink for the case of AAL2 multiplexing/switching.\ I.e. to allow an ATM
Channel at the RNC to be connected to multiple NodeBs.
Figure 6.2.1.4: UTRAN Transport Network NRM Containment/Naming and Association
diagram
The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
Each IOC is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to 3GPP TS
32.300 [13] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example, the DN of
an IOC instance representing a cell could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden, MeContext=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1,
RncFunction=RF-1,UtranCell=Gbg-1.
{width="2.923611111111111in" height="4.293055555555555in"}
Figure 6.2.1.5: EP_Iur Containment/Naming and Association diagram
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 6.2.2.1 shows the inheritance hierarchy for the UTRAN NRM.
Figure 6.2.2.1: UTRAN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 6.3 Information object class definitions
### 6.3.1 RncFunction
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents RNC functionality. For more information about the RNC, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
Attributes of RncFunction
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - mcc M
M M mnc M M M rncId M M M siptoSupported M M - tceIDMappingInfoList CM M M
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Notifications
See clause 6.7.1 Alarm and configuration notifications.
6.3.1.4 Attribute constraints
* * *
**Name** **Definition** tceIDMappingInfoList The condition is "MDT function is
supported"
* * *
### 6.3.2 NodeBFunction
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents Node B functionality. For more information about the Node
B, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
Attributes of NodeBFunction
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
nodeBFunction-IubLink M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Notifications
See clause 6.7.1 Alarm and configuration notifications.
### 6.3.3 Void
### 6.3.4 IubLink
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC represents the logical link to a Node B as seen from the RNC. For
more information about the RNC, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
Attributes of IubLink
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
iubLink-UtranCell M M M iubLink-NodeBFunction M M - iubLink-
ATMChannelTerminationPoint M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.4.3 Notifications
See clause 6.7.1 Alarm and configuration notifications.
### 6.3.5 UtranRelation
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
The UtranRelation IOC contains radio network related parameters for the NR
from a source cell to a UtranGenericCell or ExternalUtranGenericCell instance.
The source cell can be a UtranGenericCell instance. This is the case for an
Intra-UTRAN NR.
The source cell can be an EUtranGenericCell instance. This is the case for an
Inter-RAT NR from E-UTRAN to UTRAN. See 3GPP TS 32.762 [26].
The source cell can be a GsmCell instance. This is the case for an Inter-RAT
NR from GERAN to UTRAN. See 3GPP TS 32.652 [6].
NRs are unidirectional.
The UtranGenericCell and the ExternalUtranGenericCell may be an FDD mode cell,
a lcr (low chip rate) 1.28 Mcps TDD mode cell or a hcr (high chip rate) 3.84
(7.68) Mcps TDD mode cell.
NOTE: In handover relation terms, the cell containing the UTRAN Relation
object is the source cell for the handover. The cell referred to in the UTRAN
relation object is the target cell for the handover.\ This defines a one-way
handover relation where the direction is _from_ source cell _to_ target cell.
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
Attributes of UtranRelation
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
adjacentCell M M M isRemoveAllowed CM M M isHOAllowed CM M M
* * *
#### 6.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition isRemoveAllowed Support Qualifier The condition is \"Inter-RAT
ANR function is supported in the source cell, and the source cell is an
EUtranGenericCell\". isHOAllowed Support Qualifier The condition is \"Inter-
RAT ANR function is supported in the source cell, and the source cell is an
EUtranGenericCell\".
* * *
#### 6.3.5.4 Notifications
See clause 6.7.2 Configuration notifications.
### 6.3.6 Void
### 6.3.7 Void
### 6.3.8 ExternalRncFunction
#### 6.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC represents an RNC function controlled by another IRPAgent. For more
information about the RNC, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.8.2 Attributes
Attributes of ExternalRncFunction
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - mcc M
M M mnc M M M rncId M M M controlledCellList O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.8.3 Notifications
See clause 6.7.2 Configuration notifications.
### 6.3.9 UtranGenericCell
#### 6.3.9.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the common properties of radio cells of different
types (FDD, TDD) controlled by an RNC. For more information about radio cells,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
The IOC UtranCellFDD and UtranCellTDD (1,28 Mcps TDD mode cell or a 3.84
(7.68) Mcps TDD mode cell) inherit from that abstract IOC.
The second table lists the additional attributes of UtranGenericCell for the
support of State Management.
#### 6.3.9.2 Attributes
Attributes of UtranGenericCell
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - cId M
M M localCellId M M M relatedAntennaList CO M M maximumTransmissionPower M M M
pichPower CM M O pchPower CM M O fachPower CM M O cellMode M M - lac M M M rac
CM M M sac M M M uraList CM M M utranGenericCell-IubLink M M - hsFlag CM M -
hsEnable CM M M numOfHspdschs CM M M numOfHsscchs CM M M frameOffset CO M -
cellIndividualOffset CO M - hcsPrio CO M - maximumAllowedUlTxPower CO M -
snaInformation CO M - qrxlevMin CO M - deltaQrxlevmin CO M - qhcs CO M -
penaltyTime CO M - referenceTimeDifferenceToCell CO M - readSFNIndicator CO M
- restrictionStateIndicator CO M - dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator CO M -
relatedTmaList CO M - relatedSectorEquipment CM M -
* * *
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier READ WRITE operationalState O M _−_ NOTE: No
state propagation shall be implied.
* * *
#### 6.3.9.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition relatedAntennaList _and_ relatedTmaFunction CO support
qualifier The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction (see 32.792 [24]) is not used
relatedSectorEquipment CM support qualifier The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction
(see 32.792 [24]) is used rac _and_ uraList CM support qualifier _The PLMN
contains a PS CN._ hsFlag, hsEnable, numOfHspdschs and numOfHsscchs CM support
qualifier The HSDPA feature is not supported by vendor specific extension
mechanisms. pichPower, pchPower and fachPower CM support qualifier The
attributes pichPower, pchPower and fachPower are not supported by vendor
specific extension mechanisms. frameOffset, cellIndividualOffset, hcsPrio,
maximumAllowedUlTxPower, snaInformation, qrxlevMin, deltaQrxlevmin, qhcs,
penaltyTime, referenceTimeDifferenceToCell, readSFNIndicator,
restrictionStateIndicator and dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator CO support
qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
#### 6.3.9.4 Notifications
See clause 6.7.1 Alarm and configuration notifications.
### 6.3.10 ExternalUtranGenericCell
#### 6.3.10.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the properties of a radio cell controlled by
another IRPAgent. This IOC contains necessary attributes for inter-system and
intra-system handover. It also contains a subset of the attributes of related
IOCs controlled by another IRPAgent. The way to maintain consistency between
the attribute values of these IOCs is outside the scope of the present
document.
#### 6.3.10.2 Attributes
Attributes of ExternalUtranGenericCell
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - cId M
M M Mcc M M M Mnc M M M rncId M M M cellMode M M - lac M M M rac CM M M
controllingRnc O M - hsFlag CM M - frameOffset CO M - cellIndividualOffset CO
M - hcsPrio CO M - maximumAllowedUlTxPower CO M - qrxlevMin CO M -
deltaQrxlevmin CO M - qhcs CO M - penaltyTime CO M -
referenceTimeDifferenceToCell CO M - readSFNIndicator CO M -
restrictionStateIndicator CO M - dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator CO M -
snaInformation CO M -
* * *
#### 6.3.10.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition rac CM support qualifier _The PLMN contains a PS CN._ hsFlag
CM support qualifier The HSDPA feature is not supported by vendor specific
extension mechanisms. frameOffset, cellIndividualOffset, hcsPrio,
maximumAllowedUlTxPower, qrxlevMin, deltaQrxlevmin, qhcs, penaltyTime,
referenceTimeDifferenceToCell, readSFNIndicator, restrictionStateIndicator,
dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator and snaInformation CO support qualifier Itf-p2p
is supported.
* * *
#### 6.3.10.4 Notifications
See clause 6.7.2 Configuration notifications.
### 6.3.11 UtranCellFDD
#### 6.3.11.1 Definition
This IOC represents a FDD radio cell controlled by an RNC. For more
information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.11.2 Attributes
Attributes of UtranCellFDD
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier uarfcnUl O M M
uarfcnDl O M M primaryScramblingCode O M M primaryCpichPower O M M
primarySchPower O M M secondarySchPower O M M bchPower O M M aichPower O M -
qqualMin CO M - cellCapabilityContainerFDD CO M - txDiversityIndicator CO M -
temporaryOffset1 CO M - temporaryOffset2 CO M - sttdSupportIndicator CO M -
closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator CO M -
* * *
#### 6.3.11.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition aichPower CM support qualifier The attribute aichPower is not
supported by vendor specific extension mechanisms. qqualMin,
cellCapabilityContainerFDD, txDiversityIndicator temporaryOffset1,
temporaryOffset2, sttdSupportIndicator and closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator CO
support qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
### 6.3.12 UtranCellTDD
#### 6.3.12.1 Definition
This IOC is an abstract class representing the common properties of TDD high
chip rate (hcr) and TDD low chip rate (lcr) radio cells controlled by an RNC.
For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.12.2 Attributes
Attributes of UtranCellTDD
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier uarfcn O M M
cellParameterId O M M primaryCcpchPower O M M cellCapabilityContainerTDD CO M
- sctdIndicator CO M - dpchConstantValue CO M -
* * *
#### 6.3.12.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition cellCapabilityContainerTDD, sctdIndicator and
dpchConstantValue CO support qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
### 6.3.13 UtranCellTDDLcr
#### 6.3.13.1 Definition
This IOC represents a TDD low chip rate (lcr) radio cell controlled by an RNC.
For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.13.2 Attributes
Attributes of UtranCellTDDLcr
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier uarfcnLCRList
O M M fpachPower O M O dwPchPower O M M tstdIndicator CO M - timeSlotListLcr O
M M
* * *
#### 6.3.13.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition tstdIndicator CO support qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
### 6.3.14 UtranCellTDDHcr
#### 6.3.14.1 Definition
This IOC represents a TDD high chip rate (hcr) radio cell controlled by an
RNC. For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.14.2 Attributes
Attributes of UtranCellTDDHcr
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier schPower O M M
temporaryOffset1 CO M - syncCase CO M - timeSlotForSch CO M - schTimeSlot CO M
- timeSlotListHcr O M M
* * *
#### 6.3.14.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition temporaryOffset1, syncCase, timeSlotForSch and schTimeSlot CO
support qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
### 6.3.15 ExternalUtranCellFDD
#### 6.3.15.1 Definition
This IOC represents a FDD radio cell controlled by another IRP agent. For more
information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.15.2 Attributes
Attributes of ExternalUtranCellFDD
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier uarfcnUl O M M
uarfcnDl O M M primaryScramblingCode O M M primaryCpichPower O M M qqualMin CO
M - cellCapabilityContainerFDD CO M - txDiversityIndicator CO M -
temporaryOffset1 CO M - temporaryOffset2 CO M - sttdSupportIndicator CO M -
closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator CO M -
* * *
#### 6.3.15.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition qqualMin, cellCapabilityContainerFDD, txDiversityIndicator,
temporaryOffset1, temporaryOffset2, sttdSupportIndicator and
closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator CO support qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
### 6.3.16 ExternalUtranCellTDD
#### 6.3.16.1 Definition
This IOC is an abstract class representing the common properties of TDD high
chip rate (hcr) and TDD low chip rate (lcr) radio cells controlled by another
IRP agent. For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.16.2 Attributes
Attributes of ExternalUtranCellTDD
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier uarfcn O M M
cellParameterId O M M primaryCcpchPower O O O cellCapabilityContainerTDD CO M
- sctdIndicator CO M - dpchConstantValue CO M -
* * *
#### 6.3.16.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition cellCapabilityContainerTDD, sctdIndicator and
dpchConstantValue CO support qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
### 6.3.17 ExternalUtranCellTDDHcr
#### 6.3.17.1 Definition
This IOC represents a TDD high chip rate (hcr) radio cell controlled by
another IRPagent. For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002
[15].
#### 6.3.17.2 Attributes
Attributes of ExternalUtranCellTDDHcr
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
temporaryOffset1 CO M - syncCase CO M - timeSlotForSch CO M - schTimeSlot CO M
- timeSlotListHcr O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.17.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition temporaryOffset1, syncCase, timeSlotForSch and schTimeSlot CO
support qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
### 6.3.18 ExternalUtranCellTDDLcr
#### 6.3.18.1 Definition
This IOC represents a TDD low chip rate (lcr) radio cell controlled by another
IRPagent. For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.18.2 Attributes
Attributes of ExternalUtranCellTDDLcr
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier tstdIndicator
CO M - timeSlotListLcr O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.18.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition tstdIndicator CO support qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
### 6.3.19 Void
### 6.3.20 EP_IuCS
#### 6.3.20.1 Definition
This IOC represents an end point of the Iu-CS interface. For more information
Iu-CS interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.20.2 Attributes
Attributes of EP_IuCS
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier connMscNumber
CO M -
* * *
#### 6.3.20.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition connMscNumber CO support qualifier The farEndEntity is
supported
* * *
#### 6.3.20.4 Notifications
See clause 6.7.1 Alarm and configuration notifications.
### 6.3.21 EP_IuPS
#### 6.3.21.1 Definition
This IOC represents an end point of the Iu-PS interface. For more information
Iu-PS interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.21.2 Attributes
Attributes of EP_IuPS
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier connSgsnNumber
CO M -
* * *
#### 6.3.21.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition connSgsnNumber CO support qualifier The farEndEntity is
supported
* * *
#### 6.3.21.4 Notifications
See clause 6.7.1 Alarm and configuration notifications.
### 6.3.22 EP_Iur
#### 6.3.22.1 Definition
This IOC represents an end point of the Iur interface. For more information
Iur interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.22.2 Attributes
Attributes of EP_Iur
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier connectedRncId
CO M -
* * *
#### 6.3.22.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition connectedRncId CO support qualifier The farEndEntity is
supported
* * *
#### 6.3.22.4 Notifications
See clause 6.7.1 Alarm and configuration notifications.
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 ConnectedTo (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This represents a bi-directional relationship between the IubLink and Node B
(through the NodeBFunction).\ The role of the relation shall be mapped to a
reference attribute of the IOC. The names of the reference attribute and the
role are the same.
#### 6.4.1.2 Roles
Roles of the relation ConnectedTo
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | iubLink-NodeBFunction | This role (when present) represents IubLink | | | capability to identify one NodeBFunction. | | | | | | When the role is absent, the | | | IubLink.iubLink-NodeBFunction shall contain | | | no information. | | | | | | When present, it shall contain one | | | NodeBFunction DN. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | nodeBFunction-IubLink | This role (when present) represents | | | NodeBFunction capability to identify one | | | IubLink. | | | | | | When the role is absent, the | | | NodeBFunction.nodeBFunction-IubLink shall | | | contain no information. | | | | | | When present, it shall contain one IubLink | | | DN. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraints
When a particular IubLink identifies a particular NodeBFunction, that
particular NodeBFunction must identify the particular IubLink.
### 6.4.2 AssociatedWith (M)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
This represents a bi-directional relation between the IubLink and
UtranGenericCell. The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference
attribute of the IOC. The name of the reference attribute shall be the role
name.
#### 6.4.2.2 Roles
Roles of the relation AssociatedWith
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | iubLink-UtranCell | This role (when present) represents the | | | IubLink capability to identify the set | | | of related child classes of | | | UtranGenericCell. | | | IubLink.iubLink-UtranCell shall carry | | | the set of DN(s) of the child classes of | | | UtranGenericCell. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | utranGenericCell-IubLink | This role (when present) represents | | | UtranGenericCell capability to identify | | | one related IubLink. | | | | | | When the role is absent, the | | | U | | | tranGenericCell.utranGenericCell-IubLink | | | shall contain no information. | | | | | | When it is present, it shall contain one | | | IubLink DN. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
#### 6.4.2.3 Constraints
When a particular IubLink identifies a particular child class of
UtranGenericCell, that particular UtranGenericCell must have identified the
particular IubLink.
### 6.4.3 ExternalUtranNeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.3.1 Definition
This represents a unidirectional relation from UtranRelation to the
ExternalUtranGenericCell. The role of the relation shall be mapped to a
reference attribute, named adjacentCell, of the IOC.
#### 6.4.3.2 Roles
Roles of the relation ExternalUtranNeighbourCellRelation
* * *
Name Definition utranRelation-externalUtranNeighbourCell This role (when
present) represents the UtranRelation capability to identify one child class
of ExternalUtranGenricCell. When this role is present, the
UtranRelation.adjacentCell shall contain a DN of one child class of
ExternalUtranNeighbourCell.
* * *
#### 6.4.3.3 Constraints
This role (for a particular UtranRelation) shall be present if the
UtranNeighbourCellRelation of this particular UtranRelation is absent. This
role shall be absent if the UtranNeighbourCellRelation of this particular
UtranRelation is present.
### 6.4.4 UtranNeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.4.1 Definition
This represents the unidirectional relation from the UtranRelation to
UtranGenericCell. The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference
attribute, named adjacentCell, of the IOC.
#### 6.4.4.2 Roles
Roles of the relation UtranNeighbourCellRelation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | utranRelation-utranNeighbourCell | This role (when present) | | | represents the UtranRelation | | | capability to identify one | | | UtranGenericCell. | | | | | | When this role is present, the | | | UtranRelation.adjacentCell shall | | | contain one DN of a child class | | | of UtranGenericCell. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 6.4.4.3 Constraints
This role (for a particular UtranRelation) shall be present if the
ExternalUtranNeighbourCellRelation of this particular UtranRelation is absent.
This role shall be absent if the ExternalUtranNeighbourCellRelation of this
particular UtranRelation is present.
### 6.4.5 AssociatedWith1 (M)
#### 6.4.5.1 Definition
This represents a bi-directional relation between the IubLink and
ATMChannelTerminationPoint. The roles of the relation shall be mapped to a
reference attribute of the IOCs. The name of the reference attribute shall be
the role name.
#### 6.4.5.2 Roles
Roles of the relation AssociatedWith1
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | iu | This role (when present) | | bLink-ATMChannelTerminationPoint | represents IubLink capability to | | | identify the set of related | | | ATMChannelTerminationPoint. | | | | | | It shall carry the set of | | | ATMChannelTerminationPoint's | | | DN(s). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | aT | This role (when present) | | MChannelTerminationPoint-IubLink | represents | | | ATMChannelTerminationPoint | | | capability to identify the set | | | of related IubLink(s). | | | | | | When the role is absent, the | | | ATMChannelTerminationPoint | | | -IubLink shall contain no | | | information. | | | | | | When it is present, it shall | | | contain the set of IubLink | | | DN(s). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 6.4.5.3 Constraints
When a particular IubLink identifies a particular ATMChannelTerminationPoint,
that particular ATMChannelTerminationPoint must have identified the particular
IubLink.
### 6.4.6 Void
### 6.4.7 ExternalRncUtranCellRelation (O)
#### 6.4.7.1 Definition
This represents the bi-directional relation between the
ExternalUtranGenericCell and ExternalRncFunction. The roles of the relation
shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOCs. The name of the
reference attribute shall be the role name.
#### 6.4.7.2 Roles
Roles of the relation ExternalRncUtranCellRelation
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | controllingRnc | This role (when present) represents the | | | ExternalUtranGenericCell capability to | | | identify one related ExternalRncFunction. | | | | | | When it is present, it shall contain one | | | ExternalRncFunction DN. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | controlledCellList | This role (when present) represents the | | | ExternalRncFunction capability to identify the | | | set of related child classes of | | | ExternalUtranCell. | | | | | | When it is present, it shall contain the set | | | of DNs of child classes of | | | ExternalUtranGenericCell. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 6.4.8 Void
#### 6.4.8.3 Constraints
When a particular UtranGenericCell identifies a particular TmaFunction, that
particular TmaFunction must have identified the particular UtranGenericCell.
### 6.4.9 ConnectedTo1(O)
#### 6.4.9.1 Definition
This represents uni-directional relationship between the EP_Iur and RNC.\ The
role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.9.2 Roles
Roles of the relation ConnectedTo1
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | connectedRncId | This role (when present) represents EP_Iur | | | capability to identify one connected RNC. | | | | | | When present, it shall contain one RNC-Id. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.4.9.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.10 ConnectedTo2(O)
#### 6.4.10.1 Definition
This represents uni-directional relationship between the EP_Iur and BSC.\ The
role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.10.2 Roles
Roles of the relation ConnectedTo2
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | connectedRncId | This role (when present) represents EP_Iur | | | capability to identify one connected BSC. | | | | | | When present, it shall contain one RNC-Id to | | | indentify BSC. ("RNC-Id" in Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | [3]). | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.4.10.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
The following table defines the attributes that are present in several
Information Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Attributes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | adjacentCell | It carries the DN of | | | | the UtranGenericCell | | | | or the | | | | Exter | | | | nalUtranGenericCell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aichPower | The Power of the the | See \"AICH Power\" | | | AICHchannel in an | in | | | FDD cell, \"AICH | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | Power\" in Ref. | [5]. | | | 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | bchPower | The power of the | See \"DL Power\" in | | | broadcast channel in | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | the FDD mode cell, | [5]. | | | \"BCH Power\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellCa | Defined in 3GPP TS | BITSTRING(32) | | pabilityContainerFDD | 25.423[27] | | | | | | | | Each bit indicates | | | | whether a cell | | | | supports a | | | | particular | | | | functionality. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellCa | Defined in 3GPP TS | BITSTRING(32) | | pabilityContainerTDD | 25.423[27] | | | | | | | | Each bit indicates | | | | whether a cell | | | | supports a | | | | particular | | | | functionality. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellIndividualOffset | Defined in 3GPP | See \"Cell | | | TS25.331 (25.423). | individual offset\" | | | Attribute relevant | in | | | for HO decision\ | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | Used to offset | [9]. | | | measured quantity | | | | value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellMode | An attribute that | Type: Enumerated | | | identifies the cell | value | | | mode. | | | | | Range: (\"FDD | | | | mode\", | | | | \"1.28McpsTDD | | | | mode\", | | | | \"3.84McpsTDD | | | | mode\", | | | | \"7.68McpsTDD | | | | mode\") | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellParameterId | This attribute | See \"Cell Parameter | | | identifies | ID\" in | | | unambiguously the | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | TDD mode cell: | [5]. | | | | | | | 3.84 and 7.68 Mcps | | | | TDD - Code Groups, | | | | Scrambling Codes, | | | | Midambles and | | | | Toffset, or | | | | | | | | 1.28 Mcps TDD - | | | | SYNC-DL and SYNC-UL | | | | sequences, the | | | | scrambling codes and | | | | the midamble codes. | | | | | | | | \"Cell Parameter | | | | ID\" in | | | | Ref. TS 25.433 [5] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cId | The attribute is the | See \"C-ID\" in | | | identifier of a cell | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | in one RNC, \"C-id\" | [5]. | | | in | | | | Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 25.401 [4] | | | | and \"C-ID\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | closedLoopM | Power control, | ENUMERATED | | odelSupportIndicator | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 25.423[27] | | | | | | | | The Closed Loop | | | | Mode1 Support | | | | Indicator indicates | | | | whether the | | | | particular cell is | | | | capable to support | | | | Closed loop mode1 or | | | | not. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | connMscNumber | The MSC number of | See "MSC number" in | | | the far end MSC | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | Server connected by | [3] | | | the Iu-CS interface | | | | for which the end | | | | point is modelled, | | | | "MSC number" in Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [3] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | connectedRncId | The RNC-Id of the | See "RNC-Id" in Ref. | | | far end RNC or BSC | 3GPP TS 23.003 [3] | | | connected by the Iur | | | | interface for which | | | | the end point is | | | | modelled, "RNC-Id" | | | | in Ref. 3GPP TS | | | | 23.003 [3] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | connSgsnNumber | The SGSN number of | See "SGSN number" in | | | the far end SGSN | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | connected by the | [3] | | | Iu-PS interface for | | | | which the end point | | | | is modelled, "SGSN | | | | number" in Ref. 3GPP | | | | TS 23.003 [3] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | deltaQrxlevmin | Cell (re)selection, | See | | | defined in 3GPP | \"Delta~Qrxlevmin~\" | | | TS25.331\ | in | | | If present, the | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | actual value of | [9]. | | | Qrxlevmin = | | | | Qrxlevmin + | | | | DeltaQrxlevmin | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dpchConstantValue | DPCH Constant Value | See \"Constant | | | is the power margin | Value\" in | | | in dB used by a UE | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | to set the proper | [5]. | | | uplink power, \"DPCH | | | | Constant Value\" in | | | | Ref. TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dpcModeCh | Power control, | ENUMERATED | | angeSupportIndicator | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 25.423 [27] | | | | | | | | The DPC Mode Change | | | | Support Indicator IE | | | | indicates that the | | | | particular cell is | | | | capable to support | | | | DPC mode change. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dwPchPower | DwPCH Power is the | See \"DwPCH Power\" | | | power that shall be | in | | | used for | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | transmitting the | [5]. | | | DwPCH in a 1.28 Mcps | | | | TDD cell, \"DwPCH | | | | Power\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fachPower | The maximum power of | See \"DL Power\" in | | | the FACH transport | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | channel that may be | [5]. | | | used in the cell, | | | | \"Max FACH Power\" | | | | in Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fpachPower | The maximum power of | See \"FPACH Power\" | | | the FPACH channel | in | | | that shall be used | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | in TDD cell, \"FPACH | [5]. | | | Power\" in Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | frameOffset | Neighbouring cells | INTEGER(0..255) | | | monitoring, defined | | | | in 3GPP TS | | | | 25.423[27]\ | | | | Frame Offset is the | | | | required offset | | | | between the | | | | dedicated channel | | | | downlink | | | | transmission frames | | | | (CFN, Connection | | | | Frame Number) and | | | | the broadcast | | | | channel frame offset | | | | (Cell Frame Number). | | | | The Frame Offset is | | | | used in the | | | | translation between | | | | Connection Frame | | | | Number (CFN) on | | | | Iub/Iur and least | | | | significant 8 bits | | | | of SFN (System Frame | | | | Number) on Uu. The | | | | Frame Offset is UE | | | | and cell specific. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hcsPrio | Cell (re)selection | See | | | for HCS\ | \"HCS_OFF~mbms~\" | | | Defined in Ref. 3GPP | in | | | TS25.331 [9].\ | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | This specifies the | [9]. | | | HCS priority level | | | | (0-7) for serving | | | | cell and | | | | neighbouring cells.\ | | | | HCS priority level 0 | | | | means lowest | | | | priority and HCS | | | | priority level 7 | | | | means highest | | | | priority. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hsEnable | A label indicating | Type: Integral | | | whether or not HSDPA | numeric value | | | is enabled in the | | | | UTRAN cell. A value | Range: (0..1) | | | of 0 represents that | | | | HSDPA is not enabled | | | | and a value of 1 | | | | represents that | | | | HSDPA is enabled. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hsFlag | A label indicating | Type: Integral | | | whether or not HSDPA | numeric value | | | is supported in the | | | | UTRAN cell. A value | Range: (0..1) | | | of 0 indicates that | | | | HSDPA is not | | | | supported and a | | | | value of 1 indicates | | | | that HSDPA is | | | | supported. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | when naming an | | | | instance of the | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isHOAllowed | This indicates if HO | yes , no | | | is allowed or | | | | prohibited. | | | | | | | | If 'yes', handover | | | | is allowed from | | | | source cell to | | | | target cell. The | | | | source cell is | | | | identified by the | | | | name-containing | | | | EUtranGenericCell of | | | | the UtranRelation | | | | that has the | | | | isHOAllowed. The | | | | target cell is | | | | referenced by the | | | | UtranRelation that | | | | has this | | | | isHOAllowed. | | | | | | | | If 'no', handover | | | | shall not be | | | | allowed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isRemoveAllowed | This indicates if | yes , no | | | the subject | | | | UtranRelation can be | | | | removed (deleted) or | | | | not. | | | | | | | | If 'yes', the | | | | subject | | | | UtranRelation | | | | instance can be | | | | removed (deleted). | | | | | | | | If 'no', the subject | | | | UtranRelation | | | | instance shall not | | | | be removed (deleted) | | | | by any entity but an | | | | IRPManager. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lac | Location Area Code, | See \"LAC\" in | | | \"LAC\" in | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.413 | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | [23]. | | | [3]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | localCellId | The Local Cell id is | See \"Local Cell | | | used to uniquely | ID\" in | | | identify the set of | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | resources defined in | [5]. | | | a Node B to support | | | | a cell. It must be | | | | unique in Node B at | | | | a minimum, but may | | | | be unique in UTRAN. | | | | . Local Cell | | | | Identifier\" | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.401 | | | | [4], \"Local Cell | | | | ID\" in | | | | 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | max | Cell (re)selection, | See \"Maximum | | imumAllowedUlTxPower | defined in Ref. 3GPP | allowed UL TX | | | TS25.331 [9].\ | power\" in | | | This information | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | element indicates | [9]. | | | the maximum allowed | | | | uplink transmit | A single integral | | | power. | value in dBm. Range: | | | | (-50..33). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxi | The maximum | See \"Maximum | | mumTransmissionPower | transmission power | Transmission Power\" | | | of a cell. It is the | in | | | maximum power for | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | all downlink | [5]. | | | channels added | | | | together, that is | | | | allowed to be used | | | | simultaneously in a | | | | cell, \"Maximum | | | | Transmission Power\" | | | | in Ref. 3GPP TS | | | | 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mcc | Mobile Country Code, | See \"MCC\" in | | | MCC (part of the | \"PLMN identity\" in | | | PLMN Identifier) in, | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.413 | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | [23]. | | | [3]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mnc | Mobile Network Code, | See \"MNC\" in | | | MNC (part of the | \"PLMN identity\" in | | | PLMN Identity) in | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.413 | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | [23]. | | | [3]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | numOfHspdschs | In FDD: the number | Type: INTEGER | | | of codes at the | | | | defined spreading | Range: (0..15) for | | | factor(SF=16), | FDD mode, | | | within the complete | | | | code tree. See | Range: (0..95) for | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | TDD mode | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | In TDD: the number | | | | of HS-PDSCHs in a | | | | Cell; Ref. 3GPP TS | | | | 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | numOfHsscchs | The number of | Type: INTEGER | | | HS-SCCHs for one | | | | cell. Ref. 3GPP TS | Range: (1..32) | | | 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pchPower | The power of PCH | See \"DL Power\" in | | | transport channel in | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | the cell , \"PCH | [5]. | | | Power\" in Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | penaltyTime | Cell (re)selection | See | | | for HCS, defined in | \"Penalty_time\" in | | | 3GPP TS25.331 (TS | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | 25.304)\ | [9]. | | | This specifies the | | | | time duration for | | | | which the | | | | TEMPORARY_OFFSET is | | | | applied for a | | | | neighbouring cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pichPower | The Power of the | See \"PICH Power\" | | | PICH channel in the | in | | | cell, \"PICH Power\" | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | in Ref. | [5]. | | | 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | primaryCcpchPower | The power of the | See \"PCCPCH Power\" | | | primary CCPCH | in | | | channel in the TDD | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | cell, \"PCCPCH | [5]. | | | Power\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | primaryCpichPower | The power of the | See \"Primary CPICH | | | primary CPICH | Power\" in | | | channel in the FDD | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | mode cell, \"Primary | [5]. | | | CPICH Power\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | primarySchPower | The power of the | See \"DL Power\" in | | | primary | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | synchronisation | [5]. | | | channel in the FDD | | | | mode cell, \"Primary | | | | SCH Power" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | p | The primary DL | See \"Primary | | rimaryScramblingCode | scrambling code used | Scrambling Code\" in | | | by the FDD mode | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | cell, \"Primary | [5]. | | | Scrambling Code\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | qhcs | Cell (re)selection | See \"Qhcs\" in | | | for HCS, defined in | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | Ref. 3GPP TS25.331 | [9] | | | [9].\ | | | | This specifies the | | | | quality threshold | | | | levels for applying | | | | prioritised | | | | hierarchical cell | | | | re-selection | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | qqualMin | Cell (re)selection, | See \"QqualMin\" in | | | defined in Ref. 3GPP | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | TS25.331 [9].\ | [9]. | | | This specifies the | | | | minimum required | | | | quality level in the | | | | cell in dB. It is | | | | only applicable for | | | | FDD cells. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | qrxlevMin | Cell (re)selection, | See \"QrxlevMin\" in | | | defined in Ref. 3GPP | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | TS25.331 [9].\ | [9]. | | | This specifies the | | | | minimum required RX | | | | level in the cell in | | | | dBm. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rac | Routing Area Code, | See \"RAC\" in | | | \"RAC" in | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.413 | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | [23]. | | | [3]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | readSFNIndicator | Neighbouring cells | See \"Read SFN | | | monitoring, defined | indicator\" in | | | in Ref. 3GPP | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | TS25.331 [9]. | [9] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reference | Neighbouring cells | See \"Reference time | | TimeDifferenceToCell | monitoring, defined | difference to cell\" | | | in Ref. 3GPP | in | | | TS25.331 [9]. | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | | [9]. | | | In the System | | | | Information message, | A single integral | | | the reference time | value in chips. | | | difference to cell | | | | indicates the timing | Range: (0..38400) by | | | difference between | steps of 40, 256 or | | | the primary CCPCH of | 2560. | | | the current cell and | | | | the primary CCPCH of | | | | a neighbouring cell. | | | | | | | | In the Measurement | | | | Control message, the | | | | reference time | | | | difference to cell | | | | indicates the timing | | | | difference between | | | | UE uplink | | | | transmission timing | | | | and the primary | | | | CCPCH of a | | | | neighbouring cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedAntennaList | This is an attribute | See | | | to list the DNs of | "relatedAntennaList" | | | An | in | | | tennaFunction(s)(see | Ref. 3GPP TS 32.792 | | | TS 32.792[24]) | [24] | | | that support the | | | | UtranGenericCell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | re | This is an attribute | See | | latedSectorEquipment | to the DN of | "rel | | | SectorEquipment (see | atedSectorEquipment" | | | TS 32.792[24]) | Ref. 3GPP TS 32.792 | | | that support the | [24]. | | | UtranGenericCell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedTmaList | This is an attribute | See "relatedTmaList" | | | to list the DNs of | Ref. 3GPP TS 32.792 | | | TmaFunction(s) (see | [24]. | | | TS 32.792[24]) | | | | that support the | | | | UtranGenericCell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | restr | Cell Access Control, | ENUMERATED | | ictionStateIndicator | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 25.423[27] | | | | | | | | The Restriction | | | | state indicator is | | | | the identifier | | | | indicates whether | | | | the cell is \"Cell | | | | Reserved for | | | | Operator Use\" or | | | | not. It is provided | | | | by DRNS and reported | | | | to SRNC. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rncId | IOC | See \"RNC-ID\" in | | | Exte | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.413 | | | rnalUtranGenericCell | [23]. | | | and | | | | ExternalRncFunction: | | | | | | | | Unique RNC ID for | | | | the associated RNC, | | | | \"RNC Id\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [3]. | | | | | | | | IOC RncFunction: | | | | | | | | Unique RNC ID, \"RNC | | | | Id\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [3]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sac | Service Area Code, | See \"SAC\" in | | | \"SAC" in | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.413 | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | [23]. | | | [3]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | schPower | The power of the | See \"DL Power\" in | | | synchronisation | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | channel in 3.84 Mcps | [5]. | | | TDD cell, \"SCH | | | | Power\" in Ref. 3GPP | | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | schTimeSlot | The SCH Time Slot IE | See \"SCH Time | | | represents the first | Slot\" in | | | time slot (k) of a | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | pair of time slots | [5]. | | | inside a Radio Frame | | | | that is assigned to | | | | the Physical Channel | | | | SCH, \"SCH Time | | | | Slot\" in Ref. 3GPP | | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sctdIndicator | This attribute | See \"SCDT | | | indicates whether | Indicator\" in | | | SCTD is used, \"SCDT | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | Indicator\" in | [5]. | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | secondarySchPower | The power of the | See \"DL Power\" in | | | secondary | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | synchronisation | [5]. | | | channel in the FDD | | | | mode cell, | | | | \"Secondary SCH | | | | Power in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siptoSupported | This attribute | Type: Integral | | | indicates whether | numeric value | | | the RNC supports | | | | SIPTO function. A | Range: (0..1) | | | value of 0 | | | | represents that | | | | SIPTO is not | | | | supported and a | | | | value of 1 | | | | represents that | | | | SIPTO is supported | | | | (by the RNC). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | snaInformation | Shared Networks | | | | Access Control, | | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 25.423[27]. | | | | | | | | This information | | | | element contains a | | | | list of Shared | | | | Network Areas, | | | | identified by the | | | | Shared Network Area | | | | Code (SNAC) which a | | | | certain cell belongs | | | | to. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sttdSupportIndicator | Power control, | ENUMERATED | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 25.423[27]. | | | | | | | | The STTD Support | | | | Indicator indicates | | | | whether the STTD can | | | | be applied to DL | | | | DPCH and F-DPCH in | | | | the cell or not. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | syncCase | The SCH and PCCPCH | See \"Sync Case\" in | | | in a TDD cell are | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | mapped on one or two | [5]. | | | downlink slots per | | | | frame. There are two | | | | cases of Sync Case | | | | as follows: | | | | | | | | SCH and PCCPCH | | | | allocated in a | | | | single TS#k | | | | | | | | SCH allocated in two | | | | TS: TS#k and | | | | TS#k+8. PCCPCH | | | | allocated in TS#k | | | | | | | | \"Synch Case\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tceIDMappingInfoList | This attribute | See "Trace | | | includes a list of | Collection Entity | | | TCE ID and the | Address" and "Trace | | | corresponding TCE IP | Collection Entity | | | address. It is used | Id" in 3GPP TS | | | in Logged MDT case | 32.422 [25]. | | | to provide the | | | | information to the | | | | RNC to get the | | | | corresponding TCE IP | | | | address when there | | | | is an MDT log | | | | received from the | | | | UE. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | temporaryOffset1 | Cell (re)selection | See | | | for HCS, defined in | \" | | | 3GPP TS25.331 (TS | Temporary_offset1\" | | | 25.304)\ | in | | | This specifies the | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | offset applied to | [9]. | | | the H and R criteria | | | | for a neighbouring | | | | cell for the | | | | duration of | | | | PENALTY_TIME. It is | | | | used for TDD and GSM | | | | cells and for FDD | | | | cells in case the | | | | quality measure for | | | | cell selection and | | | | re-selection is set | | | | to CPICH RSCP | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | temporaryOffset2 | Cell (re)selection | See | | | for HCS, defined in | \" | | | 3GPP TS25.331 (TS | Temporary_offset2\" | | | 25.304)\ | in | | | This specifies the | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | offset applied to | [9.] | | | the H and R criteria | | | | for a neighbouring | | | | cell for the | | | | duration of | | | | PENALTY_TIME. It is | | | | used for FDD cells | | | | in case the quality | | | | measure for cell | | | | selection and | | | | re-selection is set | | | | to CPICH Ec/No. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | timeSlotForSch | The Time Slot | See \"SCH Time | | | represents the time | Slot\" in | | | interval assigned to | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | a Physical Channel | [5]. | | | referred to the | | | | start of a Radio | | | | Frame, \"SCH Time | | | | Slot\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | timeSlotListHcr | This attribute | timeSlotId: | | | defines the time | | | | slot configuration | Type: Integral | | | information in the | numeric value | | | TDD cell. It is a | | | | list which contains | Range: (0..14); | | | 15 (for 3.84 or 7.68 | | | | Mcps TDD cell) | timeSlotDirection: | | | items. Within each | | | | item there are three | Type: Enumerated | | | parts: timeSlotId, | value | | | timeSlotDirection, | | | | timeSlotStatus. | Range: (Ul, Dl); | | | (Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]). | timeSlotStatus: | | | | | | | | Type: Enumerated | | | | value | | | | | | | | Range: (Active, Not | | | | active) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | timeSlotListLcr | This attribute | timeSlotId: | | | defines the time | | | | slot configuration | Type: Integral | | | information in the | numeric value | | | TDD cell. It is a | | | | list which contains | Range: (0..6); | | | 7 (for 1.28 Mcps TDD | | | | cell) items. Within | timeSlotDirection: | | | each item there are | | | | three parts: | Type: Enumerated | | | timeSlotId, | value | | | timeSlotDirection, | | | | timeSlotStatus, | Range: (Ul, Dl); | | | corresponding to | | | | Time Slot LCR, Time | timeSlotStatus: | | | Slot Direction, Time | | | | Slot Status | Type: Enumerated | | | (Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | value | | | [5]). | | | | | Range: (Active, Not | | | If multiple | active) | | | frequencies exist | | | | within the cell, the | | | | timeSlotList | | | | indicates the Time | | | | Slot configuration | | | | of Primary | | | | Frequency. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaFunctionList | This is a | A list of DNs as | | | referential | defined in TS 32.300 | | | attribute to list | [13]. | | | the DNs of | | | | TmaFunction(s) that | | | | support the | | | | UtranGenericCell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tstdIndicator | This attribute | See \"TSDT | | | indicates whether | Indicator\" in | | | TSTD is used, TSDT | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | Indicator\" in | [5]. | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | txDiversityIndicator | Defined in 3GPP | See \"TX Diversity | | | TS25.331 (25.423)\ | Indicator\" in | | | This attribute | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | indicates whether | [9] | | | following conditions | | | | are satisfied: | | | | | | | | Primary CPICH is | | | | broadcast from two | | | | antennas | | | | | | | | STTD is applied to | | | | Primary CCPCH | | | | | | | | TSTD is applied to | | | | Primary SCH and | | | | Secondary SCH | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uarfcn | The UTRA absolute | Type : Integral | | | Radio Frequency | numeric Value | | | Channel number for | | | | TDD mode cell, | Range: (0..16383) | | | UARFCN | | | | (Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]). For 1.28Mcps | | | | TDD, if multiple | | | | frequencies exist | | | | within the cell, the | | | | uarfcn indicates the | | | | frequency of Primary | | | | Frequency. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uarfcnDl | The DL UTRA absolute | See \"UARFCN\" in | | | Radio Frequency | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | Channel number for | [5]. | | | FDD mode cell, | | | | \"UARFCN" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uarfcnLCRList | For 1.28 Mcps TDD, | For "uarfcn, | | | if multiple | timeSlotId, | | | frequencies exist | timeSlotDirection, | | | within the cell, | timeSlotStatus", see | | | this is a list of | "UARFCN, Time Slot | | | the UARFCN and Time | LCR, Time Slot | | | Slot configuration | Direction, Time Slot | | | information of the | Status" in | | | Secondary | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | Frequencies. | [5]. | | | Specifically, within | | | | each item in the | For maximum number | | | list there are two | of the Secondary | | | main parts: uarfcn | Frequencies per | | | and timeSlotListLcr. | cell, see \" | | | The second part is a | ma | | | list of elements | xFrequencyinCell-1\" | | | which have the | in | | | sub-elements: | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | timeSlotId, | [5]. | | | timeSlotDirection, | | | | timeSlotStatus. | | | | These attributes | | | | correspond to | | | | "UARFCN, Time Slot | | | | LCR, Time Slot | | | | Direction, Time Slot | | | | Status" (Ref. 3GPP | | | | TS 25.433 [5]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uarfcnUl | The UL UTRA absolute | See \"UARFCN\" in | | | Radio Frequency | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | Channel number for | [5]. | | | FDD mode cell, | | | | \"UARFCN" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uraList | A list of UTRAN | For URA, see \"URA | | | Registration Area | identity\" in | | | identities, that an | Ref. | | | UtranCell can belong | 3GPP TS 25.331[9], | | | to, \"URA identity\" | subclause 10.3.2.6. | | | in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | For maximum number | | | [9]. | of URAs per cell, | | | | see \"maxURA\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 | | | | [9], subclause | | | | 10.3.10. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 6.6 Void
## 6.7 Common Notifications
### 6.7.1 Alarm and configuration notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
Note that these notifications are issued based on occurrences on the IRPAgent
IOC and not on occurrences on other IOCs.
### 6.7.2 Configuration notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
Note that these notifications are issued based on occurrences on the IRPAgent
IOC and not on occurrences on other IOCs.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
###### ## Annex B (informative): RET Control Architecture
The Itf-N provides an abstraction of resources to allow the monitor and
control of physical resource from the network level management systems. For
RET, the antenna tilt is controlled via a control unit which is located within
the NodeB (from a management perspective). The control unit sends commands to
actuators located at the tower top, in order to read, and to adjust antenna
tilt values.
The AntennaFunction class will report failures and malfunctions of either the
control unit, or the tilt.
There are several configurations of antennae. Some support the transmission of
several frequencies from a single radome while others are deployed as an array
in order to provide effective coverage.
Hence in the UTRAN model there is an N:M relationship between the UtranCell
class and the AntennaFunction class, permitting the model to support all
possibilities. The figure B.1 below illustrates the RET architecture.
Figure B.1: Overall RET architecture
#