# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.671: Configuration Management (CM); State Management Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Requirements
**32.672: Configuration Management (CM); State Management Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**
**32.676:** Configuration Management (CM); **State Management Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of a deployment program (e.g. additions
and deletions), as part of an optimisation program (e.g. modifications), and
to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM actions are initiated
either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G network, or as part of a
complex procedure involving actions on many resources/objects in one or
several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the Information Service (IS) part of the State
Management IRP. It specifies the semantics of the network resource state and
status information visible across the Itf-N. It also specifies the interaction
required for the management of the state and status information.
The state and status attributes specified in this document shall be used,
where applicable, as attributes in Information Object Class (IOC) definitions
of other 3GPP IRPs. When used by the IOC definition, the semantics of the
state and status attributes can be qualified and enhanced if deemed necessary.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.731: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: State management function\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.733: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Alarm reporting function\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
EM Element Manager
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see 3GPP TS 32.101 [1])
M Mandatory
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
O Optional
OMG Object Management Group
OS Operations System
QoS Quality of Service
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
# 4 Void
# 5 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 5.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label
* * *
There are no information entities imported.
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This subclause depicts the set of information object classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate information within the Generic State Management IRP. The intent is
to identify the information required for the State Management IRP
implementation of its operations and notification emission. This subclause
provides the overview of all information object classes in UML. Subsequent
subclauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these
information object classes.
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
There are no inheritance relationships.
## 5.3 Information object classes definition
### 5.3.1 StateManagementEntity
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
StateManagementEntity is a Archetype, that may represent any IOC defined in
the Network Resource Models, e.g. Generic Network Resource Model, Core Network
Resource Model, UTRAN Network Resource Model or GERAN Network Resource Model.
The attributes defined for this Archetype can be imported and used in any IOC
of the Network Resource Models, where such attributes are needed. These
attributes shall be used in the same way as defined in the ITU‑T
Recommendation X.731 [7] and ITU‑T Recommendation X.733 [8], unless otherwise
stated. That document gives also examples of state diagrams, defining possible
state transitions when one or more of the state attributes defined here are
used in a class.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
The following attributes are defined for this information object class.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier operationalState N/A usageState N/A
administrativeState N/A alarmStatus N/A proceduralStatus N/A
availabilityStatus N/A controlStatus N/A standbyStatus N/A unknownStatus N/A
* * *
## 5.4 Information attributes definition
### 5.4.1 Definition and legal values
The following table gives the definition and legal values for each attribute.
+---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | operationalState | It indicates the | \"Enabled\", | | | operational state of | \"Disabled\" | | | the object instance. | | | | \"It describes | The meaning of these | | | whether or not the | values is as defined | | | resource is | in ITU‑T | | | physically installed | Recommendation X.731 | | | and working.\" [7] | [7]. | | | This attribute is | | | | READ-ONLY. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | usageState | It indicates the | \"Idle\", | | | usage state of the | \"Active\", \"Busy\" | | | object instance. | | | | \"It describes | The meaning of these | | | whether or not the | values is as defined | | | resource is actively | in ITU‑T | | | in use at a specific | Recommendation X.731 | | | instant, and if so, | [7]. | | | whether or not it | | | | has spare capacity | | | | for additional users | | | | at that instant.\" | | | | [7] This attribute | | | | is READ-ONLY. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | administrativeState | It indicates the | \"Locked\", | | | administrative state | \"Shutting down\", | | | of the object | \"Unlocked\" | | | instance. \"It | | | | describes the | The meaning of these | | | permission to use or | values is as defined | | | prohibition against | in ITU‑T | | | using the resource, | Recommendation X.731 | | | imposed through the | [7]. | | | management | | | | services.\" [7] | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | alarmStatus | It indicates the | \"Cleared\", | | | alarm status of the | \"Indeterminate\", | | | object instance. | \"Warning\", | | | This is mapped to | \"Minor\", | | | the perceived | \"Major\", | | | severity of the most | \"Critical\", The | | | severe active alarm | meaning of these | | | associated to the | values is as defined | | | object instance. | for the attribute | | | | perceived severity | | | | in ITU‑T | | | | Recommendation X.733 | | | | [8]. | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | proceduralStatus | It indicates the | A set consisting of | | | procedural status of | zero or more of the | | | the object instance. | following values: | | | | | | | | \"Initialisation | | | | required\", \"Not | | | | initialised\", | | | | \"Initialising\", | | | | \"Reporting\", | | | | \"Terminating\". The | | | | meaning of these | | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | availabilityStatus | It indicates the | A set consisting of | | | availability status | zero or more of the | | | of the object | following values: | | | instance. | | | | | \"In test\", | | | | \"Failed\", \"Power | | | | off\", \"Off line\", | | | | \"Off duty\", | | | | \"Dependency\", | | | | \"Degraded\", \"Not | | | | installed\", \"Log | | | | full\" | | | | | | | | The meaning of these | | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | controlStatus | It indicates the | A set consisting of | | | control status of | zero or more of the | | | the object instance. | following values: | | | | | | | | \"Subject to test\", | | | | \"Part of services | | | | locked\", \"Reserved | | | | for test\", | | | | \"Suspended\" . | | | | | | | | The meaning of these | | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | standbyStatus | It indicates the | \"Hot standby\", | | | standby status of | \"Cold standby\", | | | the object instance. | \"Providing | | | | service\", . | | | | | | | | The meaning of these | | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UnknownStatus | It indicates whether | \"True\" (state is | | | the state of the | unknown, the values | | | resource represented | of the state | | | by the managed | attributes may not | | | object is unknown. | reflect the actual | | | | state of the | | | | resource); | | | | | | | | \"False\" (state is | | | | known, the values of | | | | the state attributes | | | | reflect the actual | | | | state of the | | | | resource). | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#