# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.690: \"Inventory Management (IM): Requirements\".
32.691: \"Inventory Management (IM) network resources Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Requirements\".
**32.692: \"Inventory Management (IM) network resources Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Network Resource Model (NRM)\".**
32.696: Inventory Management (IM) network resources Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions.
Inventory Management (IM), in general, provides the operator with the ability
to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it evolves. IM
actions have the objective to monitor the actual configuration on the Network
Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and they may be initiated by the
operator or by functions in the Operations Systems (OSs) or NEs. The final
goal of IM is the establishment of an accurate and timely model of the actual
inventory in the NEs or NRs.
IM actions may be requested to reflect changes initiated by Configuration
Management (CM) actions or to make sure that the inventory model is in synch
with the actual inventory. IM actions are initiated either as single actions
on single NEs of the 3G network or as part of a complex procedure involving
actions on many resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines an Integration Reference Point (IRP) through
which an \'IRPAgent\' (typically an Element Manager or Network Element) can
communicate Network Management related information to one or several
\'IRPManagers\' (typically Network Managers).
The present document specifies an Inventory Management Network Resource Model,
NRM (also referred to as a Management Information Model - MIM) with
definitions of Information Object Classes.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] Void.
[6] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM): UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and Definitions\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.151: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) template.
[10] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.690: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management
(IM): Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.466: \"UTRAN Iuant interface: Application Part\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.792: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Radio Access
Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [4] and the
following apply:
**association:** in general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects\ Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) name bindings;
(2) reference attributes; and
(3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams). Currently however, all (non-containment)
associations are modelled by means of reference attributes of the
participating MOs.
**Managed Element (ME):** instance of the Managed Object Class Managed Element
defined in [6]
**Managed Object (MO):** in the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource\ The MO is
instance of a class defined in a MIM/NRM. This class, called **Information
Object Class (IOC)** has _attributes_ that provide information used to
characterize the objects that belong to the class (the term \"attribute\" is
taken from TMN and corresponds to a \"property\" according to CIM).
Furthermore, the IOC can have _operations_ that represent the behaviour
relevant for that class (the term \"operation\" is taken from TMN and
corresponds to a \"method\" according to CIM). The IOC may support the
emission of _notifications_ that provide information about an event occurrence
within a network resource.
**Management Information Model (MIM):** also referred to as NRM (see the NRM
definition)
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP\ An NRM identifies and describes the IOCs, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CIM Common Information Model
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [7])
EM Element Manager
IM Inventory Management
IOC Information Managed Object
IRP Integration Reference Point
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union, Telecommunication Sector
ME Managed Element
MIM Management Information Model
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [7])
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 Void
## 4.2 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP defined by the present
specification:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. > The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to > mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without > failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling > of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It > may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional managed object classes, attributes, associations,
operations, parameters and notifications without requiring the IRPManager to
have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that:
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified; > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist;
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
See 3GPP TS 32.150 [8].
# 6 Information Object Classes
## 6.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 32.622 [10], information object class, Top Top
32.622 [10], information object class, ManagedElement ManagedElement
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. This clause provides the overview of all information object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these information object classes.
The inventory NRM contains two alternatives for inventory data modeling.
Alternative 1 is for NE structure and hardware inventory. Alternative 2 is an
extended version for inventory information modeling consisting of NE
structure, hardware, software and license data inventory.
Alternative 1, hardware inventory model
{width="6.486111111111111in" height="5.466666666666667in"}
NOTE: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios.
Figure 6.2.1: Alternative 1 - Inventory Management NRM Containment/Naming and
Association diagram
Each IOC instance is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [7] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example,
the DN of a IOC representing a InventoryUnit could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden,meContext=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-
Gbg-1,InventoryUnit=Inv-1.
Alternative 2, extended model for hardware, software and licence inventory:
{width="6.288888888888889in" height="2.6479166666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.1-2: Alternative 2 - Inventory Management NRM Containment/Naming
and Association diagram
NOTE: Inventory information upload in alternative 2 is done using the the FT
IRP and related FT IRP notification capabilites
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 6.2.2 shows the inheritance hierarchy for the IM NRM.
{width="4.333333333333333in" height="3.859722222222222in"}
Figure 6.2.2: Inventory Management NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 6.3 Information object class definitions
### 6.3.1 InventoryUnit
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents inventory information for an Inventory Unit.
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
Attributes of InventoryUnit
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
inventoryUnitType M M - vendorUnitFamilyType CM M - vendorUnitTypeNumber CM M
- versionNumber O M - vendorName M M - serialNumber CM M - dateOfManufacture O
M - dateOfLastService O M - unitPosition O M - manufacturerData O M -
relatedFunction O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition vendorUnitFamilyType CM Support Qualifier The inventory is
hardware. vendorUnitTypeNumber CM Support Qualifier The inventory is hardware.
serialNumber CM Support Qualifier The inventory is hardware.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.4 Relationships
None.
#### 6.3.1.5 State diagram
None.
#### 6.3.1.6 Notifications
None.
### 6.3.2 InventoryUnitNE
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents the logical and physical structure of the NE.
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
Attributes of InventoryUnitNE
+-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Support Qualifier | Read Qualifier | Write Qualifier | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | id | M | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | neId | M | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | customerIdentifier | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | productName | M | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | vendorName | M | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | productType | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | salesUniqueId | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | operatorUniqueName | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | siteId | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | additionalInformation | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.2.4 Relationships
None.
#### 6.3.2.5 State diagram
None.
#### 6.3.2.6 Notifications
None.
### 6.3.3 InventoryUnitHw
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents the hardware components.
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
Attributes of InventoryUnitHw
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - hwId
M M - hwType M M - hwName O M - hwVersion M M - vendorName O M - salesUniqueId
O M - hwUnitLocation M M - model O M - hwCapability O M - modificationDate O M
- manualDataEntry O M - additionalInformation O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.3.4 Relationships
None.
#### 6.3.3.5 State diagram
None.
#### 6.3.3.6 Notifications
None.
### 6.3.4 InventoryUnitSw
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents the software components.
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
Attributes of InventoryUnitSw
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - swId
M M - swName O M - swVersion O M - vendorName O M - salesUniqueId O M -
classification M M - swStatus O M - additionalInformation O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.4.4 Relationships
None.
#### 6.3.4.5 State diagram
None.
#### 6.3.4.6 Notifications
None.
### 6.3.5 InventoryUnitLic
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents the licence components.
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
Attributes of InventoryUnitLic
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - licId
M M - licType O M - vendorName O M - validity O M - key O M - licStatus O M -
salesUniqueId O M - additionalInformation O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.5.4 Relationships
None.
#### 6.3.5.5 State diagram
None.
#### 6.3.5.6 Notifications
None.
### 6.3.6 TmaInventoryUnit
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents inventory information for a Tower Mounted Amplifier Unit.
#### 6.3.6.2 Attributes
Attributes of TmaInventoryUnit
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
tmaNumberOfNon-LinearGainValues CM M - tmaNon-LinearGainValue CM M O
tmaAdditionalDataFieldNumber CO M O tmaAntennaModelNumber CO M O
tmaAntennaOperatingBands CO M O tmaBeamwidthForEachOpBandInBandOrder CO M O
tmaGainForEachOpBandInBandOrder CO M O tmaInstallationDate CO M O
tmaInstallersId CO M O tmaMaxSupportedGain CO M O tmaMinSupportedGain CO M O
* * *
#### 6.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition tmaNumberOfNon-LinearGainValues CM Support Qualifier It is
supported over the Iuant interface. tmaNon-LinearGainValue CM Support
Qualifier It is supported over the Iuant interface.
tmaAdditionalDataFieldNumber CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the
Iuant interface. tmaAntennaModelNumber CO Support Qualifier It is supported
over the Iuant interface. tmaAntennaOperatingBands CO Support Qualifier It is
supported over the Iuant interface. tmaBeamwidthForEachOpBandInBandOrder CO
Support Qualifier It is supported over the Iuant interface.
tmaGainForEachOpBandInBandOrder CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the
Iuant interface. tmaInstallationDate CO Support Qualifier It is supported over
the Iuant interface. tmaInstallersId CO Support Qualifier It is supported over
the Iuant interface. tmaMaxSupportedGain CO Support Qualifier It is supported
over the Iuant interface. tmaMinSupportedGain CO Support Qualifier It is
supported over the Iuant interface.
* * *
#### 6.3.6.4 Notifications
None
### 6.3.7 AntennaInventoryUnit
#### 6.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents inventory information for an Antenna Unit.
#### 6.3.7.2 Attributes
Attributes of AntennaInventoryUnit
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
maxTiltValue CO M O minTiltValue CO M O mechanicalOffset CO M O baseElevation
CO M O latitude CO M O longitude CO M O patternLabel CO M O
* * *
#### 6.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition maxTiltValue CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the
Iuant interface. minTiltValue CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the
Iuant interface. mechanicalOffset CO Support Qualifier It is supported over
the Iuant interface. baseElevation CO Support Qualifier It is supported over
the Iuant interface. latitude CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the
Iuant interface. longitude CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the Iuant
interface. patternLabel CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the Iuant
interface.
* * *
#### 6.3.7.4 Notifications
None.
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 MFNERelation (O)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional relation between
ManagedFunction and InventoryUnitNE.
#### 6.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition mFunction This role represents the associated ManagedFunction
instances of a InventoryUnitNE instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.2 NESWRelation (O)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between InventoryUnitNE
and InventoryUnitSW.
#### 6.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition nEList This role represents the associated InventoryUnitNE
instances of a InventoryUnitSW instance. sWList This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitSW instances of a InventoryUnitNE instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.3 NEHWRelation (O)
#### 6.4.3.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between InventoryUnitNE
and InventoryUnitHW.
#### 6.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition nEList This role represents the associated InventoryUnitNE
instances of a InventoryUnitHW instance. hWList This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitHW instances of a InventoryUnitNE instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.3.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.4 NELICRelation (O)
#### 6.4.4.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between InventoryUnitNE
and InventoryUnitLIC.
#### 6.4.4.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition nEList This role represents the associated InventoryUnitNE
instances of a InventoryUnitLIC instance. lICList This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitLIC instances of a InventoryUnitNE instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.4.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.5 SWLICRelation (O)
#### 6.4.5.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between InventoryUnitSW
and InventoryUnitLIC.
#### 6.4.5.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition sWList This role represents the associated InventoryUnitSW
instances of a InventoryUnitLIC instance. lICList This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitLIC instances of a InventoryUnitSW instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.5.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.6 SWHWRelation (O)
#### 6.4.6.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between InventoryUnitSW
and InventoryUnitHW.
#### 6.4.6.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition sWList This role represents the associated InventoryUnitSW
instances of a InventoryUnitHW instance. hWList This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitHW instances of a InventoryUnitSW instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.6.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.7 HWLICRelation (O)
#### 6.4.7.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between InventoryUnitHW
and InventoryUnitLIC.
#### 6.4.7.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition hWList This role represents the associated InventoryUnitHW
instances of a InventoryUnitLIC instance. lICList This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitLIC instances of a InventoryUnitHW instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.7.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.8 MFSWRelation (O)
#### 6.4.8.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional relation between
ManagedFunction and InventoryUnitSW.
#### 6.4.8.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition mFunction This role represents the associated ManagedFunction
instances of a InventoryUnitSW instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.8.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.9 MFHWRelation (O)
#### 6.4.9.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional relation between
ManagedFunction and InventoryUnitHW.
#### 6.4.9.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition mFunction This role represents the associated ManagedFunction
instances of a InventoryUnitHW instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.9.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.10 MFLICRelation (O)
#### 6.4.10.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional relation between
ManagedFunction and InventoryUnitLIC.
#### 6.4.10.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition mFunction This role represents the associated ManagedFunction
instances of a InventoryUnitLIC instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.10.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.11 Inventory-Function (M)
#### 6.4.11.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional association from an
InventoryUnit and its related ManagedFunctions.
#### 6.4.11.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition relatedFunction This role represents the ManagedFunction that
is associated with an InventoryUnit.
* * *
#### 6.4.11.3 Constraints
None
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 6.5.1 defines the attributes that are present in several Information
Object Classes of the present document.
Table 6.5.1: Attributes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal | | | | | | | | Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | baseElevation | The elevation in | An integral value | | | meters above sea | representing a | | | level at the base of | number of meters in | | | the antenna | 0.1 meter | | | structure. This | increments. | | | value, when | | | | subtracted from | | | | height (see TS | | | | 32.792 [14]), | | | | provides the height | | | | of the antenna above | | | | the ground. | | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | a | Supplementary | | | dditionalInformation | information about | | | | inventory data (if | | | | any) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | classification | Name of installed SW | | | | (e.g. SW release, SW | | | | build, SW patches), | | | | empty value possible | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | customerIdentifier | Unique | | | | identification of a | | | | vendors' customer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dateOfManufacture | Date of Manufacture | | | | of inventory unit. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dateOfLastService | Date of last service | | | | or repair of | | | | inventory unit. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwCapability | Hardware capability | | | | e.g. capacity, size | | | | (empty value is | | | | possible) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwName | Mnemonic of hw | | | | inventory unit | | | | family type (e.g. | | | | Fan, PSU) assigned | | | | by vendor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwType | Type of the HW unit | | | | e.g. equipment | | | | holder, carriage | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwUnitLocation | Unique physical / | | | | logical location | | | | identifier within NE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwVersion | Version / revision | | | | no. of current unit | | | | e.g. firmware | | | | version (empty value | | | | possible in case no | | | | versioning is | | | | available) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inventoryUnitId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inventoryUnitType | Type of inventory | | | | unit (see TS 32.690 | | | | [11]) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | key | License activation | | | | key according to the | | | | used licensing | | | | system | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | licId | Unique identifier of | | | | a license (e.g. | | | | name, code) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | licStatus | License status -- | | | | applicable only for | | | | managed licenses | | | | (e.g. scheduled, | | | | valid, expired, | | | | invalid, capacity | | | | violated) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | licType | Describing type of | | | | current license | | | | (e.g. capacity, | | | | particular feature, | | | | no. of subscribers) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | manualDataEntry | Indicates whether | | | | unit is passive | | | | (manual insertion of | | | | inventory data is | | | | needed) or active | | | | (inventory data can | | | | be read from the | | | | unit) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | latitude | The latitude of the | Valid values | | | antenna location | described in 3GPP TS | | | based on World | 23.032 [13]. | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to the | | | | northern hemisphere. | | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | longitude | The longitude of the | Valid values | | | antenna location | described in 3GPP TS | | | based on World | 23.032 [13] | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to | | | | degrees east of 0 | | | | degrees longitude. | | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | manufacturerData | Manufacturer | | | | specific data of | | | | inventory unit. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | model | Equipment | | | | configuration, e.g. | | | | standard hw unit or | | | | a variant that may | | | | contain additional | | | | disk capacity (empty | | | | value possible) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | modificationDate | Date/time stamp of | | | | last change (e.g. | | | | repair action) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neId | vendor defined | | | | unique identifier of | | | | a logical or | | | | physical network | | | | element unit | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | operatorUniqueName | Unique NE identifier | | | | used by operator | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | productName | NE name classifying | | | | a vendor's product | | | | family or function | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | productType | Identifier of the | | | | e.g. platform, in | | | | case the product can | | | | be based on | | | | different HW/SW | | | | platforms (not used | | | | for logical NEs) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | salesUniqueId | Unique identifier | | | | used by vendor (used | | | | e.g. for ordering a | | | | new unit) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwId | Hardware identifier | | | | allocated by the | | | | vendor, e.g. the | | | | serialnumber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxTiltValue | The maximum amount | See \"Maximum | | | of tilt the RET | supported tilt\" in | | | system can support. | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | \"Maximum supported | [12]. | | | tilt\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mechanicalOffset | This is a value | A single integral | | | representing a | value corresponding | | | non-adjustable tilt | to an angle in | | | value, which is | degrees between 0 | | | imparted to the | and 360 | | | antenna due to the | | | | physical | with a resolution of | | | installation.\ | 0.1 degrees. | | | The actual tilt at | | | | any point in time is | | | | the summation of | | | | mechanicalOffset and | | | | retTiltValue. | | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minTiltValue | The minimum amount | See \"Minimum | | | of tilt the RET | supported tilt\" in | | | system can support, | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | \"Minimum supported | [12]. | | | tilt\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | patternLabel | The pattern name is | | | | a textual, | | | | alpha-numeric string | | | | to allow | | | | identification of | | | | the antenna pattern | | | | along with the | | | | antenna vendor | | | | information such as | | | | model number, etc. | | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedFunction | This attribute | | | | contains the DN of | | | | one ManagedFunction. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serialNumber | Serial number of | | | | inventory unit. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteId | NE site in customer | | | | network | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swId | Unique identifier of | | | | a SW unit | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swName | SW release name used | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swStatus | Status of the SW | | | | unit (e.g. | | | | installed, archived) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swVersion | Version identifier | | | | of the SW unit | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaAddit | This attribute | Defined in TS 25.466 | | ionalDataFieldNumber | identifies a | [12] | | | standard data field | | | | which has no | | | | operational impact. | | | | Used by the | | | | procedures | | | | SetDeviceData and | | | | GetDevicedata. | | | | | | | | Defined in Table B.3 | | | | of 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | t | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | maAntennaModelNumber | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [12] | | | TS 25.466 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaA | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | ntennaOperatingBands | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [12] | | | TS 25.466 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaBeamwidthForE | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | achOpBandInBandOrder | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [12] | | | TS 25.466 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaGainForE | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | achOpBandInBandOrder | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [12] | | | TS 25.466 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaInstallationDate | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [12] | | | TS 25.466 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaInstallersId | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [12] | | | TS 25.466 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaMaxSupportedGain | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [12] | | | TS 25.466 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaMinSupportedGain | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [12] | | | TS 25.466 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tm | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in TS 25.466 | | aNon-LinearGainValue | 25.466 [12] | [12] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaNumberOf | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in TS 25.466 | | Non-LinearGainValues | 25.466 [12] | [12] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | unitPosition | Position of | | | | inventory unit (e.g. | | | | Rack, shelf, slot, | | | | etc.). | | | | | | | | Depending on the | | | | implementation of | | | | the inventory unit | | | | in the managed | | | | system, the value | | | | and meaning of this | | | | attribute may vary. | | | | | | | | For example, if a | | | | system has three | | | | levels and types of | | | | inventory units | | | | representing Rack, | | | | Shelf and Slot | | | | respectively (i.e. | | | | the Managed Element | | | | contains multiple | | | | Rack inventory | | | | units, each Rack | | | | inventory unit | | | | contains multiple | | | | Shelf inventory | | | | units and each Shelf | | | | inventory unit | | | | contains multiple | | | | Slot inventory | | | | units), then for | | | | this example: | | | | | | | | - for the | | | | Inventory Unit | | | | representing a | | | | Rack, the Frame | | | | Identification | | | | code may be used | | | | as the value of | | | | this attribute; | | | | | | | | - for the | | | | Inventory Unit | | | | representing a | | | | Shelf, the Rack | | | | Shelf code may | | | | be used as the | | | | value of this | | | | attribute; | | | | | | | | - for the | | | | Inventory Unit | | | | representing a | | | | Slot, the | | | | position code | | | | may be used as | | | | the value of | | | | this attribute. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | validity | License validity | | | | which may include | | | | one of the elements | | | | duration, end | | | | (expiration date) or | | | | forever | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | Name of inventory | | | | unit vendor (or | | | | vendors may provide | | | | manufacturer name) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | Name of inventory | | | | unit vendor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorUnitFamilyType | Mnemonic of | | | | inventory unit | | | | family type (e.g. | | | | Fan, PSU) assigned | | | | by vendor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorUnitTypeNumber | A | | | | vendor/manufacturer | | | | defined and assigned | | | | number which | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the unit type and | | | | optionally for | | | | backward | | | | compatibility | | | | reasons only, also | | | | version (used for | | | | replacing HW units, | | | | spares). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | versionNumber | The version | | | | information related | | | | to | | | | v | | | | endorUnitTypeNumber. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.5.2 Constraints
None
## 6.6 Particular information configurations
None
#