# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.711: Configuration Management (CM); Transport Network (TN) interface
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
**32.712: Configuration Management (CM); Transport Network (TN) interface
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)**
32.713: Configuration Management (CM); Transport Network (TN) interface
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
32.715 Configuration Management (CM); Transport Network (TN) interface Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup
Language (XML) file format definition
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
\"Transport Network (TN) Interface Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP \",
through which an \"IRPAgent\" (typically an Element Manager or Network
Element) can communicate Configuration Management information to one or
several \"IRPManagers\" (typically Network Managers) concerning Transport
resources. The \"Transport Network (TN) Interface Network Resource Model (NRM)
IRP\" comprises a set of specifications defining Requirements, a protocol
neutral Network Resource Model (NRM) and corresponding Solution Set(s).
> The present document:
  1. specifies the protocol neutral Transport Network Interface Resources IRP: Network Resource Model. It reuses relevant parts of the generic NRM in TS 32.622 [6], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition to that defines Transport specific Managed Object Classes.
The Configuration Management (CM) area is very large. The intention is to
split the specification of the related interfaces in several IRPs - as
described in the Introduction clause above. An important aspect of such a
split is that the Network Resource Models (NRMs) defined in different IRPs
containing NRMs are consistent, and that NRMs supported by an IRPAgent
implementation can be accessed as one coherent model through one IRP
Information Service.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an IRP Information
Service (IS) is needed, such as the Basic CM IRP: IS (TS 32.602 [7]) or the
Bulk CM IRP: IS (TS 32.612 [8]). However, which Information Service that is
applicable is outside the scope of this document.
Finally, regarding the support of the State Management IRP: IS (TS 32.672
[3]), all NRM\'s of one release shall support the same State Management IRP
version.
This specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.672.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication Management, Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.672: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.622: \" Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.430: \"UTRAN Iub interface:general aspects and principles\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.431: \"UTRAN Iub interface Layer 1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.411: \"UTRAN Iu interface Layer 1\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation I.361 (11/95):\"B-ISDN ATM Layer Specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following
apply:
**Association:** in general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
> 1\. name bindings;
>
> 2\. reference attributes; and
>
> 3\. association objects.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams)
**Managed Element (ME):** an instance of the Managed Object Class
ManagedElement defined in 3GPP TS 32.622 [6].
**Managed Object (MO):** in the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is
instance of a MO class defined in a MIM/NRM. This class, called **Information
Object Class (IOC)** has **attributes** that provide information used to
characterize the objects that belong to the class (the term \"attribute\" is
taken from TMN and corresponds to a \"property\" according to CIM).
Furthermore, the IOC can have **operations** that represent the behaviour
relevant for that class (the term \"operation\" is taken from TMN and
corresponds to a \"method\" according to CIM). The IOC may support the
emission of **notifications** that provide information about an event
occurrence within a network resource
**Management Information Model (MIM):** also referred to as NRM - see the
definition below
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** A model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP. An NRM identifies and describes the IOCs, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN
**Node B:** A logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment. It terminates the Iub interface
towards the RNC
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following apply:
CIM Common Information Model
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union, Telecommunication Sector
Iub Interface between RNC and Node B
ME Managed Element
MIM Management Information Model
MO Managed Object
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
RNC Radio Network Controller
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 Information Object Classes
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
IOCs ManagedElement, IubLink, and vsDataComtainer are imported.
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This sub clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant
for this service. This sub clause provides the overview of all information
object classes in UML. Subsequent subclasses provide more detailed
specification of various aspects of these information object classes.
Figure 4.2.1.1 shows the name-containment relation and other types of
relations of the Transport Network NRM.
Figure 4.2.1.1: Transport Network NRM Containment/Naming and Association
diagram
Each IOC is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to 3GPP TS
32.300 [4] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example, the DN of
a IOC representing a ATMPathTerminationPoint could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden,meContext=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1,
TransportNetworkInterface=ATM-1, ATMPathTerminationPoint=Gbg-1.
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios.
Figure 4.2.1.2: vsDataContainer in Transport Network Containment/Naming and
Association diagram
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This sub-clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 4.2.2.1 shows the inheritance hierarchy for the Transport Network NRM.
Figure 4.2.2.1: Transport Network NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 4.3 Information object class definitions
### 4.3.1 TransportNetworkInterface
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents the Transport Network Interface technology (e.g. ATM, IP).
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
Table 4.3.1: Attributes of TransportNetworkInterface
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
transportNetworkInterfaceId + M M - userLabel + M M M transportNetworkType + M
M -
* * *
### 4.3.2 ATMChannelTerminationPoint
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents a bi-directional ATM Virtual Channel Connection
Termination Point.
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
Table 4.3.2: Attributes of ATMChannelTerminationPoint
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
aTMChannelTerminationPointid + M M - usageChannel + M M - virtualPathId + M M
O virtualChannelId + M M O physicalPortId + M M O physicalInterfaceType + M M
O serviceCategoryIn + M M O ServiceCategoryEg + M M O usedAAL + M M O
peakCellRateIn + M M O peakCellRateEg + M M O sustainableCellRateIn + O M O
sustainableCellRateEg + O M O maximumBurstSizeIn + M M O maximumBurstSizeEg +
M M O minimumDesiredCellRateIn + O M O minimumDesiredCellRateEg + O M O
minimumCellRateIn + O M O minimumCellRateEg + O M O
aTMChannelTerminationPoint- ATMPathTerminationPoint + M M -
aTMChannelTerminationPoint- IubLink + M M -
* * *
Table 4.3.2: Attributes of ATMChannelTerminationPoint
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
aTMChannelTerminationPointid + M M - usageChannel + M M - virtualPathId + M M
O virtualChannelId + M M O physicalPortId + M M O physicalInterfaceType + M M
O serviceCategoryIn + M M O serviceCategoryEg + M M O usedAAL + M M O
peakCellRateIn + M M O peakCellRateEg + M M O sustainableCellRateIn + O M O
sustainableCellRateEg + O M O maximumBurstSizeIn + M M O maximumBurstSizeEg +
M M O minimumDesiredCellRateIn + O M O minimumDesiredCellRateEg + O M O
minimumCellRateIn + O M O minimumCellRateEg + O M O
aTMChannelTerminationPoint-ATMPathTerminationPoint + M M -
aTMChannelTerminationPoint-IubLink + M M -
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
The Write Qualifier for attributes virtualPathId, virtualChannelId,
physicalPortId, physicalInterfaceType, serviceCategoryIn/Eg, usedAAL,
peakCellRateIn/Eg, sustainableCellRateIn/Eg, and maximumBurstSizeIn/Eg shall
be Mandatory if these attributes can be set over Itf-N.
The attributes sustainableCellRateIn/Eg and maximumBurstSizeIn/Eg are only
applicable for ServiceCategory values RT-VBR, NRT-VBR.
The attributes minimumDesiredCellRateIn/Eg is only applicable for Service
Category UBR.
The attributes minimumCellRateIn/Eg is only applicable for Service Category
values ABR, GFR.
### 4.3.3 ATMPathTerminationPoint
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents a bi-directional ATM Virtual Path Connection Termination
Point.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
Table 4.3.3: Attributes of ATMPathTerminationPoint
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
aTMPathTerminationPointid + M M - virtualPathId + M M O physicalPortIdList + M
M O peakCellRateIn + M M O peakCellRateEg + M M O aTMPathTerminationPoint-
ATMChannelTerminationPoint + M M -
* * *
NOTE: The attribute peakCellRateIn/Eg of ATM Path is the maximum Peak Cell
Rate of its channels.
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
The Write Qualifier for attributes virtualPathId, physicalPortIdList,
peakCellRateIn/Eg shall be Mandatory if these attributes can be set over
Itf-N.
## 4.4 Information relationship definitions
### 4.4.1 AssociatedWith (M)
#### 4.4.1.1 Definition
This represents a bi-directional relation between the ATMPathTerminationPoint
and ATMChannelTerminationPoint. The roles of the relation shall be mapped to a
reference attribute of the IOCs. The name of the reference attribute shall be
the role name.
#### 4.4.1.2 Roles
Table 4.4.1: Roles of the relation AssociatedWith
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | aTMPathTermination | This role (when present) | | Point-ATMChannelTerminationPoint | represents | | | aTMPathTerminationPoint | | | capability to identify the set | | | of related | | | ATMChannelTerminationPoint. | | | ATMPathTermination | | | Point-ATMChannelTerminationPoint | | | shall carry the set of | | | ATMChannelTerminationPoint | | | DN(s). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | aTMChannelTerminat | This role (when present) | | ionPoint-ATMPathTerminationPoint | represents | | | ATMChannelTerminationPoint | | | capability to identify one | | | related ATMPathTerminationPoint. | | | | | | When the role is absent, the | | | ATMChannelTerminationPoint- | | | ATMPathTerminationPoint shall | | | contain no information. | | | | | | When it is present, it shall | | | contain one | | | ATMPathTerminationPoint DN. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.4.1.3 Constraints
None.
## 4.5 Information attributes definition
### 4.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 4.5.1 defines the attributes that are present in several Information
Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Table 4.5.1: Attributes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | transpo | An attribute whose | | | rtNetworkInterfaceId | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | when naming an | | | | instance of this | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | transportNetworkType | The type of | Type: Enumerated | | | underlying transport | | | | network, i.e. ATM, | Range: ATM, IP | | | IP | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aTMChann | An attribute whose | | | elTerminationPointId | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | when naming an | | | | instance of this | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aTMPa | An attribute whose | | | thTerminationPointId | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | when naming an | | | | instance of this | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UsageChannel | The logical channel | Type: String | | | using the transport | | | | network connection. | e.g. Iub-NBAP, | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.430 | Iub-ALCAP | | | [9] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | virtualPathId | The ATM Virtual Path | Type: Integral | | | Identifier (VPI). | numeric value | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | I.361[12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | virtualChannelId | The ATM Virtual | Type: Integral | | | Channel Identifier | numeric value | | | (VCI). Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | | | | [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | physicalPortidList | The list of | Type: String | | | identifiers of the | | | | ATM physical port | | | | containing | | | | termination points | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | physicalPortid | The identifier of | Type: String | | | the ATM physical | | | | port containing | | | | termination points | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | p | The ATM physical | Type: String | | hysicalInterfaceType | interface type. Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS | e.g. E1, STM1 | | | 25.431[10], 3GPP | | | | TS 25.411[11] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serviceCategoryIn | The ATM Service | Type: Enumerated | | | Category used for | | | | the virtual | Range: CBR, RT-VBR, | | | connection Ingress | NRT-VBR, ABR, UBR, | | | (incoming) traffic.\ | GFR | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | I.361[12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serviceCategoryEg | The ATM Service | Type: Enumerated | | | Category used for | | | | the virtual | Range: CBR, RT-VBR, | | | connection Egress | NRT-VBR, ABR, UBR, | | | (outgoing) traffic.\ | GFR | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | I.361[12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | usedAAL | The ATM Adaptation | Type: Enumerated | | | Layer (AAL) used for | | | | the virtual | Range: Null, | | | connection.\ | AAL1,..... AAL5 | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | I.361[12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | peakCellRateIn | Peak Cell Rate (PCR) | Type: Integral | | | in kbits/sec for | numeric value | | | Ingress traffic. | | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | | | | [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | peakCellRateEg | Peak Cell Rate (PCR) | Type: Integral | | | in kbits/sec for | numeric value | | | Egress traffic. Ref. | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | I.361 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | Sustainable Cell | Type: Integral | | ustainableCellRateIn | Rate (SCR) in | numeric value Range: | | | kbits/sec for | 1 .....n, Null | | | Ingress traffic. | | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | | | | [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | Sustainable Cell | Type: Integral | | ustainableCellRateEg | Rate (SCR) in | numeric value Range: | | | kbits/sec for Egress | 1 .....n, Null | | | traffic. Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | | | | [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maximumBurstSizeIn | Maximum Burst Size | Type: Integral | | | (MBS) for VBR | numeric value Range: | | | Service Categories | 1 .....n, Null | | | for Ingress traffic. | | | | | | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | | | | [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maximumBurstSizeEg | Maximum Burst Size | Type: Integral | | | (MBS) for VBR | numeric value Range: | | | Service Categories | 1 .....n, Null | | | for Egress traffic. | | | | | | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | | | | [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minimumCellRateIn | Minimum Cell Rate | Type: Integral | | | (MCR) in kbits/sec | numeric value Range: | | | for ABR, GFR Service | 1 .....n, Null | | | Categories for | | | | Ingress traffic. | | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | | | | [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minimumCellRateEg | Minimum Cell Rate | Type: Integral | | | (MCR) in kbits/sec | numeric value Range: | | | for ABR, GFR Service | 1 .....n, Null | | | Categories for | | | | Egress traffic. Ref. | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | I.361 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mini | Minimum Desired Cell | Type: Integral | | mumDesiredCellRateIn | Rate (MDCR) in | numeric value Range: | | | kbits/sec for UBR | 1 .....n, Null | | | Service Category for | | | | Ingress traffic. | | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | | | | [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mini | Minimum Desired Cell | Type: Integral | | mumDesiredCellRateEg | Rate (MDCR) in | numeric value Range: | | | kbits/sec for UBR | 1 .....n, Null | | | Service Category for | | | | Egress traffic. Ref. | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | I.361 [12] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | userLabel | A user-friendly (and | | | | user assigned) name | | | | of the associated | | | | object | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 4.6 Particular information configurations
Not applicable.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example Configuration of ATM Transport
Network in UTRAN
**Figure A.1: Virtual connection of a logical Iub interface channel over ATM
network**
#