# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.721: Configuration Management (CM); Repeater network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
**32.722: Configuration Management (CM); Repeater network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**
32.726: Configuration Management (CM); Repeater network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
CM, in general, provides the operator with the ability to assure correct and
effective operation of the 3G network as it evolves. CM actions have the
objective to control and monitor the actual configuration on the NEs and NRs,
and they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the OSs or NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
\"Repeater Network Resources IRP\", through which an \"IRPAgent\" (typically
an Element Manager or Network Element) can communicate Configuration
Management information to one or several \"IRPManagers\" (typically Network
Managers) concerning Repeater resources. The \"Repeater Network Resources
IRP\" comprises a set of specifications defining Requirements, a protocol
neutral Network Resource Model (NRM) and corresponding Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the protocol neutral Repeater Network Resources
IRP: Network Resource Model.\ It reuses relevant parts of the generic NRM in
TS 32.622 [10] and 32.642 [5], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in
addition to that defines Repeater specific Information Object Classes.
The Configuration Management (CM) area is very large. The intention is to
split the specification of the related interfaces in several IRPs -- as
described in the Introduction clause above. An important aspect of such a
split is that the Network Resource Models (NRMs) defined in different IRPs
containing NRMs are consistent, and that NRMs supported by an IRPAgent
implementation can be accessed as one coherent model through one IRP
Information Service (IS).
To summarize, the present document has the following main purpose: to define
the applied Repeater specific NRM, based on the generic NRM in 3GPP TS 32.622
[10].
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an IRP IS is needed,
such as the Basic CM IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.602[11]) or the Bulk CM IRP IS (3GPP
TS 32.612 [12]). However, which IS that is applicable is outside the scope of
the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.433: \"UTRAN Iub Interface NBAP Signalling\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.106: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
UTRA repeater radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definition and Abbreviation
## 3.1 Definition
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [8].
**Repeater:** A device that receives, amplifies and transmits the radiated or
conducted RF carrier both in the down-link direction (from the base station to
the mobile area) and in the up-link direction (from the mobile to the base
station).
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) [name bindings]{.underline},
(2) [reference attributes]{.underline}, and
(3) [association objects]{.underline}.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams).
**Managed Element (ME)** : An instance of the Information Object Class
ManagedElement defined in TS 32.622 [10].
**Managed Object (MO)** : In the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is
instance of a MO class defined in a MIM/NRM. This class, called **Information
Object Class (IOC)** has [attributes]{.underline} that provide information
used to characterize the objects that belong to the class (the term
\"attribute\" is taken from TMN and corresponds to a \"property\" according to
CIM). Furthermore, the IOC can have [operations]{.underline} that represent
the behaviour relevant for that class (the term \"operation\" is taken from
TMN and corresponds to a \"method\" according to CIM). The IOC may support the
emission of [notifications]{.underline} that provide information about an
event occurrence within a network resource.
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : Also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below.
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : A model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP. An NRM identifies and describes the IOCs, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CMIP Common Management Information Protocol
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [7])
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
ITU International Telecommunication Union
ME Managed Element
MIM Management Information Model
MO Managed Object
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [7])
SS Solution Set
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
XML eXtensible Mark-up Language
# 4 Modelling approach
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
\"Repeater Network Resources IRP\", through which an \"IRPAgent\" (typically
an Element Manager or Network Element) can communicate Configuration
Management information to one or several \"IRPManagers\" (typically Network
Managers) concerning UTRAN resources. The \"UTRAN Network Resources IRP\"
comprises a set of specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral
Network Resource Model (NRM) and corresponding Solution Set(s).
The modelling approach used in this IRP is described in 32.622 [10] Generic
Network Resources IRP; NRM.
This model allows for combined managed element functionality, where more than
one \"function IOC\" (inherited from ManagedFunction) modelling more specific
managed element functionality may be contained in the ManagedElement IOC.
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [10], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement 3GPP TS 32.622 [10], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP
TS 32.622 [10], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [10], IOC, VsDataContainer
VsDataContainer
* * *
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc151466216 .anchor}
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. It provides the overview of all IOCs in UML. Subsequent clauses
provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these IOCs.
The following figures show the name-containment relation and other types of
relations of the Repeater NRM.
{width="2.3131944444444446in" height="2.329861111111111in"}
{width="6.629166666666666in" height="0.8305555555555556in"}
Figure 5.2.1.1: Repeater NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram
{width="3.3430555555555554in" height="2.329861111111111in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios.
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
Figure 5.2.1.2: VsDataContainer Containment/Naming and Association in Repeater
NRM diagram
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
The following figure shows the inheritance hierarchy for the Repeater NRM.
{width="2.3069444444444445in" height="1.9833333333333334in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1: Repeater NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 5.3 Information object class definitions
### 5.3.1 RepeaterFunction
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
The current IOC represents the management aspect of repeater. For the
information of repeater, see 3GPP TS 25.106 [4].
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
Attribute of **RepeaterFunction**
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
repeaterFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M Priority + M M M latitude + M M -
longitude + M M - ctrlConnMode + M M M environmentInfo + M M - powerSwitch + M
M M ulAttenuation + M M M dlAttenuation + M M M firmwareVer + M M -
repeaterType + M M - repeaterFunction-ExternalUtranCell + M M -
* * *
Notifications of **RepeaterFunction**
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6])
* * *
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
### 5.4.1 ConnectedTo1 (M)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relationship between the repeaterFunction
and ExternalUtranCell.\ The role of the relation shall be mapped to a
reference attribute of the IOC. The names of the reference attribute and the
role are the same.
#### 5.4.1.2 Roles
Roles of the relation ConnectedTo1
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | re | This role (when present) | | peaterFunction-ExternalUtranCell | represents repeaterFunction | | | capability to identify one | | | ExternalUtranCell. | | | | | | When the role is absent, the | | | RepeaterFunction.re | | | peaterFunction-ExternalUtranCell | | | shall contain no information. | | | | | | When present, it shall contain | | | one ExternalUtranCell DN. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.4.1.3 Constraints
When a particular repeaterFunction identifies a particular UtranCell.
## 5.5 Information attribute definitions
### 5.5.1 Definition and legal values
The following table defines the attributes that are present in several
Information Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Definition Legal Values repeaterFunctionId An attribute whose
\"name+value\" can be used as an RDN (according to the rules in TS 32.300 [7])
when naming an instance of the object class. This RDN uniquely identifies the
object instance within the scope of its containing (parent) object instance  
userLabel A user-friendly (and user assigned) name of the associated object.
Inherited from ManagedFunction.  
Priority the priority of repeater decided by operator Type: Integer
powerSwitch Power switch of device which has two status: ON/OFF Type: Bool
ulAttenuation Downlink signal attenuation of the device to change downlink
gain. Type: Integer dlAttenuation Uplink signal attenuation of the device to
change uplink gain Type: Integer firmwareVer Version of device firmware Type:
String latitude The latitude of the antenna location based on World Geodetic
System (1984 version) global reference frame (WGS 84). Positive values
correspond to the northern hemisphere. A single integral value in the range of
-90.0000 to +90.0000. longitude The latitude of the antenna location based on
World Geodetic System (1984 version) global reference frame (WGS 84). Positive
values correspond to degrees east of 0 degrees longitude. A single integral
value in the range of -180.0000 to +180.0000. ctrlConnMode Remote
communication mode used by repeater to send and receive control message, such
as GSM SMS, WCDMA SMS, Circle Switch Data-CSD, Package Switch Dat-IP, Serial
port. Type: String environmentInfo the repeater device is located either in
the building or out of the building Type: String repeaterType The repeater
type defined by operator, such as wide band, frequency selective, indoor and
fiber optic. Type: String
* * *
### 5.5.2 Constraints
None.
#