# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
> z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
> incorporated in the document.
Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
> 32.731: IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM)
> Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
>
> **32.732: IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM)
> Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**
>
> **32.736 IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM)
> Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Solution Set definitions for the IRP whose
semantics is specified in IMS (IP Multimedia Subsystem) NRM (**Network
Resource Model**) IRP: Information Service 3GPP TS 32.732 [3].
This Solution Set definitions specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.732
V10.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.732: \"Telecommunication management; **IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)** \".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.306: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.626: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic Network Resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution
Set (SS) definitions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.300 "Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects".
[7] W3C REC-xml-names-19990114: \"Namespaces in XML\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.616: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[10] W3C REC-xml-20001006: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second
Edition)\".
[11] W3C REC-xmlschema-0-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 0: Primer\".
[12] W3C REC-xmlschema-1-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 1: Structures\".
[13] W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For terms and definitions please refer to TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS
32.732 [3].
For the purposes of the present document, the following XML terms and
definitions apply:
**XML file:** file containing an XML document
**XML document:** composed of the succession of an optional XML declaration
followed by a root XML element
NOTE: See [10]; in the scope of the present document.
**XML declaration:** it specifies the version of XML being used
NOTE: See [10].
**XML element:** has a type, is identified by a name, may have a set of XML
attribute specifications and is either composed of the succession of an XML
start-tag followed by the XML content of the XML element followed by an XML
end-tag, or composed simply of an XML empty-element tag; each XML element may
contain other XML elements
NOTE: See [10].
**empty XML element:** having an empty XML content; an empty XML element still
possibly has a set of XML attribute specifications; an empty XML element is
either composed of the succession of an XML start-tag directly followed by an
XML end-tag, or composed simply of an XML empty-element tag
NOTE: See [10].
**XML content (of an XML element):** empty if the XML element is simply
composed of an XML empty-element tag; otherwise the part, possibly empty, of
the XML element between its XML start-tag and its XML end-tag
**XML start-tag:** the beginning of a non-empty XML element is marked by an
XML start-tag containing the name and the set of XML attribute specifications
of the XML element
NOTE: See [10].
**XML end-tag:** the end of a non-empty XML element is marked by an XML end-
tag containing the name of the XML element
NOTE: See [10].
**XML empty-element tag:** an empty XML element is composed simply of an
empty-element tag containing the name and the set of XML attribute
specifications of the XML element
NOTE: See [10].
**XML attribute specification:** has a name and a value
**DTD:** defines structure and content constraints to be respected by an XML
document to be valid with regard to this DTD
NOTE: See [10].
**XML schema:** more powerful than a DTD, an XML schema defines structure and
content constraints to be respected by an XML document to conform with this
XML schema; through the use of XML namespaces several XML schemas can be used
together by a single XML document; an XML schema is itself also an XML
document that shall conform with the XML schema for XML schemas
NOTE: See [11], [12] and [13].
**XML namespace:** enables qualifying element and attribute names used in XML
documents by associating them with namespaces identified by different XML
schemas
NOTE: See [7], in the scope of the present document.
**XML complex type:** defined in an XML schema; cannot be directly used in an
XML document; can be the concrete type or the derivation base type for an XML
element type or for another XML complex type; ultimately defines constraints
for an XML element on its XML attribute specifications and/or its XML content
NOTE: See [11], [12] and [13].
**XML element type:** declared by an XML schema; can be directly used in an
XML document; as the concrete type of an XML element, directly or indirectly
defines constraints on its XML attribute specifications and/or its XML
content; can also be the concrete type or the derivation base type for another
XML element type
NOTE: See [11], [12] and [13].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
DTD Document Type Definition
EDGE Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IDL Interface Definition Language (OMG)
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
MGW Media GateWay
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
SS Solution Set
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Solution Set definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP IMS NRM IRP Solution Set
definitions:
  * 3GPP IMS NRM IRP CORBA SS (Annex A)
  * 3GPP IMS NRM IRP XML definitions (Annex B)
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in IMS NRM IRP: Information Service (TS 32.732 [3]).
# A.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of IMS NRM IRP is specified in 3GPP TS
32.732[3]..
This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6].
## A.1.2 Notifications
Notifications are sent according to the Notification IRP: CORBA SS (see 3GPP
TS 32.306 [4]).
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 General mappings
Attributes modelling associations as defined in the NRM (here also called
\"reference attributes\") are in this SS mapped to attributes. The names of
the reference attributes in the NRM are mapped to the corresponding attribute
names in the MOC. When the cardinality for an association is 0..1 or 1..1 the
datatype for the reference attribute is defined as an MOReference. The value
of an MO reference contains the distinguished name of the associated MO. When
the cardinality for an association allows more than one referred MO, the
reference attribute will be of type MOReferenceSet, which contains a sequence
of MO references.
## A.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
### A.2.2.1 IOC ASFunction
**Mapping from NRM IOC ASFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC ASFunction**
* * *
**Attributes of IOC ASFunction in TS 32.732 [3]** **SS Attributes** **SS
Type** **Qualifier** asFunctionId asFunctionId string Read-Only, M linkList
linkList GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::LinkListSet Read-
Only, O
* * *
### A.2.2.2 IOC BGCFFunction
**Mapping from NRM IOC BGCFFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC
BGCFFunction**
* * *
**Attributes of IOC BGCFFunction in TS 32.732 [3]** **SS Attributes** **SS
Type** **Qualifier** bgcfFunctionId bgcfFunctionId string Read-Only, M
linkList linkList
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::LinkListSet Read-Only, O
* * *
### A.2.2.3 IOC **CSCFFunction**
**Mapping from NRM IOC CSCFFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC
CSCFFunction**
* * *
**Attributes of IOC CSCFFunction in TS 32.732 [3]** **SS Attributes** **SS
Type** **Qualifier** cscfFunctionId cscfFunctionId string Read-Only, M
linkList linkList
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::LinkListSet Read-Only, O
* * *
### A.2.2.4 IOC HSSFunction
**Mapping from NRM IOC HSSFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC
HSSFunction**
* * *
**Attributes of IOC HSSFunction in TS 32.732 [3]** **SS Attributes** **SS
Type** **Qualifier** **hssFunctionId** **hssFunctionId** string Read-Only, M
linkList linkList
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::LinkListSet Read-Only, O
* * *
### A.2.2.5 Void
### A.2.2.6 IOC IMSMGWFunction
**Mapping from NRM IOC IMSMGWFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC
IMSMGWFunction** attributes
* * *
**Attributes of IOC IMSMGWFunction in TS 32.732 [3]** **SS Attributes** **SS
Type** **Qualifier** imsMgwFunctionId imsMgwFunctionId string Read-Only, M
linkList linkList
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::LinkListSet Read-Only, O
* * *
### A.2.2.7 IOC MGCFFunction
**Mapping from NRM IOC MGCFFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC
MGCFFunction**
* * *
**Attributes of IOC MGCFFunction in TS 32.732 [3]** **SS Attributes** **SS
Type** **Qualifier** mgcfFunctionId mgcfFunctionId string Read-Only, M
linkList linkList
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::LinkListSet Read-Only, O
* * *
### A.2.2.8 IOC MRFCFunction
**Mapping from NRM IOC MRFCFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC
MRFCFunction**
* * *
**Attributes of IOC MRFCFunction in TS 32.732 [3]** **SS Attributes** **SS
Type** **Qualifier** mrfcFunctionId mrfcFunctionId string Read-Only, M
linkList linkList
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::LinkListSet Read-Only, O
* * *
### A.2.2.9 IOC MRFPFunction
**Mapping from NRM IOC MRFPFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC
MRFPFunction**
* * *
**Attributes of IOC MRFPFunction in TS 32.732 [3]** **SS Attributes** **SS
Type** **Qualifier** **mrfpFunctionId** **mrfpFunctionId** string Read-Only, M
linkList linkList
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::LinkListSet Read-Only, O
* * *
### A.2.2.10 Void
### A.2.2.11 Void
### A.2.2.12 IOC SLFFunction
**Mapping from NRM IOC SLFFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC
SLFFunction**
* * *
**Attributes of IOC SLFFunction in TS 32.732 [3]** **SS Attributes** **SS
Type** **Qualifier** **slfFunctionId** **slfFunctionId** string Read-Only, M
linkList linkList
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::LinkListSet Read-Only, O
* * *
### A.2.2.13 Void
### A.2.2.14 IOC **Link_CAMELIMSSFAS_HSS**
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
### A.2.2.15 IOC Link_AS_ICSCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
### A.2.2.16 IOC Link_AS_SCSCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
### A.2.2.17 IOC Link_AS_SLF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
### A.2.2.18 IOC Link_BGCF_BGCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.19 Void
### A.2.2.20 IOC Link_BGCF_MGCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.21 IOC Link_BGCF_SCSCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
### A.2.2.22 Void
### A.2.2.23 IOC Link_HSS_ICSCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.24 IOC Link_ICSCF_SCSCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.25 IOC **Link_ICSCF_MGCF**
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.26 Void
A.2.2.27 IOC Link_ICSCF_PCSCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.28 IOC Link_PCSCF_SCSCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
### A.2.2.29 Void
A.2.2.30 IOC **Link_HSS_SCSCF**
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.31 IOC **Link_ICSCF_SLF**
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.32 IOC Link_IMSMGW_MGCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.33 IOC **Link_** MGCF_SCSCF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.34 IOC **Link_MRFC_MRFP**
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.35 IOC **Link_MRFC_SCSCF**
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
A.2.2.36 IOC **Link_SCSCF_SCSCF**
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
### A.2.2.37 IOC Link_SCSCF_SLF
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.626 [5].
### A.2.2.38 IOC **Link_HSS_SIPAS**
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.623 [5].
### A.2.2.39 IOC **Link_HSS_OSASCSAS**
All attributes are inherited from Link. See mapping of attributes for Link IOC
in 3GPP TS 32.623 [5].
# A.3 Rules for NRM extensions
This clause discusses how the models and IDL definitions provided in the
present document can be extended for a particular implementation and still
remain compliant with 3GPP SA5\'s specifications.
## A.3.1 Allowed extensions
Vendor-specific MOCs may be supported. The vendor-specific MOCs may support
new types of attributes. The 3GPP SA5-specified notifications may be issued
referring to the vendor-specific MOCs and vendor-specific attributes. New MOCs
shall be distinguishable from 3GPP SA5 MOCs by name. 3GPP SA5-specified and
vendor-specific attributes may be used in vendor-specific MOCs. Vendor-
specific attribute names shall be distinguishable from existing attribute
names.
NRM MOCs may be subclassed. Subclassed MOCs shall maintain the specified
behaviour of the 3GPP SA5\'s superior classes. They may add vendor-specific
behaviour with vendor-specific attributes. When subclassing, naming attributes
cannot be changed. The subclassed MOC shall support all attributes of its
superior class. Vendor-specific attributes cannot be added to 3GPP SA5 NRM
MOCs without subclassing.
When subclassing, the 3GPP SA5-specified containment rules and their specified
cardinality shall still be followed. As an example, ManagementNode (or its
subclasses) shall be contained under SubNetwork (or its subclasses).
Managed Object Instances may be instantiated as CORBA objects. This requires
that the MOCs be represented in IDL. 3GPP SA5\'s NRM MOCs are not currently
specified in IDL, but may be specified in IDL for instantiation or subclassing
purposes. However, management information models should not require that
IRPManagers access the instantiated managed objects other than through
supported methods in the present document.
Extension rules related to notifications (Notification categories, Event
Types, Extended Event Types etc.) are for further study.
A.3.2 Extensions not allowed
The IDL specifications in the present document cannot be edited or altered.
Any additional IDL specifications shall be specified in separate IDL files.
IDL interfaces (note: not MOCs) specified in the present document may not be
subclassed or extended. New interfaces may be defined with vendor-specific
methods.
## A.4 Solution Set definitions
### A.4.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.4.2 defines the MO classes for the **IMS NRM IRP.**
### A.4.2 IDL specification "IMSNRMDefs.idl"
// File: IMSNRMDefs.idl
#ifndef _IMSNRMDEFS_IDL_
#define _IMSNRMDEFS_IDL_
#include \"GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl\"
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/**
* This module defines constants for each MO class name and
* the attribute names for each defined MO class.
*/
module IMSNRMDefs
{
/**
* Definitions for MO class ASFunction
*/
interface ASFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"ASFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string asFunctionId = \"asFunctionId\";
const string linkList = \"linkList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class SIPASFunction
*/
interface SIPASFunction : ASFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"SIPASFunction\";
// All Attributes inherited from ASFunction
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class OSASCSASFunction
*/
interface OSASCSASFunction : ASFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"OSASCSASFunction\";
// All Attributes inherited from ASFunction
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class CAMELIMSSFASFunction
*/
interface CAMELIMSSFASFunction : ASFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"CAMELIMSSFASFunction\";
// All Attributes inherited from ASFunction
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class BGCFFunction
*/
interface BGCFFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"BGCFFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string bgcfFunctionId = \"bgcfFunctionId\";
const string linkList = \"linkList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class CSCFFunction
*/
interface CSCFFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"CSCFFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string cscfFunctionId = \"cscfFunctionId\";
const string linkList = \"linkList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class ICSCFFunction
*/
interface ICSCFFunction : CSCFFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"ICSCFFunction\";
// All Attributes inherited from CSCFFunction
//
};
* Definitions for MO class IMSMGWFunction
*/
interface IMSMGWFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"IMSMGWFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string imsMgwFunctionId = \"imsMgwFunctionId\";
const string linkList = \"linkList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class MGCFFunction
*/
interface MGCFFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"MGCFFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string mgcfFunctionId = \"mgcfFunctionId\";
const string linkList = \"linkList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class MRFCFunction
*/
interface MRFCFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"MRFCFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string mrfcFunctionId = \"mrfcFunctionId\";
const string linkList = \"linkList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class MRFPFunction
*/
interface MRFPFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"MRFPFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string mrfpFunctionId = \"mrfpFunctionId\";
const string linkList = \"linkList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class PCSCFFunction
*/
interface PCSCFFunction : CSCFFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"PCSCFFunction\";
// All Attributes inherited from CSCFFunction
//
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class SCSCFFunction
*/
interface SCSCFFunction : CSCFFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"SCSCFFunction\";
// All Attributes inherited from CSCFFunction
//
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class SLFFunction
*/
interface SLFFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"SLFFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string slfFunctionId = \"slfFunctionId\";
const string linkList = \"linkList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_AS_SCSCF
*/
interface Link_AS_SCSCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_AS_SCSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_AS_SLF
*/
interface Link_AS_SLF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_AS_SLF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_BGCF_BGCF
*/
interface Link_BGCF_BGCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_BGCF_BGCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_BGCF_MGCF
*/
interface Link_BGCF_MGCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_BGCF_MGCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_BGCF_SCSCF
*/
interface Link_BGCF_SCSCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_BGCF_SCSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_SCSCF_ICSCF
*/
interface Link_SCSCF_ICSCF: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_SCSCF_ICSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_ICSCF_Mgcf
*/
interface Link_ICSCF_Mgcf: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_ICSCF_Mgcf\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_ICSCF_PCSCF
*/
interface Link_ICSCF_PCSCF: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_ICSCF_PCSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_PCSCF_SCSCF
*/
interface Link_PCSCF_SCSCF: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_PCSCF_SCSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_ICSCF_SLF
*/
interface Link_ICSCF_SLF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_ICSCF_SLF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_IMSMGW_MGCF
*/
interface Link_IMSMGW_MGCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_IMSMGW_MGCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_MGCF_SCSCF
*/
interface Link_MGCF_SCSCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_MGCF_SCSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_MRFC_MRFP
*/
interface Link_MRFC_MRFP : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_MRFC_MRFP\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_MRFC_SCSCF
*/
interface Link_MRFC_SCSCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_MRFC_SCSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_SCSCF_SCSCF
*/
interface Link_SCSCF_SCSCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_SCSCF_SCSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_SCSCF_SLF
*/
interface Link_SCSCF_SLF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_SCSCF_SLF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class HSSFunction
*/
interface HSSFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"HSSFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string hssFunctionId = \"hssFunctionId\";
const string linkList = \"linkList\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_HSS_SCSCF
*/
interface Link_HSS_SCSCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_HSS_SCSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_HSS_ICSCF
*/
interface Link_HSS_ICSCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_HSS_ICSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_HSS_SIPAS
*/
interface Link_HSS_SIPAS : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_HSS_SIPAS\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_HSS_OSASCSAS
*/
interface Link_HSS_OSASCSAS : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_HSS_OSASCSAS\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_CAMELIMSSFAS_HSS
*/
interface Link_CAMELIMSSFAS_HSS : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_CAMELIMSSFAS_HSS\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class Link_AS_ICSCF
*/
interface Link_AS_ICSCF : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_AS_ICSCF\";
// All Attributes inherited from Link
};
};
#endif // _IMSNRMDEFS_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML definitions
This annex provides the NRM-specific part related to the IMS NRM IRP [3] of
the XML file format definition for the Bulk Configuration Management IRP IS
[8].
The main part of this XML file format definition is provided by 3GPP TS 32.616
[9].
Bulk CM XML file formats are based on XML [10], XML Schema [11] [12] [13] and
XML Namespace [7] standards.
# B.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of IMS NRM IRP is specified in 3GPP TS
32.732 [3].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the XML Schema
definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6].
# B.2 Mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
The overall description of the file format of configuration data XML files is
provided by 3GPP TS 32.616 [9].
B.3.2 of the present document defines the NRM-specific XML schema imsNrm.xsd
for the IMS NRM IRP IS defined in 3GPP TS 32.732 [3].
XML schema imsNrm.xsd explicitly declares NRM-specific XML element types for
the related NRM.
The definition of those NRM-specific XML element types complies with the
generic mapping rules defined in 3GPP TS 32.616 [9].
## B.3.2 XML Schema "imsNrm.xsd"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#