# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.761 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
**32.762 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)**
32.766 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
E-UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP, through which an IRPAgent can
communicate configuration management information to one or several IRPManagers
concerning E-UTRAN resources. The E-UTRAN NRM IRP comprises a set of
specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral Information Service
and one or more Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the protocol neutral E-UTRAN NRM IRP:
Information Service (IS). It reuses relevant parts of the Generic NRM IRP: IS
in 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition
to that defines E-UTRAN specific Information Object Classes.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface IRP such
as the \"Basic CM IRP\" is needed (3GPP TS 32.602 [7]). However, which
Interface IRP is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.300: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2 \".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical Channels and Modulation\"
[13] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\"
[14] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E_UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\"
[15] 3GPP TS 32.500: \"Telecommunication Management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON); Concepts and requirements\"
[16] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\"
[17] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[18] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\"
[19] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\"
[20] 3GPP TS 32.652: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\"
[21] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\"
[22] 3GPP2 S.S0028-D \"OAM&P for cdma2000 (Overview, 3GPP R7 Delta
Specification, 3GPP2 Network Resource Model IRP)\"
[23] 3GPP TS 32.752: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"
[24] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 application protocol (X2AP)\".
[25] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
[26] 3GPP TS 32.672: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
[27] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Access Network (E-UTRAN);
S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[28] 3GPP TS 32.443: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Access Network
(E-UTRAN);M2 Application Protocol (M2AP)\".
[29] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[30] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[31] 3GPP TS 32.792: \"Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[32] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM; Information service (IS)\".
> [33] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture".
[34] 3GPP TS 23.207: \"End-to-end Quality of Service (QoS) concept and
architecture".
[35] RFC 2474: \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in
the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[36] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"Universal Terrestrial Access Network (UTRAN); User
equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and procedures for cell reselection in
connected mode\".
[37] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access
Network; Radio subsystem link control\".
[38] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Universal Terrestrial Access Network (UTRAN);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[39] 3GPP TS 25.133: \"Universal Terrestrial Access Network (UTRAN);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[40] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Universal Terrestrial Access Network (UTRAN); Medium
Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[41] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Access Network (E-UTRAN);
User equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.150 [16], TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17] and the
following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same term, if any, in TS 32.150 [16], TS 32.101 [1], TS
32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17], in that order.
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) [name bindings]{.underline},
(2) [reference attributes]{.underline}, and
(3) [association objects]{.underline}.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams).
**Managed Element (ME)** : An instance of the Information Object Class
ManagedElement defined in TS 32.622 [6].
**eNodeB:** A logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment.\ It terminates the S1 interface
towards the EPC.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS 32.150
[16], TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17] and the following apply.
An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TS 32.150 [16], TS 32.101 [1],
TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17], in that order.
DeNB Donor eNodeB
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
ME Managed Element
MO Managed Object
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network
NR Neighbour cell Relation
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
RN Relay Node
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP defined by the present
document:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional information object classes, attributes and associations
without requiring the IRPManager to have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist,
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
The modelling approach adopted and used in this IRP is described in TS 32.622
[6].
# 6 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 6.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label **3GPP TS 32.672 [26],** attribute,
administrativeState administrativeState **3GPP TS 32.672 [26],** attribute,
availabilityStatus availabilityStatus **3GPP TS 32.672 [26],** attribute,
operationalState operationalState **3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC,** Top Top **3GPP
TS 32.622 [6], IOC,** ManagedElement ManagedElement **3GPP TS 32.622 [6],
IOC,** SubNetwork SubNetwork **3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC,** ManagedFunction
ManagedFunction **3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC,** Link Link **3GPP TS 32.752 [23],
IOC,** MMEFunction MMEFunction **3GPP TS 32.752 [23], IOC,**
ExternalMMEFunction ExternalMMEFunction **3GPP TS 32.642 [21], IOC,**
UtranRelation UtranRelation **3GPP TS 32.792 [31], IOC,** AntennaFunction
AntennaFunction **3GPP TS 32.792 [31], IOC,** TmaFunction TmaFunction **3GPP
TS 32.652 [20], IOC,** GsmRelation GsmRelation **3GPP2 TS S.S0028 [22], IOC,**
ExternalSector ExternalSector **3GPP TS 32.752 [23], IOC,** EP_RP_EPS
EP_RP_EPS **3GPP TS 32.752 [23], IOC,** QCISet QCISet **3GPP TS 32.792 [31],
IOC, SectorEquipmentFunction** SectorEquipmentFunction
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="5.267361111111111in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1: Cell view of E-UTRAN NRM
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="4.425694444444445in"}
NOTE 1: If an instance of the _ServesRN_ association is present, then a
corresponding instance of _ServedByEGC_ must be present. In this case, the
ENBFunction and RNFunction instances are under the management scope of the
same IRPAgent.\ If an instance of the _ServesExtRN_ association is present,
then a corresponding instance of _ServedByExtEGC_ must be present. In this
case, the ENBFunction and RNFunction instances are under the management scope
of two different IRPAgents.
NOTE 2: The modelling of the DeNB capability as a separate IOC or as
attributes of ENBFunction is FFS
Figure 6.2.1.2a: E-UTRAN relaying view of E-UTRAN NRM
Figure 6.2.1.2b: E-UTRAN relaying view of E-UTRAN NRM_2
Figure 6.2.1.3: Transport view of E-UTRAN NRM
Figure 6.2.1.4: Radio equipment view of E-UTRAN NRM
NOTE: Please see TS 32.792 [31] for the definitions of the associations in
this figure.
Figure 6.2.1.5: MBMS view of E-UTRAN NRM 1
NOTE 1: This is E-UTRAN NRM containment/relationship Figure form view of MBMS
when MCE and ENB belong to one Network Element.
Figure 6.2.1.6: MBMS view of E-UTRAN NRM 2
NOTE 2: This is E-UTRAN NRM containment/relationship Figure form view of MBMS
when MCE and ENB belong to different Network Elements.
{width="2.0930555555555554in" height="2.95625in"}
Figure 6.2.1.7: Energy Saving view of E-UTRAN NRM
{width="2.4819444444444443in" height="5.947222222222222in"}
Figure 6.2.1.8: Cell Outage Compensation NRM IOCs (Containment Relationship)
{width="2.125in" height="6.029166666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.1.9: Cell SON Attributes NRM IOCs (Containment Relationship)
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
{width="4.760416666666667in" height="1.386111111111111in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1: E-UTRAN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
{width="2.553472222222222in" height="2.7263888888888888in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2: Cell Outage Compensation NRM IOCs (Inheritance Relationship)
Figure 6.2.2.3: EPC NRM Inheritance Hierarchy_2
{width="2.0625in" height="2.395138888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2.4: Cell SON Attributes NRM IOCs (Inheritance Relationship)
## 6.3 Information Object Class (IOC) definitions
### 6.3.1 ENBFunction
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents eNB functionality. For more information about the eNB, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [19].
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - eNBId
M M - x2BlackList CM M M x2WhiteList CM M M x2HOBlackList CM M M
x2IpAddressList O M - tceIDMappingInfoList CM M M
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition x2BlackList Support Qualifier The condition is \"ANR function
is supported\". x2WhiteList Support Qualifier The condition is \"ANR function
is supported\". x2HOBlackList Support Qualifier The condition is \"ANR
function is supported\". tceIDMappingInfoList Support Qualifier The condition
is "MDT function is supported"
* * *
#### 6.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.2 ExternalENBFunction
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents an external eNB functionality. For more information about
the eNB, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [19].
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - eNBId
M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.3 EUtranGenericCell
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the common properties of an E-UTRAN generic cell.
For more information about cells, see 3GPP TS 23.401 [9].
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier** id
M M - cellLocalId M M M cellSize M M M plmnIdList M M M tac M M M pci M M CM
pciList CM M M maximumTransmissionPower M M CM referenceSignalPower M M M pb M
M M partOfSectorPower CM M M relatedTmaList CO M - relatedAntennaList CO M -
relatedSector CM M - cellResvInfo CM M M allowedAccessClasses M M M
isChangeForEnergySavingAllowed CM M M
* * *
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
operationalState O M _−_ administrativeState O M M availabilityStatus O M _-_
NOTE: No state or status propagation shall be implied.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition pci CM Write Qualifier NM-Centralized PCI assignment (see TS
32.500, ref [15] subclause 6.1.6) is supported. pciList CM Support Qualifier
Either EM-Centralized or Distributed PCI assignment (see TS 32.500, ref [15]
subclause 6.1.6) is supported. partOfSectorPower CM support qualifier The IOC
SectorEquipmentFunction is used. maximumTransmissionPower CM Write Qualifier
The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction is not used. relatedTmaList CO Support
Qualifier The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction is not used. relatedAntennaList CO
Support Qualifier The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction is not used. relatedSector
CM Support Qualifier The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction is used. cellResvInfo CM
Support Qualifier The MBSFN Transmission (see TS 36.300, ref[11] subclause
15.3.3) is supported. isChangeForEnergySavingAllowed CM Support Qualifier The
energy saving functionality is supported and uses distributed architecture.
* * *
#### Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.4 ExternalEUtranGenericCell
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the properties of an E-UTRAN generic cell
controlled by another IRPAgent. This IOC contains necessary attributes for
inter-system and intra-system handover. It also contains a subset of the
attributes of related IOCs controlled by another IRPAgent. The way to maintain
consistency between the attribute values of these IOCs is outside the scope of
the present document.
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write
Qualifier** id M M - pci M M M plmnIdList M M M cellLocalId M M M eNBId CM M M
* * *
#### 6.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition eNBId CM Support Qualifier This instance of
ExternalEUtranGenericCell IOC is directly contained by SubNetwork.
* * *
#### Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.5 EUtranCellFDD
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents the properties of E-UTRAN FDD cell.
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier earfcnDl M M M
earfcnUl M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.6 ExternalEUtranCellFDD
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents the common properties of external E-UTRAN FDD cell.
#### 6.3.6.2 Attributes
Table 6.3.5.2.1: Attributes of ExternalEUtranCellFDD
* * *
Attribute name **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier**
earfcnDl M M M earfcnUl M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.6.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.7 EUtranCellTDD
#### 6.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents the properties of E-UTRAN cell TDD.
#### 6.3.7.2 Attributes
+---------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Support Qualifier | Read Qualifier | Write Qualifier | +---------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | > earfcn | M | M | M | +---------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | > sfAssignment | M | M | M | +---------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | > specialSfPatterns | M | M | M | +---------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.7.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.8 ExternalEUtranCellTDD
#### 6.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC represents the common properties of external E-UTRAN cell TDD.
#### Attributes
+----------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Support Qualifier | Read Qualifier | Write Qualifier | +----------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | > earfcn | M | M | M | +----------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.8.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.9 EUtranRelation
#### 6.3.9.1 Definition
This IOC represents a NR from one EUtranGenericCell instance to another
EUtranGenericCell or ExternalEUtranGenericCell instance. NRs are directional.
#### 6.3.9.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - tCI O
M M isRemoveAllowed CM M M isHOAllowed CM M M adjacentCell M M M
isICICInformationSendAllowed CM M M isLBAllowed CM M M isESCoveredBy CM M M
qOffset CM M M cellIndividualOffset CM M -
* * *
#### 6.3.9.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition isRemoveAllowed Support Qualifier The condition is \"ANR
function is supported\". isHOAllowed Support Qualifier The condition is \"ANR
function is supported\". isICICInformationSendAllowed Support Qualifier The
condition is \"ICIC function is supported\". isLBAllowed Support Qualifier The
condition is \"LB function is supported\". isESCoveredBy Support Qualifier The
condition is \"Energy Saving function is supported\". qOffset Support
Qualifier The condition is \"Neither an EM-centralized nor a distributed SON
function support the SON use cases for which this attribute is relevant (see
§6.5.1)\". cellIndividualOffset Support Qualifier The condition is \"HOO
function is supported\" or \"Load Balancing Optimization function is
supported\".
* * *
#### 6.3.9.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.10 Link_ENB_ENB
#### 6.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC represents the link between two ENBFunction.
#### Attributes
None.
#### 6.3.10.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.10.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.11 Void
### 6.3.12 Void
### 6.3.13 Cdma2000Relation
#### 6.3.13.1 Definition
This IOC represents a NR from one EUtranGenericCell to a CDMA2000 sector. NRs
are directional.
See 3GPP2 TS S.S0028 [22]
#### 6.3.13.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
adjacentSector M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.13.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.13.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.14 MCEFunction
#### 6.3.14.1 Definition
This IOC represents MCE functionality. For more information about the MCE, see
3GPP TS 36.300 [11].
#### 6.3.14.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.14.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.14.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.15 MBSFNArea
#### 6.3.15.1 Definition
This IOC represents MBSFN Area. For more information about MBSFN Area, see
3GPP TS 36.300 [11].
#### 6.3.15.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
mbsfnAreaId M M M cellIdList M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.15.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.15.4 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS
32.662 [13])  
notifyObjectCreation See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [13])  
notifyObjectDeletion See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [13])
* * *
### 6.3.16 Link_MCE_ENB
#### 6.3.16.1 Definition
This IOC models the M2 reference point as defined in TS 36.300 [11].
#### 6.3.16.2 Attributes
None.
#### 6.3.16.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.16.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.17 Link_MCE_MME
#### 6.3.17.1 Definition
This IOC models the M3 reference point as defined in TS 36.300 [11].
#### 6.3.17.2 Attributes
None.
#### 6.3.17.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.17.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.18 RNFunction
#### 6.3.18.1 Definition
This IOC represents Relay Node (RN) functionality. For more information about
RN, see 3GPP TS 36.300 [11].
#### 6.3.18.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
candidateDeNBCells M M M servingCell M M M
* * *
Editor's note: the need of attribute candidateDeNBCells is for FFS.
#### 6.3.18.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.18.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.19 ExternalRNFunction
#### 6.3.19.1 Definition
This IOC represents the properties of a Relay Node (RN) controlled by another
IRPAgent. For more information about RN, see 3GPP TS 36.300 [11].
#### 6.3.19.2 Attributes
None.
#### 6.3.19.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.19.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.20 DeNBCapability
#### 6.3.20.1 Definition
This IOC represents the capability for an eNodeB to act as a Donor eNodeB
(DeNB) functionality. For more information about the DeNB, see 3GPP TS 36.300
[11].
#### 6.3.20.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
servedRN M M M maxNbrRNAllowed M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.20.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.20.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.21 Void
### 6.3.22 EnergySavingProperties
#### 6.3.22.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the energy saving properties of a network element
supporting Energy Saving Management functionality.
#### 6.3.22.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier**
energySavingState M M - energySavingControl CM M M
* * *
#### 6.3.22.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition energySavingControl CM Support Qualifier The condition is
\"ESM functionality supports and uses NM-Centralized architecture\".
* * *
#### 6.3.22.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC.
Notification notifyAttributeValueChange shall be supported for attribute
energySavingState.
### 6.3.23 CellOutageCompensationInformation
#### 6.3.23.1 Definition
This IOC represents information relevant in case of a Cell Outage Compensation
taking place.
#### 6.3.23.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier cOCStatus M M
- isCOCAllowed M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.23.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.23.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
with the addition that notifyAttributeValueChange shall be supported (Support
Qualifier M).
### 6.3.24 IOC QciDscpMapping
#### 6.3.24.1 Definition
This IOC represents a set of mapping between QCI and DSCP.
#### 6.3.24.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
qciDscpMappingList M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.24.3 Attribute constraints
Null.
#### 6.3.24.4 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS
32.662 [32])  
notifyObjectCreation See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [32])  
notifyObjectDeletion See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [32])
* * *
### 6.3.25 EUtranCellNMCentralizedSON
#### 6.3.25.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the properties of an E-UTRAN generic cell which
relate to SON functions. Its purpose is to enable configuration and tuning of
the cell behaviour by the operator for SON functions which are not (yet)
implemented in the eNodeB. NMS level SON should consider when configuring and
tuning the cell the correlation of different attributes to optimise the eNodeB
and network performance. For more information about cells, see 3GPP TS 23.401
[9].
#### 6.3.25.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier**
a1ThresholdRsrp CM M M a1ThresholdRsrq CM M M a2ThresholdRsrp CM M M
a2ThresholdRsrq CM M M a3Offset CM M M a4ThresholdRsrp CM M M a4ThresholdRsrq
CM M M a5Threshold1Rsrp CM M M a5Threshold1Rsrq CM M M b1ThresholdUtraRscp CM
M M b1ThresholdUtraEcN0 CM M M b1ThresholdGeran CM M M b1ThresholdCdma2000 CM
M M b2Threshold1Rsrp CM M M b2Threshold1Rsrq CM M M b2Threshold2UtraRscp CM M
M b2Threshold2UtraEcN0 CM M M b2Threshold2Geran CM M M b2Threshold2Cdma2000 CM
M M commonChannelPowerOffset CM M M configurationIndex CM M M
contentionResolutionTimer CM M M hysteresisEutraA1 CM M M hysteresisEutraA2 CM
M M hysteresisEutraA3 CM M M hysteresisEutraA4 CM M M hysteresisEutraA5 CM M M
hysteresisIratB1 CM M M hysteresisIratB2 CM M M numberOfRaPreambles CM M M
preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower CM M M preambleTransMax CM M M pMax CM M M
powerRampingStep CM M M qHyst CM M M qOffsetUtra CM M M qOffsetGeran CM M M
qOffsetCdma2000 CM M M qQualMinUtra CM M M qRxLevMinEUtraSib1 CM M M
qRxLevMinEUtraSib3 CM M M qRxLevMinGeran CM M M qRxLevMinUtra CM M M
responseWindowSize CM M M rootSequenceIndex CM M M sIntraSearch CM M M
sizeOfRAPreamblesGroupA CM M M timeToTriggerEutraA1 CM M M
timeToTriggerEutraA2 CM M M timeToTriggerEutraA3 CM M M timeToTriggerEutraA4
CM M M timeToTriggerEutraA5 CM M M timeToTriggerIratB1 CM M M
timeToTriggerIratB2 CM M M tReselectionCdma2000 CM M M tReselectionEUtra CM M
M tReselectionGeran CM M M tReselectionUtra CM M M tStoreUeContext CM M M
* * *
#### 6.3.25.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition All Support Qualifiers The condition is \"Neither an EM-
centralized nor a distributed SON function support the SON use cases for which
this attribute is relevant (see §6.5.1)\".
* * *
#### 6.3.25.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 EUtranNeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional Neighbour cell Relation (NR)
from the EUtranGenericCell containing this EUtranRelation to another
EUtranGenericCell.
#### 6.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition adjacentCell This role represents the associated
EUtranGenericCell of an EUtranNeighbourCellRelation .
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraints
Associations EUtranNeighbourCellRelation and
ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation are mutually exclusive.
### 6.4.2 ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional Neighbour cell Relation (NR)
from the EUtranGenericCell containing this EUtranRelation to an
ExternalEUtranGenericCell.
#### 6.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition adjacentCell This role represents the associated
ExternalEUtranGenericCell of an ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.3 Constraints
Associations EUtranNeighbourCellRelation and
ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation are mutually exclusive.
### 6.4.3 ExternalCdma2000NeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.3.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional Neighbour cell Relation (NR)
from the EUtranGenericCell containing this Cdma2000Relation to an
ExternalSector.
#### 6.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition adjacentSector This role represents the associated
ExternalSector of an ExternalCdma2000NeighbourCellRelation.
* * *
#### 6.4.3.3 Constraints
### 6.4.4 Void
### 6.4.5 Void
### 6.4.6 Void
### 6.4.7 Void
### 6.4.8 Void
### 6.4.9 MBSFNAreaRelatedCells (M)
#### 6.4.9.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional relationship from the MBSFNArea
to the EUtranGenericCells it includes.
#### 6.4.9.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition cellIdList This role represents the associated
EUtranGenericCell of a MBSFNAreaRelatedCells.
* * *
#### 6.4.9.3 Constraints
### 6.4.10 ServesRN (O)
#### 6.4.10.1 Definition
This unidirectional association represents the relation between a DeNB
(represented by an ENBFunction containing a DeNBCapability) and one or more
served RNFunction instances.
#### 6.4.10.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition servedRN This role represents the RN instance served by a DeNB
instance .
* * *
#### 6.4.10.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.11 ServesExtRN (O)
#### 6.4.11.1 Definition
This unidirectional association represents the relation between a DeNB
(represented by an ENBFunction containing a DeNBCapability) and one or more
served ExternalRNFunction instances.
#### 6.4.11.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition servedRN This role represents the external RN instance served
by a DeNB instance .
* * *
#### 6.4.11.3 Constraints
None.
### 6.4.12 ServedByEGC (O)
#### 6.4.12.1 Definition
This unidirectional association represents the relation between one or more
RNs and their serving DeNB cell.
#### 6.4.12.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition servingCell This role represents the cell serving one or more
RNFunction instances .
* * *
#### 6.4.12.3 Constraints
Associations ServedByEGC and ServedByExtEGC are mutually exclusive.
### 6.4.13 ServedByExtEGC (O)
#### 6.4.13.1 Definition
This unidirectional association represents the relation between one or more
RNs and their external serving DeNB cell (under another IRPAgent).
#### 6.4.13.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition servingCell This role represents the external cell serving one
or more RNFunction instances .
* * *
#### 6.4.13.3 Constraints
Associations ServedByEGC and ServedByExtEGC are mutually exclusive.
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 6.5.1.1 defines the attributes that are present in several Information
Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Table 6.5.1.1: Attributes definitions and legal values
+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | a1ThresholdRsrp | RSRP Threshold to | 0 : 97 | | | | be used in | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event a1. Actual | | | | | value is IE value | | | | | -140 dBm. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | a1-Thresh | | | | | old.Threshold-RSRP | | | | | specified in | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | a1ThresholdRsrq | RSRP Threshold to | 0 : 34 | | | | be used in | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event a1. Actual | | | | | value is (IE value | | | | | -40)/2 dB. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | a1-Thresh | | | | | old.Threshold-RSRQ | | | | | specified in | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | a2ThresholdRsrp | RSRP Threshold to | 0 : 97 | | | | be used in | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event a2. Actual | | | | | value is IE value | | | | | -140 dBm. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | a2-Thresh | | | | | old.Threshold-RSRP | | | | | specified in | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | a2ThresholdRsrq | RSRP Threshold to | 0 : 34 | | | | be used in | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event a2. Actual | | | | | value is (IE value | | | | | -40)/2 dB. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | a2-Thresh | | | | | old.Threshold-RSRQ | | | | | specified in | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | a3Offset | Offset to be used | -30 : 30 | | | | in evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event a3. Mapping | | | | | to values in dB is | | | | | specified in | | | | | [38]. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | a3-Offset | | | | | specified in | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | a4ThresholdRsrp | RSRP Threshold to | 0 : 97 | | | | be used in | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event a4. Actual | | | | | value is IE value | | | | | -140 dBm. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | a4-Thresh | | | | | old.Threshold-RSRP | | | | | specified in | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | a4ThresholdRsrq | RSRP Threshold to | 0 : 34 | | | | be used in | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event a4. Actual | | | | | value is (IE value | | | | | -40)/2 dB. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | a4-Thresh | | | | | old.Threshold-RSRQ | | | | | specified in | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | a5Threshold1Rsrp | RSRP Threshold1 to | 0 : 97 | | | | be used in | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event a5. Actual | | | | | value is IE value | | | | | -140 dBm. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | a5-Thresho | | | | | ld1.Threshold-RSRP | | | | | specified in | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | a5Threshold1Rsrq | RSRP Threshold to | 0 : 34 | | | | be used in | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event a5. Actual | | | | | value is (IE value | | | | | -40)/2 dB. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | a5-Thresho | | | | | ld1.Threshold-RSRQ | | | | | specified in | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | adjacentCell | This attribute | | | | | contains the DN of | | | | | a | | | | | EUtranGenericCell | | | | | or | | | | | External | | | | | EUtranGenericCell. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | adjacentSector | This attribute | | | | | contains the DN of | | | | | an ExternalSector. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | al | This holds | The default value | | | lowedAccessClasses | information for | is all access | | | | access classes | classes are | | | | (10-15) -- [3GPP | allowed | | | | TS 22.011] that | | | | | are allowed for | See TS 22.011 | | | | the eUTRANCell . | [29] and 36.331 | | | | | [10] for more | | | | The access classes | details on the | | | | are: | definition and | | | | | SIB2 broadcast | | | | Class 10 -- | message definition | | | | emergency call | | | | | | | | | | Class 11 - For | | | | | PLMN Use. | | | | | | | | | | Class 12 - | | | | | Security Services; | | | | | | | | | | Class 13 - Public | | | | | Utilities (e.g. | | | | | water/gas | | | | | suppliers); | | | | | | | | | | Class 14 - | | | | | Emergency | | | | | Services; | | | | | | | | | | Class 15 - PLMN | | | | | Staff; | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | b | Threshold to be | 0:63 | | | 1ThresholdCdma2000 | used in CDMA2000 | | | | | triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event b1. Mapping | | | | | to actual dBm | | | | | values is | | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | TS 45.008. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | b1 | | | | | -ThresholdCDMA2000 | | | | | specified in | | | | | Re | | | | | portConfigInterRAT | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | b1ThresholdGeran | Threshold to be | 0:63 | | | | used in GERAN | | | | | triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event b1. Mapping | | | | | to actual dBm | | | | | values is | | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | TS 45.008. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | b1-ThresholdGERAN | | | | | specified in | | | | | Re | | | | | portConfigInterRAT | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | b | EcN0 threshold to | 0:49 | | | 1ThresholdUtraEcN0 | be used in UTRA | | | | | triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event b1. Mapping | | | | | to actual dBm | | | | | values is | | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | TS 25.133. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | b1-Thres | | | | | holdULTA:utra-EcN0 | | | | | specified in | | | | | Re | | | | | portConfigInterRAT | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | b | RSCP threshold to | -5 :91 | | | 1ThresholdUtraRscp | be used in UTRA | | | | | triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event b1. Mapping | | | | | to actual dBm | | | | | values is | | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | TS 25.133. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | b1-Thres | | | | | holdULTA:utra-RSCP | | | | | specified in | | | | | Re | | | | | portConfigInterRAT | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | b2Threshold1Rsrp | RSRP Threshold to | 0 : 97 | | | | be used in | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event b2. Actual | | | | | value is IE value | | | | | -140 dBm. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | b2-Thresho | | | | | ld1.Threshold-RSRP | | | | | specified in | | | | | Re | | | | | portConfigInterRAT | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | b2Threshold1Rsrq | RSRP Threshold to | 0 : 34 | | | | be used in | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | EUTRA measurement | | | | | report triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event b2. Actual | | | | | value is (IE value | | | | | -40)/2 dB. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | b2-Thresho | | | | | ld1.Threshold-RSRQ | | | | | specified in | | | | | Re | | | | | portConfigInterRAT | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | b2 | Threshold to be | 0:63 | | | Threshold2Cdma2000 | used in CDMA2000 | | | | | measurement report | | | | | triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event b2. Mapping | | | | | to actual dBm | | | | | values is | | | | | specified in | | | | | [37]. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | b2- | | | | | Threshold2CDMA2000 | | | | | specified in | | | | | Re | | | | | portConfigInterRAT | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | b2Threshold2Geran | Threshold to be | 0:63 | | | | used in GERAN | | | | | measurement report | | | | | triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event b2. Mapping | | | | | to actual dBm | | | | | values is | | | | | specified in | | | | | [37]. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | b2-Threshold2GERAN | | | | | specified in | | | | | Re | | | | | portConfigInterRAT | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | b2 | EcN0 threshold to | 0:49 | | | Threshold2UtraEcN0 | be used in UTRA | | | | | measurement report | | | | | triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event b2. Mapping | | | | | to actual dBm | | | | | values is | | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | TS 25.133. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | b2-Thresho | | | | | ld2ULTRA:utra-EcN0 | | | | | specified in | | | | | Re | | | | | portConfigInterRAT | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | b2 | RSCP threshold to | -5 :91 | | | Threshold2UtraRscp | be used in UTRA | | | | | measurement report | | | | | triggering | | | | | condition for | | | | | event b2. Mapping | | | | | to actual dBm | | | | | values is | | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | TS 25.133. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | b2-Thresho | | | | | ld2ULTRA:utra-RSCP | | | | | specified in | | | | | Re | | | | | portConfigInterRAT | | | | | IE in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | candidateDeNBCells | A list of ECGIs of | See 3GPP TS | | | | the candidates | 36.413[27], | | | | DeNB cells for the | 36.300[4] | | | | subject Relay Node | | | | | in Attach for RN | | | | | operation (phase | | | | | 2), see | | | | | 36.300[4]. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | cellIdList | This holds a list | | | | | of DN of | | | | | EUtranGenericCell. | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | | cells all belong | | | | | to one MBSFN Area. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | ce | Offset applicable | Enumerated:\ | | | llIndividualOffset | to a neighbouring | dB-24, dB-22, | | | | cell. It is used | dB-20, dB-18, | | | | for evaluating the | dB-16, dB-14, | | | | neighbouring cell | dB-12, dB-10, | | | | for handover in | dB-08, dB-06, | | | | connected mode. | dB-05, dB-04, | | | | This attribute | dB-03, dB-02, | | | | corresponds to | dB-01, dB+00, | | | | parameter | dB+01, dB+02, | | | | ce | dB+03, dB+04, | | | | llIndividualOffset | dB+05, dB+06, | | | | in MeasObjectEUTRA | dB+08, dB+10, | | | | IE in [10]. | dB+12, dB+14, | | | | | dB+16, dB+18, | | | | This attribute is | dB+20, dB+22, | | | | used by the | dB+24 | | | | HandOver parameter | | | | | Optimization (HOO) | | | | | function or Load | | | | | Balancing | | | | | Optimization (LBO) | | | | | function. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | cellLocalId | Unambiguously | 0 - 255. | | | | identify a cell | | | | | within an eNodeB | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | cellResvInfo | This attribute | See 3GPP TS 36.443 | | | | represents whether | [28] for Cell | | | | the cell is MBSFN | Reservation Info. | | | | Area Reserved Cell | | | | | or not. | | | | | | | | | | See TS | | | | | 36.300[11] for | | | | | MBSFN Area | | | | | Reserved Cell. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | cellSize | See cell-Size in | See cell-Size in | | | | TS 36.423 [24]. | TS 36.423 [24]. | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | cOCStatus | This attribute | This element | | | | holds the | contains 2 parts, | | | | information about | state and | | | | cell outage | errorList | | | | compensation (COC) | | | | | activities for the | state = | | | | cell which name | enumerated\ | | | | contains the | { | | | | CellOutageCompe | | | | | nsationInformation | cOCActivating, | | | | IOC instance. | | | | | | cOCActive, | | | | The initial state | | | | | is cOCDeactive. | cOCDeactivating, | | | | | | | | | When a cell outage | cOCDeactive | | | | is detected and | | | | | its compensation | } | | | | starts, then the | | | | | state is | errorList = list | | | | cOCActivating. | of DNs | | | | | | | | | When COC function | | | | | decides that all | | | | | activities | | | | | to acitvate the | | | | | compensation are | | | | | done, the state | | | | | changes to | | | | | cOCActive. | | | | | | | | | | When outage of | | | | | cell is ended and | | | | | activities to | | | | | remove the | | | | | compensation are | | | | | ongoing, the state | | | | | changes to | | | | | cOCDeactivating. | | | | | | | | | | When outage of | | | | | cell ends and all | | | | | activities to | | | | | remove the | | | | | compensation are | | | | | done, the state | | | | | changes back to | | | | | cOCDeactive. | | | | | | | | | | In case of errors | | | | | during activation | | | | | or deactivation, | | | | | this attribute | | | | | also contains a | | | | | list of elements | | | | | which could not | | | | | been | | | | | reconfigured by | | | | | the COC function. | | | | | | | | | | If there are no | | | | | errors during | | | | | activation or | | | | | deactivation, the | | | | | list of | | | | | elements shall be | | | | | empty. | | | | | | | | | | For an example how | | | | | notifyAt | | | | | tributeValueChange | | | | | notifications | | | | | related to this | | | | | attribute are used | | | | | to inform an | | | | | IRPManager about | | | | | COC activities see | | | | | Annex A. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | common | Power offset of | -350:150 | | | ChannelPowerOffset | the Primary | | | | | Synchronization | | | | | Channel, Secondary | | | | | Synchronization | | | | | Channel and | | | | | Physical Broadcast | | | | | Channel with | | | | | respect to the | | | | | ref | | | | | erenceSignalPower. | | | | | Value in dB is the | | | | | actual value | | | | | divided by 10. For | | | | | example, value -30 | | | | | represents -3dB; | | | | | value 120 | | | | | represent 12dB | | | | | etc. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Coverage and | | | | | Capacity | | | | | Optimization and | | | | | ICIC. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | configurationIndex | Provides index | 0 : 63 | | | | into the table | | | | | defining PRACH | | | | | resources within | | | | | the frame. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | PRACH-C | | | | | onfiguration-Index | | | | | parameter defined | | | | | in [10] and | | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for RACH | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | content | Contention | {sf8, sf16, sf24, | | | ionResolutionTimer | resolution timer. | sf32, sf40, | | | | Corresponds to | sf48,sf56, sf64} | | | | parameter | | | | | mac-Content | | | | | ionResolutionTimer | | | | | specified in | | | | | [10] and in | | | | | [40]. Value sfn | | | | | corresponds to n | | | | | subframes. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for RACH | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | earfcn | It is the | See 3GPP TS | | | | frequency number | 36.104[14]. | | | | for the central | | | | | frequency. See | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 36.104[14]. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | earfcnDl | Specifies the | See EARFCN in TS | | | | channel number for | 36.101 [13] | | | | the central DL | subclause 5.7.3 | | | | frequency. The | | | | | mapping from | | | | | channel number to | | | | | physical frequency | | | | | is described in | | | | | 3GPP specification | | | | | TS 36.101 [13] | | | | | subclause 5.7.3. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | earfcnul | Specifies the | See EARFCN in TS | | | | channel number for | 36.101 [13] | | | | the central UL | subclause 5.7.3. | | | | frequency. The | | | | | mapping from | | | | | channel number to | | | | | physical frequency | | | | | is described in | | | | | 3GPP specification | | | | | TS 36.101 [13] | | | | | subclause 5.7.3. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | eNBId | Unambiguously | See 3GPP TS | | | | identifies an | 36.413[27], | | | | eNodeB within a | 36.300[4] | | | | PLMN | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | e | This attribute | Enumerated\ | | | nergySavingControl | allows the | {toBeEnergySaving, | | | | IRPManager to | toB | | | | initiate energy | eNotEnergySaving}. | | | | saving activation | | | | | or deactivation. | | | | | Its value can not | | | | | be changed by the | | | | | IRPAgent. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | energySavingState | Specifies the | Enumerated\ | | | | status regarding | { | | | | the energy saving | isNotEnergySaving, | | | | in the cell. | | | | | | isEnergySaving}. | | | | If the value of | | | | | e | | | | | nergySavingControl | | | | | is | | | | | toBeEnergySaving, | | | | | then it shall be | | | | | tried to achieve | | | | | the value | | | | | isEnergySaving for | | | | | the | | | | | energySavingState. | | | | | | | | | | If the value of | | | | | e | | | | | nergySavingControl | | | | | is | | | | | to | | | | | BeNotEnergySaving, | | | | | then it shall be | | | | | tried to achieve | | | | | the value | | | | | isNotEnergySaving | | | | | for the | | | | | energySavingState. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | hysteresisEutraA1 | > Hysteresis | 0 : 30 | | | | > applied to entry | | | | | > and leave | | | | | > condition of a | | | | | > report | | | | | > triggering event | | | | | > A1. Maps to the | | | | | > instance of the | | | | | > _hysteresis_ IE | | | | | > specified in | | | | | > * | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA _| | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event A1. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | hysteresisEutraA2 | > Hysteresis | 0 : 30 | | | | > applied to entry | | | | | > and leave | | | | | > condition of a | | | | | > report | | | | | > triggering event | | | | | > A2. Maps to the | | | | | > instance of the | | | | | > _hysteresis _IE | | | | | > specified in | | | | | > * | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA_ | | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event A2. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | hysteresisEutraA3 | > Hysteresis | 0 : 30 | | | | > applied to entry | | | | | > and leave | | | | | > condition of a | | | | | > report | | | | | > triggering event | | | | | > A3. Maps to the | | | | | > instance of the | | | | | > _hysteresis_ IE | | | | | > specified in | | | | | > * | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA _| | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event A3. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | hysteresisEutraA4 | > Hysteresis | 0 : 30 | | | | > applied to entry | | | | | > and leave | | | | | > condition of a | | | | | > report | | | | | > triggering event | | | | | > A4. Maps to the | | | | | > instance of the | | | | | > _hysteresis _IE | | | | | > specified in | | | | | > * | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA_ | | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event A4. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | hysteresisEutraA5 | > Hysteresis | 0 : 30 | | | | > applied to entry | | | | | > and leave | | | | | > condition of a | | | | | > report | | | | | > triggering event | | | | | > A5. Maps to the | | | | | > instance of the | | | | | > _hysteresis_ IE | | | | | > specified in | | | | | > * | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA _| | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event A5. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | hysteresisIratB1 | > Hysteresis | 0 :30 | | | | > applied to entry | | | | | > and leave | | | | | > condition of the | | | | | > IRAT report | | | | | > triggering event | | | | | > B1. Maps to | | | | | > _hysteresis _IE | | | | | > specified in | | | | | > _Rep | | | | | ortConfigInterRAT _| | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event B1. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | hysteresisIratB2 | > Hysteresis | 0 :30 | | | | > applied to entry | | | | | > and leave | | | | | > condition of the | | | | | > IRAT report | | | | | > triggering event | | | | | > B2. Maps to | | | | | > _hysteresis _IE | | | | | > specified in | | | | | > _Rep | | | | | ortConfigInterRAT _| | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event B2. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | | \"name+value\" can | | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | | when naming an | | | | | instance of the | | | | | object class. This | | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | | identifies the | | | | | object instance | | | | | within the scope | | | | | of its containing | | | | | (parent) object | | | | | instance. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | isChangeForE | This attribute | yes,no | | | nergySavingAllowed | allows to | | | | | IRPManager to | | | | | prohibit or allow | | | | | configuration | | | | | changes of the | | | | | cell for ESM | | | | | purposes by the | | | | | IRPAgent. This | | | | | restriction also | | | | | applies to | | | | | instances name | | | | | contained in such | | | | | cells. Their | | | | | attribute values | | | | | can not be changed | | | | | by the IRPAgent. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | isCOCAllowed | This attribute | yes,no | | | | allows to | | | | | IRPManager to | | | | | prohibit or allow | | | | | configuration | | | | | changes of the | | | | | cell for cell | | | | | outage | | | | | compensation | | | | | purposes by the | | | | | IRPAgent. This | | | | | restriction also | | | | | applies to | | | | | instances name | | | | | contained in such | | | | | cells. Their | | | | | attribute values | | | | | can not be changed | | | | | by the IRPAgent. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | isESCoveredBy | The value of the | No, partial, yes | | | | attribute is | | | | | configured by the | | | | | IRPmanager and is | | | | | not changed by the | | | | | IRPAgent. It | | | | | indicates whether | | | | | the adjacentCell | | | | | according to this | | | | | planning provides | | | | | no, partial or | | | | | full coverage for | | | | | the cell which | | | | | name-contains the | | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | Adjacent cells | | | | | with this | | | | | attribute equal to | | | | | "yes" are | | | | | recommended to be | | | | | considered as | | | | | candidate cells to | | | | | take over the | | | | | coverage when the | | | | | original cell is | | | | | about to be | | | | | transferred to | | | | | energySaving | | | | | state. | | | | | | | | | | The entirety of | | | | | adjacent cells | | | | | with this property | | | | | equal to "partial" | | | | | are recommended to | | | | | be considered as | | | | | entirety of | | | | | candidate cells to | | | | | take over the | | | | | coverage when the | | | | | original cell is | | | | | about to be | | | | | transferred to | | | | | energySaving | | | | | state. | | | | | | | | | | The value | | | | | "partial" is not | | | | | allowed in an eNB | | | | | overlaid scenario. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | isHOAllowed (see | This indicates if | yes, no | | | note 1) | HO is allowed or | | | | | prohibited. | | | | | | | | | | If 'yes', handover | | | | | is allowed from | | | | | source cell to | | | | | target cell. The | | | | | source cell is | | | | | identified by the | | | | | name-containing | | | | | EUtranGenericCell | | | | | of the | | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | | that has the | | | | | isHOAllowed. The | | | | | target cell is | | | | | referenced by the | | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | | that has this | | | | | isHOAllowed. | | | | | | | | | | If 'no', handover | | | | | shall not be | | | | | allowed. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | isICICInfo | This indicates if | yes, no | | | rmationSendAllowed | ICIC (Inter Cell | | | | | Interference | | | | | Coordination) load | | | | | information | | | | | message (see TS | | | | | 36.423 [24] | | | | | Section 9.1.2.1 | | | | | LOAD INFORMATION) | | | | | sending is allowed | | | | | or prohibited. | | | | | | | | | | If 'yes', ICIC | | | | | load information | | | | | message sending is | | | | | allowed from | | | | | source cell to | | | | | target cell. The | | | | | source cell is | | | | | identified by the | | | | | name-containing | | | | | EUtranGenericCell | | | | | of the | | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | | that has the | | | | | isICICInfor | | | | | mationSendAllowed. | | | | | The target cell is | | | | | referenced by the | | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | | that has this | | | | | isICICInfor | | | | | mationSendAllowed. | | | | | | | | | | If 'no', ICIC load | | | | | information | | | | | message sending | | | | | shall not be | | | | | allowed. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | isLBAllowed | This indicates if | yes, no | | | | load balancing is | | | | | allowed or | | | | | prohibited from | | | | | source cell to | | | | | target cell. | | | | | | | | | | If 'yes', load | | | | | balancing is | | | | | allowed from | | | | | source cell to | | | | | target cell. The | | | | | source cell is | | | | | identified by the | | | | | name-containing | | | | | EUtranGenericCell | | | | | of the | | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | | that has the | | | | | isLBAllowed. The | | | | | target cell is | | | | | referenced by the | | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | | that has this | | | | | isLBAllowed. | | | | | | | | | | If 'no', load | | | | | balancing shall be | | | | | prohibited from | | | | | source cell to | | | | | target cell. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | isRemoveAllowed | This indicates if | yes, no | | | (see note 1) | the subject | | | | | EUtranRelation can | | | | | be removed | | | | | (deleted) or not. | | | | | | | | | | If 'yes', the | | | | | subject | | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | | instance can be | | | | | removed (deleted). | | | | | | | | | | If 'no', the | | | | | subject | | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | | instance shall not | | | | | be removed | | | | | (deleted) by any | | | | | entity but an | | | | | IRPManager. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | maximu | This is the | | | | mTransmissionPower | maximum possible | | | | | for all downlink | | | | | channels, used | | | | | simultaneously in | | | | | a cell, added | | | | | together. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | maxNbrRNAllowed | This is an integer | | | | | indicating the | | | | | maximum number of | | | | | RNs allowed to be | | | | | connected. It is a | | | | | number which can | | | | | be configured by | | | | | the operator to | | | | | control the | | | | | node/network load. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | mbsfnAreaId | This is the | See 3GPP TS 36.443 | | | | identifier of | [28] for | | | | MBSFN Area. | mbsfnAreaId | | | | | | | | | See TS | | | | | 36.300[11] for | | | | | MBSFN Area. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | n | Number of | {n4,n8,n1 | | | umberOfRaPreambles | non-dedicated | 2,n16,n20,n24,n28, | | | | random access | n32,n36,n40,n44,n4 | | | | preambles. | 8,n52,n56,n60,n64} | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | nu | | | | | mberOfRA-Preambles | | | | | specified in | | | | | [10] and in | | | | | [40]. Value n4 | | | | | corresponds to 4, | | | | | n8 corresponds to | | | | | 8 and so on. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for RACH | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | partOfSectorPower | This is the | 0 : 100 | | | | requested part | | | | | (i.e. %) of the | | | | | total radio power | | | | | available to the | | | | | Sector | | | | | EquipmentFunction. | | | | | The requested % | | | | | power should be | | | | | allocated to the | | | | | cell. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | pb | $P_{B}$, which is | See 3GPP TS | | | | described in | 36.213[25] | | | | Section 5.2 of TS | | | | | 36.213 [25] | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | pci | This holds the | See TS 36.211 | | | | Physical Cell | [12] subclause | | | | Identity (PCI) of | 6.11 for legal | | | | the cell (for | values of pci. | | | | NM-Centralized, | | | | | EM-Centralized and | | | | | Distributed PCI | | | | | assignment cases). | | | | | | | | | | In the case of | | | | | NM-Centralized PCI | | | | | assignment, see TS | | | | | 36.300, [11] | | | | | subclause 22.3.5, | | | | | IRPManager signals | | | | | a specific value | | | | | by writing this | | | | | attribute. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | pciList | This holds a list | See TS 36.211 | | | | of physical cell | [12] subclause | | | | identities that | 6.11 for legal | | | | can be assigned to | values of pci. The | | | | the pci attribute | number of pci in | | | | by eNB. The | the list is 1 to | | | | assignment | 504. | | | | algorithm is not | | | | | specified. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute | | | | | shall be supported | | | | | if and only if the | | | | | EM-Centralized or | | | | | Distributed PCI | | | | | Assignment is | | | | | supported. See TS | | | | | 32.500, ref [15] | | | | | subclause 6.1.6. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | plmnIdList | List of unique | A list of at most | | | | identities for | six entries of | | | | PLMN. | PLMN Identifiers. | | | | | The PLMN | | | | Note: A cell can | Identifier is | | | | broadcast up to 6 | composed of a | | | | PLMN-id\'s. This | Mobile Country | | | | is to support the | Code (MCC) and a | | | | case that one cell | Mobile Network | | | | can be used by up | Code (MNC). | | | | to 6 operators' | | | | | core networks. | See TS 23.003 | | | | | [3] subclause | | | | One member of | 2.2 and 12.1. | | | | plmnIdList is the | | | | | primary PLMN Id. | | | | | | | | | | See TS 36.331 | | | | | [10] section | | | | | 6.2.2: | | | | | Sy | | | | | stemInformationBlo | | | | | ckType1/cellAccess | | | | | RelatedInformation | | | | | /plmn-IdentityList | | | | | is a SEQUENCE | | | | | (SIZE (1..6)) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | pMax | This parameter is | -30 : 33 | | | | used to limit the | | | | | allowed UE uplink | | | | | transmission power | | | | | on the serving | | | | | EUTRA frequency. | | | | | Value in dBm. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter p-Max | | | | | specified in SIB1 | | | | | and SIB3 in | | | | | [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for RACH | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | powerRampingStep | Power increase | {dB0, dB2,dB4, | | | | factor between | dB6} | | | | subsequent random | | | | | access preamble | | | | | transmissions. | | | | | Value in dB. Value | | | | | dB2 corresponds to | | | | | 2 dB and so on. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | powerRampingStep | | | | | specified in | | | | | [10] and in | | | | | [40]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for RACH | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | preambleInitialR | This parameter | {dBm-120, dBm-118, | | | eceivedTargetPower | denotes the | dBm-116, dBm-114, | | | | baseline for | dBm-1 | | | | computation of the | 12,dBm-110,dBm-108 | | | | transmit power for | ,dBm-106,dBm-104,d | | | | random access | Bm-102,dBm-100,dBm | | | | power | -98,dBm-96,dBm-94, | | | | transmission. | dBm-92,dBm-90} | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | preambleInitialR | | | | | eceivedTargetPower | | | | | specified in | | | | | [10] and in | | | | | [40]. Value | | | | | dBm-120 | | | | | corresponds to | | | | | -120 dBm and so | | | | | on. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for RACH | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | preambleTransMax | Maximum number of | {n3, n4, n5, n6, | | | | random access | n7, n8, n10, n20, | | | | preamble | n50, n100, n200} | | | | transmissions. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | preambleTransMax | | | | | specified in | | | | | [10] and in | | | | | [40]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for RACH | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qciDscpMappingList | It is a list of | For QCI, Ref. 3GPP | | | | mapping between | TS 23.203[33]; | | | | QCI and DSCP, each | | | | | mapping is a | For DSCP, Ref. | | | | structure | RFC 2474[35] | | | | including the | | | | | element QCI and | | | | | DSCP; | | | | | | | | | | Wherein | | | | | | | | | | - QCI represents | | | | | the number of the | | | | | QCI (Ref. 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.203[33]); | | | | | | | | | | - DSCP represents | | | | | the DiffServ | | | | | codepoint (Ref. | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.207[34] and | | | | | RFC 2474[35]). | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qHyst | Hysteresis value | {dB0, dB1, dB2, | | | | applied to serving | dB3, dB4, dB5, | | | | cell for | dB6, dB8, dB10, | | | | evaluating cell | dB12, dB14, dB16, | | | | ranking criteria. | dB18, dB20, dB22, | | | | Value in dB. | dB24} | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter q-Hyst | | | | | specified in SIB3 | | | | | in [10] and in | | | | | [34]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qOffset | Offset applicable | {dB-24, dB-22, | | | | to a specific | dB-20, dB-18, | | | | neighbouring cell | dB-16, dB-14, | | | | used for | dB-12, dB-10, | | | | evaluating the | dB-8, dB-6, dB-5, | | | | cell as a | dB-4, dB-3, dB-2, | | | | candidate for cell | dB-1, dB0, dB1, | | | | re-selection. | dB2, dB3, dB4, | | | | Corresponds to | dB5, dB6, dB8, | | | | parameter | dB10, dB12, dB14, | | | | q-OffsetCell | dB16, dB18, dB20, | | | | broadcast in SIB4 | dB22, dB24} | | | | for | | | | | intra-frequency | | | | | cells and in SIB5 | | | | | for | | | | | inter-frequency | | | | | cells, specified | | | | | in [10]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qOffsetCdma2000 | Indicates a | -15..15 | | | | CDMA2000-specific | | | | | offset to be | | | | | applied when | | | | | evaluating | | | | | triggering | | | | | conditions for | | | | | measurement | | | | | reporting in | | | | | connected mode. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | offsetFreq | | | | | included in the IE | | | | | MeasObjectCDMA2000 | | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | TS 36.331. This | | | | | value will apply | | | | | to all CDMA2000 | | | | | frequencies. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qOffsetGeran | Indicates a | -15..15 | | | | GERAN-specific | | | | | offset to be | | | | | applied when | | | | | evaluating | | | | | triggering | | | | | conditions for | | | | | measurement | | | | | reporting in | | | | | connected mode. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | offsetFreq | | | | | included in the IE | | | | | MeasObjectGERAN | | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | TS 36.331. . This | | | | | value will apply | | | | | to all GERAN | | | | | frequencies. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qOffsetUtra | Indicates a | -15..15 | | | | UTRA-specific | | | | | offset to be | | | | | applied when | | | | | evaluating | | | | | triggering | | | | | conditions for | | | | | measurement | | | | | reporting in | | | | | connected mode. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | offsetFreq | | | | | included in the IE | | | | | MeasObjectUTRA | | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | TS 36.331. This | | | | | value will apply | | | | | to all UTRA | | | | | frequencies. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qQualMinUtra | Minimum required | -24 :0 | | | | received EcIo | | | | | level on this UTRA | | | | | FDD carrier. Value | | | | | in dB. Corresponds | | | | | to parameter | | | | | q-QualMin in SIB6 | | | | | in [10] and in | | | | | [30]. This | | | | | attribute applies | | | | | to all UTRA | | | | | frequencies. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Coverage and | | | | | Capacity | | | | | Optimization and | | | | | ICIC | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qRxLevMinEUtraSib1 | Minimum required | -70 :-22 | | | | received RSRP | | | | | level of a E-UTRA | | | | | cell for cell | | | | | selection. Actual | | | | | value in dBm is | | | | | obtained by | | | | | multiplying by 2. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | q-rxLevMin in SIB1 | | | | | in [10] and in | | | | | [34]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Coverage and | | | | | Capacity | | | | | Optimization and | | | | | ICIC. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qRxLevMinEUtraSib3 | Minimum required | -70 :-22 | | | | received RSRP | | | | | level for | | | | | intra-frequency | | | | | E-UTRA cell | | | | | re-selection. | | | | | Actual value in | | | | | dBm is obtained by | | | | | multiplying by 2. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | q-rxLevMin in SIB3 | | | | | in [10] and in | | | | | [34]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Coverage and | | | | | Capacity | | | | | Optimization and | | | | | ICIC. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qRxLevMinGeran | Minimum required | 0 : 63 | | | | received RSSI | | | | | level on a GERAN | | | | | frequency carrier | | | | | for re-selection | | | | | to a GERAN | | | | | carrier. Actual | | | | | value in dBm is | | | | | value * 2 - 115. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | q-rxLevMin in SIB7 | | | | | in [10] and to | | | | | RXLEV_ACCESS_MIN | | | | | in [31]. This | | | | | attribute applies | | | | | to all GERAN | | | | | frequencies. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Coverage and | | | | | Capacity | | | | | Optimization and | | | | | ICIC. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | qRxLevMinUtra | Minimum required | -60 :-13 | | | | received RSCP | | | | | level on a UTRA | | | | | frequency carrier. | | | | | Actual value in | | | | | dBm is obtained by | | | | | multiplying by 2 | | | | | plus 1. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | q-rxLevMin in SIB6 | | | | | in [10] and in | | | | | [30]. This | | | | | attribute applies | | | | | to all UTRA | | | | | frequencies. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Coverage and | | | | | Capacity | | | | | Optimization and | | | | | ICIC. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | re | This defines the | See 3GPP TS | | | ferenceSignalPower | cell specific | 36.331[10] | | | | downlink reference | | | | | signal transmit | | | | | power, which is | | | | | described in 3GPP | | | | | TS 36.213[25] | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | relatedAntennaList | This is an | See | | | | attribute to list | 'r | | | | the DNs of | elatedAntennaList' | | | | Ante | in | | | | nnaFunction(s)(see | R | | | | TS 32.792[31]) | ef. 3GPP TS 32.792 | | | | that support the | [31] | | | | EUtranGenericCell. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | relatedSector | This is an | See | | | | attribute to the | 'Sector | | | | DN of | EquipmentFunction' | | | | Secto | in | | | | rEquipmentFunction | R | | | | (see TS | ef. 3GPP TS 32.792 | | | | 32.792[31]) that | [31]. | | | | support the | | | | | EUtranGenericCell. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | relatedTmaList | This is an | See | | | | attribute to list | 'relatedTmaList' | | | | the DNs of | in | | | | TmaFunction(s) | R | | | | (see TS | ef. 3GPP TS 32.792 | | | | 32.792[31]) that | [31]. | | | | support the | | | | | EUtranGenericCell. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | responseWindowSize | Denotes the | Enum{sf2, sf3, | | | | duration of the | sf4, sf5, sf6, | | | | random access | sf7, sf8,sf10} | | | | response window. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | ra- | | | | | ResponseWindowSize | | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | TS 36.331 section | | | | | 6.3.2 and in 3GPP | | | | | TS 36.321 section | | | | | 5.1.4. Value sfn | | | | | corresponds to n | | | | | subframes. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for RACH | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | rootSequenceIndex | Logical root | 0 : 837 | | | | sequence index | | | | | used to determine | | | | | 64 physical RACH | | | | | preamble sequences | | | | | available in the | | | | | cell. Corresponds | | | | | to | | | | | RA | | | | | CH_ROOT_SEQUENCE | | | | | parameter defined | | | | | in [10] and | | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for RACH | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | servedRN | This attribute | | | | | contains the DNs | | | | | of one or more | | | | | associated | | | | | instances of | | | | | RNFunction and | | | | | E | | | | | xternalRNFunction. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | servingCell | This attribute | | | | | contains the DN of | | | | | one associated | | | | | instance of | | | | | EutranGenericCell | | | | | or | | | | | External | | | | | EutranGenericCell. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | sfAssignment | This is the | See 3GPP TS | | | | uplink-downlink | 36.211[12]. | | | | subframe | | | | | configuration | | | | | number of a TDD | | | | | E-UTRAN cell. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | sIntraSearch | Threshold for | 0: 31 | | | | intra-frequency | | | | | measurements. | | | | | Actual value in dB | | | | | is obtained by | | | | | multiplying by 2. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | s-IntraSearch | | | | | specified in SIB3 | | | | | in [10] and in | | | | | [34]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | sizeO | Size of the random | n4, n8, n12, n16 | | | fRAPreamblesGroupA | access preamble | ,n20, n24, n28, | | | | group A. | n32, n36, n40, | | | | Corresponds to | n44, n48, n52, | | | | parameter | n56, n60 | | | | sizeO | | | | | fRA-PreamblesGroup | | | | | specified in | | | | | [10] and [40]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for RACH | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | specialSfPatterns | This is the | See 3GPP TS | | | | special subframe | 36.211[12]. | | | | configuration | | | | | number of a TDD | | | | | E-UTRAN cell. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | tac | Common Tracking | a) It is the | | | | Area Code for the | > Tracking | | | | PLMNs. The | > Area Code | | | | identity used to | > (TAC). | | | | identify tracking | | | | | areas. | b) A cell can | | | | | > only | | | | | > broadcast | | | | | > one TAC. See | | | | | > TS 36.300 | | | | | > [11], | | | | | > section | | | | | > 10.1.7 | | | | | > (PLMNID and | | | | | > TAC | | | | | > relation). | | | | | | | | | | c) TAC is defined | | | | | > in TS 23.003 | | | | | > [3], | | | | | > section | | | | | > 19.4.2.3. | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | tc | This attribute | See "Trace | | | eIDMappingInfoList | includes a list of | Collection Entity | | | | TCE ID and the | Address" and | | | | corresponding TCE | "Trace Collection | | | | IP address. It is | Entity Id" in 3GPP | | | | used in Logged MDT | TS 32.422 [30]. | | | | case to provide | | | | | the information to | | | | | the eNodeB to get | | | | | the corresponding | | | | | TCE IP address | | | | | when there is an | | | | | MDT log received | | | | | from the UE. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | tCI | This is the Target | The Target Cell | | | | Cell Identifier. | Identifier is | | | | It consists of | defined in TS | | | | E-UTRAN Cell | 36.300 [11]. See | | | | Global Identifier | TS 36.211 [12] | | | | (ECGI) and | subclause 6.11 for | | | | Physical Cell | legal values of | | | | Identifier (PCI) | the PCI. | | | | of the target | | | | | cell. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | EUtranRelation.tCI | | | | | identifies the | | | | | target cell from | | | | | the perspective of | | | | | the | | | | | EUtranGenericCell, | | | | | the | | | | | name-containing | | | | | instance of the | | | | | subject | | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | | instance. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | ti | > Time during | {ms0, ms40, ms64, | | | meToTriggerEutraA1 | > which | ms80, ms100, | | | | > measurement | ms128, ms160, | | | | > report | ms256, ms320, | | | | > triggering | ms480, ms512, | | | | > condition needs | ms640, ms1024, | | | | > to be met in | ms1280, ms2560, | | | | > order to trigger | ms5120} | | | | > a measurement | | | | | > report for event | | | | | > A1. Maps to the | | | | | > _timeToTrigger _| | | | | > IE specified in | | | | | > * | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA_ | | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event A1. Value | | | | | > ms0 corresponds | | | | | > to 0 miliseconds | | | | | > etc. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | ti | > Time during | {ms0, ms40, ms64, | | | meToTriggerEutraA2 | > which | ms80, ms100, | | | | > measurement | ms128, ms160, | | | | > report | ms256, ms320, | | | | > triggering | ms480, ms512, | | | | > condition needs | ms640, ms1024, | | | | > to be met in | ms1280, ms2560, | | | | > order to trigger | ms5120} | | | | > a measurement | | | | | > report for event | | | | | > A2. Maps to the | | | | | > _timeToTrigger_ | | | | | > IE specified in | | | | | > * | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA _| | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event A2. Value | | | | | > ms0 corresponds | | | | | > to 0 miliseconds | | | | | > etc. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | ti | > Time during | {ms0, ms40, ms64, | | | meToTriggerEutraA3 | > which | ms80, ms100, | | | | > measurement | ms128, ms160, | | | | > report | ms256, ms320, | | | | > triggering | ms480, ms512, | | | | > condition needs | ms640, ms1024, | | | | > to be met in | ms1280, ms2560, | | | | > order to trigger | ms5120} | | | | > a measurement | | | | | > report for event | | | | | > A3. Maps to the | | | | | > _timeToTrigger _| | | | | > IE specified in | | | | | > * | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA_ | | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event A3. Value | | | | | > ms0 corresponds | | | | | > to 0 miliseconds | | | | | > etc. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | ti | > Time during | {ms0, ms40, ms64, | | | meToTriggerEutraA4 | > which | ms80, ms100, | | | | > measurement | ms128, ms160, | | | | > report | ms256, ms320, | | | | > triggering | ms480, ms512, | | | | > condition needs | ms640, ms1024, | | | | > to be met in | ms1280, ms2560, | | | | > order to trigger | ms5120} | | | | > a measurement | | | | | > report for event | | | | | > A4. Maps to the | | | | | > _timeToTrigger_ | | | | | > IE specified in | | | | | > * | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA _| | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event A4. Value | | | | | > ms0 corresponds | | | | | > to 0 miliseconds | | | | | > etc. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robust | | | | | ness Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | ti | > Time during | {ms0, ms40, ms64, | | | meToTriggerEutraA5 | > which | ms80, ms100, | | | | > measurement | ms128, ms160, | | | | > report | ms256, ms320, | | | | > triggering | ms480, ms512, | | | | > condition needs | ms640, ms1024, | | | | > to be met in | ms1280, ms2560, | | | | > order to trigger | ms5120} | | | | > a measurement | | | | | > report for event | | | | | > A5. Maps to the | | | | | > _timeToTrigger _| | | | | > IE specified in | | | | | > * | | | | | ReportConfigEUTRA_ | | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event A5. Value | | | | | > ms0 corresponds | | | | | > to 0 miliseconds | | | | | > etc. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robust | | | | | ness Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | t | > Time during | {ms0, ms40, ms64, | | | imeToTriggerIratB1 | > which IRAT | ms80, ms100, | | | | > measurement | ms128, ms160, | | | | > report | ms256, ms320, | | | | > triggering | ms480, ms512, | | | | > condition needs | ms640, ms1024, | | | | > to be met in | ms1280, ms2560, | | | | > order to trigger | ms5120} | | | | > IRAT measurement | | | | | > report for event | | | | | > B1. Maps to | | | | | > _timeToTrigger_ | | | | | > IE specified in | | | | | > _Rep | | | | | ortConfigInterRAT_ | | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event B1. Value | | | | | > ms0 corresponds | | | | | > to 0 | | | | | > milliseconds | | | | | > etc. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robust | | | | | ness Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | t | > Time during | {ms0, ms40, ms64, | | | imeToTriggerIratB2 | > which IRAT | ms80, ms100, | | | | > measurement | ms128, ms160, | | | | > report | ms256, ms320, | | | | > triggering | ms480, ms512, | | | | > condition needs | ms640, ms1024, | | | | > to be met in | ms1280, ms2560, | | | | > order to trigger | ms5120} | | | | > IRAT measurement | | | | | > report for event | | | | | > B2. Maps to | | | | | > _timeToTrigger_ | | | | | > IE specified in | | | | | > _Rep | | | | | ortConfigInterRAT_ | | | | | > IE in [10] | | | | | > corresponding to | | | | | > event B2. Value | | | | | > ms0 corresponds | | | | | > to 0 | | | | | > milliseconds | | | | | > etc. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | tR | Cell reselection | 0 :7 | | | eselectionCdma2000 | timer for | | | | | reselection to a | | | | | CDMA2000 band. | | | | | Value in seconds. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | t-R | | | | | eselectionCDMA2000 | | | | | specified in SIB8 | | | | | in [10] and to | | | | | Tres | | | | | electionCDMA_HRPD | | | | | or | | | | | Trese | | | | | lectionCDMA_1xRTT | | | | | in [34] | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | tReselectionEUtra | Cell reselection | 0 :7 | | | | timer for intra | | | | | frequency E-UTRA | | | | | cell reselection. | | | | | Value in seconds. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | t-ReselectionEUTRA | | | | | specified in SIB3 | | | | | in [10] and in | | | | | [34]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | tReselectionGeran | Cell reselection | 0 :7 | | | | timer for | | | | | reselection to a | | | | | GERAN frequency | | | | | carrier. Value in | | | | | seconds. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | t-ReselectionGERAN | | | | | specified in SIB7 | | | | | in [10] and to | | | | | TreselectionGERA | | | | | in [34]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | tReselectionUtra | Cell reselection | 0 :7 | | | | timer for | | | | | reselection to a | | | | | UTRA frequency | | | | | carrier. Value in | | | | | seconds. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | parameter | | | | | t-ReselectionUTRA | | | | | specified in SIB6 | | | | | in [10] and in | | | | | [34]. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | tStoreUeContext | The timer used for | 0 :1023 | | | | detection of too | | | | | early HO. | | | | | Corresponds to | | | | | Tstore_UE_cntxt | | | | | timer described in | | | | | [11]. Value in | | | | | 100 milliseconds. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute may | | | | | be used for | | | | | Mobility | | | | | Robustness | | | | | Optimization. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | x2BlackList | This is a list of | | | | | DNs of ENBFunction | | | | | and | | | | | Ex | | | | | ternalENBFunction. | | | | | If the target node | | | | | DN is a member of | | | | | the source node's | | | | | ENBFun | | | | | ction.x2BlackList, | | | | | the source node | | | | | is: | | | | | | | | | | 1. Prohibited | | | | | from sending | | | | | X2 connection | | | | | request to | | | | | target node; | | | | | | | | | | 2. Forced to tear | | | | | down | | | | | established X2 | | | | | connection to | | | | | target node | | | | | | | | | | 3. Not allowed to | | | | | accept | | | | | incoming X2 | | | | | connection | | | | | request from | | | | | target node. | | | | | | | | | | The same DN may | | | | | appear here and in | | | | | ENBFun | | | | | ction.x2WhiteList. | | | | | In such case, the | | | | | DN in x2WhiteList | | | | | shall be treated | | | | | as if it is | | | | | absent. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | x2HOBlackList | This is a list of | | | | | DNs of ENBFunction | | | | | and | | | | | Ex | | | | | ternalENBFunction. | | | | | The | | | | | ENBFunc | | | | | tion.x2HOBlackList | | | | | identifies a list | | | | | of neighbour | | | | | ENBFunction and | | | | | E | | | | | xternalENBFunction | | | | | with whom the | | | | | subject | | | | | ENBFunction is | | | | | prohibited to use | | | | | X2 interface for | | | | | HOs even if the X2 | | | | | interface exists | | | | | between them. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | x2IpAddressList | Represents one or | One or more IPv4 | | | | more IP addresses | or IPv6 addresses | | | | used by | | | | | ENBFunction for | | | | | this ENBFunction's | | | | | X2 Interface | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | x2WhiteList | This is a list of | | | | | DNs of ENBFunction | | | | | and | | | | | Ex | | | | | ternalENBFunction. | | | | | If the target node | | | | | DN is a member of | | | | | the source node's | | | | | ENBFun | | | | | ction.x2WhiteList, | | | | | the source node : | | | | | | | | | | - Is allowed to | | | | | request the | | | | | establishment of | | | | | X2 connection with | | | | | the target node; | | | | | | | | | | - Is not allowed | | | | | to initiate the | | | | | tear down of | | | | | established X2 | | | | | connection to | | | | | target node | | | | | | | | | | The same DN may | | | | | appear here and in | | | | | ENBFun | | | | | ction.x2BlackList. | | | | | In such case, the | | | | | DN here shall be | | | | | treated as if it | | | | | is absent. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+
NOTE: Attributes isRemoveAllowed and isHOAllowed each has 2 legal values,
allow (A) and prohibited (P). The two attributes are semantically equivalent
to one attribute with 4 legal values such as:
hOAllow; hOProhibited; hOWhiteListed; hOBlackListed;
where
\- hOAllow == isRemoveAllowed is A and isHOAllowed is A;
\- hOProhibited == isRemoveAllowed is A and isHOAllowed is P;
\- hOWhiteListed == isRemoveAllowed is P and isHOAllowed is A;
\- hOBlackListed == isRemoveAllowed is P and isHOAllowed is P.
Therefore, the choice of an option is FFS.
### 6.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 6.6 Common Notifications
### 6.6.1 Alarm and configuration notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
Note that these notifications are issued based on occurrences on the IRPAgent
IOC and not on occurrences on other IOCs.
### 6.6.2 Configuration notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
Note that these notifications are issued based on occurrences on the IRPAgent
IOC and not on occurrences on other IOCs.
## 6.7 System State Model
None.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Notifications during a Cell Outage
Compensation
The following sequence diagrams and table show an example how notifications of
IOC CellOutageCompensationInformation and other notifications are used to
inform an IRPManager about the COC activities.
The sequence diagrams show the basic event flow, the table gives more details
on selected, most relevant, content of the notifications.
Figure A-1: Sequence diagram of COC, part 1
Figure A-2: Sequence diagram of COC, part 2
Legend for the table:\ Notifications in _italic font_ are not directly
triggered by COC activities, but help to give a full picture.:\ Notification
content in **bold font** indicates a changed attribute value.
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Time** | **Event** | ** | **Selected | | | | Notification** | notification | | | | | content *)**| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T1 | Outage of cell |_n | notificationI | | | 1. COC is done | otifyNewAlarm, | d=notiAlCell1\ | | | for this cell. | originated by | correlatedN | | | | EUt | otifications={ | | | | ranGenericCell | } | | | | instance | | | | | representing | notifi | | | | cell 1_ | cationId=COC1\ | | | | | correlatedN | | | | notifyAttrib | otifications={ | | | | uteValueChange | notiAlCell1};\ | | | | of | c | | | | CellO | OCStatus.state | | | | utageCompensat | = | | | | ionInformation | ** | | | | instance name | cOCActivating\ | | | | contained in | **cOCStatu | | | | EUt | s.errorList={} | | | | ranGenericCell | | | | | instance | | | | | representing | | | | | cell 1. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T2 | COC | notifyAttrib | notificationId | | | reconfigures | uteValueChange | =avcCell2comp\ | | | cell 2 | of | co | | | | EUt | rrelatedNotifi | | | | ranGenericCell | cations={COC1} | | | | instance | | | | | representing | | | | | cell 2 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T3 | COC | notifyAttrib | n | | | reconfigures | uteValueChange | otificationId= | | | cell 3 | of | avcCell3comp\ | | | | EUt | correlatedN | | | | ranGenericCell | otifications={ | | | | instance | COC1} | | | | representing | | | | | cell 3 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T4 | COC tries to | notifyAttrib | notifi | | | reconfigure | uteValueChange | cationId=COC2\ | | | cell 4 without | of | cor | | | success | CellO | relatedNotific | | | | utageCompensat | ations={COC1}\ | | | | ionInformation | c | | | | instance name | OCStatus.state | | | | contained in | =\ | | | | EUt | **c | | | | ranGenericCell | OCActivating** | | | | instance | cOCStatus.err | | | | representing | orList={cell4} | | | | cell 1 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Case: COC | | | | | successful** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T5a | COC function | notifyAttrib | notific | | | decides, that | uteValueChange | ationId=COC5a\ | | | no further | of | cor | | | actions are | CellO | relatedNotific | | | necessary. | utageCompensat | ations={COC1}\ | | | | ionInformation | c | | | | instance | OCStatus.state | | | | contained in | = **cOCActive\ | | | | EUt | * | | | | ranGenericCell |_cOCStatus.err | | | | instance | orList={cell4} | | | | representing | | | | | cell 1 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T6a | Outage of cell |_ notif | _notification | | | 1 ends | yClearedAlarm, | Id= | | | | originated by | clearAlCell1\ | | | | EUt | correlatedN | | | | ranGenericCell | otifications={ | | | | instance | notiAlCell1, | | | | representing | COC1}_ | | | | cell 1* | | | | | | Notification | | | | notifyAttrib | Id=COC6a\ | | | | uteValueChange | co | | | | of | rrelatedNotifi | | | | CellO | cations={COC1, | | | | utageCompensat | COC5a, | | | | ionInformation | clearAlCell1}\ | | | | instance name | c | | | | contained in | OCStatus.state | | | | EUt | = | | | | ranGenericCell | **cO | | | | instance | CDeactivating\ | | | | representing | **cOCStatu | | | | cell 1 | s.errorList={} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T7a | COC tries to | In case of | Notification | | | reconfigure | unsuccessful | Id=COC7a\ | | | cell 2 without | rec | co | | | success | onfiguration:\ | rrelatedNotifi | | | | notifyAttrib | cations={COC1, | | | | uteValueChange | COC5a, COC6a, | | | | of | clearAlCell1}\ | | | | CellO | cOC | | | | utageCompensat | Status.state=\ | | | | ionInformation |** cOCDe | | | | instance name | activating;**\ | | | | contained in | cOCSt | | | | EUt | atus.errorList | | | | ranGenericCell |** ={cell2}\ | | | | instance | ** | | | | representing | | | | | cell 1 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T8a | COC | notifyAttrib | notification | | | reconfigures | uteValueChange | Id= | | | cell 3 | of | a | | | | EUt | vcCell3decomp\ | | | | ranGenericCell | correlatedN | | | | instance | otifications={ | | | | representing | COC1, COC5a, | | | | cell 3 | avcCell3comp } | | | | | | | | | notifyAttrib | Notification | | | | uteValueChange | Id=COC8a\ | | | | of | co | | | | CellO | rrelatedNotifi | | | | utageCompensat | cations={COC1, | | | | ionInformation | clearAlCell1}\ | | | | instance name | cO | | | | contained in | CStatus.state= | | | | EUt | **cOCDeactive\ | | | | ranGenericCell | * | | | | instance | *cOCStatus.err | | | | representing | orList={cell2} | | | | cell 1. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ |** Case: COC | | | | | not | | | | | successful**| | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T5b | COC function | notifyAttrib | Notification | | | decides, that | uteValueChange | Id=COC5b\ | | | compensation | of | cor | | | was not | CellO | relatedNotific | | | successful | utageCompensat | ations={COC1}\ | | | | ionInformation | cO | | | | instance name | CStatus.state= | | | | contained in |** cOCActive\ | | | | EUt | * | | | | ranGenericCell | _cOCStatus.err | | | | instance | orList={cell4} | | | | representing | | | | | cell 1 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T6b | Outage of cell |_ notif | _notification | | | 1 ends | yClearedAlarm, | Id= | | | | originated by | clearAlCell1\ | | | | EUt | correlatedN | | | | ranGenericCell | otifications={ | | | | instance | notiAlCell1, | | | | representing | COC1}_ | | | | cell 1 _| | | | | | Notification | | | | notifyAttrib | Id=COC6b\ | | | | uteValueChange | co | | | | of | rrelatedNotifi | | | | CellO | cations={COC1, | | | | utageCompensat | clearAlCell1}\ | | | | ionInformation | cO | | | | instance name | CStatus.state= | | | | contained in |__cO | | | | EUt | CDeactivating\ | | | | ranGenericCell |__cOCStatu | | | | instance | s.errorList={} | | | | representing | | | | | cell 1 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T7b | COC | notifyAttrib | notification | | | reconfigures | uteValueChange | Id= | | | cell 2 | of | a | | | | EUt | vcCell2decomp\ | | | | ranGenericCell | co | | | | instance | rrelatedNotifi | | | | representing | cations={COC1, | | | | cell 2 | COC5b, | | | | | avcCell2comp } | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T8b | COC | notifyAttrib | notification | | | reconfigures | uteValueChange | Id= | | | cell 3 | of | a | | | | EUt | vcCell3decomp\ | | | | ranGenericCell | correlatedN | | | | instance | otifications={ | | | | representing | COC1, COC5b, | | | | cell 3 | avcCell3comp } | | | | | | | | | notifyAttrib | Notification | | | | uteValueChange | Id=COC8b\ | | | | of | co | | | | CellO | rrelatedNotifi | | | | utageCompensat | cations={COC1, | | | | ionInformation | clearAlCell1}\ | | | | instance name | cO | | | | contained in | CStatus.state= | | | | EUt |__cOCDeactive\ | | | | ranGenericCell |_ *cOCStatu | | | | instance | s.errorList={} | | | | representing | | | | | cell 1. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
*) Remarks:
There may be some content of the correlatedNotifications and/or
additionalInformation field, which is not related to COC. This additional
content is not shown for better readability and must be kept unchanged by COC.
NotificationId's are only examples.
#