# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 32.761 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
TS 32.762 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)
**TS 32.766 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
E-UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP, through which an IRPAgent can
communicate configuration management information to one or several IRPManagers
concerning E-UTRAN resources. The E-UTRAN NRM IRP comprises a set of
specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral Information Service
and one or more Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the Solution Sets for the E-UTRAN NRM IRP.
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.762 V10. 8.X [4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.153: "Telecommunication management; Integration Reference Point
(IRP) technology specific templates, rules and guidelines".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.762: \" Telecommunications management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.606: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.616: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[8] W3C REC-xml-20001006: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second
Edition)\".
[9] W3C REC-xmlschema-0-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 0: Primer\".
[10] W3C REC-xmlschema-1-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 1: Structures\".
[11] W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
[12] W3C REC-xml-names-19990114: \"Namespaces in XML\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 32.600 [3] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**XML file:** file containing an XML document
**XML document:** composed of the succession of an optional XML declaration
followed by a root XML element
NOTE: See [8]; in the scope of the present document.
**XML declaration:** it specifies the version of XML being used
NOTE: See [8].
**XML element:** has a type, is identified by a name, may have a set of XML
attribute specifications and is either composed of the succession of an XML
start-tag followed by the XML content of the XML element followed by an XML
end-tag, or composed simply of an XML empty-element tag; each XML element may
contain other XML elements
NOTE: See [8].
**empty XML element:** having an empty XML content; an empty XML element still
possibly has a set of XML attribute specifications; an empty XML element is
either composed of the succession of an XML start-tag directly followed by an
XML end-tag, or composed simply of an XML empty-element tag
NOTE: See [8].
**XML content (of an XML element):** empty if the XML element is simply
composed of an XML empty-element tag; otherwise the part, possibly empty, of
the XML element between its XML start-tag and its XML end-tag
**XML start-tag:** the beginning of a non-empty XML element is marked by an
XML start-tag containing the name and the set of XML attribute specifications
of the XML element
NOTE: See [8].
**XML end-tag:** the end of a non-empty XML element is marked by an XML end-
tag containing the name of the XML element
NOTE: See [8].
**XML empty-element tag:** composed simply of an empty-element tag containing
the name and the set of XML attribute specifications of the XML element.
NOTE: See [8].
**XML attribute specification:** has a name and a value
NOTE: See [8].
**DTD:** defines structure and content constraints to be respected by an XML
document to be valid with regard to this DTD
NOTE: See [8].
**XML schema:** more powerful than a DTD, an XML schema defines structure and
content constraints to be respected by an XML document to conform with this
XML schema; through the use of XML namespaces several XML schemas can be used
together by a single XML document; an XML schema is itself also an XML
document that shall conform with the XML schema for XML schemas
NOTE: See [9], [10] and [11].
**XML namespace:** enables qualifying element and attribute names used in XML
documents by associating them with namespaces identified by different XML
schemas
NOTE: See [12], in the scope of the present document.
**XML complex type:** defined in an XML schema; cannot be directly used in an
XML document; can be the concrete type or the derivation base type for an XML
element type or for another XML complex type; ultimately defines constraints
for an XML element on its XML attribute specifications and/or its XML content
NOTE: See [9], [10] and [11].
**XML element type:** declared by an XML schema; can be directly used in an
XML document; as the concrete type of an XML element, directly or indirectly
defines constraints on its XML attribute specifications and/or its XML
content; can also be the concrete type or the derivation base type for another
XML element type
NOTE: See [9], [10] and [11].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], TS 32.600 [3], and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
DTD Document Type Definition
EDGE Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IS Information Service
IDL Interface Definition Language (OMG)
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
SS Solution Set
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
XML eXtensible Markup Language
XSD XML Schema Definition
# 4 Solution Set Definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP E-UTRAN NRM IRP Solution Set
Definitions:
  * 3GPP E-UTRAN NRM IRP CORBA SS (Annex A)
  * 3GPP E-UTRAN NRM IRP XML Definitions (Annex B)
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in E-UTRAN NRM IRP: Information Service (TS 32.762 [4]).
# A.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of E-UTRAN Network Resources IRP is
specified in 3GPP TS 32.762 [4].\ This clause specifies features that are
specific to the CORBA SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
## A.1.2 Rules for NRM extensions
This clause discusses how the models and IDL definitions provided in the
present document can be extended for a particular implementation and still
remain compliant with 3GPP SA5\'s specifications (see also Annex B of TS
32.153 [2].).
### A.1.2.1 Allowed extensions
Vendor-specific MOCs may be supported. The vendor-specific MOCs may support
new types of attributes.\ The 3GPP SA5-specified notifications may be issued
referring to the vendor-specific MOCs and vendor-specific attributes. New MOCs
shall be distinguishable from 3GPP SA5 MOCs by name. 3GPP SA5-specified and
vendor-specific attributes may be used in vendor-specific MOCs. Vendor-
specific attribute names shall be distinguishable from existing attribute
names.
NRM MOCs may be subclassed. Subclassed MOCs shall maintain the specified
behaviour of the 3GPP SA5\'s superior classes. They may add vendor-specific
behaviour with vendor-specific attributes. When subclassing, naming attributes
cannot be changed. The subclassed MOC shall support all attributes of its
superior class. Vendor-specific attributes cannot be added to 3GPP SA5 NRM
MOCs without subclassing.
When subclassing, the 3GPP SA5-specified containment rules and their specified
cardinality shall still be followed.\ As an example, ManagementNode (or its
subclasses) shall be contained under SubNetwork (or its subclasses).
Managed Object Instances may be instantiated as CORBA objects. This requires
that the MOCs be represented in IDL. 3GPP SA5\'s NRM MOCs are not currently
specified in IDL, but may be specified in IDL for instantiation or subclassing
purposes. However, management information models should not require that
IRPManagers access the instantiated managed objects other than through
supported methods in the present document.
Extension rules related to notifications (Notification categories, Event
Types, Extended Event Types etc.) are for further study.
### A.1.2.2 Extensions not allowed
The IDL specifications in the present document cannot be edited or altered.
Any additional IDL specifications shall be specified in separate IDL files.
IDL interfaces (note: not MOCs) specified in the present document may not be
subclassed or extended. New interfaces may be defined with vendor-specific
methods.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 General mapping
Attributes modelling associations as defined in the NRM (here also called
\"reference attributes\") are in this SS mapped to attributes. The names of
the reference attributes in the NRM are mapped to the corresponding attribute
names in the MOC. When the cardinality for an association is 0..1 or 1..1 the
datatype for the reference attribute is defined as an MOReference. The value
of an MO reference contains the distinguished name of the associated MO. When
the cardinality for an association allows more than one referred MO, the
reference attribute will be of type MOReferenceSet, which contains a sequence
of MO references.
## A.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
This Solution Set supports reference attributes for relations other than
containment relations between objects. Reference attributes are therefore
introduced in each MOC where needed.
### A.2.2.1 IOC ENBFunction
Mapping from NRM IOC ENBFunction attributes and associations to SS equivalent
MOC ENBFunction attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | ENB | | | | | | | Function | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | eNBId | eNBId | unsi | M | M | - | | | | gnedLong | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | x2B | x2B | Ge | CM | M | M | | lackList | lackList | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Attrib | | | | | | | uteTypes | | | | | | | ::MORefe | | | | | | | renceSet | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | x2W | x2W | Ge | CM | M | M | | hiteList | hiteList | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Attrib | | | | | | | uteTypes | | | | | | | ::MORefe | | | | | | | renceSet | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | x2HOB | x2HOB | Ge | CM | M | M | | lackList | lackList | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Attrib | | | | | | | uteTypes | | | | | | | ::MORefe | | | | | | | renceSet | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | x2IpAdd | x2IpAdd | genericE | O | M | - | | ressList | ressList | UTRANNRM | | | | | | | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | pAddress | | | | | | | ListType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | tceI | tceI | genericE | CM | M | M | | DMapping | DMapping | UTRANNRM | | | | | InfoList | InfoList | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TceIDMap | | | | | | | pingInfo | | | | | | | ListType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note: | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | ditional | | | | | | | qua | | | | | | | lifiers, | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | straints | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### A.2.2.2 IOC EUtranGenericCell
Mapping from NRM IOC EUtranGenericCell attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC EUtranGenericCell attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | E | | | | | | | UtranGen | | | | | | | ericCell | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | cel | cel | unsig | M | M | M | | lLocalId | lLocalId | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | cellSize | cellSize | genericE | M | M | M | | | | UTRANNRM | | | | | | | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | cellSize | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | pl | pl | genericE | M | M | M | | mnIdList | mnIdList | UTRANNRM | | | | | | | Attribut | | | | | | Note: | eTypes:: | | | | | | the | | | | | | | first | plmnId | | | | | | plmnId | ListType | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | pl | | | | | | | mnIdList | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | primary | | | | | | | PLMN id | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | tac | tac | long | M | M | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | pci | pci | short | M | M | CM | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | pciList | pciList | genericE | CM | M | M | | | | UTRANNRM | | | | | | | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | pci | | | | | | | ListType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | maximumT | maximumT | short | M | M | CM | | ransmiss | ransmiss | | | | | | ionPower | ionPower | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | refe | refe | short | M | M | M | | renceSig | renceSig | | | | | | nalPower | nalPower | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | pb | pb | short | M | M | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | p | p | short | CM | M | M | | artOfSec | artOfSec | | | | | | torPower | torPower | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | relate | relate | Ge | CO | M | - | | dTmaList | dTmaList | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Attrib | | | | | | | uteTypes | | | | | | | ::MORefe | | | | | | | renceSet | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | re | re | Ge | CO | M | - | | latedAnt | latedAnt | nericNet | | | | | ennaList | ennaList | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Attrib | | | | | | | uteTypes | | | | | | | ::MORefe | | | | | | | renceSet | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | relat | relat | Ge | CM | M | - | | edSector | edSector | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Att | | | | | | | ributeTy | | | | | | | pes::MOR | | | | | | | eference | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | operatio | operatio | StateMan | O | M | _−_ | | nalState | nalState | agementI | | | | | | | RPOptCon | | | | | | | stDefs:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Operati | | | | | | | onalStat | | | | | | | eTypeOpt | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | adm | adm | StateMan | O | M | _M_ | | inistrat | inistrat | agementI | | | | | iveState | iveState | RPOptCon | | | | | | | stDefs:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ad | | | | | | | ministra | | | | | | | tiveStat | | | | | | | eTypeOpt | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | av | av | StateMan | O | M | _-_ | | ailabili | ailabili | agementI | | | | | tyStatus | tyStatus | RPOptCon | | | | | | | stDefs:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | vailabil | | | | | | | ityStatu | | | | | | | sTypeOpt | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | cell | cell | genericE | CM | M | _M_ | | ResvInfo | ResvInfo | UTRANNRM | | | | | | | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | cellResv | | | | | | | InfoType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | allo | allo | genericE | M | M | M | | wedAcces | wedAcces | UTRANNRM | | | | | sClasses | sClasses | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | allo | | | | | | | wedAcces | | | | | | | sEnumCla | | | | | | | ssesType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | isChan | isChan | Ge | CM | M | M | | geForEne | geForEne | nericNet | | | | | rgySavin | rgySavin | workReso | | | | | gAllowed | gAllowed | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | Types::y | | | | | | | esNoType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note: | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | ditional | | | | | | | qua | | | | | | | lifiers, | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | straints | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### A.2.2.3 IOC ExternalEUtranGenericCell
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalEUtranGenericCell attributes and associations to
SS equivalent MOC ExternalEUtranGenericCell attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | E | | | | | | | xternalE | | | | | | | UtranGen | | | | | | | ericCell | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | pci | pci | short | M | M | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | pl | pl | genericE | M | M | M | | mnIdList | mnIdList | UTRANNRM | | | | | | | Attribut | | | | | | Note: | eTypes:: | | | | | | the | | | | | | | first | plmnId | | | | | | plmnId | ListType | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | pl | | | | | | | mnIdList | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | primary | | | | | | | PLMN id | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | cel | cel | unsig | M | M | M | | lLocalId | lLocalId | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | eNBId | eNBId | unsi | CM | M | M | | | | gnedLong | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### A.2.2.4 IOC EUtranCellFDD
Mapping from NRM IOC EUtranCellFDD attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC EUtranCellFDD attributes
* * *
Attribute of IOC EUtranCellFDD in 3GPP TS 32.762 [4] SS Attribute SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier earfcnDl earfcnDl short M M M
earfcnUl earfcnUl short M M M
* * *
### A.2.2.5 IOC ExternalEUtranCellFDD
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalEUtranCellFDD attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC ExternalEUtranCellFDD attributes
* * *
Attribute of IOC ExternalEUtranCellFDD in 3GPP TS 32.762 [4] SS Attribute SS
Type Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier earfcnDl earfcnDl short
M M M earfcnUl earfcnUl short M M M
* * *
### A.2.2.6 IOC EUtranRelation
Mapping from NRM IOC EUtranRelation attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC EUtranRelation attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | EUtran | | | | | | | Relation | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | tCI | tCI | long | O | M | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | isRemov | isRemov | boolean | CM | M | M | | eAllowed | eAllowed | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | isH | isH | boolean | CM | M | M | | OAllowed | OAllowed | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | adja | adja | Ge | M | M | M | | centCell | centCell | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Att | | | | | | | ributeTy | | | | | | | pes::MOR | | | | | | | eference | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | isIC | isIC | boolean | CM | M | M | | ICInform | ICInform | | | | | | ationSen | ationSen | | | | | | dAllowed | dAllowed | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | isL | isL | boolean | CM | M | M | | BAllowed | BAllowed | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | isESC | isESC | gener | CM | M | M | | overedBy | overedBy | icEUTRAN | | | | | | | NRMAttri | | | | | | | buteType | | | | | | | s::IsEsC | | | | | | | overedBy | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | cell | cell | generic | CM | M | - | | Individu | Individu | EUTRANNR | | | | | alOffset | alOffset | MAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes: | | | | | | | :qOffset | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qOffset | qOffset | generic | CM | M | M | | | | EUTRANNR | | | | | | | MAttribu | | | | | | | teTypes: | | | | | | | :qOffset | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | ditional | | | | | | | qua | | | | | | | lifiers, | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | straints | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### A.2.2.7 IOC Link_ENB_ENB
Mapping from NRM IOC Link_ENB_ENB attributes and associations to SS equivalent
MOC Link_ENB_ENB attributes
* * *
Attribute of IOC Link_ENB_ENB in 3GPP TS 32.762 [4] SS Attribute SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
* * *
### A.2.2.8 IOC Cdma2000Relation
Mapping from NRM IOC Cdma2000Relation attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC Cdma2000Relation attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | Cdma2000 | | | | | | | Relation | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | adjace | adjace | Ge | M | M | - | | ntSector | ntSector | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Att | | | | | | | ributeTy | | | | | | | pes::MOR | | | | | | | eference | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### A.2.2.9 Void
### A.2.2.10 IOC ExternalENBFunction
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalENBFunction attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC ExternalENBFunction attributes
* * *
Attribute of IOC ExternalENBFunction in 3GPP TS 32.762 [4] SS Attribute SS
Type Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id id string M M - eNBId
eNBId unsignedLong M M -
* * *
### A.2.2.11 IOC EUtranCellTDD
Mapping from NRM IOC EUtranCellTDD attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC EUtranCellTDD attributes
* * *
Attribute of IOC EUtranCellTDD in 3GPP TS 32.762 [4] SS Attribute SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier earfcn earfcn short M M M
sfAssignment sfAssignment short M M M specialSfPatterns specialSfPatterns
short M M M
* * *
### A.2.2.12 IOC ExternalEUtranCellTDD
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalEUtranCellTDD attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC ExternalEUtranCellTDD attributes
* * *
Attribute of IOC ExternalEUtranCellTDD in 3GPP TS 32.762 [4] SS Attribute SS
Type Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier earfcn earfcn short M M
M
* * *
### A.2.2.13 IOC MCEFunction
* * *
Attribute of IOC MCEFunction in 3GPP TS 32.762 [2] SS Attribute SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id id string M M -
* * *
### A.2.2.14 IOC MBSFNArea
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | M | | | | | | | BSFNArea | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [2] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | mbs | mbs | short | M | M | M | | fnAreaId | fnAreaId | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ce | ce | Ge | M | M | M | | llIdList | llIdList | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Attrib | | | | | | | uteTypes | | | | | | | ::MORefe | | | | | | | renceSet | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### A.2.2.15 IOC RNFunction
Mapping from NRM IOC RNFunction attributes and associations to SS equivalent
MOC RNFunction attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | RN | | | | | | | Function | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ser | ser | Ge | M | M | M | | vingCell | vingCell | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Att | | | | | | | ributeTy | | | | | | | pes::MOR | | | | | | | eference | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ca | ca | genericE | M | M | M | | ndidateD | ndidateD | UTRANNRM | | | | | eNBCells | eNBCells | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ecgi | | | | | | | ListType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Editor's note: the need of attribute candidateDeNBCells is for FFS.
### A.2.2.16 IOC DeNBCapability
Mapping from NRM IOC DeNBCapabilityattributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC DeNBCapabilityattributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | DeNBCapa | | | | | | | bilityin | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | servedRN | servedRN | Ge | M | M | M | | | | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Attrib | | | | | | | uteTypes | | | | | | | ::MORefe | | | | | | | renceSet | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | maxNbrR | maxNbrR | unsig | M | M | M | | NAllowed | NAllowed | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### A.2.2.17 IOC ExternalRNFunction
Mapping from NRM IOC ExternalRNFunction attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC ExternalRNFunction attributes
* * *
Attribute of IOC RNFunction in 3GPP TS 32.762 [4] SS Attribute SS Type Support
Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id id string M M -
* * *
### A.2.2.18 Void
### A.2.2.19 IOC QciDscpMapping
Mapping from NRM IOC QciDscpMapping attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC QciDscpMapping attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | RN | | | | | | | Function | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qc | qc | genericE | M | M | M | | iDscpMap | iDscpMap | UTRANNRM | | | | | pingList | pingList | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | qciDsc | | | | | | | pMapping | | | | | | | ListType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### A.2.2.20 IOC EnergySavingProperties
Mapping from NRM IOC EnergySavingPropoerties attributes and associations to SS
equivalent MOC ExternalD EnergySavingPropoerties attributes
* * *
Attribute of IOC EnergySavingPropoerties in 3GPP TS 32.762 [4] SS Attribute SS
Type Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier energySavingState
energySavingState genericEUTRANNRMAttributeTypes::EnergySavingStateEnumType M
M - energySavingControl energySavingControl
genericEUTRANNRMAttributeTypes::EnergySavingControlEnumType CM M M
* * *
### A.2.2.21 IOC CellOutageCompensationInformation
* * *
Attribute of IOC SONTargets in 3GPP TS 32.522 [4] SS Attribute SS Type Support
Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier cOCStatus
cellOutageCompensationStatus GenericSONPolicyNRMAttributeTypes::
cellOutageCompensationStatus M M - isCOCAllowed isCOCAllowed Boolean M M M
* * *
### A.2.2.22 IOC EUtranCellNMCentralizedSON
Mapping from NRM IOC EUtranCellNMCentralizedSON attributes and associations to
SS equivalent MOC EUtranCellNMCentralizedSON attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | ENB | | | | | | | Function | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a1Thres | a1Thres | unsig | CM | M | M | | holdRsrp | holdRsrp | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a1Thres | a1Thres | unsig | CM | M | M | | holdRsrq | holdRsrq | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a2Thres | a2Thres | unsig | CM | M | M | | holdRsrp | holdRsrp | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a2Thres | a2Thres | unsig | CM | M | M | | holdRsrq | holdRsrq | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a3Offset | a3Offset | short | CM | M | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a4Thres | a4Thres | unsig | CM | M | M | | holdRsrp | holdRsrp | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a4Thres | a4Thres | unsig | CM | M | M | | holdRsrq | holdRsrq | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a5Thresh | a5Thresh | unsig | CM | M | M | | old1Rsrp | old1Rsrp | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a5Thresh | a5Thresh | unsig | CM | M | M | | old1Rsrq | old1Rsrq | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b1T | b1T | short | CM | M | M | | hreshold | hreshold | | | | | | UtraRscp | UtraRscp | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b1T | b1T | unsig | CM | M | M | | hreshold | hreshold | nedShort | | | | | UtraEcN0 | UtraEcN0 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b1Thresh | b1Thresh | unsig | CM | M | M | | oldGeran | oldGeran | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b1T | b1T | unsig | CM | M | M | | hreshold | hreshold | nedShort | | | | | Cdma2000 | Cdma2000 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b2Thresh | b2Thresh | unsig | CM | M | M | | old1Rsrp | old1Rsrp | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b2Thresh | b2Thresh | unsig | CM | M | M | | old1Rsrq | old1Rsrq | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b2Th | b2Th | short | CM | M | M | | reshold2 | reshold2 | | | | | | UtraRscp | UtraRscp | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b2Th | b2Th | unsig | CM | M | M | | reshold2 | reshold2 | nedShort | | | | | UtraEcN0 | UtraEcN0 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b | b | unsig | CM | M | M | | 2Thresho | 2Thresho | nedShort | | | | | ld2Geran | ld2Geran | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b2Th | b2Th | unsig | CM | M | M | | reshold2 | reshold2 | nedShort | | | | | Cdma2000 | Cdma2000 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | commonCh | commonCh | short | CM | M | M | | annelPow | annelPow | | | | | | erOffset | erOffset | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | co | co | unsig | CM | M | M | | nfigurat | nfigurat | nedShort | | | | | ionIndex | ionIndex | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | c | c | genericE | CM | M | M | | ontentio | ontentio | UTRANNRM | | | | | nResolut | nResolut | Attribut | | | | | ionTimer | ionTimer | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | ontentio | | | | | | | nResolut | | | | | | | ionTimer | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | h | h | unsig | CM | M | M | | ysteresi | ysteresi | nedShort | | | | | sEutraA1 | sEutraA1 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | h | h | unsig | CM | M | M | | ysteresi | ysteresi | nedShort | | | | | sEutraA2 | sEutraA2 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | h | h | unsig | CM | M | M | | ysteresi | ysteresi | nedShort | | | | | sEutraA3 | sEutraA3 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | h | h | unsig | CM | M | M | | ysteresi | ysteresi | nedShort | | | | | sEutraA4 | sEutraA4 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | h | h | unsig | CM | M | M | | ysteresi | ysteresi | nedShort | | | | | sEutraA5 | sEutraA5 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | hysteres | hysteres | unsig | CM | M | M | | isIratB1 | isIratB1 | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | hysteres | hysteres | unsig | CM | M | M | | isIratB2 | isIratB2 | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | num | num | genericE | CM | M | M | | berOfRaP | berOfRaP | UTRANNRM | | | | | reambles | reambles | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | num | | | | | | | berOfRaP | | | | | | | reambles | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | pr | pr | genericE | CM | M | M | | eambleIn | eambleIn | UTRANNRM | | | | | itialRec | itialRec | Attribut | | | | | eivedTar | eivedTar | eTypes:: | | | | | getPower | getPower | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | eambleIn | | | | | | | itialRec | | | | | | | eivedTar | | | | | | | getPower | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | preamble | preamble | genericE | CM | M | M | | TransMax | TransMax | UTRANNRM | | | | | | | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | preamble | | | | | | | TransMax | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | pMax | pMax | short | CM | M | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | powerRam | powerRam | genericE | CM | M | M | | pingStep | pingStep | UTRANNRM | | | | | | | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | powerRam | | | | | | | pingStep | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qHyst | qHyst | genericE | CM | M | M | | | | UTRANNRM | | | | | | | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | qHyst | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qOf | qOf | unsig | CM | M | M | | fsetUtra | fsetUtra | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qOff | qOff | unsig | CM | M | M | | setGeran | setGeran | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qOffset | qOffset | unsig | CM | M | M | | Cdma2000 | Cdma2000 | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qQua | qQua | unsig | CM | M | M | | lMinUtra | lMinUtra | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qR | qR | short | CM | M | M | | xLevMinE | xLevMinE | | | | | | UtraSib1 | UtraSib1 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qR | qR | short | CM | M | M | | xLevMinE | xLevMinE | | | | | | UtraSib3 | UtraSib3 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qRxLev | qRxLev | unsig | CM | M | M | | MinGeran | MinGeran | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qRxLe | qRxLe | short | CM | M | M | | vMinUtra | vMinUtra | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | re | re | genericE | CM | M | M | | sponseWi | sponseWi | UTRANNRM | | | | | ndowSize | ndowSize | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | sponseWi | | | | | | | ndowSize | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | r | r | unsig | CM | M | M | | ootSeque | ootSeque | nedShort | | | | | nceIndex | nceIndex | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | sInt | sInt | unsig | CM | M | M | | raSearch | raSearch | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | sizeOfR | sizeOfR | genericE | CM | M | M | | APreambl | APreambl | UTRANNRM | | | | | esGroupA | esGroupA | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | sizeOf | | | | | | | RAPreamb | | | | | | | leGroupA | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | time | time | genericE | CM | M | M | | ToTrigge | ToTrigge | UTRANNRM | | | | | rEutraA1 | rEutraA1 | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ti | | | | | | | meToTrig | | | | | | | gerEUtra | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | time | time | genericE | CM | M | M | | ToTrigge | ToTrigge | UTRANNRM | | | | | rEutraA2 | rEutraA2 | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ti | | | | | | | meToTrig | | | | | | | gerEUtra | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | time | time | genericE | CM | M | M | | ToTrigge | ToTrigge | UTRANNRM | | | | | rEutraA3 | rEutraA3 | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ti | | | | | | | meToTrig | | | | | | | gerEUtra | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | time | time | genericE | CM | M | M | | ToTrigge | ToTrigge | UTRANNRM | | | | | rEutraA4 | rEutraA4 | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ti | | | | | | | meToTrig | | | | | | | gerEUtra | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | time | time | genericE | CM | M | M | | ToTrigge | ToTrigge | UTRANNRM | | | | | rEutraA5 | rEutraA5 | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ti | | | | | | | meToTrig | | | | | | | gerEUtra | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | tim | tim | genericE | CM | M | M | | eToTrigg | eToTrigg | UTRANNRM | | | | | erIratB1 | erIratB1 | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ti | | | | | | | meToTrig | | | | | | | gerEUtra | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | tim | tim | genericE | CM | M | M | | eToTrigg | eToTrigg | UTRANNRM | | | | | erIratB2 | erIratB2 | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ti | | | | | | | meToTrig | | | | | | | gerEUtra | | | | | | | EnumType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | tRes | tRes | unsig | CM | M | M | | election | election | nedShort | | | | | Cdma2000 | Cdma2000 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | t | t | unsig | CM | M | M | | Reselect | Reselect | nedShort | | | | | ionEUtra | ionEUtra | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | t | t | unsig | CM | M | M | | Reselect | Reselect | nedShort | | | | | ionGeran | ionGeran | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | tReselec | tReselec | unsig | CM | M | M | | tionUtra | tionUtra | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | tStoreU | tStoreU | unsig | CM | M | M | | eContext | eContext | nedShort | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note: | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | ditional | | | | | | | qua | | | | | | | lifiers, | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | straints | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
# A.3 Solution Set definitions
## A.3.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.3.2 defines the MO classes for the E-UTRAN NRM IRP.
## A.3.2 IDL specification \"EUtranNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl\"
//File:EUtranNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl
#ifndef _E _UTRANNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS__ IDL_
#define _E _UTRANNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS__ IDL_
#include \"GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl\"
#include \"EPCResourcesNRMDefs.idl\"
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/**
* This module defines constants for each MO class name and
* the attribute names for each defined MO class.
*/
module EUtranNetworkResourcesNRMDefs
{
/*
* Definitions for MO class ENBFunction
*/
interface ENBFunction: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"ENBFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id= \"id\";
const string eNBId = \"eNBId\";
const string x2BlackList= \"x2BlackList\";
const string x2WhiteList= \"x2WhiteList\";
const string x2HOBlackList= \"x2HOBlackList\";
const string x2IpAddressList= \"x2IpAddressList\";
const string tceIDMappingInfoList= "tceIDMappingInfoList";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class RNFunction
*/
interface RNFunction: ENBFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"RNFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string servingCell = \"servingCell\";
const string candidateDeNBCells = \"candidateDeNBCells\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class DeNBCapability
*/
interface DeNBCapability: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"DeNBCapability\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id= \"id\";
const string servedRN= \"servedRN\";
const string maxNbrRNAllowed= \"maxNbrRNAllowed\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class ExternalRNFunction
*/
interface ExternalRNFunction: ExternalENBFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalRNFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
};
/*
/*
* Definitions for MO class EUtranGenericCell
*/
interface EUtranGenericCell: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"EUtranGenericCell\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string cellLocalId = \"cellLocalId\";
const string cellSize = \"cellSize\";
const string plmnIdList = \"plmnIdList\";
const string tac = \"tac\";
const string pci = \"pci\";
const string pciList = \"pciList\";
const string operationalState = \"operationalState\";
const string administrativeState = \"administrativeState\";
const string availabilityStatus = \"availabilityStatus\";
const string maximumTransmissionPower = \"maximumTransmissionPower\";
const string referenceSignalPower = \"referenceSignalPower\";
const string pb = \"pb\";
const string partOfSectorPower = \"partOfSectorPower\";
const string relatedTmaList = \"relatedTmaList\";
const string relatedAntennaList = \"relatedAntennaList\";
const string relatedSector = \"relatedSector\";
const string allowedAccessClasses = \"allowedAccessClasses\";
const string isChangeForEnergySavingAllowed =
\"isChangeForEnergySavingAllowed\";
const string cellResvInfo = \"cellResvInfo\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class ExternalEUtranGenericCell
*/
interface ExternalEUtranGenericCell:
GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalEUtranGenericCell\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id= \"id\";
const string pci= \"pci\";
const string plmnIdList = \"plmnIdList\";
const string cellLocalId = \"cellLocalId\";
const string eNBId = \"eNBId\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class EUtranCellFDD
*/
interface EUtranCellFDD: EUtranGenericCell
{
const string CLASS = \"EUtranCellFDD\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string earfcnDl = \"earfcnDl\";
const string earfcnUl = \"earfcnUl\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class ExternalEUtranCellFDD
*/
interface ExternalEUtranCellFDD: ExternalEUtranGenericCell
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalEUtranCellFDD\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string earfcnDl = \"earfcnDl\";
const string earfcnUl = \"earfcnUl\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class EUtranCellTDD
*/
interface EUtranCellTDD: EUtranGenericCell
{
const string CLASS = \"EUtranCellTDD\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string earfcn = \"earfcn\";
const string sfAssignment = \"sfAssignment\";
const string specialSfPatterns = \"specialSfPatterns\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class ExternalEUtranCellTDD
*/
interface ExternalEUtranCellTDD: ExternalEUtranGenericCell
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalEUtranCellTDD\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string earfcn = \"earfcn\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class EUtranRelation
*/
interface EUtranRelation: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Top
{
const string CLASS = \"EUtranRelation\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id= \"id\";
const string tCI = \"tCI\";
const string isRemoveAllowed = \"isRemoveAllowed\";
const string isHOAllowed = \"isHOAllowed\";
const string adjacentCell = \"adjacentCell\";
const string isICICInformationSendAllowed = \"isICICInformationSendAllowed\";
const string isLBAllowed = \"isLBAllowed\";
const string cellIndividualOffset = \"cellIndividualOffset\";
const string qOffset = \"qOffset\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class Link_ENB_ENB
*/
interface Link_ENB_ENB: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_ENB_ENB\";
// Attribute Names
//
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class Cdma2000Relation
*/
interface Cdma2000Relation:GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Top
{
const string CLASS = \"Cdma2000Relation\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id= \"id\";
const string adjacentSector = \"adjacentSector\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class ExternalENBFunction
*/
interface ExternalENBFunction: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"ExternalENBFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string eNBId = \"eNBId\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class MCEFunction
*/
interface MCEFunction: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"MCEFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id= \"id\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class Link_MCE_ENB
*/
interface Link_MCE_ENB: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_MCE_ENB\";
// Attribute Names
//
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class Link_MCE_MME
*/
interface Link_MCE_MME: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Link
{
const string CLASS = \"Link_MCE_MME\";
// Attribute Names
//
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class MBSFNArea
*/
interface MBSFNArea: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Top
{
const string CLASS = \"MBSFNArea\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id= \"id\";
const string mbsfnAreaId= \"mbsfnAreaId\";
const string cellIdList= \"cellIdList\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class QciDscpMapping
*/
interface QciDscpMapping: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"QciDscpMapping\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id= \"id\";
const string qciDscpMappingList = \"qciDscpMappingList\";
};
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class EnergySavingProperties
*/
interface EnergySavingProperties: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Top
{
const string CLASS = \"EnergySavingProperties\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string energySavingState= \"energySavingState\";
const string energySavingControl= \"energySavingControl\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class CellOutageCompensationInformation
*/
interface CellOutageCompensationInformation:
GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Top
{
const string CLASS = \"CellOutageCompensationInformation\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string cellOutageCompensationStatus = \"cellOutageCompensationStatus\";
const string isCOCAllowed =
\"isCOCAllowed\";
};
/*
* Definitions for MO class EUtranCellNMCentralizedSON
*/
interface EUtranCellNMCentralizedSON: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::Top
{
const string CLASS = \"EUtranCellNMCentralizedSON\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string a1ThresholdRsrp = \"a1ThresholdRsrp\";
const string a1ThresholdRsrq = \"a1ThresholdRsrq\";
const string a2ThresholdRsrp = \"a2ThresholdRsrp\";
const string a2ThresholdRsrq = \"a2ThresholdRsrq\";
const string a3Offset = \"a3Offset\";
const string a4ThresholdRsrp = \"a4ThresholdRsrp\";
const string a4ThresholdRsrq = \"a4ThresholdRsrq\";
const string a5Threshold1Rsrp = \"a5Threshold1Rsrp\";
const string a5Threshold1Rsrq = \"a5Threshold1Rsrq\";
const string b1ThresholdUtraRscp = \"b1ThresholdUtraRscp\";
const string b1ThresholdUtraEcN0 = \"b1ThresholdUtraEcN0\";
const string b1ThresholdGeran = \"b1ThresholdGeran\";
const string b1ThresholdCdma2000 = \"b1ThresholdCdma2000\";
const string b2Threshold1Rsrp = \"b2Threshold1Rsrp\";
const string b2Threshold1Rsrq = \"b2Threshold1Rsrq\";
const string b2Threshold2UtraRscp = \"b2Threshold2UtraRscp\";
const string b2Threshold2UtraEcN0 = \"b2Threshold2UtraEcN0\";
const string b2Threshold2Geran = \"b2Threshold2Geran\";
const string b2Threshold2Cdma2000 = \"b2Threshold2Cdma2000\";
const string commonChannelPowerOffset = \"commonChannelPowerOffset\";
const string configurationIndex = \"configurationIndex\";
const string contentionResolutionTimer = \"contentionResolutionTimer\";
const string hysteresisEutraA1 = \"hysteresisEutraA1\";
const string hysteresisEutraA2 = \"hysteresisEutraA2\";
const string hysteresisEutraA3 = \"hysteresisEutraA3\";
const string hysteresisEutraA4 = \"hysteresisEutraA4\";
const string hysteresisEutraA5 = \"hysteresisEutraA5\";
const string hysteresisIratB1 = \"hysteresisIratB1\";
const string hysteresisIratB2 = \"hysteresisIratB2\";
const string numberOfRaPreambles = \"numberOfRaPreambles\";
const string preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower =
\"preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower\";
const string preambleTransMax = \"preambleTransMax\";
const string pMax = \"pMax\";
const string powerRampingStep = \"powerRampingStep\";
const string qHyst = \"qHyst\";
const string qOffsetUtra = \"qOffsetUtra\";
const string qOffsetGeran = \" qOffsetGeran\";
const string qOffsetCdma2000 = \"qOffsetCdma2000\";
const string qQualMinUtra = \"qQualMinUtra\";
const string qRxLevMinEUtraSib1 = \"qRxLevMinEUtraSib1\";
const string qRxLevMinEUtraSib3 = \"qRxLevMinEUtraSib3\";
const string qRxLevMinGeran = \"qRxLevMinGeran\";
const string qRxLevMinUtra = \"qRxLevMinUtra\";
const string responseWindowSize = \"responseWindowSize\";
const string rootSequenceIndex = \"rootSequenceIndex\";
const string sIntraSearch = \"sIntraSearch\";
const string sizeOfRAPreamblesGroupA = \"sizeOfRAPreamblesGroupA\";
const string timeToTriggerEutraA1 = \"timeToTriggerEutraA1\";
const string timeToTriggerEutraA2 = \"timeToTriggerEutraA2\";
const string timeToTriggerEutraA3 = \"timeToTriggerEutraA3\";
const string timeToTriggerEutraA4 = \"timeToTriggerEutraA4\";
const string timeToTriggerEutraA5 = \"timeToTriggerEutraA5\";
const string timeToTriggerIratB1 = \"timeToTriggerIratB1\";
const string timeToTriggerIratB2 = \"timeToTriggerIratB2\";
const string tReselectionCdma2000 = \"tReselectionCdma2000\";
const string tReselectionEUtra = \"tReselectionEUtra\";
const string tReselectionGeran = \"tReselectionGeran\";
const string tReselectionUtra = \"tReselectionUtra\";
const string tStoreUeContext = \"tStoreUeContext\";
};
module genericEUTRANNRMAttributeTypes
{
enum CellSizeEnumType
{
verysmall,
small,
medium,
large
};
enum AllowedAccessClassesValues
{
> EmergencyCall,
>
> ForPLMNUse,
>
> SecurityServices,
>
> PublicUtilities,
>
> EmergencyServices,
>
> PLMNStaff
>
> };
>
> typedef sequence \ AllowedAccessClasses
struct PlmnIdType
{
short mcc;
short mnc;
};
const short PLMNID_LIST_LENGTH = 6;
typedef sequence\ plmnIdListType;
const short NO_OF_PCIS = 504;
typedef sequence\ pciListType;
typedef sequence\ ipAddressListType;
enum CellResvInfoType
{
**reservedCell,**
**nonReservedCell**
};
struct QciDscpMappingType
{
short qci;
short dscp;
};
typedef sequence\ QciDscpMappingListType;
struct EcgiType
{
short mcc;
short mnc;
unsignedlong eci
};
typedef sequence \ EcgiListType;
enum isEsCoveredByEnumType
{
**no,**
**partial,**
yes
};
enum yesNoType
{
**no,**
yes
};
enum energySavingStateEnumType
{
**isEnergySaving,**
**isNotEnergySaving**
};
enum energySavingControlEnumType
{
**toBeEnergySaving,**
**toBeNotEnergySaving**
};
struct TceIDMappingInfo
{
short tceID;
string tceIPAddr;
};
typedef sequence\ TceIDMappingInfoListType;
enum CellOutageCompensationState
{
cOCActivating,
cOCActive,
cOCDeactivating,
cOCDeactive
};
enum qOffsetEnumType
{
dB-24,
dB-22,
dB-20,
dB-18,
dB-16,
dB-14,
dB-12,
dB-10,
dB-8,
dB-6,
dB-5,
dB-4,
dB-3,
dB-2,
dB-1,
dB0,
dB1,
dB2,
dB3,
dB4,
dB5,
dB6,
dB8,
dB10,
dB12,
dB14,
dB16,
dB18,
dB20,
dB22,
dB24
};
enum contentionResolutionTimerEnumType
{
sf8,
sf16,
sf24,
sf32,
sf40,
sf48,
sf56,
sf64
};
enum numberOfRaPreamblesEnumType
{
n4,
n8,
n12,
n16,
n20,
n24,
n28,
n32,
n36,
n40,
n44,
n48,
n52,
n56,
n60,
n64
};
enum preambleInitialReceivedTargetPowerEnumType
{
dBm-120,
dBm-118,
dBm-116,
dBm-114,
dBm-112,
dBm-110,
dBm-108,
dBm-106,
dBm-104,
dBm-102,
dBm-100,
dBm-98,
dBm-96,
dBm-94,
dBm-92,
dBm-90
};
enum preambleTransMaxEnumType
{
n3,
n4,
n5,
n6,
n7,
n8,
n10,
n20,
n50,
n100,
n200
};
enum powerRampingStepEnumType
{
dB0,
dB2,
dB4,
dB6
};
enum qHystEnumType
{
dB0,
dB1,
dB2,
dB3,
dB4,
dB5,
dB6,
dB8,
dB10,
dB12,
dB14,
dB16,
dB18,
dB20,
dB22,
dB24
};
enum responseWindowSizeEnumType
{
sf2,
sf3,
sf4,
sf5,
sf6,
sf7,
sf8,
sf10
};
enum sizeOfRAPreambleGroupAEnumType
{
n4,
n8,
n12,
n16,
n20,
n24,
n28,
n32,
n36,
n40,
n44,
n48,
n52,
n56,
n60,
};
enum timeToTriggerEUtraEnumType
{
ms0,
ms40,
ms64,
ms80,
ms100,
ms128,
ms160,
ms256,
ms320,
ms480,
ms512,
ms640,
ms1024,
ms1280,
ms2560,
ms5120
};
typedef sequence\ DnList;
struct CellOutageCompensationStatus
{
CellOutageCompensationState cellOutageCompensationState;
DnList errorList;
};
};
#endif // _E _UTRANNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS__ IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML Definitions
This annex contains the XML Definitions for the E-UTRAN NRM IRP as it applies
to Itf-N, in accordance with UTRAN NRM IRP IS definitions [4].
# B.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of E-UTRAN Network Resources IRP is
specified in 3GPP TS 32.762 [4].\ This clause specifies features that are
specific to the Schema definitions.
The XML definitions of this document specify the schema for a configuration
content.
When using the XML definitions for a configuration file transfer with the Bulk
CM IRP, using either CORBA Solution Set of 3GPP TS 32.616 [7] or SOAP Solution
Set of 3GPP TS 32.616 [7], the basic part of the XML file format definition is
provided by 3GPP TS 32.616 [7]. The XML definitions of this document provide
the schema for the configuration content to be included in such a
configuration file.
When using the XML definitions with a SOAP Solution Set of any Interface IRP
that perform operations on managed objects, for example the Basic CM IRP SOAP
SS of 3GPP TS 32.606 [6], the XML definitions of this document provides the
schema for the configuration content operated on by the interface IRP. Such
configuration content can be name of managed object and, if applicable, IOC
attributes.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
# B.2 Mapping
### B.2.1 General mapping
An IOC maps to an XML element of the same name as the IOC\'s name in the IS.
An IOC attribute maps to a sub-element of the corresponding IOC\'s XML
element, and the name of this sub-element is the same as the attribute\'s name
in the IS.
### B.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
The overall description of the file format of configuration data XML files is
provided by 3GPP TS 32.616 [7].
Annex B.3.3 of the present document defines the NRM-specific XML schema
eutranNrm.xsd for the E-UTRAN Network Resources IRP NRM defined in 3GPP TS
32.762 [4].
XML schema eutranNrm.xsd explicitly declares NRM-specific XML element types
for the related NRM.
The definition of those NRM-specific XML element types complies with the
generic mapping rules defined in 3GPP TS 32.616 [7].
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
Not present in the current version of this specification.
## B.3.3 XML schema \"eutranNrm.xsd\"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#