# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); as
identified below:
32.771: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
32.772: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)
**32.776: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions**
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named HNS
Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP, through which an IRPAgent can communicate
configuration management information to one or several IRPManagers concerning
HNS resources. The HNS NRM IRP comprises a set of specifications defining
Requirements, a protocol neutral Information Service and one or more Solution
Set(s).
The present document specifies the Solution Sets for the HNS NRM IRP.
This specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.772 V10.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.772: \"Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem
(HNS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.616: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.606: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[8] W3C REC-xml-20001006: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second
Edition)\".
[9] W3C REC-xmlschema-0-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 0: Primer\".
[10] W3C REC-xmlschema-1-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 1: Structures\".
[11] W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
[12] W3C REC-xml-names-19990114: \"Namespaces in XML\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
For terms and definitions please refer to 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 32.102 [3],
32.600 [4] and 32.772 [5].
**XML file:** file containing an XML document
**XML document:** composed of the succession of an optional XML declaration
followed by a root XML element
> NOTE: See [8]; in the scope of the present document.
**XML declaration:** it specifies the version of XML being used
> NOTE: See [8].
**XML element:** has a type, is identified by a name, may have a set of XML
attribute specifications and is either composed of the succession of an XML
start-tag followed by the XML content of the XML element followed by an XML
end-tag, or composed simply of an XML empty-element tag; each XML element may
contain other XML elements
> NOTE: See [8].
**empty XML element:** having an empty XML content; an empty XML element still
possibly has a set of XML attribute specifications; an empty XML element is
either composed of the succession of an XML start-tag directly followed by an
XML end-tag, or composed simply of an XML empty-element tag
> NOTE: See [8].
**XML content (of an XML element):** empty if the XML element is simply
composed of an XML empty-element tag; otherwise the part, possibly empty, of
the XML element between its XML start-tag and its XML end-tag
**XML start-tag:** the beginning of a non-empty XML element is marked by an
XML start-tag containing the name and the set of XML attribute specifications
of the XML element
> NOTE: See [8].
**XML end-tag:** the end of a non-empty XML element is marked by an XML end-
tag containing the name of the XML element
> NOTE: See [8].
**XML empty-element tag:** composed simply of an empty-element tag containing
the name and the set of XML attribute specifications of the XML element
> NOTE: See [8].
**XML attribute specification:** has a name and a value
> NOTE: See [8].
**DTD:** defines structure and content constraints to be respected by an XML
document to be valid with regard to this DTD
> NOTE: See [8].
**XML schema:** more powerful than a DTD, an XML schema defines structure and
content constraints to be respected by an XML document to conform with this
XML schema; through the use of XML namespaces several XML schemas can be used
together by a single XML document; an XML schema is itself also an XML
document that shall conform with the XML schema for XML schemas
> NOTE: See [9], [10] and [11].
**XML namespace:** enables qualifying element and attribute names used in XML
documents by associating them with namespaces identified by different XML
schemas
> NOTE: See [12], in the scope of the present document.
**XML complex type:** defined in an XML schema; cannot be directly used in an
XML document; can be the concrete type or the derivation base type for an XML
element type or for another XML complex type; ultimately defines constraints
for an XML element on its XML attribute specifications and/or its XML content
> NOTE: See [9], [10] and [11].
**XML element type:** declared by an XML schema; can be directly used in an
XML document; as the concrete type of an XML element, directly or indirectly
defines constraints on its XML attribute specifications and/or its XML
content; can also be the concrete type or the derivation base type for another
XML element type
NOTE: See [9], [10] and [11].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
> DTD Document Type Definition
>
> HNB Home Node B
>
> HNS Home Node B Subsystem
>
> HNB-GW Home Node B Gateway
IDL Interface Definition Language
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
SS Solution Set
> XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Solution Set Definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP HNS NRM IRP Solution Set
Definitions:
  * 3GPP HNS NRM IRP CORBA SS (Annex A)
  * 3GPP HNS NRM IRP XML Definitions (Annex B)
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in HNS NRM IRP: Information Service (TS 32.772 [5]).
# A.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of HNS Network Resources IRP is specified in
3GPP TS 32.772 [5].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [13].
## A.1.2 Rules for NRM extensions
This clause discusses how the models and IDL definitions provided in the
present document can be extended for a particular implementation and still
remain compliant with 3GPP SA5\'s specifications.
### A.1.2.1 Allowed extensions
Vendor-specific MOCs may be supported. The vendor-specific MOCs may support
new types of attributes.\ The 3GPP SA5-specified notifications may be issued
referring to the vendor-specific MOCs and vendor-specific attributes. New MOCs
shall be distinguishable from 3GPP SA5 MOCs by name. 3GPP SA5-specified and
vendor-specific attributes may be used in vendor-specific MOCs. Vendor-
specific attribute names shall be distinguishable from existing attribute
names.
NRM MOCs may be subclassed. Subclassed MOCs shall maintain the specified
behaviour of the 3GPP SA5\'s superior classes. They may add vendor-specific
behaviour with vendor-specific attributes. When subclassing, naming attributes
cannot be changed. The subclassed MOC shall support all attributes of its
superior class. Vendor-specific attributes cannot be added to 3GPP SA5 NRM
MOCs without subclassing.
When subclassing, the 3GPP SA5-specified containment rules and their specified
cardinality shall still be followed.\ As an example, ManagementNode (or its
subclasses) shall be contained under SubNetwork (or its subclasses).
Managed Object Instances may be instantiated as CORBA objects. This requires
that the MOCs be represented in IDL. 3GPP SA5\'s NRM MOCs are not currently
specified in IDL, but may be specified in IDL for instantiation or subclassing
purposes. However, management information models should not require that
IRPManagers access the instantiated managed objects other than through
supported methods in the present document.
Extension rules related to notifications (Notification categories, Event
Types, Extended Event Types etc.) are for further study.
### A.1.2.2 Extensions not allowed
The IDL specifications in the present document cannot be edited or altered.
Any additional IDL specifications shall be specified in separate IDL files.
IDL interfaces (note: not MOCs) specified in the present document may not be
subclassed or extended. New interfaces may be defined with vendor-specific
methods.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 General mappings
Attributes modelling associations as defined in the NRM (here also called
\"reference attributes\") are in this SS mapped to attributes.\ The names of
the reference attributes in the NRM are mapped to the corresponding attribute
names in the MOC.\ When the cardinality for an association is 0..1 or 1..1 the
datatype for the reference attribute is defined as an MOReference. The value
of an MO reference contains the distinguished name of the associated MO.\ When
the cardinality for an association allows more than one referred MO, the
reference attribute will be of type MOReferenceSet, which contains a sequence
of MO references.
## A.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
This SS supports reference attributes for relations other than containment
relations between objects. Reference attributes are therefore introduced in
each MOC where needed.
### A.2.2.1 IOC HNBGWFunction
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC HNBGWFunction in TS 32.772 [5] SS Attributes SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Write id hnbgwFunctionId string M M - hnbgwId hnbgwId
string M M - userLabel userLabel string M M M ipConfigInfo ipConfigInfo string
M M - maxNbrHNBRegistered maxNbrHNBRegistered Integer M M -
maxPacketCapability maxPacketCapability integer M M -
* * *
### A.2.2.2 IOC HNBProfile
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC HNBProfile in TS 32.772 [5] SS Attributes SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Write id hnbProfileId string M M - userLabel userLabel
string M M M configuration configuration string M M - criterion criterion
string O M -
* * *
### A.2.2.3 IOC HMSFunction
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC HMSFunction in TS 32.772 [5] SS Attributes SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Write userLabel userLabel string M M M
* * *
### A.2.2.4 IOC IuhSignLinkTp
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC IuhSignLinkTp in TS 32.772 [5] SS Attributes SS Type
Support Qualifier Read Write id iuhSignLinkTpId string M M - userLabel
userLabel string O M M farEndEntity farEndEntity string O M -
sctpAssocLocalAddr sctpAssocLocalAddr string M M - sctpAssocRemoteAddr
sctpAssocRemoteAddr string M M -
* * *
### A.2.2.5 IOC EP_Iuh
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC EP_Iuh in TS 32.772 [5] SS Attributes SS Type Support
Qualifier Read Write id epIuhId string M M - userLabel userLabel string O M M
farEndEntity farEndEntity string O M - farEndNEIPAddr farEndNEIPAddr string O
M CM
* * *
# A.3 Solution Set definitions
## A.3.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.3.2 defines the MO classes for the HNS NRM IRP.
## A.3.2 IDL specification "HnsNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl"
//File: HnsNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl
#ifndef __HNSNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS__ IDL_
#define __HNSNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS__ IDL_
#include \"GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl\"
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/**
* This module defines constants for each MO class name and
* the attribute names for each defined MO class.
*/
module HnsNetworkResourcesNRMDefs
{
/**
* Definitions for MO class HnbgwFunction
*/
interface HNBGWFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"HNBGWFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string hnbgwFunctionId = \"hnbgwFunctionId\";
const string hnbgwId = \"hnbgwId\";
const string ipConfigInfo = \"ipConfigInfo\";
const string maxNbrHNBRegistered = \"maxNbrHNBRegistered\";
const string maxPacketCapability = \"maxPacketCapability\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class IuhSignLinkTp
*/
interface IuhSignLinkTp : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::EP_RP
{
const string CLASS = \"IuhSignLinkTp\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string sctpAssocLocalAddr = \"sctpAssocLocalAddr\";
const string sctpAssocRemoteAddr = \"sctpAssocRemoteAddr\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class EP_Iuh
*/
interface EP_Iuh : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::EP_RP
{
const string CLASS= \"EP_Iuh\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string farEndNEIPAddr= \"farEndNEIPAddr\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class HNBProfile
*/
interface HNBProfile : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS= \"HNBProfile\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string hnbProfileId = \"hnbProfileId\";
const string configuration = \"configuration\";
const string criterion = \"criterion\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class HMSFunction
*/
interface HMSFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS= \"HMSFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
};
};
#endif //_HNSETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML Definitions
This annex contains the XML Definitions for the HNS NRM IRP as it applies to
Itf-N, in accordance with HNS NRM IRP Information Service (TS 32.772 [5]).
# B.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of HNS Network Resources IRP is specified in
3GPP TS 32.772 [5].\ This clause specifies features that are specific to the
Schema definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [13].
# B.2 Mapping
## B.2.1 General mapping
An IOC maps to an XML element of the same name as the IOC\'s name in the IS.
An IOC attribute maps to a sub-element of the corresponding IOC\'s XML
element, and the name of this sub-element is the same as the attribute\'s name
in the IS.
## B.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
Annex B.3.3 of the present document defines the NRM-specific XML schema
hnsNrm.xsd for the HNS Network Resources IRP NRM defined in 3GPP TS 32.772
[5].
XML schema hnsNrm.xsd explicitly declares NRM-specific XML element types for
the related NRM.
The definition of those NRM-specific XML element types complies with the
generic mapping rules defined in 3GPP TS 32.616 [6].
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
Not present in the current version of this specification.
## B.3.3 XML schema \"hnsNrm.xsd\"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#