# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
32.781: Telecommunication management; Home eNode B Subsystem (HeNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
**32.782: Telecommunication management; Home eNode B Subsystem (HeNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)**
32.783: Telecommunication management; Home eNode B Subsystem (HeNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP) : Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
32.785: Telecommunication management; Home eNode B Subsystem (HeNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) file format definition
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimization programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named \" Home
enhanced Node B Subsystem (HeNS) Network Resources IRP\", through which an
\'IRPAgent\' (typically an Element Manager or Network Element) can communicate
Configuration Management information to one or several \'IRPManagers\'
(typically Network Managers) concerning HeNB-GW resources.
The present document specifies the protocol neutral HeNS Network Resources
IRP: Network Resource Model. It reuses relevant parts of the generic NRM in
3GPP TS 32.622 [5], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition to
that defines HeNB-GW specific Information Object Classes.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an IRP IS is needed,
such as the Basic CM IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.602 [6]) or the Bulk CM IRP IS (3GPP
TS 32.612 [7]). However, which IS that is applicable is outside the scope of
the present document.
The present document (NRM specification) is related to the IS in 3GPP TS
32.672 [8]
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic Configuration Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.672: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA),
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; stage 2\"
[10] 3GPP TS 32.593: "Home eNode B (HeNB) Operations, Administration,
Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Procedure flows for Type 1 Interface
HeNB to HeNB Management System (HeMS)"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects"
[12] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.752: "Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.772: \"Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem
(HNS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [4].
**Association:** In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) name bindings;
(2) reference attributes; and
(3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams).
**Managed Element (ME):** an instance of the Information Object Class
ManagedElement defined in 3GPP TS 32.622 [5].
**Managed Object (MO):** in the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is
instance of a MO class defined in a MIM/NRM. This class, called **Information
Object Class (IOC)** has _attributes_ that provide information used to
characterize the objects that belong to the class (the term \"attribute\" is
taken from TMN and corresponds to a \"property\" according to CIM).
Furthermore, the IOC can have _operations_ that represent the behaviour
relevant for that class (the term \"operation\" is taken from TMN and
corresponds to a \"method\" according to CIM). The IOC may support the
emission of _notifications_ that provide information about an event occurrence
within a network resource.
**Management Information Model (MIM):** also referred to as NRM - see the
definition below.
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** a model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP\ An NRM identifies and describes IOCs, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
GW Gateway
HeNB Home enhanced Node B
HeNS Home enhanced Node B Subsystem
IOCs Information Object Classes
# System Overview
## 4.1 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP defined by the present
document:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional information object classes, attributes and associations
without requiring the IRPManager to have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist,
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
The modelling approach adopted and used in this IRP is described in TS 32.622
[5].
It should be noted that this model allows for combined Managed Element
functionality, where more than one \'function IOCs\' (inherited from
ManagedFunction) modelling more specific managed element functionality may be
contained in the ManagedElement IOC.
# 6 Information Object Classes
## 6.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP
TS 32.622 [5], IOC, MeContext MeContext 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], IOC, SubNetwork
SubNetwork 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], IOC,
VsDataContainer VsDataContainer 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], IOC, ManagementNode
ManagementNode **3GPP TS 32.752 [13], IOC,** EP_RP_EPS EP_RP_EPS **3GPP TS
32.772 [14], IOC,** LocalGWFunction LocalGWFunction
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. This clause provides the overview of all information object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these information object classes.
The figure 1shows the containment/naming hierarchy and the associations of the
information object classes, when HeNB GW is present in HeNS.
{width="5.582638888888889in" height="3.2576388888888888in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
Figure 1: HeNS NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram_1
Figure 2: HeNS NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram_2
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
Figure 3: VsDataContainer Containment/Naming and Association
The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
Each IOC is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to 3GPP TS
32.300 [11] that expresses its containment
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 4: HeNS NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 6.3 Information object class definitions
### 6.3.1 HeNBGWFunction
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents HeNB GW functionality. A HeNB GW is optional in a HeNB
subsystem. This IOC is only effective when HeNB GW is included in HeNS. For
more information about the HeNB GW, see 3GPP TS 36.300[9]
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
Attributes of HeNBGWFunction
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier Id M M -
henbGwId M M - iPConfigInfo M M - maxNbrHeNBRegistered M M -
maxPacketCapability M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Notifications
See clause 6.6 Alarm and configuration notifications.
### 6.3.2 HeMSFunction
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents HeMS functionality. For more information about HeMS, see
3GPP TS 32.593[10].
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
There are no attributes (other than those inherited).
#### 6.3.2.3 Notifications
There are no Notifications (other than those inherited).
### 6.3.3 HeNBProfile
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
The HeNBProfile is a representation of information that a) identifies a
specific set of HeNB devices and b) the related configuration parameters (and
their values) that are required to be configured in those identified HeNB
devices during HeNB registration procedure [10].
It contains userLabel, an attribute inherited from ManagedFunction. This is a
user friendly label assigned by operator. Examples can be "VIP configuration",
"Gold Tier configuration", "device vendor XYZ software version 3.4", "camel",
etc
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
Attributes of HeNBProfile
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier Id M M --
Configuration M M -- Criterion O M --
* * *
#### 6.3.3.3 Notifications
There are no Notifications (other than those inherited).
### 6.3.4 HeNB
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents HeNB functionality. For more information about the
HeNB, see 3GPP TS 36.300 [9].
The Home eNodeB, represented by the \> HeNB, has registered
itself with one node represented by HeMSFunction.
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
Attributes of HeNB
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier Id M -- -
* * *
#### 6.3.4.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[12])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])
* * *
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 6.5.1.1 defines the attributes that are present in several Information
Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Table 6.5.1.1: Attributes definitions and legal values
+----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | > Attribute Name | > Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be used | | | | as an RDN when naming an | | | | instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the object | | | | instance within the | | | | scope of its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | henbGwId | Unique HeNB GW ID. Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 36.300 [9] | | | | specifies that HeNB GW | | | | acts as a concentrated | | | | node to the existing EPC | | | | network using existing | | | | S1 interface. | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | iPConfigInfo | The IP address, | | | | subnetwork mask, default | | | | gateway for HeNB GW. | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | maxNbrHeNBRegistered | Maximum number of | | | | registered HeNB means | | | | maximum number of HeNB | | | | allowed to be | | | | registered. | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | maxPacketCapability | The HeNB GW's ability of | | | | forwarding packets, such | | | | as maximum number of | | | | forwarded packets per | | | | second. | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | farEndNeIpAddr | The IP address(s) of the | | | | far end network entity | | | | to which the reference | | | | point is related.This is | | | | an IPv4 or an IPv6 | | | | address. | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | configuration | It is a location of a | | | | data set. The data set | | | | is a set of HeNB | | | | attributes (with values) | | | | needed to be loaded into | | | | the HeNB. | | | | | | | | The data set does not | | | | contain all | | | | configuration data | | | | needed for a device to | | | | operate. Some | | | | configuration parameters | | | | are autonomously and | | | | dynamically calculated | | | | by the serving HeMS. | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | criterion | It is a criterion that | | | | determines if a HeNB | | | | should or should not be | | | | loaded with a particular | | | | configuration. | | | | | | | | The syntax and semantics | | | | of criterion is | | | | vendor-specific. | | | | | | | | Example 1: | | | | | | | | > The syntax and | | | | > semantics can be "If | | | | > the HeNB ID range is | | | | > between ABC and DEF | | | | > then APPLY the related | | | | > configuration". | | | | | | | | Example 2: | | | | | | | | > The syntax is a list | | | | > of strings where each | | | | > string is a "attribute | | | | > == value" pair. An | | | | > attribute represents a | | | | > TR‑196 parameter. Its | | | | > value is the | | | | > corresponding | | | | > attribute value. | | | | > | | | | > The semantics is "if | | | | > all pairs found in | | | | > criterion are also | | | | > found in the home | | | | > devices, then the | | | | > determination is | | | | > positive in that the | | | | > home device should be | | | | > loaded with | | | | > information of the | | | | > data set identified by | | | | > configuration; else | | | | > not". | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
### 6.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 6.6 Common Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[12])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])
* * *
#