# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.791: Common Radio Access Technology (RAT) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements.
**32.792: Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS).**
32.796: Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) network
resource information that can be communicated between an IRPAgent and one or
several IRPManagers for network management purposes.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information object
class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
This document specifies equipment that may be shared between BSS in GSM, UTRAN
and E‑UTRAN.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface IRP such
as the \"Basic CM IRP\" is needed (3GPP TS 32.602 [5]). However, which
Interface IRP is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) ; Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E_UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[8] Void .
[9] 3GPP TS 25.466: \"UTRAN Iuant interface: Application Part\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.791: \"Telecommunication management; Common Radio Access
Technology (RAT) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Requirements\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.642 \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model ( NR)\".M
[13] 3GPP TS 32.762 \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.652 \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP) ; Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 25.105: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[19] 3GPP TS 45.010: \"Radio subsystem synchronization\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 32.150 [4], TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and the following
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TS 32.150 [4], TS 32.101 [2], TS
32.102 [3] and TR 21.905 [1], in that order.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
BSS Base Station Subsystem
CM Configuration Management
DN Distinguished Name
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
HW Hardware
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NRM Network Resource Model
RAN Radio Access Network
RDN Relative Distinguished Name
RF Radio Frequency
SS Solution Set
TMA Tower Mounted Amplifier
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Information Object Classes
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [15], IOC, ManagedFunction
ManagedFunction 3GPP TS 32.642 [12], IOC, UtranGenericCell UtranGenericCell
3GPP TS 32.762 [13], IOC, EUtranGenericCell EUtranGenericCell 3GPP TS 32.652
[14], IOC, GSMCell GSMCell
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Attributes and relationships
{width="6.195138888888889in" height="2.529166666666667in"}
Figure4.2.1.1: UTRAN and E-UTRAN sharing
{width="6.69375in" height="2.5395833333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.1.2: GERAN sharing
{width="5.995833333333334in" height="3.5569444444444445in"}
Figure 4.2.1.3: CommonBsFunction
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the IOCs' inheritance relationships.
{width="5.996527777777778in" height="1.2236111111111112in"}
Figure 4.2.2.1: CommonBsFunction
## 4.3 Information Object Class (IOC) definitions
### 4.3.1 SectorEquipmentFunction
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents a set of cells within a geographical area that has common
functions relating to AntennaFunction, TmaFunction and supporting equipment,
such as power amplifier.
This IOC is required as part of the capability to satisfy the Requirements
statement identified below.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.791 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-001  
3GPP TS 32.791 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM- CON-002
* * *
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
fqBand CM M -- eUTRANFqBands M M - uTRANFDDFqBands M M - uTRANTDDFqBands M M -
confOutputPower M M M theTmaList M M - theAntennaList M M - theCellList M M -
* * *
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc296376374 .anchor}Name Qualifier Notes The
Conditional/Mandatory (CM) support qualifier of the attribute fqBand CM This
attribute is used if the attribute eUTRANFqBands contains an empty list.
* * *
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.2 AntennaFunction
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents an array of radiating elements that may be tilted to
adjust the RF coverage of a cell(s).
This IOC is required as part of the capability to satisfy the Requirements
statement identified below.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.791 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-001  
3GPP TS 32.791 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-CON-002
* * *
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
retTiltValue O M M bearing O M M retGroupName O M M height O M M
maxAzimuthValue O M M minAzimuthValue O M M horizBeamwidth O M M vertBeamwidth
O M M theCellList M M -
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.3 TmaFunction
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents a Tower Mounted Amplifier or a number of TMA subunits
within one TMA, each separately addressable by a specific index at the
application layer.
This IOC is required as part of the capability to satisfy the Requirements
statement identified below.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.791 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-001  
3GPP TS 32.791 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-CON-002
* * *
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
tmaSubunitNumber M M M tmaStateFlag M M O tmaFunctionFlag M M M tmaMinGain M M
- tmaMaxGain M M - tmaResolution M M - tmaGainFigure M M O tmaNumberOfSubunits
M M - tmaBaseStationId CO M CO tmaSectorId CO M CO tmaAntennaBearing CO M CO
tmaInstalledMechanicalTilt CO M CO tmaSubunitType CO M CO
tmaSubunitRxFrequencyBand CO M CO tmaSubunitTxFrequencyBand CO M CO
tmaGainResolution CO M CO theCellList M M -
* * *
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes The Conditional/Optional (CO) support qualifier of the
attributes tmaAdditionalDataFieldNumber through tmaGainResolution CO The TMA
subunit supports the read operation in 3GPP TS 25.466 [9] The
conditional/optional (CO) write qualifier of the attributes
tmaAdditionalDataFieldNumber through tmaGainResolution CO The TMA subunit
supports the write operation in 3GPP TS 25.466 [9]
* * *
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.4 GSMCellPart
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
A GSM cell can consist of a number of carriers. These carriers can be
configured in a number of ways, for example, the carriers can have different
propagation properties which are sent with different antenna tilt, with
different RF power, different radio band and even possibly different antenna.
The various GSMCellPart instances capture different radio propagation
properties allowing different frequency planning schemes, e.g. some
GSMCellPart instances can use frequency groups planned for tighter frequency
reuse.
Hence, a GSM cell can, and in some cases must, be distributed on more than one
SectorEquipmentFunction.
This IOC is required as part of the capability to satisfy the Requirements
statement identified below.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.791 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-01  
3GPP TS 32.791 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-CON-02
* * *
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - aRFCN
M M M tsc M M M aTA M M M theSectorEquipment M M -
* * *
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.5 CommonBsFunction
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents common aspects of Base Station (BS) functionality shared
by several radio access technologies.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.791 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-001  
3GPP TS 32.791 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM- CON-002
* * *
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
sharedTechnologies M M O
* * *
## 4.4 Information relationship definitions
### 4.4.1 A1 (CO)
#### 4.4.1.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between TmaFunction and
ProxyCell.
#### 4.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theCellList This role represents the associated ProxyCell
instances of a TmaFunction instance. theTmaList This role represents the
associated TmaFunction instances of a ProxyCell instance.
* * *
#### 4.4.1.3 Constraints
Condition: Association A2 is absent.
### 4.4.2 A2 (CM)
#### 4.4.2.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between
SectorEquipmentFunction and ProxyCell used in UTRAN and E-UTRAN sharing (and
non-sharing) cases.
#### 4.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theCellList This role represents the associated ProxyCell
instances of a SectorEquipmentFunction instance. theSectorEquipment This role
represents the associated SectorEquipmentFunction instance of a ProxyCell
instance.
* * *
#### 4.4.2.3 Constraints
Condition: SectorEquipmentFunction instance is present and supporting UTRAN
and E-UTRAN sharing (and non-sharing) cases. In these cases, at least one
instance represented by the associated ProxyCell must be present.
### 4.4.3 A3 (CO)
#### 4.4.3.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between AntennaFunction
and ProxyCell.
#### 4.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theCellList This role represents the associated ProxyCell
instances of an AntennaFunction instance. theAntennaList This role represents
the associated AntennaFunction instances of a ProxyCell instance.
* * *
#### 4.4.3.3 Constraints
Condition: Association A2 is absent.
### 4.4.4 A4 (CM)
#### 4.4.4.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional relation from
SectorEquipmentFunction to TmaFunction.
#### 4.4.4.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theTmaList This role represents the associated TmaFunction
instances of a SectorEquipmentFunction instance.
* * *
#### 4.4.4.3 Constraints
Condition: SectorEquipmentFunction instance is present AND is supporting the
UTRAN and E-UTRAN sharing (and non-sharing) cases AND A5 is absent. In this
case, at least one TmaFunction is present.
.
### 4.4.5 A5 (CM)
#### 4.4.5.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional relation from
SectorEquipmentFunction to AntennaFunction.
#### 4.4.5.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theAntennaList This role represents the associated
AntennaFunction instances of a SectorEquipmentFunction instance.
* * *
#### 4.4.5.3 Constraints
Condition: SectorEquipmentFunction instance is present AND is supporting the
UTRAN and E-UTRAN sharing (and non-sharing) cases AND A4 is absent. In this
case, at least one AntennaFunction is present.
### 4.4.6 A6 (CM)
#### 4.4.6.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between
SectorEquipmentFunction and GSMCellPart.
#### 4.4.6.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theCellPartList This role represents the associated
GSMCellPart instances of a SectorEquipmentFunction instance.
theSectorEquipment This role represents the associated SectorEquipmentFunction
instance of a GSMCellPart instance.
* * *
#### 4.4.6.3 Constraints
Condition: SectorEquipmentFunction instance is present and is supporting the
GERAN sharing case. In this case, there shall be at least one GSMCellPart
present at one end of this association.
### 4.4.7 A7 (M)
#### 4.4.7.1 Definition
This association represents the association between a ProxyBsFunction and its
related CommonBsFunction, as well as between a SCommonBsFunction and the
ProxyBsFunctions it serves.
#### 4.4.7.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theCommonBs This role represents the CommonBsFunction that is
associated with a ProxyBsFunction. theProxyBsList This role represents the
ProxyBsFunctions that are associated with a CommonBsFunction.
* * *
#### 4.4.7.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition ProxyBsCommonBsConstraint The ProxyBsFunction has an
association with a CommonBsFunction.
* * *
## 4.5 Information attribute definitions
### 4.5.1 Definition and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aRFCN | This attribute | See 3GPP TS 45.005 | | | (Absolute Radio | [18] clause 2 for | | | Frequency Channel | the ARFCN for GSM. | | | Number) defines a | ARFCN are based on a | | | pair of | 200 kHz channel | | | | raster. | | | Radio Frequency (RF) | | | | channel frequencies | | | | for uplink and | | | | downlink use. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aTA | This attribute | See 3GPP TS | | | (allowed Timing | 45.010[19] | | | Advance) defines the | | | | signal sent by the | | | | BTS to the MS which | | | | the MS uses to | | | | advance its timings | | | | of transmissions to | | | | the BTS so as to | | | | compensate for | | | | propagation delay. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | bearing | The bearing in | See \"Antenna | | | degrees that the | bearing\" | | | antenna is pointing | in3GPP TS 25.466 | | | in. Antenna | [9]. | | | bearing\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | confOutputPower | It defines the | | | | allowed total power | | | | to use for all cells | | | | together in this | | | | sector. It may be | | | | set by the operator | | | | and/or limited by HW | | | | limitation or | | | | licensed power, | | | | e.g.: 20, 40, 60, | | | | 80,120 watts | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eUTRANFqBands | This is the list of | A list of frequency | | | LTE frequency bands | bands expressed as | | | supported by the | strings. | | | hardware associated | | | | with the | Valid frequency band | | | Sect | values are specified | | | orEquipmentFunction. | in sub-clause 5.7.3 | | | | in 36.104 [7]. | | | The earfcnDl and | | | | earfcnUl or earfcn | For HW not | | | of LTE cells | supporting LTE | | | associated with the | frequency bands, the | | | Sec | list shall be empty. | | | torEquipmentFunction | | | | must be assigned | | | | with value within | | | | one of the specified | | | | eUTRANFqBands | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fqBand | This is the LTE | See clause 5 .7.3 of | | | frequency band | TS 36.104 [7]. | | | supported by the | | | | hardware associated | | | | with the | | | | Sect | | | | orEquipmentFunction, | | | | for the case when | | | | only one frequency | | | | band is supported. | | | | The earfcnDl and | | | | earfcnUl of cells | | | | associated with the | | | | Sec | | | | torEquipmentFunction | | | | must be assigned | | | | with value within | | | | this fqBand value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | height | The height of an | An integral value | | | antenna above sea | representing a | | | level. | number of metres in | | | | 0.1 meter | | | Note: The value of | increments. | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | horizBeamwidth | The 3 dB power | A single integral | | | beamwidth of the | value corresponding | | | antenna pattern in | to an angle in | | | the horizontal | degrees between 0 | | | plane. A value of | and 360. | | | 360 indicates an | | | | omni-directional | | | | antenna. | | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behaviour is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | when naming an | | | | instance of the | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxAzimuthValue | The maximum amount | A single integral | | | of change of azimuth | value corresponding | | | the RET system can | to an angle in | | | support. This is the | degrees between 0 | | | change in degrees | and 360 with a | | | clockwise from | resolution of 0.1 | | | bearing. | degrees, see Note. | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behaviour is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minAzimuthValue | The minimum amount | A single integral | | | of change of azimuth | value corresponding | | | the RET system can | to an angle in | | | support. This is the | degrees between 0 | | | change in degrees | and 360 with a | | | counter-clockwise | resolution of 0.1 | | | from bearing. | degrees. | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behaviour is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | retGroupName | The group name is a | String size is | | | textual, | bounded to 80 | | | alpha-numeric string | characters. | | | to define a logical | | | | grouping of antennas | | | | which may be in | | | | different cells. | | | | | | | | This attribute | | | | permits the | | | | definition of a | | | | logical grouping of | | | | the antennas. This | | | | may be defined | | | | either at | | | | installation time, | | | | or by management | | | | activity to | | | | provisioning the | | | | group name via the | | | | Itf-N. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | retTiltValue | The electrical tilt | See \"Tilt value\" | | | setting of the | in | | | antenna, \"Tilt | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | value\" in | [9]. | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sharedTechnologies | **This attribute | Legal Values: | | | defines the radio | | | | access technologies |** GSM, UMTS, LTE, or | | | sharing the common | any combination | | | functionalities of a | thereof**| | | Base Station (BS)** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theAntennaList | This attribute | | | | contains the DNs of | | | | one or more | | | | AntennaFunction | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theCellList | This attribute | | | | contains the DNs of | | | | cells (derivates of | | | | EUtranGenericCell or | | | | UtranGenericCell) if | | | | association A2 is | | | | used. | | | | | | | | This attribute | | | | contains the DNs of | | | | GSMCellPart if | | | | association A6 is | | | | used.. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theSectorEquipment | This attribute | | | | contains the DN of | | | | one | | | | Sect | | | | orEquipmentFunction. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theTmaList | This attribute | A list of DNs as | | | contains the DNs of | defined in TS 32.300 | | | one or more | [6]. | | | TmaFunction | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaAntennaBearing | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [9] | | | TS 25.466 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaBaseStationId | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [9] | | | TS 25.466 [9] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaFunctionFlag | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | 25.466 [9] | [9] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaGainFigure | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | 25.466 [9] | [9] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaGainResolution | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [9] | | | TS 25.466 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaIns | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | talledMechanicalTilt | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [9] | | | TS 25.466 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaMaxGain | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | 25.466 [9] | [9] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaMinGain | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | 25.466 [9] | [9] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaNumberOfSubunits | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | 25.466 [9] | [9] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaResolution | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | 25.466 [9] | [9] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaSectorId | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [9] | | | TS 25.466 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaStateFlag | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | 25.466 [9] | [9] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaSubunitNumber | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | 25.466 [9] | [9] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaSu | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | bunitRxFrequencyBand | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [9] | | | TS 25.466 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaSubunitType | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [9] | | | TS 25.466 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaSu | A data field defined | Defined in TS 25.466 | | bunitTxFrequencyBand | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | [9] | | | TS 25.466 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tsc | This attribute has | | | | the same definition | | | | as the one used in | | | | GsmCell IOC. The | | | | presence of | | | | GSMCellPart means | | | | the tsc attribute in | | | | GsmCell IOC instance | | | | is irrelevant (not | | | | applicable). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uTRANFDDFqBands | This is the list of | A list of frequency | | | UTRAN FDD frequency | bands expressed as | | | bands supported by | strings. | | | the hardware | | | | associated with the | Valid frequency band | | | Sect | values are specified | | | orEquipmentFunction. | in sub-clause 5.2 of | | | | TS 25.104 [16]. | | | The arfcnDl and | | | | arfcnUl of UTRAN FDD | | | | cells associated | | | | with the | | | | Sec | | | | torEquipmentFunction | | | | must be assigned | | | | with value within | | | | one of the specified | | | | uTRANFDDFqBands | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uTRANTDDFqBands | This is the list of | A list of frequency | | | UTRAN TDD frequency | bands expressed as | | | bands supported by | strings. | | | the hardware | | | | associated with the | Valid frequency band | | | Sect | values are specified | | | orEquipmentFunction. | in sub-clause 5.2 of | | | | TS 25.105 [17]. | | | The earfcn of UTRAN | | | | TDD cells associated | | | | with the | | | | Sec | | | | torEquipmentFunction | | | | must be assigned | | | | with value within | | | | one of the specified | | | | uTRANTDDFqBands | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vertBeamwidth | The 3 dB power | A single integral | | | beamwidth of the | value corresponding | | | antenna pattern in | to an angle in | | | the vertical plane. | degrees between 0 | | | | and 180. | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behaviour is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 4.6 Common Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
#