# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
3GPP WG SA5 has specified detailed Network Resource Models (NRMs) for the
management of mobile networks, including a Generic NRM.\ TMF has done the same
for the management of various kinds of fixed networks, as well as a Shared
Information Data (SID) model providing common and generic definitions for
network and service management aspects.\ Both sets of specifications have been
developed independently. As a consequence the models are different.
Though there will always be a part in the NRMs and SID which are different due
to the different network technologies modelled, there are numerous modelling
aspects which do not have to be different between the two models for the
different network technologies.\ Examples of these aspects are the top part of
the NRMs and SID, modelling of resource inventory information, modelling of
security aspects, modelling techniques and how vendor specific resource model
extensions are managed using NRMs and SID.
Because both sets of specifications have been developed independently, the
management of the mobile part and the fixed part is currently structured along
silos with different management interfaces, resource models, management
architectures, and management workflows.\ Aligned management interfaces,
management models, management architectures, and management workflows would
greatly benefit the industry. Advantages include:
• CAPEX reduction (less development cost, less integration cost);
• OPEX reduction (configuration and re-configuration of mobile and fixed
networks can be handled in the same manner and with the same work flows);
• Enhanced management capabilities (e. g. consistent management of dependant
configurations for mobile part and fixed part aspects).
# 1 Scope
The present document studies how to allow the two organizations (3GPP and TMF)
to evolve their respective NRMs and SID in a manner that they would become
aligned to support consistent and integrated management of mobile and fixed
networks. This study:
• identifies the non-aligned, contradicting or overlapping parts between NRMs
and SID
• identifies the non-aligned, contradicting or overlapping parts regarding
specification methodology
• proposes possibilities to align the parts identified above;
• ensures that the proposal allows usage of the 3GPP Generic NRM IRP
independently of SID
• ensures that the proposal allows usage of mobile specific NRMs to be used as
they are
• drives the alignment process with TMF
• identifies any required changes in the 3GPP specifications
• identifies required changes in the TMF specifications to be communicated to
the TMF
• ensures that 3GPP remains full owner of the aligned part of the NRM
specifications
• defines a procedure how aligned specifications can be maintained and updated
in a consistent manner
Special emphasis has been given to the borderline between generic and
harmonized part and the network technology specific parts of the models. In
case new requirements had been identified during the alignment process, they
have been taken into account as well.
It is not intended to add the mobile specific parts of the 3GPP Network
Resource Models to the TMF SID.
These model aspects are published by 3GPP only. Interface aspects (e. g. the
Alarm IRP) are outside of the scope of this Study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] TMF RN306: \"MTOSI 2.0 Release Notes\", Version 2.1
[2] MTOSI 2.0: Framework - DDP IA, TMF612_FMW, Version 1.0
[3] MTOSI 2.0: Network Resource Basic -- DDP, IA, TMF612_NRB, Version 1.0
[4] MTOSI 2.0: Network Resource Fulfillment DDP IA, TMF612_NRF, Version 1.0
[5] MTOSI 2.0: Network Resource Assurance - DDP IA, TMF612_NRA, Version 1.0
[6] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.69x: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM)
network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); ...\".
[8] Guide Book GB922 \"Shared Information/Data (SID) Model\", Release 8,
Telemanagement Forum, http://www.tmforum.org
[9] ITU-T Recommendation X.680: \"OSI networking and system aspects --
Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[11] ATM Forum, Technical Committee, Network Management, M4 Network View CMIP
MIB Specification: CMIP Specification for the M4 Interface, Sep, 1995
[12] 3GPP TR 32.833: \"Study on Management of Converged Networks\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[14] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[15] ITU-T X.680 OSI networking and system aspects -- Abstract Syntax Notation
One (ASN.1)
[16] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\"
[17] ATM Forum; Technical Committee; Network Management; M4 Network View; CMIP
MIB; Specification; Version 1.0; af-nm-0073-000; January, 1997;
http://www.broadband-forum.org/ftp/pub/approved-specs/af-nm-0073.000.pdf
[18] ATM Forum; Technical Committee; CMIP Specification for the M4 Interface;
af-nm-0027.000; September, 1995; http://www.broadband-
forum.org/ftp/pub/approved-specs/af-nm-0027.000.pdf)
[19] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\"
[20] MEF Technical Specification MEF 7.1, Phase 2 EMS-NMS Information Model,
October 2009
[21] 3GPP2 S.S0028-E "OAM&P for cdma2000 (Overview, 3GPP R7 Delta
Specification, 3GPP2 Network Resource Model IRP)"
[22] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management;
Name convention for Managed Objects\"
[23] S5-102610 S5vTMFa033 E NSN Proposed enhancement of Generic NRM IOCs v3
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [14] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[14].
### 3.1.1 Definition of TMF Terminology
{width="3.6458333333333335in" height="4.052083333333333in"}
Figure 3.1.1.1: TMF Frameworx
TMF Frameworx defines the mechanism by which the TMF\'s existing NGOSS
standard Framework components are integrated into a comprehensive enterprise
IT and process architecture that also embraces major IT industry standards
such as ITIL and TOGAF. Its components are:
  * [Business Process Framework (eTOM)]{.underline} is the TMF\'s common process architecture for both business and functional processes
  * [Information Framework (SID)]{.underline} provides a common reference model for Enterprise information that service providers, software providers, and integrators may use to describe management information
  * [Application Framework (TAM)]{.underline} provides a common language between service providers and their suppliers to describe systems and their functions, as well as a common way of grouping them
  * [Integration Framework]{.underline} provides a service oriented integration approach with standardized interfaces and support tools
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[14] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [14].
BA Business Agreement
CCV Common Communication Vehicle
CMIP
CORBA
DDP Document Delivery Package
FMC Fixed Mobile Convergence
FMW Framework
FNM Federated Network Model
IA Information Agreement
IF
IIS Interface Implementation SpecificationIRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
MTOSI Multi-Technology Operations System Interface
NM Network Management
NRA Network Resource Assurance
NRB Network Resource Basic
NRF Network Resource Fulfilment
NRM Network Resource Model
NW Network
RTM Resource Trouble Management
SOA
SOAP
SS
TIP TMF Interface Program
TMF TeleManagement Forum
UML Unified Modeling Language
XML
# 4 Comparison of 3GPP and TMF Generic Model Definitions
## 4.1 Reference Architectures and Specification Overview
### 4.1.1 3GPP
{width="6.002083333333333in" height="4.090972222222222in"}
Figure 4.1.1.1: 3GPP Management Reference Model (3GPP TS 32.101 [6])
{width="5.7659722222222225in" height="3.122916666666667in"}
Figure 4.1.1.2: SOA-based Representation of the 3GPP Management Reference
Model (3GPP TS 32.101 [6])
**_IRP Framework Methodology Specifications:_**
  * 3GPP TS 32.150: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and definitions
  * 3GPP TS 32.151: IRP Information Service (IS) template
  * 3GPP TS 32.152: IRP IS Unified Modeling Language (UML) repertoire
  * 3GPP TS 32.153: IRP technology specific templates, rules and guidelines
  * 3GPP TS 32.154: Backward and Forward Compatibility Concept and definitions
  * 3GPP TS 32.155: Requirements template
**_IRP Specification Structure (up to and including 3GPP Release 9):_**
  * xx1: xyz IRP Requirements
  * xx2: xyz IRP IS
  * xx3: xyz IRP CORBA SS
  * _xx4: xyz IRP CMIP SS (retired)_
  * xx5: xyz IRP XML Definitions _(applicable for NRM IRPs & notification emitting IF IRPs)_
  * xx7: xyz IRP SOAP SS _(applicable only for IF IRPs)_
**_IRP Specification Structure (from 3GPP Release 10 onwards):_**
  * xx1: xyz IRP Requirements
  * xx2: xyz IRP IS
  * xx6: xyz IRP SS
{width="6.0in" height="3.598611111111111in"}
Figure 4.1.1.3: 3GPP Release 9 NRM IRP Overview
### 4.1.2 TMF TIP
## 4.2 Common/Relevant Generic Definitions
### 4.2.1 3GPP
3GPP defines its top model as well as generic definitions in 3GPP TS 32.622
\"Generic NRM IRP\" [13].
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="5.925694444444445in"}
NOTE 1: ManagedElement may be contained in either a SubNetwork or a MeContext
instance (also shown by the {xor} constraint), or have no parent instance at
all.
NOTE 2: Void
NOTE 3: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
NOTE 4: If the configuration contains several instances of SubNetwork, exactly
one SubNetwork instance shall directly or indirectly contain all the other
SubNetwork instances.
NOTE 5: The SubNetwork instance not contained in any other instance of
SubNetwork is referred to as \"the root SubNetwork instance\".
NOTE 6: ManagementNode shall be contained in the root SubNetwork instance.
NOTE 7: If contained in a SubNetwork instance, IRPAgent shall be contained in
the root SubNetwork instance.
NOTE 8: For a clarification on the choice of containment of the IRPAgent
(since it has three possible parents), see the def. of IRPAgent.
Figure 4.2.1.1: Generic NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram (3GPP
TS 32.622 [13])
It is assumed that the following 3GPP information objects may have to be
\"aligned\" with equivalent SID information objects:
  * Subnetwork
  * ManagedElement
  * ManagedFunction
  * ManagementNode (tbd)
  * Top (tbd)
**[[Subnetwork]{.underline}]{.smallcaps}**
This IOC represents a set of managed entities as seen over the Itf-N.
There may be zero or more instances of a SubNetwork. It shall be present if
either a ManagementNode or multiple ManagedElements are present (i.e.
ManagementNode and multiple ManagedElement instances shall have SubNetwork as
parent).
The SubNetwork instance not contained in any other instance of SubNetwork is
referred to as \"the root SubNetwork instance\".
Attributes of SubNetwork
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier subNetworkId M
M - dnPrefix M M - userLabel M M M userDefinedNetworkType M M - setOfMcc M M -
* * *
**[[ManagedElement]{.underline}]{.smallcaps}**
This IOC represents telecommunications equipment or TMN entities within the
telecommunications network that performs Managed Element (ME) functions, i.e.
provides support and/or service to the subscriber.\ An ME communicates with a
manager (directly or indirectly) over one or more interfaces for the purpose
of being monitored and/or controlled. MEs may or may not additionally perform
element management functionality.\ An ME contains equipment that may or may
not be geographically distributed. An ME is often referred to as a \"Network
Element\".
A ManagedElement may be contained in either a SubNetwork or in a MeContext
instance. A single ManagedElement seen over the Itf-N may also exist stand-
alone with no parent at all.
The ManagedElement IOC may be used to represent combined ME functionality (as
indicated by the managedElementType attribute and the contained instances of
different functional IOCs).
Single function ManagedElement IOC instances will have a 1..1 containment
relationship to a function IOC instance (in this context a function IOC
instance is an instance of an IOC derived from the ManagedFunction IOC).
Multiple function ManagedElement instances will have a 1..N containment
relationship to function IOC instances.
NOTE: For some specific functional IOCs a 1..N containment relationship is
permitted. The specific functional entities are identified in the NRMs that
define subclasses of ManagedFunction.
Attributes of ManagedElement
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
managedElementId M M - dnPrefix M M - managedElementType M M - userLabel M M M
vendorName M M - userDefinedState M M M locationName M M - swVersion M M -
managedBy M M -
* * *
**[[ManagedFunction]{.underline}]{.smallcaps}**
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. It provides attribute(s) that are
common to functional IOCs. Note that a ManagedElement may contain several
managed functions. The ManagedFunction may be extended in the future if more
common characteristics to functional objects are identified.
Attributes of ManagedFunction
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier userLabel M M
M
* * *
**[[ManagementNode (tbd)]{.underline}]{.smallcaps}**
This IOC represents a telecommunications management system (EM) within the TMN
that contains functionality for managing a number of ManagedElements (MEs).
The management system communicates with the MEs directly or indirectly over
one or more interfaces for the purpose of monitoring and/or controlling these
MEs.
This class has similar characteristics as the ManagedElement. The main
difference between these two classes is that the ManagementNode has a special
association to the managed elements that it is responsible for managing.
Attributes of ManagementNode
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
managementNodeId M M - userLabel M M M vendorName M M - userDefinedState M M M
locationName M M - swVersion M M - managedElements M M -
* * *
**[[Top (tbd)]{.underline}]{.smallcaps}**
This IOC is introduced for generalisation purposes. All information object
classes defined in all TS shall inherit from Top.
Attributes of Top
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier objectClass M
M - objectInstance M M -
* * *
### 4.2.2 TMF Information Framework (SID)
The TMF has an ongoing program of work under the Information Framework that is
developing and refining an Information and Data model known as the SID (Shared
Information / Data Model) [8]. The SID provides a framework within which all
information objects can be described that are of interest for operator
business processes and also provides the information/data objects that are
exchanged over the TMF Interfaces (MTOSI/MTNM). The TMF teams are working on
tooling that will take the SID and produce interfaces. This work is part of
the TMF Interface Program (TIP).
Due to the flexibility required to meet the goals, the SID provides a rich set
of interrelationships. Parts of the model have been tuned for transfer over a
management interface of information related to Network Devices. In these parts
the SID provides a strong composition (containment) model.. In some areas the
model has not been focussed on interface transfer and in these areas the
containment model is intentionally weakened to aggregation (recognising the
lack of lifecycle dependency) and on occasions to a general association..
Examples of aggregation are: \"EquipmentInHolder\", \"EquipmentInEquipment\"
where clearly each part has an independent life,. Also, SID uses the
\"Composite-Atomic\" pattern to model Items that can contain other items.
Examples of this pattern are \"HolderComposite\" / \"HolderAtomic\" with the
Association \"HasHolders\" that allow to model EquipmentHolders which may
contain other EquipmentHolders, and \"SoftwareComposite\" / \"SoftwareAtomic\"
with \"HasSoftwareComponents\" that allows to hierarchically structure
software.
It is clear that when developing a model representation to be passed across a
Management Interface the relevant viewpoint at the interaction point between
the applications needs to be represented and that this will lead to
strengthening some relationships from aggregation to composition. For example,
when the context is narrowed to that of a Network Device the view of the
Equipment-Holder relationship could be strengthened to
Composition/Containment. So when mapping from the SID generalised model to the
SID model for interface transfer (for MTOSI/MTNM for example) relationships
may change in strength. The same treatment would be appropriate when
interrelating the 3GPP model to the SID.
Until recently the SID did not incorporate the MTNM/MTOSI model. In SID 9 the
Resource model from MTNM/MTOSI, which is a large majority of the MTNM/MTOSI
model, has been incorporated in the SID. There are still some areas to
incorporate and there is also a need for some restructuring of the SID to
improve accessibility, interpretation and application..
Some SID Objects potentially relevant for harmonizing generic model aspects
are:
  * RootEntity
  * ManagedEntity
  * ManagementDomain
  * EquipmentHolder
  * Equipment
  * SubNetwork
  * Pipe
  * TerminationPoint (including PhysicalTerminationPoint, ConnectionTerminationPoint and FloatingTerminationPoint)
  * DeviceInterface (including MediaInterface and LogicalInterface)
  * FlowDomainFragment
  * SubNetworkConnection
  * TopologicalLink
Where SID model has been applied to interfaces specific documentation has been
developed to assist the implementer of the interfaces. This documentation
comes in two forms (MTNM and MTOSI). The focus in this document will be the
MTOSI form of documentation.
### 4.2.3 Comparison of Common Definitions
TMF MTOSI has a similar document/specification structure than 3GPP IRPs. MTOSI
specifications have three kinds of Document Data Packages (DDP) (Chapter 1.2
DDP Structure in [1]):
  * The FrameWork DDP (FMW) -- this DDP contains the generic artefacts > that are applicable to all the other DDPs.
  * Data Model DDP (DM-DDP) -- a DDP that concerns a data model > (entities, data structures, attributes, state, but no operations)
  * Operation Model DDP (OM-DDP) -- a DDP that concerns a computational > model (operations, notifications, transactions) for a given > functional area (such as resource inventory management)
And in more detail, the resource management related data models are captured
in following DDPs (additional to FrameWork DDP):
  * NetworkResourceBasic (NRB)
  * NetworkResourceFulfilment (NRF)
  * NetworkResourceAssurance (NRA)
The generic object definitions for resource management functions are captured
in FMW and NRB DDPs. Additionally some objects in NRF and NRA can also be
considered as generic when object models and object definitions are compared
to 3GPP Generic NRM IRP. Thus some objects from those DDP are captured in this
chapter as well.
MTOSI naming tree as per FMW DDP [2]:
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.61875in"}
Figure 4.2.3.1: MTOSI naming tree as per FMW DDP [2]
#### 4.2.3.1 Object definitions in FMW
MTOSI FMW defines following objects, [2]
* * *
Object name Description CommonObjectInfo CommonObjectInfo defines the common
attributes for all addressable object classes ManagementDomain One or more
ManagementDomains are used to represent the managed network of a service
provider (i.e., a portion of a network) in the context of a given CCV. Each
network resource is contained under exactly one ManagementDomain. Each OS on
the CCV may store part or whole inventory associated with one or more
ManagementDomains. A top-level OS may manage part or all of one or more
ManagementDomains
* * *
The relevance of these objects for this study is to be verified.
CommonObjectInfo, attributes [2]
* * *
Attribute name Description
name This attribute represents a unique identifier of the object on the CCV
within the context of the OS that creates the object.
discoveredName This attribute contains the name of the object when its
existence is first published on the CCV but only in the case where the OS that
publishes the object on the CCV is not the naming OS.
namingOsRef This attribute represents an identifier for the steward of the
object, intended as the OS that sets the name of the object. The namingOS
attribute is set by the OS that is responsible for setting the \"name\" of the
object.
nativeEmsName This attribute contains the native EMS Name of the object. It
represents how an EMS user addresses an object on the EMS GUI. Its aim is to
provide a \"nomenclature bridge\" for relating information presented on NMS
displays and EMS displays (via GUI cut through).\ The EMS may or may not
support changing this value.\ \ This attribute contains a list of aliases for
the entity.
aliasNameList This attribute contains a list of aliases for the entity.
userLabel This attribute represents a provisionable, user friendly name for
the object. The userLabel attribute is owned and may be set by the requesting
OS or the naming OS.\ The difference between the userLabel and the name is
that the userLabel is an attribute of the object that may be \"set\" by the
requesting OS or the naming OS.\ This attribute may be unique amongst all
instances of this object in the target OS.
owner This attribute represents an identifier for the owner of the object.
additionalInfo This is a vendor specific attribute that contains additional
specific information about the object. This list can be empty.\ The attribute,
when present, can be used to convey information from the target OS to the
requesting OS, and vice versa, of additional information that isn\'t
explicitly modelled, except that some parameter names and values may be
predefined.\ Any information encoded in the additionalInfo is optional: the
target OS need not fill out this information and the requesting OS need not
interpret this information.
* * *
**[[ManagementDomain, attributes:]{.underline}]{.smallcaps}**
Attributes are inherited from CommonObjectInfo.
#### 4.2.3.2 Object definitions in NRB
MTOSI NRB defines following object [3]
* * *
Object name Description CommonResourceInfo This object class defines the
attributes that are common to all resource objects
* * *
CommonResourceInfo, attributes [3]
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Attribute name | Description | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | source | this attribute shall indicate whether the | | | object was discovered from the network, or | | | was entered into the OS's inventory. The | | | possible values for this attribute are, | | | i.e., | | | | | | - network ME -- the object was discovered | | | directly from an NE. | | | | | | - network OS -- the object was discovered | | | from an OS communicating directly with | | | an NE. | | | | | | - OS -- the object was entered into an OS | | | on the CCV, that was not communicating | | | directly with an NE, e.g., OS GUI or | | | file transfer to the OS from some other | | | system. | | | | | | - Unknown -- the source of the object is | | | not available or known by the OS. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | resourceState | this attribute shall represent the | | | lifecycle state of a physical resource. The | | | possible | | | | | | values for this attribute are: | | | | | | - planning -- the resource is scheduled | | | for deployment in accordance with a | | | specific plan. | | | | | | - installing -- the resource undergoes a | | | full commissioning process until it is | | | finally ready for work and support | | | services. | | | | | | - working -- the resource has been | | | physically installed and all necessary | | | firmware and software have been | | | installed, all commissioning tests have | | | been performed, | | | | | | - retiring -- the resource undergoes all | | | necessary procedures for its | | | decommissioning and phasing out. | | | | | | - unknown - the resource state is not | | | known. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | networkAccessDomain | This attribute contains a free-format | | | string used to associate the resource to a | | | Network Access Domain | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | ituStateAndStatusList | This attribute allows an object that | | | represents a managed resources across the | | | Interface to support the ITU-T state and | | | status values (as defined in the ITU-T | | | X.731 and M.3100). | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
#### 4.2.3.3 Object definitions in NRF
Network resource fulfillment DDP contains definitions that are applicable to
fulfilment applications. Thus the objects are not generic in a sense the
definitions FMW and NRB. Anyhow, NRF defines objects that may not be directly
tight to a specific domain or technology thus considered here as potential
generic objects. Objects and object descriptions as per [4]:
+------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Object name | Description | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | ManagedElement | represents an abstraction of a set of co-located | | | physical resources managed as a single entity | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | OperationsSystem | This object class represents the Operations | | | System (OS) itself (an EMS, NMS or SMS). | | | | | | In the context of the MTOSI product, there are | | | top-level OSs which are attached to the CCV and | | | subordinate OSs which are known to a given | | | top-level OS but not attached to the CCV | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Equipment | This object class represents the manageable | | | physical components of a network element | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
ManagedElement, attributes [4]
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Attribute name | Description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Location | This attribute identifies the | | | location of the Network Element | | | represented by the Managed | | | Element | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | softwareVersion | The version attribute identifies | | | the version of the Managed | | | Element as a whole. | | | | | | Changes in the value of this | | | attribute lead to an AVC | | | notification. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | productName | This attribute identifies the | | | Managed Element vendor\'s | | | name/designation for the | | | product. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | communicationState | This attribute identifies the | | | state of communication between | | | the target OS and the Managed | | | Element. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | supportedConnectionLayerRateList | This attribute identifies the | | | supported connection layer rates | | | of the Managed Element. | | | | | | There is a standardised list of | | | LayerRates | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | isInSyncState | This attribute identifies | | | whether the target OS is able to | | | keep its data synchronized with | | | the Network Element data. The | | | target OS sets this attribute to | | | False to indicate that it | | | requires resynchronization with | | | the Network Element data and | | | that it is not able to generate | | | the appropriate notifications | | | (such as OCs/ODs/AVCs) while | | | doing so. The target OS sets | | | this attribute back to True when | | | the resynchronization is | | | completed and when notifications | | | can start being generated as | | | appropriate. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | manufacturer | This attribute identifies the | | | Managed Element manufacturer | | | name. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | manufactureDate | This attribute identifies the | | | production date of the Managed | | | Element in the format of | | | YYYYMMDD where YYYY = the | | | 4-digit year of manufacture, MM | | | is the 2-digit month, and DD is | | | the 2-digit date. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | asapRef | This attribute indicates the | | | assignment of an Alarm Severity | | | Assignement Profile (ASAP) to | | | the Managed Element. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ituArcStateAndStatusList | This enumeration contains an ITU | | | Alarm Reporting Control (ARC) | | | state or status together with | | | it\'s value. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | source, resourceState, | Inhereted from | | networkAccessDomain, | CommonResourceInfo | | ituStateAndStatusList | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | name, discoveredName, | Inhereted from CommonObjectInfo | | namingOsRef, nativeEmsName, | | | aliasNameList, userLabel, owner, | | | additionalInfo | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
OperationsSystem, attributes [4]
* * *
Attribute name Description softwareVersion This attribute identifies the
software version of the OS. productName This attribute identifies the product
name for the OS. manufacturer This attribute identifies the name of the OS
supplier. resourceFulfillmentState This attribute indicates the current
resource fulfillment state of the OS. isSubordinateOS This attribute
identifies if the OS is a subordinate OS or not. asapRef This attribute
indicates the assignment of an Alarm Severity Assignement Profile (ASAP) to
the Operations System. ituArcStateAndStatusList This enumeration contains an
ITU Alarm Reporting Control (ARC) state or status together with it\'s value.
source, resourceState, networkAccessDomain, ituStateAndStatusList Inhereted
from CommonResourceInfo name, discoveredName, namingOsRef, nativeEmsName,
aliasNameList, userLabel, owner, additionalInfo Inhereted from
CommonObjectInfo
* * *
#### 4.2.3.4 Object definitions in NRA
Information source: Network Resource Assurance DDP IA, TMF612_NRA, Version 1.0
Network resource assurance DDP contains definitions that are applicable to
assurance applications. Thus the objects are not generic in a sense the
definitions FMW and NRB. Anyhow, NRA defines objects that are not directly
tight to a specific domain or technology thus considered here as potential
generic objects. Objects and object descriptions as per [5]:
* * *
Object name Description AlarmSeverityAssignmentProfile This object class
models the (flexible) severity assignment to specified probable causes. So the
ASAP object includes a table, with each row specifying the probable cause
(plus optionally the probableCauseQualifier and / or the nativeProbableCause)
and the assigned severity for \"service affecting\", \"non service affecting\"
and \"service independent or unknown\" alarms EquipmentProtectionGroup This
object class represents the information about an equipment protection in a
Managed Element PerformanceMonitoringPoint This object class represents one
Performance Monitoring Point (PMP). There always exists one PMP for every
triple of layer rate, PM location and granularity for which the containing TP
is capable to monitor performance. Thus, its existence reflects the TP\'s PM
capabilities.
* * *
The relevance of these objects for this study is to be verified.
## 4.3 Common/Relevant Inventory Definitions
### 4.3.1 3GPP
3GPP defines an Inventory Information in 3GPP TS 32.692 [7], and further
inventory-related data are included in 3GPP TS 32.622 [13]. In addition,
vendor specific data can be put into a vsDataContainer structure.
**[[Inventory Unit definition in 3GPP TS 32.692
[7]]{.underline}]{.smallcaps}**
Figure 4.3.1.1: Inventory Unit definition in 3GPP TS 32.692 [7]
Attributes (Table 6.5.1 from 3GPP TS 32.692x [7])
+----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal | | | | | | | | Values | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | dateOfManufacture | Date of Manufacture of | | | | inventory unit. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | dateOfLastService | Date of last service or | | | | repair of inventory unit. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | inventoryUnitId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be used as | | | | an RDN when naming an | | | | instance of this object | | | | class. This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the object | | | | instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | inventoryUnitType | Type of inventory unit (see | | | | TS 32.690 [11]) | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | manufacturerData | Manufacturer specific data | | | | of inventory unit. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | serialNumber | Serial number of inventory | | | | unit. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | unitPosition | Position of inventory unit | | | | (e.g. Rack, shelf, slot, | | | | etc.). | | | | | | | | Depending on the | | | | implementation of the | | | | inventory unit in the | | | | managed system, the value | | | | and meaning of this | | | | attribute may vary. | | | | | | | | For example, if a system | | | | has three levels and types | | | | of inventory units | | | | representing Rack, Shelf | | | | and Slot respectively (i.e. | | | | the Managed Element | | | | contains multiple Rack | | | | inventory units, each Rack | | | | inventory unit contains | | | | multiple Shelf inventory | | | | units and each Shelf | | | | inventory unit contains | | | | multiple Slot inventory | | | | units), then for this | | | | example: | | | | | | | | - for the Inventory Unit | | | | representing a Rack, | | | | the Frame | | | | Identification code may | | | | be used as the value of | | | | this attribute; | | | | | | | | - for the Inventory Unit | | | | representing a Shelf, | | | | the Rack Shelf code may | | | | be used as the value of | | | | this attribute; | | | | | | | | - for the Inventory Unit | | | | representing a Slot, | | | | the position code may | | | | be used as the value of | | | | this attribute. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | vendorName | Name of inventory unit | | | | vendor. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | vendorUnitFamilyType | Mnemonic of inventory unit | | | | family type (e.g. Fan, PSU) | | | | assigned by vendor. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | vendorUnitTypeNumber | A vendor/manufacturer | | | | defined and assigned number | | | | which uniquely identifies | | | | the unit type and | | | | optionally for backward | | | | compatibility reasons only, | | | | also version (used for | | | | replacing HW units, | | | | spares). | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+ | versionNumber | The version information | | | | related to | | | | vendorUnitTypeNumber. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+--------+
**[[Inventory-related Definitions in TS 32.622
[13]]{.underline}]{.smallcaps}**
Attributes of ManagedElement
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
managedElementId M M - dnPrefix M M - managedElementType M M - userLabel M M M
**vendorName** **M** **M** **-** userDefinedState M M M **locationName** **M**
**M** **-** **swVersion** **M** **M** **-** managedBy M M -
* * *
Attributes of ManagementNode
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
managementNodeId M M - userLabel M M M **vendorName** **M** **M** **-**
userDefinedState M M M **locationName** **M** **M** **-** **swVersion** **M**
**M** **-** managedElements M M -
* * *
Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Definition Legal Values locationName The physical location of
this entity (e.g. an address).  
swVersion The software version of the ManagementNode or ManagedElement (this
is used for determining which version of the vendor specific information is
valid for the ManagementNode or ManagedElement).  
vendorName The name of the vendor.
* * *
### 4.3.2 TMF SID
Besides many others, the SID [8] defines information objects that are
applicable to physical and logical resources. Among those, there are objects
that contain information, which is relevant in the context of Inventory. These
are defined in the SID Domain Addenda 5PR (Physical Resources) and 5LR
(Logical Resources). The information objects in the SID are organized in so-
called \"Aggregate Business Entities\" (ABE). For Inventory, the ABEs
\"PhysicalResource\", \"Hardware\", \"Equipment\", \"EquipmentHolder\" and
\"Software\" are relevant.
The following attributes contain information that may be relevant for hardware
inventory:
  * RootEntity.objectID
  * RootEntity.commonName
  * RootEntity.description
  * RootEntity.version
  * PhysicalResource.manufactureDate
  * PhysicalResource.otherIdentifier
  * PhysicalResource.serialNumber
  * PhysicalResource.versionNumber
  * Hardware.depth
  * Hardware.height
  * Hardware.width
  * Hardware.measurementUnits
  * Hardware.weight
  * Hardware.weightUnits
  * Hardware.replacable
  * ManagedHardware.additionalInfo
The location of a resource is not modelled by an attribute, but by the
association PhysicalResource.ResourceIsAtPlace which links to an instance of
the abstract class \"LocalPlace\". This class is part of the Location ABE
which provides very complex and powerful mechanisms to model location.
To provide an extension mechanism for this set of values, SID has defined a
mechanism called \"PhysicalResourceSpec\" that allows assigning attributes of
arbitrary type and value to physical resources. This mechanism is powerful but
also very complex. Information about HardwareVendors could be modelled using
the Information object \"Vendor\" which inherits from \"PartyRole\". But
again, for a few attributes about the vendor of a particular piece of hardware
or software, this modelling approach is by far too complex.
The following associations model containment relationships that may be
relevant to structure hardware inventory information:
  * Hardware.ContainsHardware
  * Equipment.EquipmentInHolder
  * Equipment.EquipmentInEquipment
  * EquipmentHolder and its subclasses model Equipment that has been designed to contain other Equipment.
The following attributes contain information that may be relevant for software
inventory:
  * RootEntity.objectID
  * RootEntity.commonName
  * RootEntity.desctiption
  * RootEntity.version
  * Software.buildNumber
  * Software.majorVersion
  * Software.minorVersion
  * Software.maintenanceVersion
  * Software.targetPlatform
  * Resource.usageState
  * LogicalResource.serviceState
  * LogicalResource.isOperational
The following associations model containment relationships that may be
relevant to structure software inventory information:
  * SoftwareComposite.HasSoftwareComponents
The mapping between Hardware and Software is represented by
PhysicalContainer.ContainerHasSoftware and is inherited by Equipment and all
derived classes like Equipment or EquipmentHolder (but not present in
Hardware).
Software Licensing is not covered in SID as it would be appropriate for
inventory purposes. Instead, under a very limited scope, licenses for
Operating Systems are covered in the PartyRoleLicenseOSDetails information
object.
The diagram below graphically depicts the part of the SID that may be relevant
for Inventory. Note that only those classes in the inheritance hierarchy are
depicted which contribute inventory-related information. Some non-abstract
classes are provided, but in practical deployments probably more of these
classes need to be derived.
Figure 4.3.2.1: Inventory related classes of SID
### 4.3.3 TMF MTOSI
The Manage Resource Inventory BA covers requirements and use cases concerning
the management of resource inventory. The following management capabilities
are covered:
  * General Management such as (among others):
    * Bulk inventory retrieval (retrieving selected information in a single operation)
    * Multi-Object Inventory Update
  * Inventory Management of Connection Oriented Technologies
  * Inventory Management of Connectionless Technologies
  * Inventory Notifications
{width="2.223611111111111in" height="2.8868055555555556in"}
Figure 4.3.3.1: DDP relationship diagram for Resource Inventory
  * The Data Model is defined in
    * Framework
    * NetworkResourceBasic
    * NetworkResourceAssurance
    * NetworkResourceFulfillment
  * The Interfaces and Operations Model is defined in
    * ManageResourceInventory
Relevant documents for inventory model are
  * TMF518 Manage Resource Inventory DDP BA
  * TMF612 Manage Resource Information DDP IA
  * TMF612 Network Resource Fulfillment DDP IA
  * SD2-12 Resource Inventory Layout
  * SD2-20 Equipment Model
The MTOSI Equipment Model represents the various manageable physical
components of the Network Element (circuit packs or field replaceable units or
also, fan, fuse panel, power supply, etc.) and is described in Network
Resource Fulfillment SD2-20 Equipment Model: The Equipment Holder Class
represents an abstraction of Rack, Shelf, Subshelf, Slot and Subslot. Figure
4.3.3.2describes the containment and support/supporting relationship of the
equipment model. Some of the equipment may be protected in case of failure
with alternative equipment that is modeled under EquipmentProtectionGroup.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="4.938194444444444in"}
Figure 4.3.3.2: NRF Equipment model class diagram
#### 4.3.3.1 Object Definitions in NRF
ManagedElement, attributes [4]
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Attribute name | Description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Location | This attribute identifies the | | | location of the Network Element | | | represented by the Managed | | | Element | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | softwareVersion | The version attribute identifies | | | the version of the Managed | | | Element as a whole. | | | | | | Changes in the value of this | | | attribute lead to an AVC | | | notification. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | productName | This attribute identifies the | | | Managed Element vendor\'s | | | name/designation for the | | | product. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | communicationState | This attribute identifies the | | | state of communication between | | | the target OS and the Managed | | | Element. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | supportedConnectionLayerRateList | This attribute identifies the | | | supported connection layer rates | | | of the Managed Element. | | | | | | There is a standardised list of | | | LayerRates | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | isInSyncState | This attribute identifies | | | whether the target OS is able to | | | keep its data synchronized with | | | the Network Element data. The | | | target OS sets this attribute to | | | False to indicate that it | | | requires resynchronization with | | | the Network Element data and | | | that it is not able to generate | | | the appropriate notifications | | | (such as OCs/ODs/AVCs) while | | | doing so. The target OS sets | | | this attribute back to True when | | | the resynchronization is | | | completed and when notifications | | | can start being generated as | | | appropriate. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | manufacturer | This attribute identifies the | | | Managed Element manufacturer | | | name. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | manufactureDate | This attribute identifies the | | | production date of the Managed | | | Element in the format of | | | YYYYMMDD where YYYY = the | | | 4-digit year of manufacture, MM | | | is the 2-digit month, and DD is | | | the 2-digit date. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | asapRef | This attribute indicates the | | | assignment of an Alarm Severity | | | Assignement Profile (ASAP) to | | | the Managed Element. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ituArcStateAndStatusList | This enumeration contains an ITU | | | Alarm Reporting Control (ARC) | | | state or status together with | | | it\'s value. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | source, | Inhereted from | | | CommonResourceInfo | | resourceState, | | | networkAccessDomain, | | | ituStateAndStatusList | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | name, | Inhereted from CommonObjectInfo | | | | | discoveredName, | | | | | | namingOsRef, | | | | | | nativeEmsName, | | | | | | aliasNameList, | | | | | | userLabel, | | | | | | owner, | | | | | | additionalInfo | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
[]{.underline}
Equipment, attributes [4]
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Attribute name | Description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | resourceFulfillmentState | This attribute supports basic | | | administration of plug-ins. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | isReportingAlarms | This attribute provides an | | | indication of whether alarm | | | reporting for this Equipment is | | | enabled (true) or disabled | | | (false). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | expectedEquipmentObjectType | This attribute identifies the | | | type of the expected resource. | | | For example, \"Fan\" or | | | \"STM16\" for the Equipment | | | class and \"Line Shelf\" for the | | | Equipment Holder class.) This is | | | an empty string if there is no | | | expected equipment. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | installedEquipmentObjectType | This attribute identifies the | | | type of the installed resource. | | | For example, \"Fan\" or | | | \"STM16\" for the Equipment | | | class and \"Line Shelf\" for the | | | Equipment Holder class.) The | | | installed equipment type is | | | invariant for the lifetime of | | | the hardware. This is an empty | | | string if there is no expected | | | equipment. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | installedPartNumber | This attribute identifies the | | | vendor\'s resource Part Number | | | (PN) of the installed equipment. | | | If PN is not available empty | | | string shall be used. If the | | | part and serial number are both | | | non-null then the part+serial | | | number together shall be unique. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | installedSerialNumber | This attribute contains the | | | vendor\'s serial number of the | | | installed equipment. Unique, if | | | no default is provided. At least | | | one serial number has to be | | | provided. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | installedVersion | This attribute identifies the | | | vendor\'s resource version of | | | the installed equipment. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | manufacturer | This attribute identifies the | | | equipment manufacturer name. It | | | is defined as a non-empty free | | | format string with no semantics. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | manufactureDate | The manufacturerDate attribute | | | identifies the production date | | | of the Equipment. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | protectionRole | This attribute defines the | | | protection role that this | | | equipment plays. In case the | | | equipment is not protected, the | | | value \"NOT_APPLICABLE\" shall | | | be used. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | protectionSchemeState | This attribute identifies the | | | individual lock of this | | | equipment. In case the equipment | | | is not protected, the value | | | \"UNKNOWN\" shall also be used. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | asapRef | This attribute indicates the | | | assignment of an Alarm Severity | | | Assignement Profile (ASAP) to | | | the Equipment. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ituArcStateAndStatusList | This enumeration contains an ITU | | | Alarm Reporting Control (ARC) | | | state or status together with | | | it\'s value. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | source, | Inhereted from | | | CommonResourceInfo | | resourceState, | | | networkAccessDomain, | | | ituStateAndStatusList | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | name, | Inhereted from CommonObjectInfo | | | | | discoveredName, | | | | | | namingOsRef, | | | | | | nativeEmsName, | | | | | | aliasNameList, | | | | | | userLabel, | | | | | | owner, | | | | | | additionalInfo | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Equipmentholder, attributes [4]
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Attribute name | Description | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | isReportingAlarms | This attribute provides an | | | indication of whether alarm | | | reporting for this Equipment | | | Holder is enabled (true) or | | | disabled (false). | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | type | This attribute identifies the | | | type of the Holder (e.g., Rack | | | (or Bay), Shelf, Sub-shelf, Slot, | | | Subslot, Remote-unit or | | | Remote-subslot). | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | expectedOrInstalledEquipmentRef | This attribute identifies the | | | equipment object expected or | | | installed in the equipment | | | holder, if any. Null if the | | | equipment holder is empty or if | | | it only contains other equipment | | | holders. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | acceptableEquipmentTypeList | This attribute identifies the | | | types of equipment that can be | | | supported by the Equipment | | | Holder. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | state | This attribute identifies the | | | state of the Equipment Holder. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | asapRef | This attribute indicates the | | | assignment of an Alarm Severity | | | Assignement Profile (ASAP) to the | | | EquipmentHolder. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | manufacturer | This attribute identifies the | | | Equipment Holder manufacturer | | | name. It is defined as a | | | non-empty free format string with | | | no semantics. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | manufactureDate | The manufactureDate attribute | | | identifies the production date of | | | the Equipment Holder. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | location | This attribute identifies the | | | geographical location of the | | | Equipment Holder. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | ituArcStateAndStatusList | This enumeration contains an ITU | | | Alarm Reporting Control (ARC) | | | state or status together with | | | it\'s value. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | source | inherited from CommonResourceInfo | | | | | resourceState | | | | | | networkAccessDomain | | | | | | ituStateAndStatusList | | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | name | inherited from CommonObjectInfo | | | | | discoveredName | | | | | | namingOsRef | | | | | | nativeEmsName | | | | | | aliasNameList | | | | | | userLabel | | | | | | owner | | | | | | additionalInfo | | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
PhysicalTerminationPoint, attributes [4]
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Attribute name | Description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | direction | | | | | | tpProtectionAssociation | | | | | | isEdgePoint | | | | | | isEquipmentProtected | | | | | | egressTmdState | | | | | | ingressTmdState | | | | | | egressTmdRef | | | | | | ingressTmdRef | | | | | | transmissionParameterList | | | | | | asapRef | | | | | | ituArcStateAndStatusList | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | source, | Inhereted from | | | CommonResourceInfo | | resourceState, | | | networkAccessDomain, | | | ituStateAndStatusList | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | name, | Inhereted from CommonObjectInfo | | | | | discoveredName, | | | | | | namingOsRef, | | | | | | nativeEmsName, | | | | | | aliasNameList, | | | | | | userLabel, | | | | | | owner, | | | | | | additionalInfo | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
TerminationPoint, attributes [4]
* * *
Attribute name Description
direction This attribute represents a static, inherent capability of the TP.
tpProtectionAssociation This attribute indicates whether the TP has an
associated protection TP and, if so, what kind of protection association
exists.
isEdgePoint This attribute indicates if the TP is an edge point of at least
one Subnetwork or Flow Domain, i.e. if it is an end point of a potential
inter-Subnetwork/inter-FlowDomain Topological Link.
isEquipmentProtected This attribute indicates whether or not the TP is
supported by a protected Equipment.
egressTmdState This attribute contains the state of consistency between a TP
and its associated egress TransmissionDescriptor.
ingressTmdState This attribute contains the state of consistency between a TP
and its associated ingress TransmissionDescriptor.
egressTmdRef This attribute represents the name of the egress Transmission
Descriptor (TMD) associated with this TP.
ingressTmdRef This attribute represents the name of the ingress Transmission
Descriptor (TMD) associated with this TP.
transmissionParameterList This attribute contains the layered Transmission
Parameters associated with the different layers that are encapsulated within
the TP.\ Refer to attached supporting document SD1-16_LayeredParameters for
details of the currently defined Transmission Parameters.
asapRef This attribute indicates the assignment of an Alarm Severity
Assignement Profile (ASAP) to the Termination Point.
ituArcStateAndStatusList This enumeration contains an ITU Alarm Reporting
Control (ARC) state or status together with it\'s value.
* * *
### 4.3.4 Comparison of Inventory Definitions
The inventory model information in previous chapters shows clearly that both
3GPP and MTOSI inventory models are defined for hardware inventory. This view
is visible in both object definitions and object attribute definitions. Both
models also follow similar modelling approach where managed element contains
hardware related inventory units with relatively simple predefined structure.
3GPP hardware inventory unit model is very generic (contains inventory unit
that may contain another inventory units) and the interpretation is seen as an
implementation issue of vendors i.e. how to implement inventory unit object
hierarchy. MTOSI specification defines the relationship of equipment holders
and equipment thus somewhat more specific than 3GPP model. Anyhow the 3GPP
inventory model enables this equipment holder -- equipment modelling. TMF SID
defines objects for hardware and software modelling purposes. The hardware
model is similar (but richer) to MTOSI model. SID defines equipment and
equipment holder in more detail. SID defines an object for software also
unlike 3GPP and MTOSI. And notably, the relationship between software and
hardware objects (PhysicalContainer) is also defined.
3GPP and MTOSI model the equipment in very similar manner. MTOSI model
contains rack, shelf, subshelf, slot, and subslot (SD2-20) whereas 3GPP model
contains rack, shelf, slot, circuit pack, physical port (3GPP TS 32.690). TMF
SID model is similar but has a clear object hierarchy for the HW units. These
models should be aligned and since hardware inventory unit is technology
independent one common model approach should be chosen. The result model
should anyhow be at high level and keep the HW details at attribute level to
enable flexible usage and extensions.
3GPP and MTOSI HW related attributes are similar but not the same. Both models
contain basic attributes of HW units. Comparison table of 3GPP inventoryUnit
and MTOSI Equipment object attributes below.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3GPP attribute | MTOSI attribute | comparison | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inventoryUnitId | name (FMW DDP) | Semantically same | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inventoryUnitType | expecte | Semantically same | | | dEquipmentObjectType | | | | | | | | installe | | | | dEquipmentObjectType | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorUnitFamilyType | - | Missing from MTOSI. | | | | Definition: Mnemonic | | | | of inventory unit | | | | family type (e.g. | | | | Fan, PSU) assigned | | | | by vendor | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorUnitTypeNumber | installedPartNumber | Semantically same | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | versionNumber | installedVersion | Semantically same | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | manufacturer | Semantically same | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serialNumber | i | Semantically same | | | nstalledSerialNumber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dateOfManufacture | manufactureDate | Semantically same | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dateOfLastService | - | Missing from MTOSI | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | unitPosition | - | Missing from MTOSI | | | | Equipment but | | | | defined for MTOSI | | | | EquipmentHolder | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | manufacturerData | additionalInfo (FMW | Semantically same | | | DDP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | resour | Missing from 3GPP. | | | ceFulfillmentState | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | Missing from 3GPP. | | | isReportingAlarms, | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | [protectionRole] | Considered as MTOSI | | | (../../../../../../. | specific | | | ./../C:%5CDocuments% | | | | 20and%20Settings%5Cm | | | | rutanen%5CMy%20Docum | | | | ents%5CTemp%5CMTOSI% | | | | 202.0%20Aug%2025%5CD | | | | DPs%5CDDPs%5CNetwork | | | | ResourceFulfillment% | | | | 5CIA%5Ccontent%5C_ML | | | | LBUMNVE.d.y.d.iYA.u_ | | | | Q32IQ-content.html#_ | | | | Z1IP48NVE.d.y.d.iYA. | | | | u_Q32IQ%23_Z1IP48NVE | | | | .d.y.d.iYA.u_Q32IQ), | | | | prot | | | | ectionSchemeState, | | | | asapRef, | | | | ituArcStateAndStatu | | | | sList, | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Both 3GPP and MTOSI inventory models contain very limited definitions for
software inventory. In both cases, the SW information is captured at managed
element level. Managed element object represents a physical network element
that performs managed element functions and contains a set of physical
resources. Thus the SW attribute value contains information on whole ME level
and more detailed SW information is not possible to define (without using
vendor specific definitions). Additionally several SW related attributes, like
SW structure, status (installed, active, etc) and installation time are
missing from both specifications. As a conclusion, the SW inventory model is
quite limited in current specifications and should be enhanced to enable
proper SW inventory.
Both 3GPP and MTOSI inventory models contain no definitions for licence
inventory. Licenses are an important mean to control different type of
functionalities of network elements. License information should be considered
as part of inventory information.
Current 3GPP and MTOSI specification do not consider OS systems as part of
inventory. Models should be enhanced to include also OS system inventory as
per other managed elements.
Adding new inventory objects and attributes should be done by considering the
amount of data transferred from EM to NM thus solution should avoid redundant
data within inventory file.
## 4.4 Handling of Vendor-specific Extensions
### 4.4.1 3GPP
### 4.4.2 TMF SID
None.
### 4.4.3 TMF MTOSI
Vendor specific extensions can be modelled by the additionalInfo attribute of
CommonObjectInfo class, which is inherited by all MTOSI DataModel classes.
CommonObjectInfo, vendor specific attributes [2]
* * *
Attribute name Description
additionalInfo This is a vendor specific attribute that contains additional
specific information about the object. This list can be empty.\ The attribute,
when present, can be used to convey information from the target OS to the
requesting OS, and vice versa, of additional information that isn\'t
explicitly modelled, except that some parameter names and values may be
predefined.\ Any information encoded in the additionalInfo is optional: the
target OS need not fill out this information and the requesting OS need not
interpret this information.
* * *
### 4.4.4 Comparison of VSE-Handling
## 4.5 Methodology Aspects
### 4.5.1 3GPP
#### 4.5.1.1 Characteristics of large scale model
The network resource model for use in FMC network management environment is
\"large scale\" in the following sense:
  * Not one authority is responsible for the development, maintenance and evolution of the whole model;
  * Not all operators will use and not all vendors products will support the whole model;
The following clauses provide brief descriptions of existing features of IRP
Framework that are essential for the maintenance of the integrity of a large
scale model.
#### 4.5.1.2 Features
##### 4.5.1.2.1 Fragments
The whole model is partitioned into fragments (one set of TS - Technical
Specifications per fragment). The inter-relationship of fragments is strictly
enforced but simple:
  * Support of TS 32.626 (fragment) is mandatory for any valid model implementation;
  * A model element (i.e. the Information Object Class- IOC) defined in one fragment can be used (via Import) but not redefined by another fragment.
Use of fragments and adherence of the simple fragment inter-relationship
described above has the following advantages.
  * It removes our need to keep the evolution of various fragments in synchrony. For example, it is a valid model implementation where one fragment is from Release 6 while another fragment is from Release 10.
  * Domain experts (e.g. LTE experts) can focus his design on its fragments and (can, if wanted to) be ignorant of contents of other fragments (except TS 32.626).
##### 4.5.1.2.2 Ability to reference \'external\' models
IRP Framework has defined the use of a specialised IOC called ExternalIOC. Use
of this ExternalIOC is to support relations between instances where one
instance (say instance-A) is under the management scope of one Domain Manager
(i.e. DM or IRPAgent) while the related instance (say instance-B) is under
another DM.
The current definition of ExternalIOC does not indicate if the IOC definitions
of the two related instances are from one or two standard organizations. We
will extend this ExternalIOC feature (see description of ExternalXyz of clause
4.5.1.3.1) to support a clear indication if they are from the same or
different standard organizations.
This feature is essential if different organizations are responsible for the
IOC definitions of the related instances.
Note that the use of \"Externals\" is a \"field-proven\" concept. It is a
concept first developed and used by ITU-T for telecommunication network
management for similar purpose. The following definitions are quoted from the
ITU-T Recommendation [9].
  * **External reference** : A type reference, value reference, information object class reference, information object reference, or information object set reference (which may be parameterized), that is defined in some other module than the one in which it is being referenced, and which is being referred to by prefixing the module name to the referenced item (see 3.6.36 of [9])
  * **External type** : A type which is a part of an ASN.1 specification that carries a value whose type may be defined externally to that ASN.1 specification. It also carries an identification of the type of the value being carried (see 3.6.37 of [9]).
##### 4.5.1.2.3 Independence of model tooling, solution set technology and
access protocol
Use of IRP Framework model does not require the use of a specific modelling
tool.
The choice/agreement/design of the NRM (of the IRP Framework) does not imply
the use of a specific solution set technologies, e.g. XML, CORBA, etc.
The choice/agreement/design of the NRM (of the IRP Framework) does not imply
the use of a specific access protocol (used to read/write the instances of the
NRM IOCs). IRP Framework adheres to strict rule ensuring that there is no
dependency between NRM and its access protocols.
##### 4.5.1.2.4 Field proven model alignment/harmonization works
We note the following cases of successful and completed model
alignment/harmonization work, using the IRP Framework features mentioned
above.
  * 3GPP2 develop/maintain/evolve the fragment(s) related to CDMA2000 technologies while 3GPP does similar work related to GSM/UTRAN/EUTRAN technologies plus the GENERIC NRM IRP fragment). Vendors can implement standard network management solutions for these technologies and operators' IRPManagers (a 3GPP IRP Framework conceptual object) can use these solutions in a unified way.
  * BBF/Home develop/maintain/evolve the H(e)NB network resource models. Relevant IRP Framework fragments makes references to those H(e)NB network resource models allowing, for example, an IRPManager to download configuration files to, upload PM counters from and receive alarm notifications from H(e)NBs. Vendors can implement standard network management solutions for these technologies and operators' IRPManagers can use these solutions in a unified way.
#### 4.5.1.3 Design patterns
The description of fragment and benefits of using fragments are discussed in
clause 3.2.2.1.
There are two modelling design patterns to support the use of fragment.
##### 4.5.1.3.1 Pattern one
##### 4.5.1.3.1.1 Context {#context .H6}
The following is a description of the context under which such pattern use is
appropriate:
  * IRPAgent-A has a management scope (responsibility) over a number of network resources. IRPAgent-B has a management scope (responsibility) over another set of network resources. Some network resources managed by IRPAgent-A has relation (e.g. link) with network resources managed by IRPAgent-B. The IOC definitions of the network resources managed by IRPAgent-A and by IRPAgent-B may or may not be from the same standard organization.
    * In this context, model implementation used by Agent-A needs to have ExternalXyz IOC instances. Each instance is a representation of another instance, representing the related (e.g. linked) network resource managed by Agent-B.
##### 4.5.1.3.1.2 Procedure {#procedure .H6}
We use the ATM transport network case to illustrate the use of this pattern.
TBD
##### 4.5.1.3.2 Pattern two
##### 4.5.1.3.2.1 Context {#context-1 .H6}
The following is a description of the context under which such pattern use is
appropriate:
  * IRPAgent-A has a management scope (responsibility) over mobile and transport network resources. The mobile network resource model is developed and maintained by 3GPP/SA5 while the transport network resource model is developed and maintained by another organization.
The approach is to use SubNetwork IOC to name-contain the transport network
resource model. Using a hypothetical ATM transport network resource as an
example, the ATM transport network resource model would take the place of the
\>Any (of [13]). See Appendix A for ease of reference.
##### 4.5.1.3.2.2 Procedure {#procedure-1 .H6}
To illustrate the use of this pattern we use a hypothetical case when UTRAN
link resources (see 3GPP TS 32.642 [10]) are supported by ATM transport
services, defined by the ATM model [11] (see Appendix B), originally designed
in ATM Forum but now maintained by BBF.
1) Create a new TS and in this hypothetical case, the ATM NRM IRP.
2) In the new TS, make Import statements to import all relevant Managed Object
Class definitions and their corresponding Name Bindings found in [11], in
particular, those of vcLayerNetworkDomain and vpLayerNetworkDomain.
> Note: The term Managed Object Class in [11] encompasses the meaning of the
> two terms used in IRP Framework, namely Managed Object Class and Information
> Object Class.
3) In the new TS, declare (e.g. draw in the Class Diagram)
vcLayerNetworkDomain and vpLayerNetworkDomain classes to be name-contained by
SubNetwork IOC.
4) Make sure the ATMChannelTerminationPoint IOC of 3GPP TS 32.642 [10] has all
the attributes of atmNetworkCTP MANAGED OBJECT CLASS of [11].
> Note: The ATMCHannelTerminationPoint IOC does not exist in current version
> of 3GPP TS 32.642 [10]. It will be present in future version when Option 1
> (described in clause 4.1 and 4.2 of [4] is implemented in 3GPP TS 32.642
> [10].
### 4.5.2 TMF SID
### 4.5.3 TMF MTOSI
### 4.5.4 Comparison of Methodology Aspects
## 4.6 Use Cases
### 4.6.1 Overview
This clause identifies use cases that are intended to help identifying the
necessary relationships between the models defined by 3GPP & TMF.
### 4.6.2 UC Ethernet VLAN provisioning
  * Scenario:
    * As a result of a planning exercise it is recognized that additional infrastructure capacity is required to support ongoing service growth. The capacity, in the form of an Ethernet VLAN needs to be created and activated across a mix of wireline and wireless NEs. The Ethernet VLAN is initially simply point to point.
  * Network Context
    * The Ethernet VLAN terminates in a wireless equipment and traverses several wireline equipments to terminate at wireline equipment
  * Implications - It would appear that at a minimum:
    * The optical adjacency between the wireless and wireline equipment needs to be known to the operator Network OS
    * Some configuration parameters need to be sent to the wireless equipment
  * As a result of the activation the operator Network OS should be able to discover the Ethernet VLAN and its path
### 4.6.3 UC Alarm monitoring
  * Scenario
> Operator needs to know if an alarmed radio resource, e.g. End Point
> instance, is related to or not related to any alarmed wireline resources.
  * Network Context
> The transport circuit, terminating at both ends in mobile managed resources,
> traverses several transport managed resources.
  * Implications
> It would appear that at a minimum:
  * Operator needs to know the transport managed resource (e.g. circuit identifier) of the edge node of the transport network that is related to the mobile managed resource in alarm state.
```{=html}
``` \- Description
> Knowing the identifier of the transport managed resource of the edge node of
> the transport network, operator can discover the identifiers of all
> transport managed resources supporting the mobile managed resource in alarm
> state. Knowing their identifiers, operator can know if the identified
> transport managed resources are in alarmed condition and if so, determine if
> the alarm condition is causing the alarm condition of the mobile managed
> resource.
## 4.7 Model Alignment Approach
### 4.7.1 Overview
This clause intends to describe the methods used for aligning the models
between 3GPP & TMF (given that these models are published and maintained by
the respective organizations).
## 4.8 Solution Set relationship
### 4.8.1 Overview
This clause is concerned with the principles of how Solutions Set definition
published by 3GPP & TMF respectively can relate to each other (e.g.
import/include capabilities, name space definitions).
# 5 Evaluation of 3GPP and TMF Resource Model Alignment Options
## 5.1.1 Intent
Clause 5.1 first provides (clause 5.1.2) the background and justification for
enhancing some IOCs currently defined in [1]. It then details (clause 5.1.3)
the enhancement required.
This document closes with raising concern regarding recent changes to the SID
and related implications to the alignment activity (clause 5.1.4).
## 5.1.2 Background and justification for enhancement
One of the tasks of the joint 3GPP/TMF Harmonization work is to identify IOCs
defined in 3GPP/SA5 IRP Framework for enhancement such that their meanings are
aligned with those similarly defined in TMF SID. One objective of the
Harmonization work is to recommend a unified access, for operator process
(e.g. IRPManager) to transport and mobile network management services.
One condition to support such \"unified access\" is to use same
concepts/terms/classes that are:
a) Present in both transport and mobile network management environment and
b) Of interest for operator business processes.
## 5.1.3 Detail change
This clause examines the following IOCs for necessary enhancements.
  * SubNetwork
  * ManagedElement
  * ManagedFunction
  * ManagementNode
  * Top
#### 5.1.3.1 IOC SubNetwork
The following table captures the current situations, regarding Network and
SubNetwork modelling.
Alignment work is needed.
* * *
Concept IRP Framework M.3100 [4] TMF Collection of nodes and links SubNetwork
Network SID Network Collection of links -- does not have equivalence ---
SubNetwork SID SubNetwork
* * *
It is suggest that
a) 3GPP keep IRP Framework SubNetwork as is (that it is equivalent to Network
of [4].) Identify SID Network attributes for harmonization purpose.
b) 3GPP investigate to introduce a new SubNetwork2 with semantics as \"a
collection of links\". In this scenario, the Link IOC will be name-contained
by SubNetwork2, which is in turn name-contained by SubNetwork.
#### 5.1.3.2 IOC ManagedElement
The following table captures the current situations, regarding ManagedElement
and similar classes of M.3100 and TMF.
Alignment work is needed.
* * *
Concept IRP Framework M.3100 [4] TMF Collection of managed resources.
ManagedElement ManagedElement SID/MTOSI ManagedElement
* * *
The definitions of the terms used by the three organizations are similar (e.g.
IRP Framework meaning is that the collection is within a physical entity while
SID/MTOSI's is a collection of \"co-located physical resources managed as a
single entity\".
The yellow-marked attributes are present in SID/MTOSI ManagedElement. It is
suggested adding the yellow-marked attributes with bold font to achieve
alignment with that of MTOSI. Whether the addition should be done using
inheritance (needing a new name) or just add the attributes keeping the name
unchanged, is for further study.
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
managedElementId M M - dnPrefix M M - managedElementType M M - userLabel M M M
vendorName M M - userDefinedState M M M locationName M M - swVersion M M -
managedBy M M - location  
softwareVersion  
**productName** O M -- **communicationState** Note 1  
**supportedConnectionLayerRateList** Note 1  
**isInSyncState** Note 1  
manufacturer  
**manufactureDate** O M -- **asapRef** Note 2  
**ituArcStateAndStatusList** Note 2  
source, resourceState, networkAccessDomain, ituStateAndStatusList  
name, discoveredName, namingOsRef, nativeEmsName, aliasNameList, userLabel,
owner, additionalInfo
* * *
Note 1: Need clarification; MTOSI description on this attribute can be
ambiguous.
Note 2: TBD, waiting for conclusion of Harmonization work on Fault Management.
#### 5.1.3.3 IOC ManagedFunction
It is an abstract class for subclassing purpose. It has one userLabel
attribute only.
SID ManagedEntity is a candidate for harmonization.
* * *
Concept IRP Framework M.3100 [4] TMF ManagedFunction -- does not have
equivalence --- SID ManagedEntity
* * *
#### 5.1.3.4 IOC ManagementNode
This IOC represents an EM (that manages a number of MEs).
Alignment work is needed.
* * *
Concept IRP Framework M.3100 [4] TMF Represents an EM that manages a number of
MEs. ManagementNode -- does not have equivalence -- SID ManagementDomain
* * *
The yellow-marked attributes are present in SID ManagementDomain. It is
suggested adding the yellow-marked attributes with bold font to achieve
alignment with that of SID ManagementDomain. Whether the addition should be
done using inheritance (needing a new name) or just add the attributes keeping
the name unchanged, is for further study.
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
managementNodeId M M - userLabel M M M vendorName M M - userDefinedState M M M
locationName M M - swVersion M M - managedElements M M - name  
discoveredName  
namingOsRef  
nativeEmsName  
aliasNameList  
userLabel  
**owner** O M - **additionalInfo** O M -
* * *
#### 5.1.3.5 IOC Top
It represents the superior IOC and all other IOCs are its subordinate in terms
of inheritance relations. It is supposed to capture behaviour that all IOCs
must have. However, no such behaviour, which can be verifiable via the Itf-N,
can be found (since Release 4).
It is suggest to investigate the removal of the two attributes of this IOC but
keeping the IOC (empty IOC).
## 5.1.4 Concern regarding recent changes in TMF SID
So far the TMF SID is understood by the industry as an industry-wide
acceptable and usable abstract model that could serve as an \"umbrella\"
model, which can unify many disparate models defined elsewhere. Recent changes
within the TMF SID indicate that the TMF seem to have changed its strategy
with respect to the SID, as driving the SID towards a mixed abstract/concrete
\"TMF Super-model\" (e.g. SID V9 containing now the previous TMF MTNM/MTOSI
models, instead of creating as separate MTNM/MTOSI model which enables
alignment with SID definitions via inheritance). Such changes had various
impacts on the initial purpose of the TMF SID, and potentially limiting the
possibility of other standards and industry organizations to rely on the TMF
SID as an \"umbrella\" model (given that such an \"umbrella\" model has to be
very stable, and independent of continuous changes driven by frequent
additions and adjustments).
It is suggested that (a) 3GPP should discuss whether it actually could rely on
the current version of the SID as an \"umbrella\" model for model alignment,
and (b) the TMF should be made of aware of the implications of these changes
to their SID strategy, and be asked to consider reversing this strategy with
respect to the SID (so the SID could serve its initial purpose for the
industry).
## 5.2 Inventory alignment suggestions
Inventory management maintain the information of static or semi-static data
items. Current 3GPP inventory model is mainly specified for hardware
inventory. Hardware is clearly a data item for inventory and has been the only
inventory item in the past. TMF specifications contain also some aspects of
software inventory. Software is an example of semi-static data items that do
not need to be changed frequently but is changing during the time when
software upgrades are made. Thus software is not counted as configuration data
similar to e.g. radio network attributes where changes are implemented
frequently. Software is part in inventory. License information is comparable
to software.
Target for the alignment is to have a model that captures the inventory items
and related attributes. Inventory items are technology independent thus update
could be done to either 3GPP or TMF specifications. The alignment in this TR
propose changes to 3GPP inventory NRM since 3GPP defines the inventory
information model as a dedicated NRM IRP clearly separated from interface IRPs
and technology specific information models.
# 6 Recommendations for 3GPP and TMF Resource Model Alignment
## 6.1 Inventory recommendations
### 6.1.1 General
This chapter identified the recommended changes based on comparison in chapter
4.3 and alignment chapter 5.3.
The recommendation is to update 3GPP inventory NRM to enable one specification
capturing all necessary inventory items regardless of the technology. 3GPP IRP
concept is also clearly separating the interface and resource model
definitions, which is a key concept for enabling technology agnostic inventory
management.
NGNM top 10 requirements [4] identifies inventory as one of the key
functionalities. The content of the requirement is to have inventory
information at inventory management system and changes in the inventory
information should be available to related systems ("Notification of any
change to a passive or active element or its configuration relevant to a
business process must be possible" [4]).
### 6.1.2 Inventory model and information
Network element consists of one or several logical functionalities. The
logical functionalities are realized by one or several HW units, related SW
and controlling licences combinations. Current 3GPP inventory NRM captures
already the NE level information in ManagedElement object. NE may contain one
or several logical entities which may again contain either logical and/or
physical entities. Current model enables only HW related split. To address
this hierarchy of the logical and physical entities, the recommendation is to
add following object
Editors Note: The M/O qualifiers used below are FFS.
  * inventoryUnit NE representing and realizing logical and physical structure of the NE. InventoryUnit NE should contain following attributes:
    * id: vendor defined unique identifier of a logical or physical network element unit
    * customerIdentifier: Unique identification of a vendors' customer
    * productName: NE name classifying a vendor's product family or function
    * vendorName: Name of inventory unit vendor (or vendors may provide manufacturer name)
    * productType: Identifier of the platform, in case the product can be based on different HW/SW platforms (not used for logical NEs)
    * salesUniqueId (O): Unique identifier used by vendor (used e.g. for ordering a new unit)
    * operatorUniqueName (O): Unique NE identifier used by operator
    * siteId (O): NE site in customer network
    * additionalInformation (O): Supplementary information about NE inventory data (if any)
InventoryUnit NE consists of HW units, SW units and licenses (LIC) controlling
the functionalities. The SW and LIC may be the same for several entities of
same type within one InventoryUnit NE. Same applies to HW in case of shared
resources. To address properly the HW, SW and license items, the
recommendation is to add following objects
  * InventoryUnit HW (hardware) containing following attributes for least replaceable units
    * serialNo: Serial number given from factory (empty value in case of NE as highest equipment holder)
    * hwType: Type of the HW unit e.g. equipment holder, carriage
    * hwName (O): Mnemonic of hw inventory unit family type (e.g. Fan, PSU) assigned by vendor.
    * hwVersion: Version / revision no. of current unit e.g. firmware version (empty value possible in case no versioning is available)
    * vendorName (O): Name of inventory unit vendor (or vendors may provide manufacturer name)
    * salesUniqueId (O): Unique identifier used by vendor (used e.g. for ordering a new unit)hwUnitLocation: Unique physical / logical location identifier within NE
    * model: Equipment configuration, e.g. standard hw unit or a variant that may contain additional disk capacity (empty value possible))
    * hwCapability (O): Hardware capability e.g. capacity, size (empty value is possible)
    * modificationDate (O): Date/time stamp of last change (e.g. repair action)
    * additionalInformation (O): Supplementary information about HW inventory data (if any)
    * manualDataEntry: Indicates whether unit is passive or active
  * InventoryUnit SW (software) containing following attributes
    * id: Unique identifier of a SW unit
    * swName (O): SW release name used
    * swVersion: Version identifier of the SW unit
    * vendorName (O): Name of inventory unit vendor (or vendors may provide manufacturer name)
    * salesUniqueId (O): Unique identifier used by vendor (used e.g. for ordering a new unit)classification: Name of installed SW (e.g. SW release, SW build, SW patches), empty value possible
    * swStatus: Status of the SW unit (e.g. installed, archived)
    * installationTime (O): Date/time stamp of SW installation
    * additionalInformation (O): Supplementary information about SW inventory data (if any)
  * InventoryUnit LIC (license) containing following attributes
    * id: Unique identifier of a license (e.g. name, code)
    * lictype (O): Describing type of current license (e.g. capacity, particular feature, no. of subscribers)
    * vendorName (O): Name of inventory unit vendor (or vendors may provide manufacturer name)
    * licActivationDate (O): Date/time stamp of license activation
    * Validity (O): License validity which may include one of the elements duration, end (expiration date) or forever
    * key (O): License activation key according to the used licensing system
    * licStatus (O): License status -- applicable only for managed licenses (e.g. scheduled, valid, expired, invalid, capacity violated)
    * additionalInformation (O): Supplementary information about license inventory data (if any)
    * salesUniqueId: Unique identifier used by vendor (used e.g. for ordering a new unit)
In order to minimize the amount of data in inventory data file, the redundant
information should be minimized. It is recommended that object shall contain
relationships to other objects.
Element/domain management system is seen as part of network from network
management perspective thus recommendation is to include EM/DM to inventory
entities also.
Inventory data consist of information of the whole network managed by the
operator. The information is related to network structure and entities
(logical and physical entities), hardware components, software and licenses
controlling the functionalities.
The inventory data amount may be huge. A large network consists of tens of
thousands of network elements. Considering that network element hardware
consist of racks, shelves, slots, cards and physical ports etc, the number of
objects only for hardware inventory is enormous. Software items can also be
seen/defined in a similar structured way than hardware, even if the SW
structure is more vendor-specific than hardware. SW items consist of releases,
builds, modules etc. Thus the number of SW inventory items is also large. An
estimation of 100 inventory items per network element may lead to millions of
inventory items per network.
SW inventory items are to be linked to some network elements and/or hardware
thus we need to define the SW information for every NE/HW entity (vendor
dependent). Though in several cases, the same type of network elements run the
same SW. Or a license applies to several network elements. Thus repeating the
SW information for every NE/HW entity leads to huge amount of redundant
information. License information can be compared to SW information thus
creating additional redundant information. The target should be to eliminate
"waste", redundant information, without loosing any information. SW and
license inventory items should appear only as "independent" inventory items
and hardware and network element inventory items should have a relationship to
these SW and license inventory items. An estimation of save in "space" is a
factor 10. Also the logical and physical structure on inventory network
element can be separated from hardware inventory items.
{width="3.11875in" height="4.5777777777777775in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1: Inventory unit structure and some visualization of the nested
structure
The example shown below shows how relationships between the different
Inventory items could be defined (using an XML structure).
{width="3.3465277777777778in" height="5.345138888888889in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2: Relationships between the different Inventory items (example)
The figure below shows another example for NE inventory file.
{width="5.157638888888889in" height="6.418055555555555in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3: Relationships between the different Inventory items (example
2)
The structure above would enable inventory data collection per network element
resulting to an output file per network element. The final definition of
network element inventory unit logical and other inventory units are defined
at contract phase depending on the operator needs.
### 6.1.3 Inventory interface enhancement
Currently two methods are defined in 3GPP for uploading inventory information:
  * Explicitly via Bulk CM IRP / Inventory NRM IRP
  * Implicitly via FT IRP / Inventory NRM IRP (with the notification > capabilities of the FT IRP to inform an IRP Manager about the > availability of changed inventory information)
It is proposed to establish the method "FT IRP / Inventory NRM IRP" as a
viable alternative for transferring inventory information. Reason: The
inventory information is either static or semi static meaning that the
information does not change (static) or changes very seldom (semi static). For
this reason, inventory information does not need to be updated and transferred
to network management system in real time nor as frequently as configuration
management information. Depending on the case the update may happen e.g. once
per day or once per week or per need basis. The inventory data could be stored
per network element in an inventory file. The files would be available for
upload per request or per schedule using existing File Transfer IRP [3]
capabilities, which already allows for inventory data transfer -- though a
File Format Definition will have to be defined based on the enhanced inventory
information outlined in this study. File Transfer IRP contains also the
notification mechanism (notifyFileReady).
### 6.1.4 Inventory object model
> {width="6.707638888888889in" height="2.1444444444444444in"}
Figure 6.1.4.1: Inventory Model
InventoryUnitNE IOC definition
This IOC represents the logical and physical structure of the NE.
+-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Support Qualifier | Read Qualifier | Write Qualifier | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | id | M | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | neId | M | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | customerIdentifier | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | productName | M | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | vendorName | M | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | productType | M | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | salesUniqueId | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | operatorUniqueName | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | siteId | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | additionalInformation | O | M | - | +-----------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----------------+
InventoryUnitHw IOC definition
This IOC represents the hardware components.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
serialNo M M - hwType M M - hwName O M - hwVersion M M - vendorName O M -
salesUniqueId O M - hwUnitLocation M M - model M M - hwCapability O M -
modificationDate O M - additionalInformation O M - manualDataEntry M M -
* * *
InventoryUnitSw IOC definition
This IOC represents the software components.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - swId
M M - swName O M - swVersion O M - vendorName O M - salesUniqueId O M -
classification M M - swStatus O M - installationTime O M -
additionalInformation O M -
* * *
InventoryUnitLic IOC definition
This IOC represents the licence components.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - licId
M M - licType O M - vendorName O M - licActivationDate O M - validity O M -
key O M - licStatus O M - salesUniqueId O M - additionalInformation O M -
* * *
* * *
Information attribute definitionsAttribute Name Definition Information Type /
Legal Values additionalInformation Supplementary information about inventory
data (if any)  
classification Name of installed SW (e.g. SW release, SW build, SW patches),
empty value possible  
customerIdentifier Unique identification of a vendors' customer  
hwCapability Hardware capability e.g. capacity, size (empty value is possible)  
hwName Mnemonic of hw inventory unit family type (e.g. Fan, PSU) assigned by
vendor.  
hwType Type of the HW unit e.g. equipment holder, carriage  
hwUnitLocation Unique physical / logical location identifier within NE  
hwVersion Version / revision no. of current unit e.g. firmware version (empty
value possible in case no versioning is available)  
id An attribute whose 'name+value' can be used as an RDN when naming an
instance of this object class. This RDN uniquely identifies the object
instance within the scope of its containing (parent) object instance.  
installationTime Date/time stamp of SW installation  
key License activation key according to the used licensing system  
licActivationDate Date/time stamp of license activation  
licId Unique identifier of a license (e.g. name, code)  
licStatus License status -- applicable only for managed licenses (e.g.
scheduled, valid, expired, invalid, capacity violated)  
licType Describing type of current license (e.g. capacity, particular feature,
no. of subscribers)  
manualDataEntry Indicates whether unit is passive (manual insertion of
inventory data is needed) or active (inventory data can be read from the unit)  
model Equipment configuration, e.g. standard hw unit or a variant that may
contain additional disk capacity (empty value possible)  
modificationDate Date/time stamp of last change (e.g. repair action)  
neId vendor defined unique identifier of a logical or physical network element
unit  
operatorUniqueName Unique NE identifier used by operator  
productName NE name classifying a vendor's product family or function  
productType Identifier of the e.g. platform, in case the product can be based
on different HW/SW platforms (not used for logical NEs)  
salesUniqueId Unique identifier used by vendor (used e.g. for ordering a new
unit)  
serialNo Serial number given from factory.  
siteId NE site in customer network  
swId Unique identifier of a SW unit  
swName SW release name used  
swStatus Status of the SW unit (e.g. installed, archived)  
swVersion Version identifier of the SW unit  
validity License validity which may include one of the elements duration, end
(expiration date) or forever  
vendorName Name of inventory unit vendor (or vendors may provide manufacturer
name)
* * *
## 6.2 Solution Set recommendations
The Model alignment should be able to reuse the existing standard
implementation as much as possible. The federated network model approach could
maximum reuse the existing defined mobile and fixed model implementation.
The FMC model alignment should focus on the common model harmonization and
reuse the technology specific model as much as possible.
Figure 6.2.1:
The following diagram shows how the umbrella model is built with the
harmonization joint work based on the existing models :
Figure 6.2.2:
## Federated Network Model (FNM)
### 6.3.1 Characteristics of FMC NW model
The network (resource) model for use in FMC network management environment is
"large scale" in the following sense:
  * Not one authority (e.g. SDO) can be responsible for the development, > maintenance and evolution of the whole model. Different > organizations are responsible for the development, maintenance and > evolution of their own domain specific model
>  _Operators may use the whole FMC model or part of the FMC model depending
> on their own business cases._
>
>  _Vendors can supply products using part of the FMC model depending on
> their own business cases._
  * The model needs to hold thousands of inter-related modelled > entities. Different versions of modelled entities can co-exist in > the model.
### 6.3.2 Features of FNM
This section describes FNM features that are essential for the maintenance of
the integrity of a large and scalable FMC NW model.
#### 6.3.2.1 Fragments
The FMC NW model is partitioned into fragments. Clear rules defined for inter-
relationship of fragments. The rules should be simple and stable (not changing
frequently).
Use of fragments and adherence of the simple fragment inter-relationship
described above has the following advantages.
  * It removes the need to keep the evolution of various fragments in synchrony (see more on 5.6). For example, it is a valid model implementation where one fragment has evolved (requiring new solution) while other fragment remained unchanged (does not require new solution).
  * Domain experts (e.g. LTE experts) can focus his design on its fragments and (can, if wanted to) be ignorant of contents of other fragments (e.g., mobile backhaul networks experts).
#### 6.3.2.2 Ability to reference classes of 'external' models
A fragment can make use of a specialised class called ExternalIOC. Use of
ExternalIOC is to support a uni-directional relation from one instance to
another instance where the former is of class ExternalIOC and the latter is
one mirrored (or referred to) by the former. The former and latter may be
managed by different Domain Manager (i.e. DM or Agent).
The ExternalIOC supports an indication if the class definitions of the two
related instances are from the same or different standard organizations.
This feature is essential if different organizations are responsible for the
class definitions of the related instances.
Note that the use of "Externals" is a "field-proven" concept that was first
developed and used by ITU-T [15] for telecommunication network management for
similar purpose.
#### 6.3.2.3 Ability to import models designed elsewhere
Use of this feature, in one fragment say fragment-A, is for fragment-A to
include model elements (e.g. classes) defined in another fragment, say
fragment-B.
This feature can also be used, say by fragment-A, to include model elements
(e.g. classes for transport managed resources, classes of TMF defined abstract
classes) designed by other organizations (e.g. TMF, BBF, etc)
This feature is essentially a copy and paste procedure with a clear indication
of the 'source' or design authority of the imported model elements.
Note that the concept of Import is well known in software and modelling design
work.
#### 6.3.2.4 Independence of tool and platform
Use of FNM does not require nor mandate the use of a specific tool. Tool and
model are evolving at their own paces and decoupling them allows standard
authors to choose the best tool for the job (e.g., validation model design,
generation of solution).
Decoupling model design from specific deployment platform is a necessary
condition since it is unrealistic to assume a particular deployment platform
for all products in compliance to FMC NM standards.
#### 6.3.2.5 Independence of solution technology and access protocol design
It does not imply nor mandate the use of a specific machine-readable language
to express the designed model elements, e.g. XSD, CORBA IDL, GDMO, etc.
It does not imply nor mandate the use of a specific access protocol (e.g. to
manipulate or query the parameter values of a class instance). It ensures no
dependency can exist between model design and access protocol design.
#### 6.3.2.6 Experience
The FNM concept has been used successfully, albeit in a much smaller scale
than FMC NW model, in the following cases.
  * 3GPP2 develop/maintain/evolve the fragment(s) related to CDMA2000 technologies while 3GPP does similar work related to GSM/UTRAN/EUTRAN technologies plus the GENERIC NRM IRP fragment). Vendors can implement standard network management solutions for these technologies and operators' IRPManagers (a 3GPP IRP Framework conceptual object) can use these solutions in a unified way.
  * BBF/Home develop/maintain/evolve the H(e)NB network resource models. Relevant IRP Framework fragments makes references to those H(e)NB network resource models allowing, for example, an IRPManager to download configuration files to, upload PM counters from and receive alarm notifications from H(e)NBs. Vendors can implement standard network management solutions for these technologies and operators' IRPManagers can use these solutions in a unified way.
#### 6.3.2.7 SDO's fragments Release handling
The 3GPP specification Release cycles are well understood and maintained. For
example, the Release 10 management solutions are expected to manage Release 10
features defined by RAN/CT groups. There is a time gap between confirmation of
a new feature and the availability of network management solutions. This gap
will be larger and may not be predictable if alternate approach (or
methodology), such as one using an external organization to maintain a
repository of fragments, is used.
## 6.3 Elements of the FNM
This section describes the two key elements of FNM in terms of fragment
relations (6.1) and production of model definitions specifications (6.2).
**[FNM]{.underline}** is a Federation of Models for the purpose of End-to-End
Management, consisting of an Umbrella Model and a series of Domain/Technology-
specific Concrete Models.
The **[Umbrella Model]{.underline}** provides abstract definitions applicable
across Domain/Technology-specific Concrete Models to enable end-to-end
consistency of such definitions (it is described as 'abstract' in the sense
that its components are inherited by Domain/Technology-specific Concrete
Models, and that it is not designed for the purpose of partial or full
instantiation of its components and therefore not sufficient to provide
meaningful network management service).\ Domain/Technology-specific
**[Concrete Models]{.underline}** are described as 'concrete models' in the
sense that their instantiation is necessary to provide meaningful management
services. These Domain/Technology-specific Concrete Models inheriting common
definitions from the Umbrella Model for the purpose of end-to-end consistency
of management information semantics. In addition, these Domain/Technology-
specific Concrete Models have defined relationships between each other to
enable end-to-end monitoring and management of a converged network.
### 6.3.1 Relations between fragments and Umbrella
This section is a graphical representation of the FNM in terms of relation
between fragments and the Umbrella.
There are two areas under study currently:
  * The definitions of the classes inside the Umbrella.
  * The definitions of relation (R0) used between various classes in fragments and the Umbrella classes.
We aim to have identical R0 for use by all fragments. The relation is not
symmetrical in that the Umbrella classes need not have knowledge of its usage
by fragment classes. This would guarantee a form of consistency (e.g. resource
management style, paradigm) for managing mobile managed resources, as well as
other managed resources such as transport managed resources.
Figure 6.3.1.1: Relation between fragments and Umbrella
Take the example of "3GPP wireless nw classes" and the Umbrella, 3GPP
fragments (e.g. TS 32.622 [19]) would Import relevant Umbrella classes and
make derivatives for its use. R0 in this case is an inheritance relation.
There are other forms of relations that would be defined.
### 6.3.2 Relations among pairs of fragments
This section is a graphical representation of the FNM in terms of bilateral
relation between each pair of fragments.
The relation between pairs of fragments may not be same. Each relation may or
may not be symmetrical. Umbrella would not be involved in such pair-wise
relations.
Figure 6.3.2.1: Relation between pairs of fragments
Take the example of relation between 3GPP fragment and BBF ATM fragments (i.e.
R3). 3GPP fragments would create necessary 3GPP defined ExternalIOC
representing one of the classes of "BBF ATM nw and device classes". The
purpose of this type of relation (used extensively in 3GPP IRP framework for
the purpose of navigation from one managed domain to another).
### 6.3.3 Production of solutions re FNM
This section is a graphical representation of the FNM in relation to tools
that generate machine-readable model forms in various languages such as XSD,
CORBA IDL, GDMO, etc.
In the context of this document, The "Solution specifications" refers to only
the model part (e.g. encoding of the managed resource modelled constructs over
the wire). Examples of such are the various 3GPP NRM IRP SSs. They do not
refer to the Interface specifications such as the 3GPP Interface IRP SSs. This
document does not deal with the question if the Tool generates the Interface
specifications. No single physical Repository is required to hold FNM.
Figure 6.3.3.1: (Model) Solution production for the FNM
## 6.4 Federated Network Model (FNM) Umbrella
These Umbrella classes (i.e. logical UML classes) are protocol independent in
that they only capture the semantics of the NM information. They do not relate
to a) syntax or representation of the NM information in a system or on-the-
wire between systems and b) the protocol used to
create/delete/read/write/modify the NM information.
Various SDOs[^1] and organizations[^2] will use the Umbrella classes for their
creations of domain specific concrete classes to define their respective NM
services. This procedure would ensure the domain specific concrete classes
(from various SDOs) would be semantically consistent, a necessary
characteristics for FMC NM purposes.
Currently, 3GPP SA5 defines its abstract classes in its Generic NRM IRP [5]
and defines concrete classes in other NRM IRPs such as EUTRAN NRM IRP.
3GPP/SA5 have agreement and will consider changes in classes in its Generic
NRM IRP such that they are harmonized (if not identical) to those (to-be-
defined) as Umbrella classes.
Umbrella classes are partitioned. Classes in "Partition operational" are used
to capture run-time behaviour of managed resources. Classes in "Partition
inventory" are used to capture static behaviour of managed resources.
### 6.4.1 Partition operational
#### 6.4.1.1 Class diagram
This section proposes the following Umbrella classes. These classes supports
configuration management (CM).
The criteria for choosing these classes is their relevance to (e.g. can be
used by) Domain Specific model classes (e.g. 3GPP/SA5 network resource model,
BBF ATM network management model [1]).
Note that this set is the most basic classes. They are all _abstract_. Other
classes are for further study.
  * SubNetwork_ (similar to SubNetwork of 3GPP and SID/MTOSI)
  * ManagedElement_ (similar to ManagedElement of 3GPP and SID/MTOSI)
  * ManagedFunction_ (similar to ManagedFunction of 3GPP)
  * ManagementNode_ (similar to ManagementNode of 3GPP, ManagedDomain of SID/MTOSI)
  * Link_ (Link of 3GPP)
{width="4.440277777777778in" height="2.4854166666666666in"}
Figure 6.4.1.1.1: UML classes
Editor Notes:
  * UML classes above is not sufficient for FNM NM purposes. Their class names may not be appropriate.
  * These Umbrella classes are for inheritance only.
  * Other Umbrella classes may be used for relation other than inheritance.
#### 6.4.1.2 Class definition
Note: Attributes that are coloured RED are extracted from SID/MTOSI
specifications; attributes of no colour are from 3GPP Generic NRM IRP [1]. The
tracked changes show the difference between proposal for Umbrella classes and
in [1]. Attributes that are coloured YELLOW are proposed for removal from
Umbrella classes since they are more "inventory" related.
##### 6.4.1.2.1 SubNetwork_
###### 4.1.2.1.1 Definition
This represents a set of managed entities.
###### 6.4.1.2.1.2 Attributes
Attributes of SubNetwork
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier Id M M -
dnPrefix M M - userLabel M M M userDefinedNetworkType M M - setOfMcc O M -
* * *
##### 6.4.1.2.2 ManagedElement_
###### 6.4.1.2.2.1 Definition
This represents telecommunications equipment within the telecommunications
network that performs Managed Element (ME) functions, e.g., provides support
and/or service to the subscriber.
An ME communicates with a manager (directly or indirectly) for the purpose of
being monitored and/or controlled. MEs may or may not additionally perform
element management functionality.
An ME contains equipment that may or may not be geographically distributed. An
ME is often referred to as a \"Network Element\".
###### 6.4.1.2.2.2 Attributes
Attributes of ManagedElement
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
dnPrefix M M - managedElementType O M - userLabel M M M vendorName M M -
userDefinedState M M M locationName M M - swVersion M M - managedBy M M -
productName O M - manufactureDate O M -
* * *
##### 6.4.1.2.3 ManagedFunction_
###### 6.4.1.2.3.1 Definition
This is provided for sub-classing only. Note that a ManagedElement may contain
several managed functions.
###### 4.1.2.3.2 Attributes
Attributes of ManagedFunction
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier userLabel M M
M
* * *
##### 6.4.1.2.4 ManagementNode_
##### 6.4.1.2.4.1 Definition
This represents a telecommunications management system (EM) that contains
functionality for managing a number of ManagedElements (MEs). The management
system communicates with the MEs directly or indirectly over one or more
interfaces for the purpose of monitoring and/or controlling these MEs.
This class has similar characteristics as the ManagedElement. The main
difference between these two classes is that the ManagementNode has a special
association to the managed elements that it is responsible for managing.
##### 6.4.1.2.4.2 Attributes
Attributes of ManagementNode
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier Id M M -
userLabel M M M vendorName M M - userDefinedState M M M locationName M M -
swVersion M M - managedElements M M - owner O M - additionalInfo O M -
* * *
#### 6.4.1.2.5 Link_
##### 6.4.1.2.5.1 Definition
This represents a communication link between two network entities. This does
not indicate whether the represented communication link is a physical or
logical entity.
This is defined for sub-classing purposes.
##### 6.4.1.2.5.2 Attributes
Attributes of Link
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
userLabel M M M aEnd M M - zEnd M M - linkType O M - protocolName O M -
protocolVersion O M -
* * *
### 6.4.2 Partition inventory
TBD
###
### 6.4.3 Class attribute definitions
#### 6.4.3.1 Definitions and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | additionalInfo | This is a vendor | | | | specific attribute | | | | that contains | | | | additional specific | | | | information about | | | | the object. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aEnd | The value of this | Values to be | | | attribute shall be | conformant with TS | | | the Distinguished | 32.300 [3] | | | Name of the | | | | alphabetically first | | | | instance in the Link | | | | subclass name to | | | | which this | | | | link/relation is | | | | associated (i.e., | | | | pointing to the | | | | instance of \ as | | | | described in the | | | | definition of Link | | | | IOC in the present | | | | document).\ | | | | As an example, with | | | | Link_As_Slf, aEnd | | | | would contain the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the AsFunction | | | | instance, and the | | | | zEnd would contain | | | | the Distinguished | | | | Name of SlfFunction | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dnPrefix | It carries the DN | | | | Prefix information | | | | as defined in Annex | | | | C of 32.300 [22] | | | | or no information. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | Values to be | | | class name and value | conformant with TS | | | can be used as an | 32.300 [22] | | | RDN when naming an | | | | instance of the | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | managedElementType | The type of managed | The legal values of | | | element. It is a | this attribute are | | | multi-valued | the names of the | | | attribute with one | IOC(s) that are (a) | | | or more unique | derived/subclassed | | | elements. Thus, it | from ManagedFunction | | | may represent one ME | and (b) directly | | | functionality or a | name-contained by | | | combination of more | ManagedElement IOC | | | than one | (on the first level | | | functionality. | below | | | | ManagedElement), but | | | The actual syntax | with the string | | | and encoding of this | "Function" excluded. | | | attribute is | | | | Solution Set | If a ManagedElement | | | specific. | contains multiple | | | | instances of a | | | | ManagedFunction this | | | | attribute will not | | | | contain repeated | | | | values. | | | | | | | | The capitalisation | | | | (usage of | | | | upper/lower case) of | | | | characters in this | | | | attribute is | | | | insignificant. Thus, | | | | the IRPManager | | | | should be case | | | | insensitive when | | | | reading these | | | | values. | | | | | | | | Two examples of | | | | legal values are: | | | | | | | | - NodeB; | | | | | | | | - HLR,VLR. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | linkType | This attribute | Signalling, Bearer, | | | defines the type of | OAM&P, Other or | | | the link. | multiple | | | | combinations of the | | | | above types. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | locationName | The physical | | | | location of this | | | | entity (e.g. an | | | | address). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | managedElements | Models the role | | | | Manager. This | | | | attribute contains a | | | | list of the DN(s) of | | | | the related | | | | ManagedElement | | | | instance(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | managedBy | Models the role | | | | subordinate. This | | | | attribute contains a | | | | list of the DN(s) of | | | | the related | | | | ManagementNode | | | | instance(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | manufactureDate | This attribute | | | | identifies the | | | | production date of | | | | the Managed Element | | | | in the format of | | | | YYYYMMDD where YYYY | | | | = the 4-digit year | | | | of manufacture, MM | | | | is the 2-digit | | | | month, and DD is the | | | | 2-digit date. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Owner | This attribute | | | | represents an | | | | identifier for the | | | | owner of the object. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | productName | This attribute | | | | identifies the | | | | Managed Element | | | | vendor\'s | | | | name/designation. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | protocolName | Name(s) and | | | | additional | | | | descriptive | | | | information for the | | | | protocol(s) used for | | | | the associated | | | | communication link. | | | | Syntax and semantic | | | | is not specified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | protocolVersion | Versions(s) and | | | | additional | | | | descriptive | | | | information for the | | | | protocol(s) used for | | | | the associated | | | | communication link. | | | | Syntax and semantic | | | | is not specified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swVersion | The software version | | | | of the | | | | ManagementNode or | | | | ManagedElement. This | | | | is used for | | | | determining which | | | | version of the | | | | vendor specific | | | | information is valid | | | | for the | | | | ManagementNode or | | | | ManagedElement. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | us | Textual information | | | erDefinedNetworkType | regarding the type | | | | of network, e.g. | | | | UTRAN. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | userDefinedState | An operator defined | | | | state for operator | | | | specific usage. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | userLabel | A user-friendly (and | | | | user assignable) | | | | name of this object. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | The name of the | | | | vendor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | zEnd | The value of this | Values to be | | | attribute shall be | conformant with TS | | | the Distinguished | 32.300 [22] | | | Name of the | | | | alphabetically | | | | second instance in | | | | the Link subclass | | | | name to which this | | | | link/relation is | | | | associated (i.e., | | | | pointing to the | | | | instance of \ as | | | | described in the | | | | definition of Link | | | | IOC in the present | | | | document).\ | | | | As an example, with | | | | Link_As_Slf, aEnd | | | | would contain the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the AsFunction | | | | instance, and the | | | | zEnd would contain | | | | the Distinguished | | | | Name of SlfFunction | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
###### ### Annex A: Name-Containment Class diagram from 3GPP TS 32.622
Here is a class diagram extracted from 3GPP TS 32.622 [13].
{width="5.495138888888889in" height="6.647222222222222in"}
###### ### Annex B: Containment Diagram from M4 Network View CMIP MIB
Specification
Here is the Containment Diagram from [11].
{width="6.6875in" height="5.175694444444445in"}
###### ### Annex C: Needed Inventory NRM IS changes
NOTE: the text in the present clause defines the needed changes in TS 32.692
(V9.0.0) which implements the inventory model recommendations in chapter 6.1
of this TR. Thus this annex contains both text from TS 32.692 V9.0.0 in
chapter 6 and the updates based on recommendations i.e. alternate inventory
model and related object, relation and attribute definitions. Additions are
underlined.
# 6 Information Object Classes
## 6.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 32.622 [10], information object class, Top Top
32.622 [10], information object class, ManagedElement ManagedElement
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. This clause provides the overview of all information object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these information object classes.
[The inventory NRM contains two alternatives for inventory data modeling.
Alternative 1 is for NE structure and hardware inventory. Alternative 2 is an
extended version for inventory information modeling consisting of NE
structure, hardware, software and license data inventory.]{.underline}
[Alternative 1, hardware inventory model]{.underline}
[]{.underline}
NOTE: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios.
Figure 6.2.1: [Alternative 1 -]{.underline} Inventory Management NRM
Containment/Naming and Association diagram
Each IOC instance is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [7] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example,
the DN of a IOC representing a InventoryUnit could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden,meContext=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-
Gbg-1,InventoryUnit=Inv-1.
[Alternative 2, extended model for hardware, software and licence
inventory]{.underline}
{width="6.707638888888889in" height="2.1444444444444444in"}
[Figure 6.2.2: Alternative 2 - Inventory Management NRM Containment/Naming and
Association diagram]{.underline}
[NOTE: Inventory information upload in alternative 2 is done using the the FT
IRP and related FT IRP notification capabilites]{.underline}
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 6.2.2 shows the inheritance hierarchy for the IM NRM.
Figure 6.2.2: Inventory Management NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 6.3 Information object class definitions
### 6.3.1 InventoryUnit
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents inventory information for an Inventory Unit.
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
Attributes of InventoryUnit
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
inventoryUnitId + M M - inventoryUnitType + M M - vendorUnitFamilyType + O M -
vendorUnitTypeNumber + O M - versionNumber + O M - vendorName + M M -
serialNumber + O M - dateOfManufacture + O M - dateOfLastService + O M -
unitPosition + O M - manufacturerData + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
Optional attributes vendorUnitFamilyType, vendorUnitTypeNumber and
serialNumber shall be mandatory for hardware.
#### 6.3.1.4 Relationships
None.
#### 6.3.1.5 State diagram
None.
#### 6.3.1.6 Notifications
None.
### [6.3.2 InventoryUnitNE]{.underline}
#### [6.3.2.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This SupportIOC represents the logical and physical structure of the
NE.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.2.2 Attributes]{.underline}
[Attributes of InventoryUnitNE]{.underline}
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [Attribute | [Support | [Read | [Write | | nam | Qualifie | Qualifie | Qualifie | | e]{.underline} | r]{.underline} | r]{.underline} | r]{.underline} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [i | [ | [ | - | | d]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | []{.underline} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [neI | [ | [ | - | | d]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | []{.underline} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [cus | [ | [ | [ | | tomerIdentifie | O]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | -]{.underline} | | r]{.underline} | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [productNam | [ | [ | [ | | e]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | -]{.underline} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [vendorNam | [ | [ | [ | | e]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | -]{.underline} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [productTyp | [ | [ | [ | | e]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | -]{.underline} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [salesUniqueI | [ | [ | [ | | d]{.underline} | O]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | -]{.underline} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [ope | [ | [ | [ | | ratorUniqueNam | O]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | -]{.underline} | | e]{.underline} | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [siteI | [ | [ | [ | | d]{.underline} | O]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | -]{.underline} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [additi | [ | [ | [ | | onalInformatio | O]{.underline} | M]{.underline} | -]{.underline} | | n]{.underline} | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
[]{.underline}
#### [6.3.2.3 Attribute constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.2.4 Relationships]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.2.5 State diagram]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.2.6 Notifications]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
### [6.3.3 InventoryUnitHw]{.underline}
#### [6.3.3.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This SupportIOC represents the hardware components.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.3.2 Attributes]{.underline}
[Attributes of InventoryUnitHw]{.underline}
* * *
[Attribute name]{.underline} [Support Qualifier]{.underline} [Read
Qualifier]{.underline} [Write Qualifier]{.underline} [id]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [serialNo]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [hwType]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [hwName]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [hwVersion]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [vendorName]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [salesUniqueId]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [hwUnitLocation]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [model]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [hwCapability]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [modificationDate]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [manualDataEntry]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline}
[additionalInformation]{.underline} [O]{.underline} [M]{.underline}
[-]{.underline}
* * *
[]{.underline}
#### [6.3.3.3 Attribute constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.3.4 Relationships]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.3.5 State diagram]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.3.6 Notifications]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
### [6.3.4 InventoryUnitSw]{.underline}
#### [6.3.4.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This SupportIOC represents the software components.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.4.2 Attributes]{.underline}
[Attributes of InventoryUnitSw]{.underline}
* * *
[Attribute name]{.underline} [Support Qualifier]{.underline} [Read
Qualifier]{.underline} [Write Qualifier]{.underline} [id]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [swId]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [swName]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [swVersion]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [vendorName]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [salesUniqueId]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [classification]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [swStatus]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [installationTime]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline}
[additionalInformation]{.underline} [O]{.underline} [M]{.underline}
[-]{.underline}
* * *
[]{.underline}
#### [6.3.4.3 Attribute constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.4.4 Relationships]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.4.5 State diagram]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.4.6 Notifications]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
### [6.3.5 InventoryUnitLic]{.underline}
#### [6.3.5.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This SupportIOC represents the licence components.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.5.2 Attributes]{.underline}
[Attributes of InventoryUnitLic]{.underline}
* * *
[Attribute name]{.underline} [Support Qualifier]{.underline} [Read
Qualifier]{.underline} [Write Qualifier]{.underline} [id]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [licId]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [licType]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline} [vendorName]{.underline}
[O]{.underline} [M]{.underline} [-]{.underline}
[licActivationDate]{.underline} [O]{.underline} [M]{.underline}
[-]{.underline} [validity]{.underline} [O]{.underline} [M]{.underline}
[-]{.underline} [key]{.underline} [O]{.underline} [M]{.underline}
[-]{.underline} [licStatus]{.underline} [O]{.underline} [M]{.underline}
[-]{.underline} [salesUniqueId]{.underline} [O]{.underline} [M]{.underline}
[-]{.underline} [additionalInformation]{.underline} [O]{.underline}
[M]{.underline} [-]{.underline}
* * *
[]{.underline}
#### [6.3.5.3 Attribute constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.5.4 Relationships]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.5.5 State diagram]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
#### [6.3.5.6 Notifications]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
[]{.underline}
[]{.underline}
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
Not applicable.
### [6.4.1 MFNERelation (O)]{.underline}
#### [6.4.1.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This association represents the unidirectional relation between
ManagedFunction and InventoryUnitNE.]{.underline}
#### [6.4.1.2 Roles]{.underline}
* * *
[Name]{.underline} [Definition]{.underline} [NEList]{.underline} [This role
represents the associated InventoryUnitNE instances of a ManagedFunction
instance.]{.underline} [MFunction]{.underline} [This role represents the
associated ManagedFunction instances of a InventoryUnitNE
instance.]{.underline}
* * *
#### [6.4.1.3 Constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
### [6.4.2 NESWRelation (O)]{.underline}
#### [6.4.2.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This association represents the bidirectional relation between
InventoryUnitNE and InventoryUnitSW.]{.underline}
#### [6.4.2.2 Roles]{.underline}
* * *
[Name]{.underline} [Definition]{.underline} [NEList]{.underline} [This role
represents the associated InventoryUnitNE instances of a InventoryUnitSW
instance.]{.underline} [SWList]{.underline} [This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitSW instances of a InventoryUnitNE
instance.]{.underline}
* * *
#### [6.4.2.3 Constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
### [6.4.3 NEHWRelation (O)]{.underline}
#### [6.4.3.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This association represents the bidirectional relation between
InventoryUnitNE and InventoryUnitHW.]{.underline}
#### [6.4.3.2 Roles]{.underline}
* * *
[Name]{.underline} [Definition]{.underline} [NEList]{.underline} [This role
represents the associated InventoryUnitNE instances of a InventoryUnitHW
instance.]{.underline} [HWList]{.underline} [This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitHW instances of a InventoryUnitNE
instance.]{.underline}
* * *
#### [6.4.3.3 Constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
### [6.4.4 NELICRelation (O)]{.underline}
#### [6.4.4.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This association represents the bidirectional relation between
InventoryUnitNE and InventoryUnitLIC.]{.underline}
#### [6.4.4.2 Roles]{.underline}
* * *
[Name]{.underline} [Definition]{.underline} [NEList]{.underline} [This role
represents the associated InventoryUnitNE instances of a InventoryUnitLIC
instance.]{.underline} [LICList]{.underline} [This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitLIC instances of a InventoryUnitNE
instance.]{.underline}
* * *
#### [6.4.4.3 Constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
### [6.4.5 SWLICRelation (O)]{.underline}
#### [6.4.5.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This association represents the bidirectional relation between
InventoryUnitSW and InventoryUnitLIC.]{.underline}
#### [6.4.5.2 Roles]{.underline}
* * *
[Name]{.underline} [Definition]{.underline} [SWList]{.underline} [This role
represents the associated InventoryUnitSW instances of a InventoryUnitLIC
instance.]{.underline} [LICList]{.underline} [This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitLIC instances of a InventoryUnitSW
instance.]{.underline}
* * *
#### [6.4.5.3 Constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
### [6.4.6 SWHWRelation (O)]{.underline}
#### [6.4.6.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This association represents the bidirectional relation between
InventoryUnitSW and InventoryUnitHW.]{.underline}
#### [6.4.6.2 Roles]{.underline}
* * *
[Name]{.underline} [Definition]{.underline} [SWList]{.underline} [This role
represents the associated InventoryUnitSW instances of a InventoryUnitHW
instance.]{.underline} [HWList]{.underline} [This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitHW instances of a InventoryUnitSW
instance.]{.underline}
* * *
#### [6.4.6.3 Constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
### [6.4.7 HWLICRelation (O)]{.underline}
#### [6.4.7.1 Definition]{.underline}
[This association represents the bidirectional relation between
InventoryUnitHW and InventoryUnitLIC.]{.underline}
#### [6.4.7.2 Roles]{.underline}
* * *
[Name]{.underline} [Definition]{.underline} [HWList]{.underline} [This role
represents the associated InventoryUnitHW instances of a InventoryUnitLIC
instance.]{.underline} [LICList]{.underline} [This role represents the
associated InventoryUnitLIC instances of a InventoryUnitHW
instance.]{.underline}
* * *
#### [6.4.7.3 Constraints]{.underline}
[None.]{.underline}
[]{.underline}
[]{.underline}
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 6.5.1 defines the attributes that are present in several Information
Object Classes of the present document.
Table 6.5.1: Attributes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [Attribute | [Def | [Legal]{.underline} | | Name]{.underline} | inition]{.underline} | | | | | [Values]{.underline} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [additionalInfo | [Supplementary | []{.underline} | | rmation]{.underline} | information about | | | | inventory data (if | | | | any)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [classif | [Name of installed | []{.underline} | | ication]{.underline} | SW (e.g. SW release, | | | | SW build, SW | | | | patches), empty | | | | value | | | | p | | | | ossible]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [customerIde | [Unique | []{.underline} | | ntifier]{.underline} | identification of a | | | | vendors' | | | | c | | | | ustomer]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dateOfManufacture | Date of Manufacture | | | | of inventory unit. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dateOfLastService | Date of last service | | | | or repair of | | | | inventory unit. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [hwCap | [Hardware capability | []{.underline} | | ability]{.underline} | e.g. capacity, size | | | | (empty value is | | | | po | | | | ssible)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [hwName]{.underline} | [Mnemonic of hw | []{.underline} | | | inventory unit | | | | family type (e.g. | | | | Fan, PSU) assigned | | | | by | | | | vendor.]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [hwType]{.underline} | [Type of the HW unit | []{.underline} | | | e.g. equipment | | | | holder, | | | | c | | | | arriage]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [hwUnitL | [Unique physical / | []{.underline} | | ocation]{.underline} | logical location | | | | identifier within | | | | NE]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [hw | [Version / revision | []{.underline} | | Version]{.underline} | no. of current unit | | | | e.g. firmware | | | | version (empty value | | | | possible in case no | | | | versioning is | | | | ava | | | | ilable)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [id]{.underline} | [An attribute whose | []{.underline} | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | in | | | | stance.]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [installat | [Date/time stamp of | []{.underline} | | ionTime]{.underline} | SW | | | | insta | | | | llation]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inventoryUnitId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inventoryUnitType | Type of inventory | | | | unit (see TS 32.690 | | | | [11]) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [key]{.underline} | [License activation | []{.underline} | | | key according to the | | | | used licensing | | | | system]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [licActivat | [Date/time stamp of | []{.underline} | | ionDate]{.underline} | license | | | | act | | | | ivation]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [licId]{.underline} | [Unique identifier | []{.underline} | | | of a license (e.g. | | | | name, | | | | code)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [li | [License status -- | []{.underline} | | cStatus]{.underline} | applicable only for | | | | managed licenses | | | | (e.g. scheduled, | | | | valid, expired, | | | | invalid, capacity | | | | vi | | | | olated)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [ | [Describing type of | []{.underline} | | licType]{.underline} | current license | | | | (e.g. capacity, | | | | particular feature, | | | | no. of | | | | subsc | | | | ribers)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [manualDa | [Indicates whether | []{.underline} | | taEntry]{.underline} | unit is passive | | | | (manual insertion of | | | | inventory data is | | | | needed) or active | | | | (inventory data can | | | | be read from the | | | | unit)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | manufacturerData | Manufacturer | | | | specific data of | | | | inventory unit. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [model]{.underline} | [Equipment | []{.underline} | | | configuration, e.g. | | | | standard hw unit or | | | | a variant that may | | | | contain additional | | | | disk capacity (empty | | | | value | | | | po | | | | ssible)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [modificat | [Date/time stamp of | []{.underline} | | ionDate]{.underline} | last change (e.g. | | | | repair | | | | action)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [neId]{.underline} | [vendor defined | []{.underline} | | | unique identifier of | | | | a logical or | | | | physical network | | | | element | | | | unit]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [operatorUni | [Unique NE | []{.underline} | | queName]{.underline} | identifier used by | | | | o | | | | perator]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [prod | [NE name classifying | []{.underline} | | uctName]{.underline} | a vendor's product | | | | family or | | | | f | | | | unction]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [prod | [Identifier of the | []{.underline} | | uctType]{.underline} | e.g. platform, in | | | | case the product can | | | | be based on | | | | different HW/SW | | | | platforms (not used | | | | for logical | | | | NEs)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [salesU | [Unique identifier | []{.underline} | | niqueId]{.underline} | used by vendor (used | | | | e.g. for ordering a | | | | new | | | | unit)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [s | [Serial number given | []{.underline} | | erialNo]{.underline} | from | | | | factory]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serialNumber | Serial number of | | | | inventory unit. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [siteId]{.underline} | [NE site in customer | []{.underline} | | | network]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [swId]{.underline} | [Unique identifier | []{.underline} | | | of a SW | | | | unit]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [swName]{.underline} | [SW release name | []{.underline} | | | used]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [s | [Status of the SW | []{.underline} | | wStatus]{.underline} | unit (e.g. | | | | installed, | | | | ar | | | | chived)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [sw | [Version identifier | []{.underline} | | Version]{.underline} | of the SW | | | | unit]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | unitPosition | Position of | | | | inventory unit (e.g. | | | | Rack, shelf, slot, | | | | etc.). | | | | | | | | Depending on the | | | | implementation of | | | | the inventory unit | | | | in the managed | | | | system, the value | | | | and meaning of this | | | | attribute may vary. | | | | | | | | For example, if a | | | | system has three | | | | levels and types of | | | | inventory units | | | | representing Rack, | | | | Shelf and Slot | | | | respectively (i.e. | | | | the Managed Element | | | | contains multiple | | | | Rack inventory | | | | units, each Rack | | | | inventory unit | | | | contains multiple | | | | Shelf inventory | | | | units and each Shelf | | | | inventory unit | | | | contains multiple | | | | Slot inventory | | | | units), then for | | | | this example: | | | | | | | | - for the | | | | Inventory Unit | | | | representing a | | | | Rack, the Frame | | | | Identification | | | | code may be used | | | | as the value of | | | | this attribute; | | | | | | | | - for the | | | | Inventory Unit | | | | representing a | | | | Shelf, the Rack | | | | Shelf code may | | | | be used as the | | | | value of this | | | | attribute; | | | | | | | | - for the | | | | Inventory Unit | | | | representing a | | | | Slot, the | | | | position code | | | | may be used as | | | | the value of | | | | this attribute. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [v | [License validity | [ | | alidity]{.underline} | which may include | String?]{.underline} | | | one of the elements | | | | duration, end | | | | (expiration date) or | | | | forever]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [ven | [Name of inventory | [ | | dorName]{.underline} | unit vendor (or | String?]{.underline} | | | vendors may provide | | | | manufacturer | | | | name)]{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | Name of inventory | | | | unit vendor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorUnitFamilyType | Mnemonic of | | | | inventory unit | | | | family type (e.g. | | | | Fan, PSU) assigned | | | | by vendor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorUnitTypeNumber | A | | | | vendor/manufacturer | | | | defined and assigned | | | | number which | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the unit type and | | | | optionally for | | | | backward | | | | compatibility | | | | reasons only, also | | | | version (used for | | | | replacing HW units, | | | | spares). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | versionNumber | The version | | | | information related | | | | to | | | | v | | | | endorUnitTypeNumber. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 6.6 Particular information configurations
None.
#