# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Sustainable development is a long-term commitment in which all of us should
take part. As part of sustainable development, people's fight against global
warming should be without respite. Telecoms activities have a limited impact
on environment: in 2007, the total footprint of the Information and
Communication Technologies (ICT ) sector was about 2% of the estimated total
emissions from human activity and telecoms are only a part of ICT which
represents no more than 25% of these 2%.
Nevertheless, most mobile network operators aim at reducing their greenhouse
emissions, by several means such as limiting their networks\' energy
consumption.
In new generation Radio Access Networks such as LTE, Energy Savings
Management(ESM) function takes place especially when mobile network operators
want e.g. to reduce Tx power, switch off/on cell, etc. based on measurements
made in the network having shown that there is no need to maintain active the
full set of Network Elements (NEs) capabilities.
# 1 Scope
In the context of 3GPP Self-Organizing Networks (SON), this study investigates
about Energy Savings Management in LTE / SAE networks, with the objective to
contribute to the protection of our environment and the environment of future
generations. One is forced to admit that, in addition, network energy
consumption reduction will enable mobile network operators to save their OPEX.
The present document covers:
  * Motivations of mobile network operators for the introduction of > energy savings control mechanisms
  * Analysis of possible mechanisms for Energy Savings Management via > OAM
  * Usage of existing IRPs to be used for the purpose of Energy Savings > Management
  * Identification of new IRP to be potentially defined
  * Conclusions
  * Recommendations on Energy Savings Management
  * Identification of items for standardization as a result of this > study
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101 \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \" Telecommunication management; Architecture\"
[4] 3GPP TR 36.902: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Self-configuring and self-optimizing network use cases and
solutions"
[5] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station(BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\"
[6] 3GPP TS 32.500: \"Self-Organizing Networks (SON), Concepts and
requirements\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply:
A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of
the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply:
An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
EMS Element Management System
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
ES Energy Savings
ESM Energy Savings Management
FFS For Further Specification
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
ICT Information and Communication Technologies
IRP Integration Reference Point
LTE Long Term Evolution
MNO Mobile Network Operator
NE Network Element
NMS Network Management System
NRM Network Resource Model
OAM Operations, Administration, Maintenance
OPEX Operating Expenses
OSS **O** peration **S** upport **S** ystem
RAN Radio Access Network
SON Self-Organizing Networks
TRX Transceiver
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Rationale for the Study on ESM
## 4.1 General
Protecting the environment and combating climate change are challenges for the
human being. In the telecom environment, as energy prices increase, Network
Operators are more and more taking care of their environmental
responsibilities ... and, of course, their energy bills.
Energy optimization in mobile networks can be envisioned as follows:
  1. Firstly, it is desirable to optimize the number of sites, while maintaining coverage, capacity and quality of service. The permitted impact on coverage, capacity and quality of service is determined by operator's policy.
  2. Secondly, effort should be put on finding out means to optimize energy efficiency of these sites and minimize energy consumption of equipment. The permitted impact on coverage, capacity and quality of service is determined by operator's policy.
  3. Finally, research on renewable energy sources, ( e.g. wind, solar energy), for mobile networks should have high priority.
In the context of LTE technology combined with SON functionalities, the
objective of the present document is to identify mechanisms to optimize
E-UTRAN equipment energy consumption (see bullet #2 above). OAM can play a
central role in the optimization process, either directly (by locating the
optimization function(s) within the management system) or indirectly (by
providing relevant performance information to optimization functions
elsewhere).
Radio Access Network (RAN) equipment is generally dimensioned to cope with
peak hours. In a three-sector cell, with four TRXs per sector, this means that
12 TRXs are always active, whereas this is not always needed. By introducing
advanced power management mechanisms, one (over four, in this example) TRX per
sector could be put in stand-by mode during e.g. night hours. By only this
kind of action, the potential energy savings across a network of thousands of
eNodeBs could be high without any impact on service quality.
{width="4.7243055555555555in" height="3.134027777777778in"}
Figure 4.1 Traffic Load vs. Power Consumption
As for most SON functions, three architectures are candidate to offer energy
savings functionalities:
  * Distributed architecture, where NEs collect relevant information and > trigger the appropriate self-optimising algorithms when needed, > with no OA&M involvement;
  * Centralized architecture, where OA&M collect relevant information > from NEs, trigger the appropriate self-optimisation algorithm and > decide on further actions on the NEs;
  * Hybrid architecture, which is a mixture of the two aforementioned > architectures.
The present document focuses on identifying mechanisms for ESM based on either
centralized or hybrid approaches.
## 4.2 Study
> A numerical study was performed in order to determine the potential energy
> saving that can be achieved by switching off BSs (sites) and/or spectrum
> (carriers) during off peak hours. Starting point was a UMTS/HSDPA network
> with a hexagonal layout of 48 sectorized sites, as shown in Figure 4.2.1
{width="5.905555555555556in" height="5.151388888888889in"}
Figure 4.2.1 Hexagonal network layout with 48 sectorized sites. Four distinct
configurations\ of a partial set of active sites are also depicted, comprising
48, 36, 24 or 12 active sites.
Besides the (complete) _48 × 3_ layout, also a number of alternative _k × 3_
network layouts were considered, with _k ∈ {36,24,12}_ , where a specific
subset of the original set of sites is switched off, while still preserving as
much a regular layout of active sites as possible. All four considered cases
are shown in Figure 4.2.1 . In the evaluations, the downtilt that is optimized
for the full (48-site) configuration is maintained also in the 'reduced'
configurations; hence no tilt adjustments are applied.
Each sector supports a maximum of four 5 MHz carriers (20 MHz). In the
considered evaluations, the uniformly set number _i_ of active carriers at an
active site is 1, 2, 3 or 4.
In Annex A a detailed simulation procedure is explained for the derivation of
the sites and carriers that can be turned off for a given traffic level (i.e.
hour of the day) and quality objective defined as either average user or
10^th^ percentile cell edge throughput.
Let γ denote the activity factor i.e. the average transmit power of a sector.
The applied energy consumption model is characterised by four parameters:
  * P~AC~ is the energy consumption of a fully active air conditioning unit per site;
  * P~CARRIER~ is the energy consumption per fully active carrier (for the entire site); this captures all energy consumption not related to the air conditioner;
  * α is the fraction of P~AC~ that is the minimum energy consumption of an air conditioning unit, regardless of the site's (in)activity or the sector's activity factor ;
  * β is the fraction of P~CARRIER~ that is the minimum energy consumption of a carrier, regardless of the carrier's (in)activity or the sector's activity factor.
Assume that P~AC~ = 1500 WATT and P~CARRIER~ = 750 WATT, while different
choices of α and β are considered, while the activity factor γ is readily
obtained from the simulations (see Figure A.2 in Annex A). Considering only
the scenario with the performance target on the 10th cell edge throughput
percentile, for the case of α = β = 10%, Figure 4.2.2 shows for each hour of
the day the energy consumption level if it is constantly deployed a
configuration with 48 sites and 4 carriers, as well as the energy consumption
level if in each hour of the day the most energy-efficient configuration is
deployed (which still satisfies the imposed performance target). Additionally,
for the latter case the figure indicates the optimal configuration
S~on~/C~on~, written inside the light blue bars. For this scenario the average
network-wide energy consumption level is about 4.01 MWATT for the default
scenario and 2.72 MWATT for the energy-optimal scenario, which constitutes a
savings of almost 28%.
{width="5.902777777777778in" height="2.729861111111111in"}
Figure 4.2.2 Default (dark blue) and optimal (light blue) energy consumption
levels for different hours of the day
> As a final exercise, it is assessed the sensitivity of the energy reduction
> factor with respect to the choices of α and β, as these parameters may take
> a range of settings in practical implementations. Figure 4.2.3 shows the
> results. Observe that the enrgy savings are largest for the case with a
> planning target on average user throughput. As could be expected, the energy
> savings are decreasing in both α and β. For the considered range of settings
> the savings vary between about 18% and 38%.
{width="5.9118055555555555in" height="2.0743055555555556in"}
Figure 4.2.3 Sensitivy assessment of the energy savings w.r.t. energy model
parameters α and β.
> Considering an HSDPA network, distinct planning targets and a typical
> variation of the daily traffic load, it is shown that appropriately
> switching off sites and/or carriers can result in energy savings of up to
> 38%. For the considered range of settings for the power consumption of the
> inactive sites/carriers the energy savings vary between about 18% and 38%.
>
> NOTE: For practical deployments and considering e.g. non-linear dependency
> of the power consumption with respect to traffic activity, irregular site
> deployment, non-homogenous traffic spatial distribution, specific terrain or
> man-made obstacles, etc. the achievable energy saving potential may deviate
> from the range reported in this analysis. Especially, if there are
> constraints for switching off particular sites/carriers in the network the
> achievable gains will be smaller than those reported in this analysis.
Editor\'s note : There is a variance of the temperature during the day and
this may affect the potential of the energy savings and the results of the
simulation. In the above study the assumptionof a constant temperature
throughout the day was made.
# 5 Concepts and Background
## 5.1 Energy Savings Management (ESM) concept
ESM addresses both Macro and Home eNodeBs.
Two energy saving states can be conceptually identified for a network element:
  * **notParticipatingInEnergySaving** state: state in which no energy saving functions is in progress.
  * **energySaving** state: state in which the network element is powered off or restricted in physical resource usage in other ways.
**Editor's Note3: "Powerd off"** The radio part of the NE is OFF. The Control
part of the NE is ON. The radio part of the NE can be turned ON if needed
Based on the above energy saving states, a full energy saving solution
includes two elementary procedures:
\- Energy saving activation: The procedure to switch off eNB/cell or restrict
the usage of corresponding physical resources in order to satisfy energy
saving purpose. As a result, a specific network element enters in the energy
saving state.
  * \- Energy saving deactivation: The procedure to switch on eNB/cell or resume the usage of corresponding physical resources in order to satisfy the increasing service/QoS requests. As a result, a specific network element transitions from energySaving to notParticipatingInEnergySaving state.
For some use cases of energy saving management, a network element may
additionally transition into the compensatingForEnergySaving state, defined as
follows:
  * **compensatingForEnergySaving** state: state in which the network element is remaining powered on, and taking over the coverage areas of geographically closed network element in energySaving state.
Correspondingly, an energy saving solution may also include the following
procedures:
  * Energy saving compensation activation: the procedure to change a network element's configuration to remain powered on for compensating energy saving activation on other network elements, e.g., by increasing its coverage area. As a result, the network element enters compensatingForEnergySaving state.
  * Energy saving compensation de-activation: the procedure to transition from compensatingForEnergySaving state to notParticipatingInEnergySaving state, e.g., by decreasing the previously increased coverage area..
### 5.1.1 Configuration Management
Based on traffic load measurements / service usage data, OAM can decide to
take appropriate actions on the NEs for the sake of energy savings. Examples
of such actions include:
# Switch cell OFF / ON
# Switch carrier, IFs OFF / ON
# Reduce / Increase TRX power
# Switch Home eNodeB OFF / ON
# Other: FFS.
For each of the aforementioned possible actions, the potential impact on
coverage, capacity and service quality should be assessed carefully. For
example, switching off a cell should be done only when neighbour cells can
ensure coverage and pre-defined level of capacity.
Editor\'s note2 : The following paragraph is FFS.
Furthermore, before initiating Energy Savings Management actions, OAM should
compare current traffic load with measurement data collected during previous
days at same time. For example, a football stadium might have few or no
traffic every day, except during football matches with audience. This implies
that the Energy Savings Management function should be able to reduce power
consumption for e.g. all week days, except those when a football match with
audience is played. Therefore the ability should be given to control Energy
Saving Management actions either calendar-based or trigger based.
### 5.1.2 Regulatory Requirements
ESM actions should not harm any regulatory and legal requirements.
### 5.1.3 Logical Function Blocs
VOID
# 6 Business Level Requirements
**REQ-ES_MM-CON-1 Operator** shall be able to manage the energy savings
function.
**REQ-ES_MM-CON-2** Energy savings shall be performed with minimal human
intervention.
**REQ-ES_MM-CON-3** The acceptable impacts on services shall be determined
based on operator's policy.
**REQ-ES_MM-CON-4 M** anagement of **Energy Savings** function shall reuse
existing standardized solutions where beneficial.
**REQ-ES_MM-CON-5 The following scenarios shall be considered in energy
savings management.**
> **1\. ENB Overlaid**
>
> 2\. Carrier Frequency Restricted
## 6.1 Actor roles
VOID
## 6.2 Telecommunications resources
VOID
## 6.3 High-level use cases
**ENB Overlaid**
In order to assure the service connectivity and make no side effect on the
service (there is a possible case that a UE may power on in the area of an eNB
in ES), only the eNB overlaid by other eNBs (i.e., the area served by the eNB
also covered by other eNBs) can enter into ES.
In this scenario, legacy systems, e.g. 2G/3G provide radio coverage together
with E-UTRAN. Another case similar with this is that an area covered by
different frequencies in E-UTRAN, i.e. inter-frequency case.
{width="3.627083333333333in" height="1.6270833333333334in"}
Figure 6.3 ENB Overlaid Scenario
According to the definition of base station classes in [5] section 4.2, base
stations can be categorized by Macro Cell (Wide Area Base Station), Micro Cell
(Medium Range Base Station) , Pico Cell (Local Area Base Station) and Femto
Cell (characterized by Home Base Station ). This category of base station can
be applied to enhance the scenarios of inter-frequency eNB overlaid.
**UC1: Inter-Frequency E-UTRAN eNB/Cell Coverage**
In this scenario, two E-UTRAN cells (Cell A, Cell B) with separate frequency
bands cover the same geographical area. Cell B has a smaller size (Pico Cell
or Micro Cell) than Cell A (Macro Cell) and is covered totally by Cell A.
Generally, Cell A is deployed to provide continuous coverage of the area,
while Cell B increases the capacity of the special sub-areas, such as hot
spots. The energy saving procedure in the coverage of Cell B (ES area) may be
triggered in case that light traffic in Cell B is detected. Cell B
deactivation of energy saving may also be triggered when the traffic of ES
area (measured by Cell A) resumes to a high level.
Figure 6.3.1 Inter-Frequency E-UTRAN Cell Coverage
The inter-frequency E-UTRAN cell coverage use case also has a variation of
hybrid deployment of Macro Cell and Femto Cell, which means different cell
classes (Macro and Femto) cover the same geography area.
**UC1a: Hybrid E-UTRAN Macro Cell and Femto Cell Coverage**
In this scenario, two E-UTRAN cells (Cell A, Cell B) with different cell types
cover the same geographical area. Cell B (Femto Cell) is covered totally by
Cell A (Macro Cell). Generally, Cell A is deployed by eNB to provide
continuous coverage of the area, while Cell B is deployed by Home eNB to
increase the capacity of the special sub-areas, such as home or business mall
or office. The energy saving procedure in the coverage of Cell B (ES area) may
be triggered in case that light traffic or no traffic in Cell B is detected.
Cell B deactivation of energy saving may also be triggered when the traffic of
ES area resumes to a high level. Home eNB which deploys the femto cell can be
totally switched off during the ES procedure.
Figure 6.3.2 Hybrid E-UTRAN Macro Cell and Femto Cell Coverage
**UC2: Inter-RAT Cell Coverage**
In this scenario, E-UTRAN Cell B is totally covered by inter-RAT Cell A (such
as legacy system UMTS or GSM). Cell A is deployed to provide basic coverage of
the voice or medium/low-speed data services in the area, while Cell B enhances
the capability of the area to support high-speed data or multi-media services.
The energy saving procedure in the coverage of Cell B (ES area) may be
triggered in case that no high-speed data or multi-media traffic in Cell B is
detected. Cell B deactivation of energy saving may be triggered when the high-
speed data or multi-media service request in ES area is restarted again.
Figure 6.3.3 Inter-RAT Cell Coverage
**ENB Restricted**
In the scenario of eNB restricted, the overlaid eNB can be totally switched
off during the spare time of public area, e.g., during the night of
mall/office.
**Carrier Frequency Restricted**
In the scenario of carrier frequency restricted, eNB restricts the use of some
carriers and keeps a primary carrier. This is a common case where eNB could
operate on multiple carrier frequencies.
**Capacity-limited Network**
**Capacity-limited, homogeneous networks (e.g., UMTS networks in an urban
environment) are normally dimensioned to cope with peak time traffic demand
and can hence be under-utilized in off-peak times, e.g., at certain hours of
the night, when the overall load as well as the load distribution onto the
different cells may differ significantly from peak times.**
**For energy-saving management, the objective is therefore to adapt the
network to these changing conditions. One approach is to concentrate the load
into a few selected** cells **that remain active during low traffic demand
periods with increased coverage area and to de-activate the remaining less
loaded** cells **as described in more detail in [7].**
_We assume that the coverage area of a cell can be configured dynamically and
that a peak-time situation would be based on smaller coverage areas per cell
than the possible maximum area. In that case some base stations would be
enabled to adjust their transmission power and other configuration parameters
for their cells at off-peak times in order to provide coverage for other
neighboring cells -- which could then be switched off, after handing currently
associated UEs over to remaining neighboring cells. Turning off cells and
modifying radio parameters for increasing coverage for other cells can lead to
a different cell and frequency layout, which should be addressed by
interference control, e.g., through OAM-driven configuration or SON functions.
Depending on the specific scenarios, switching off cells could ultimately lead
to switching off all radio-transmission-related functions at a site, which
would lead to reduced energy consumption and could implicitly lead to even
further energy-saving, e.g., when air condition systems at a site adapt to the
reduced cooling requirements -- which is not considered here in detail._
_The energy saving management in the scenario would ideally lead to situation
for an off-peak time as depicted in figure 6.3.4 -- where one base station
would remain powered one (depicted as ES-Compensate), taking over the coverage
areas of geographically close base stations in ESaving (energy saving) state
that may, e.g., be powered off._
{width="3.292361111111111in" height="2.092361111111111in"}
{width="3.0520833333333335in" height="2.129861111111111in"}
Figure 6.3.4 Different network arrangements corresponding to capacity demand
variation for energy saving purposes
As depicted in figure 6.3.4, a certain part of a network, e.g., base stations
in a geographical area, can be in two different situations:
  1. _Peak traffic situation_ : no particular energy saving is on-going, and network elements are in _No-ES state_.
  2. _Off-peak Traffic situation_ : energy saving is on-going, and some network elements may be in _ESaving mode_ , while others are in _ES-Compensate mode_.
_Peak-traffic situation_ and _off-peak-traffic situation_ refer to the
disposition of a network. For this use case, the following different states
from section 5.1 are applicable to individual network elements:
  1. _No-ES (notParticipatinginEnergySaving) state_ : the default state in _peak-traffic situation_ , with no specific energy saving in progress.
  2. _ESaving state_ : in an _off-peak-traffic situation_ , the network element is powered-off or restricted in resource usage in other ways.
  3. _ES-Compensate (compensatingForEnergySavings) state_ : in an _off-peak traffic situation_ , a network element is remaining powered on, taking over the coverage areas of geographically close base station in _ESaving state_.
These states are entered and left using the procedures defined in section 5.1,
i.e., _energy saving activation_ , _energy saving de-activation_ , _energy
saving compensation activation_ , and _energy saving compensation de-
activation_.
It should be noted that the concrete actions for transferring a network
element into an energy-saving state (depicted as "ESaving" in figure 6.3.4)
depend on the specific scenario and capabilities of the network element.
Reaching _off-peak-situation_ with the respective state changes on network
elements is a process that affects an operator-defined part of the network.
For this use case, the energy saving function requires an algorithm to select
  * a) the network elements to stay in _No-ES state_ and those network elements to leave this state; and
  * b) from the set of network elements leaving _No-ES state_ , the network elements to enter _ESaving state_ and those elements to enter _ES-Compensate state_.
Such an algorithm could use load parameters, geographic information etc., and
should provide a smooth transition between peak hours and off-peak hours,
taking into account the achievable energy saving gains and the impact on the
network performance.
Moreover, an algorithm for the process of reverting from an _off-peak
situation_ with maximum or partial energy saving is needed that supports re-
acting to increasing capacity demand, e.g., by selecting currently _ESaving_
base stations for energy saving de-activation as required. In addition to
that, it should also be possible to terminate the complete energy saving
function unconditionally.
Whereas energy saving (de-)activation, energy saving compensation
(de-)activation (as described above) refer to configuration changes performed
on individual network elements, these algorithms are processes that typically
involve more than one network element and -- depending on the chosen approach
-- also network management systems. Here, we assume that for a part of the
network (as a system) energy saving management would either be enabled, i.e.,
_energy-saving (de-)activation_ and _energy saving compensation
(de)-activation_ is initiated on network elements according to the performed
algorithms) or energy saving management would be disabled, i.e., these
algorithms are not executed.
_The operation of the energy saving algorithms suggest the adoption of a
coordinated process in the context of [8] since the decision to initiate
energy saving activation for certain cells is requiring information beyond a
single network element, e.g., load information from neighbors._
From a network management perspective, there may be different ways to
implement the processes of enabling and disabling ESM:
  1. Centralized energy saving management:
For centralized ESM, OAM decides on enabling / disabling ESM in the network.
When ESM is enabled, OAM, applying its energy saving algorithm, determines,
based on load and other network utilization information and based on knowledge
about geographic positions and coverage areas of base stations, which base
stations are to enter _ESaving state_ , _ES-Compensate state_ , or _No-ES
state._
When ESM is disabled, OAM initiates energy saving de-activation on network
elements, i.e., by transferring them into _No-ES state_.
In summary, for centralized ESM, OAM enabled / disables ESM, and -- when ESM
is enabled -- executes energy saving algorithms and configures network
elements to either _ESaving state_ , _ES-Compensate state_ , or _No-ES state_.
  1. Distributed energy saving management:
For distributed ESM, OAM decides on enabling / disabling ESM in the network.
When ESM is enabled, network elements execute the energy saving algorithm in a
distributed manner to determine cells to enter _ESaving state_ , _ES-
Compensate state_ , or _No-ES state_ \-- depending on knowledge of current
load information of neighboring base stations.
When OAM disables ESM, network elements perform energy saving de-activation,
i.e., they return to _No-ES state_.
The distributed approach requires neighboring base stations to exchange load
information on regular intervals. Consequently, the energy saving algorithm is
performed based on coordination a more local scope compared to the centralized
approach.
In summary, for distributed ESM, OAM enables / disables ESM, but the energy
saving algorithm is executed in a distributed fashion by network elements that
decide which base station should enter which state (_No-ES, ESaving, ES-
Compensate_).
  1. Hybrid energy saving management:
For hybrid ESM, OAM decides on enabling / disabling ESM in the network, and
the energy saving algorithm may be executed on both OAM and network elements
or solely on network elements.
When the OAM enables ESM, network elements execute the energy saving algorithm
in coordination with OAM to determine when which network elements should enter
_ESaving state_ , _ES-Compensate state_ , or _No-ES state_ \-- e.g., depending
on knowledge of current load information of neighboring base stations. In
addition, OAM may perform an additional energy saving algorithm based on
global load constraints to initiate entering _ESaving state_ , _ES-Compensate
state_ , or _No-ES state_ on certain base stations explicitly or to provide
hinds as input to the energy algorithms executed on each individual emenent.
For example, OAM could perform load measurements considering a larger set of
network elements and may thus be enabled to come to better-informed
conclusions about energy saving in a certain region, which could result into
certain policies that OAM provides to network elements to enhance the ESM
process. In order to avoid or resolve conflicts in such scenarios,
prioritization of decisions or conflict resolution may be required.
When the OAM disables ESM, network elements perform energy saving de-
activation, i.e., they return to _No-ES state_. In addition, OAM may also
initiate _energy saving de-activation_ on specific network elements.
The hybrid approach requires neighboring base stations to exchange load
information and push or pull load information towards OAM on regular
intervals. Consequently, the energy saving algorithm is performed based on a
coordination on both local and global scope, which could scale accordingly.
In summary, for hybrid ESM, OAM enables / disables ESM, but the energy saving
algorithm is executed in distributed or coordinated fashion by either network
elements solely or in combination with OAM.
It should be noted that the notion of enabling / disabling ESM and the
different network element states are used here for better illustrating the use
case and that they do not imply specification-level requirements.
**eNB Time Scheduled Switch Off/On**
In some special deployment areas the variation of eNB service traffic is
regular Therefore, the eNB can be simply switched off during the time
scheduled interval with zero traffic (e.g. 10:pm to 06:00 am of the next day)
and then turned on after that period per day.
# 7 Specification Level Requirements
## 7.1 General
VOID
## 7.2 Actor roles
VOID
## 7.3 Telecommunications resources
VOID
## 7.4 Use cases
7.4.1 Use case eNodeB Overlaid
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Switch OFF the radio | | | | part of the (Home) | | | | (e)NodeB(s) for energy | | | | saving purposes. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The (Home) eNodeB(s) | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | Energy Savings | | | | management mode is | | | | activated for the (Home) | | | | eNodeB(s), based on | | | | operator\'s policy. | | | | | | | | The subject (Home) | | | | eNodeB(s) is overlaid by | | | | one (or more) other | | | | (Home) (e)NodeB(s). | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The (Home) eNodeB(s) is | | | | switched on. | | | | | | | | The (Home) eNodeB(s) is | | | | not in a faulty state. | | | | | | | | The Energy Savings | | | | Management is activated | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The energy savings | | | | management process is | | | | triggered automatically | | | | based on network | | | | performance measurements | | | | / service usage data | | | | collection and | | | | analysis.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | [SC1] Compliance of | | | | switching off the eNB | | | | radio part is checked | | | | and if confirmed, the | | | | radio part is switched | | | | off. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | The operator policy does | | | | not allow switching off | | | | or | | | | | | | | the Energy Savings | | | | Management is | | | | deactivated | | | | | | | | **or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The radio part of the | | | | (Home) eNodeB(s) is OFF. | | | | The Control part of the | | | | (Home) eNodeB(s) is ON. | | | | The radio part of the | | | | (Home) eNodeB(s) can be | | | | turned ON if needed. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
### 7.4.2 Use case capacity-limited network
Based on the high-level description in section 6.3, different use cases for
energy saving management in capacity-limited networks are provided:
centralized ESM (enabling and disabling energy saving) and hybrid ESM
(enabling and disabling energy saving). It should be noted that the notion of
enabling / disabling ESM and the different network element states are used
here for better illustrating the use cases and that they do not imply
specification-level requirements.
#### 7.4.2.1 Centralized ESM
##### 7.4.2.1.1 Enabling energy saving
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Enable energy saving for | | | | a selected part of the | | | | network (network | | | | elements, e.g., base | | | | stations) | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements and | | | | their OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The network operator has | | | | decided to enable energy | | | | saving for a selected | | | | part of the network | | | | (network elements, e.g., | | | | base stations). | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The base station | | | | topology for a selected | | | | area allows for | | | | transferring some | | | | network elements into | | | | _ESaving state_ while | | | | maintaining coverage by | | | | transferring some other | | | | base stations into | | | | _ES-Compensatestate._ | | | | | | | | Network elements (e.g. | | | | eNodeBs) are not in a | | | | faulty state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **OAM decides to enable | | | | energy saving for a | | | | selected part of the | | | | network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | OAM based on load and | | | | other network | | | | utilization information | | | | and based on knowledge | | | | about geographic | | | | positions and coverage | | | | areas of base stations, | | | | decides which network | | | | elements are to enter | | | | _ESaving state_ , | | | | _ES-Compensate state_ , | | | | or _No-ES state._ | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | On those network | | | | elements that will be | | | | transferred to _ESaving | | | | state,_ OAM initiates | | | | energy-saving | | | | activation. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | On those network | | | | elements that will be | | | | transferred to | | | | _ES-Compensate state,_ | | | | OAM initiates | | | | energy-saving | | | | compensation. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **The selected network | | | | elements are in _ESaving | | | | state_ , and other | | | | selected network | | | | elements are in | | | | _ES-Compensate state_.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy-saving activation | | | | has been performed on | | | | some selected network | | | | elements. Other selected | | | | network elements are in | | | | _ES-Compensate_ state. | | | | The network coverage for | | | | the selected area is | | | | maintained. The overall | | | | energy consumption for | | | | the corresponding part | | | | of the network is | | | | reduced. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ_ESM_CON_004, | | | | REQ_ESM_CON_005 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 7.4.2.1.2 Disabling energy-saving
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Disable energy saving | | | | for a selected part of | | | | the network (network | | | | elements, e.g., base | | | | stations) | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements and | | | | their OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | In a part of the network | | | | some network elements | | | | (e.g., base stations) | | | | are in _ESaving state_ | | | | and other network | | | | elements are in | | | | _ES-Compensate state_. | | | | The operator has decided | | | | to disable energy saving | | | | for that part of the | | | | network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The affected network | | | | elements are in _ESaving | | | | state or in | | | | ES-Compensate state._ | | | | | | | | Network elements (base | | | | stations) are not in a | | | | faulty state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **OAM decides to disable | | | | energy-saving for a | | | | selected part of the | | | | network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | OAM initiates energy | | | | saving de-activation on | | | | every network element in | | | | the corresponding part | | | | of the network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Energy-saving | | | | de-activation has been | | | | initiated on all network | | | | elements in the | | | | corresponding part of | | | | the network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | All network elements in | | | | the corresponding part | | | | of the network are in | | | | _No-ES | | | | (notPart | | | | icipatinginEnergySaving) | | | | state_. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
#### 7.4.2.2 Distributed ESM
##### 7.4.2.2.1 Enabling energy saving
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Enable energy saving for | | | | a selected part of the | | | | network (network | | | | elements, e.g., base | | | | stations) | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements and | | | | their OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The network operator has | | | | decided to enable energy | | | | saving for a selected | | | | part of the network | | | | (network elements, e.g., | | | | base stations). | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The base station | | | | topology for a selected | | | | area allows for | | | | transferring some | | | | network elements into | | | | _ESaving state_ while | | | | maintaining coverage by | | | | transferring some other | | | | network elements into | | | | _ES-Compensate state._ | | | | | | | | Network elements (e.g. | | | | eNodeBs) are not in a | | | | faulty state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **OAM decides to enable | | | | energy saving for a | | | | selected part of the | | | | network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | OAM enables energy | | | | saving for a selected | | | | part of the network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (O) | OAM provides policies to | | | | the network elements in | | | | order to support the | | | | execution of the energy | | | | saving algorithms on | | | | these elements. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | Network elements execute | | | | the energy saving | | | | algorithm to determine | | | | when which network | | | | elements should enter | | | | _ESaving state_ , | | | | _ES-Compensate state_ , | | | | or _No-ES state_ \-- | | | | e.g., depending on | | | | knowledge of current | | | | load information of | | | | neighboring base | | | | stations | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 4 (*) (M) | Those network elements | | | | that have been selected | | | | to be transferred to | | | | _ESaving state,_ perform | | | | energy-saving | | | | activation. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 5 (*) (M) | Those network elements | | | | that have been selected | | | | to be transferred to | | | | _ES-Compensate state,_ | | | | initiate energy-saving | | | | compensation. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **The selected base | | | | stations are in _ESaving | | | | state_ , and other | | | | selected base stations | | | | are in _ES-Compensate | | | | state_.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy-saving activation | | | | has been performed on | | | | some selected network | | | | elements. Other selected | | | | network elements are in | | | | _ES-Compensate_ state. | | | | The network coverage for | | | | the selected area is | | | | maintained. The overall | | | | energy consumption for | | | | the corresponding part | | | | of the network is | | | | reduced. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ_ESM_CON_005 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 7.4.2.2.2 Disabling energy saving
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Disable energy saving | | | | for a selected part of | | | | the network (network | | | | elements, e.g., base | | | | stations) | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements and | | | | their OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | In a part of the network | | | | some network elements | | | | (e.g., base stations) | | | | are in _ESaving state_ | | | | and other network | | | | elements are in | | | | _ES-Compensate state_. | | | | The operator has decided | | | | to disable energy saving | | | | for that part of the | | | | network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The affected network | | | | elements are in _ESaving | | | | state or in | | | | ES-Compensate state._ | | | | | | | | Network elements (base | | | | stations) are not in a | | | | faulty state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **OAM decides to disable | | | | energy-saving for a | | | | selected part of the | | | | network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | OAM **disables | | | | energy-saving for a | | | | selected part of the | | | | network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | Network elements (e.g. | | | | base stations) in the | | | | selected part of the | | | | network de-activate | | | | energy saving. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Energy-saving | | | | de-activation has been | | | | initiated on all network | | | | elements in the | | | | corresponding part of | | | | the network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | All network elements in | | | | the corresponding part | | | | of the network are in | | | | _No-ES | | | | (notPart | | | | icipatinginEnergySaving) | | | | state_. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ_ESM_CON_006 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
#### 7.4.2.3 Hybrid ESM
##### 7.4.2.3.1 Enabling energy saving
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Enable energy saving for | | | | a selected part of the | | | | network (network | | | | elements, e.g., base | | | | stations) | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements and | | | | their OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The network operator has | | | | decided to enable energy | | | | saving for a selected | | | | part of the network | | | | (network elements, e.g., | | | | base stations). | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The base station | | | | topology for a selected | | | | area allows for | | | | transferring some | | | | network elements into | | | | _ESaving state_ while | | | | maintaining coverage by | | | | transferring some other | | | | network elements into | | | | _ES-Compensate state._ | | | | | | | | Network elements (e.g. | | | | eNodeBs) are not in a | | | | faulty state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **OAM decides to enable | | | | energy saving for a | | | | selected part of the | | | | network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | OAM enables energy | | | | saving for a selected | | | | part of the network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (O) | OAM provides policies to | | | | the network elements in | | | | order to support the | | | | execution of the energy | | | | saving algorithms on | | | | these elements. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | Network elements execute | | | | the energy saving | | | | algorithm to determine | | | | when which network | | | | elements should enter | | | | _ESaving state_ , | | | | _ES-Compensate state_ , | | | | or _No-ES state_ \-- | | | | e.g., depending on | | | | knowledge of current | | | | load information of | | | | neighboring base | | | | stations | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 4 (*) (M) | Those network elements | | | | that have been selected | | | | to be transferred to | | | | _ESaving state,_ perform | | | | energy-saving | | | | activation. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 5 (*) (M) | Those network elements | | | | that have been selected | | | | to be transferred to | | | | _ES-Compensate state,_ | | | | initiate energy-saving | | | | compensation. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 6 (*) (O) | In addition, OAM | | | | performs an additional | | | | energy saving algorithm | | | | based on global load | | | | constraints to initiate | | | | entering _ESaving | | | | state_ , _ES-Compensate | | | | state_ , or _No-ES state_ | | | | on certain network | | | | elements explicitly or | | | | to provide hints as | | | | input to the energy | | | | algorithms executed on | | | | each individual emenent. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **The selected base | | | | stations are in _ESaving | | | | state_ , and other | | | | selected base stations | | | | are in _ES-Compensate | | | | state_.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy-saving activation | | | | has been performed on | | | | some selected network | | | | elements. Other selected | | | | network elements are in | | | | _ES-Compensate_ state. | | | | The network coverage for | | | | the selected area is | | | | maintained. The overall | | | | energy consumption for | | | | the corresponding part | | | | of the network is | | | | reduced. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ_ESM_CON_005, | | | | REQ_ESM_CON_007 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 7.4.2.3.2 Disabling energy saving
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Disable energy saving | | | | for a selected part of | | | | the network (network | | | | elements, e.g., base | | | | stations) | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements and | | | | their OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | In a part of the network | | | | some network elements | | | | (e.g., base stations) | | | | are in _ESaving state_ | | | | and other network | | | | elements are in | | | | _ES-Compensate state_. | | | | The operator has decided | | | | to disable energy saving | | | | for that part of the | | | | network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The affected network | | | | elements are in _ESaving | | | | state or in | | | | ES-Compensate state._ | | | | | | | | Network elements (base | | | | stations) are not in a | | | | faulty state. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **OAM decides to disable | | | | energy-saving for a | | | | selected part of the | | | | network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | OAM **disables | | | | energy-saving for a | | | | selected part of the | | | | network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | Network elements (e.g. | | | | base stations) in the | | | | selected part of the | | | | network de-activate | | | | energy saving. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (O) | In addition, OAM may | | | | also initiate energy | | | | saving de-activation on | | | | specific network | | | | elements. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Energy-saving | | | | de-activation has been | | | | initiated on all network | | | | elements in the | | | | corresponding part of | | | | the network.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | All network elements in | | | | the corresponding part | | | | of the network are in | | | | _No-ES | | | | (notPart | | | | icipatinginEnergySaving) | | | | state_. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ_ESM_CON_006 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
7.4.3 Use Case eNodeB Time Scheduled Energy Saving Activation/Deactivation
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Energy Saving | | | | activation/deactivation | | | | in an eNodeB based on | | | | time schedule | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The eNodeB including its | | | | OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | Energy Savings | | | | Management Function is | | | | present. | | | | | | | | The eNodeB is deployed | | | | in an area where time | | | | scheduled intervals with | | | | zero traffic load are | | | | predictable.(on per day, | | | | week or month basis). | | | | | | | | There is no ES policy is | | | | in effect. Note: | | | | ES policy coordination | | | | or conflict resolution | | | | is FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The eNodeB is switched | | | | on and carrying traffic. | | | | | | | | The eNodeB is not in a | | | | faulty state. | | | | | | | | The Energy Savings | | | | Management Function is | | | | on | | | | | | | | The operator policy | | | | allows energy saving | | | | activation/deactivation | | | | in an eNodeB based on | | | | time schedule | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **Alternative 1:** | | | | | | | | **IRPManager informs | | | | IPRAgent/Energy Saving | | | | Management Function a | | | | time scheduled energy | | | | saving policy for the | | | | eNodeB. The policy is | | | | to switch off the eNB | | | | during time scheduled | | | | intervals with zero | | | | traffic load. IRPManager | | | | provides the time | | | | scheduled intervals. ** | | | | | | | |** Alternative 2:**| | | | | | | |** IRPManager/Energy | | | | Saving Management | | | | Function holds the time | | | | scheduled energy saving | | | | policy.**| | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Steps | Alternative 1: | | | | | | | | 1. Energy saving | | | | activation is performed | | | | when the beginning of a | | | | time scheduled interval | | | | is reached. As a result, | | | | the eNB is switched off. | | | | | | | | 2. Energy saving | | | | deactivation is | | | | performed when the end | | | | of the time scheduled | | | | interval is reached. As | | | | a result, the eNB is | | | | switched on. | | | | | | | |** 3\. Go back to step | | | | 1.**| | | | | | | |** Alternative 2:**| | | | | | | |** 1\. IRPManager sends | | | | request at beginning of | | | | a time schedule interval | | | | to IRPAgent to switch | | | | off the eNB.**| | | | | | | |** 2\. IRPManager sends | | | | request at end of the | | | | time schedule interval | | | | to IRPAgent to switch on | | | | the eNB.**| | | | | | | |** 3\. Go back to step 1** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | Alternative 1: | | | | | | | | IRPManager informs | | | | IRPAgent and Energy | | | | Saving Management | | | | Function to stop | | | | instructing eNodeB to be | | | | switched off based on | | | | time schedule or | | | | | | | | Alternative 1 and 2: | | | | | | | | when all the time | | | | scheduled interval with | | | | zero traffic load | | | | expire. | | | | | | | | ** ** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy saving | | | | activation/deactivation | | | | based on time schedule | | | | is disabled in the | | | | eNodeB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
## 7.5 Requirements
**REQ_ESM_CON_001** The IRPManager shall be able to monitor how the network
and the user service quality are influenced by energy savings function.
**REQ_ESM_CON_002** The IRPManager shall be able to configure energy saving
function related parameters.
**REQ_ESM_CON_003** The IRPManager shall be able to monitor the performance of
the energy savings function.
**REQ_ESM_CON_004** The IRPManager shall be able to initiate energy saving
compensation on network elements. This requirement applies for the use case
capacity limited network, for other use cases it is FFS.
**REQ_ESM_CON_005** The IRPManager shall be able to enable energy saving for a
selected part of the network.
**REQ_ESM_CON_006** The IRPManager shall be able to disable energy saving for
a selected part of the network.
**REQ_ESM_CON_007** The IRPManager shall be able to provide policies to
network elements to support the execution of energy saving algorithms on these
elements
**REQ_ESM_CON_008** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to initiate energy saving activation procedure to one or multiple
network elements.
**REQ_ESM_CON_009** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to initiate energy saving deactivation procedure to one or multiple
network elements.
**REQ_ESM_CON_010** When a NE is \"switched off\" due to Energy savings
purposes the IRPAgents shall not consider a \"switched off\" NE as a fault,
and no alarms shall be raised to the IRPManager for any condition that is a
consequence of a \"switched off\" NE.
**REQ_ESM_CON_0011** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to retrieve energy consumption information for each of its managed
NEs.
**REQ_ESM_CON_0012** The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to configure for each of its managed NEs the period of time during
which energy consumption information will be provided.
**REQ_ESM_CON_0013** The IRP Agent shall be able to allow the IRPManager to
"whitelist" a list of cells to prevent them from switching off.
**REQ_ESM_CON_0014** The IRPAgent shall allow the IRPManager to query for all
switched off cells in the network under its domain.
**REQ_ESM_CON_0015** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to initiate energy saving activation/deactivation procedure at the
cell level (one or more cells across multiple eNBs).
**REQ_ESM_CON_0016** The IRPAgent shall support a capability to notify the
IRPManager when a cell goes into or out of energy saving mode (switched off/,
switched on, switched to dormant etc).
**REQ_ESM_CON_0017** The IRPAgent shall notify the IRPManager when a cell
fails to re-start as a result of a switch-on due to energy saving.
### 7.5.1 Service Quality Measurements Collection
**REQ_ESMeNBOSQMC_FUN_1** The IRPAgent shall provide to the IRPManager service
quality measurements performed in order to identify potential service impacts
due to the ESM process activation.
# 8 Functions and Architecture
## 8.1 Energy Savings Management Definition
Energy Savings Management (ESM) is a function which is responsible for
optimizing the resource utilization of the whole or part of the network to
actual needs for power saving purposes. ESM will collect and evaluate service
usage related information from the network, and initiate appropriate actions
to adjust the network configuration to service requirements, according to the
service provider\'s policy.
The Energy Savings Management can be:
Centralised : In such solutions the appropriate energy saving actions are
initiated, by the Energy Savings algorithms, which resides in the OAM System.
Distributed: In such solutions the appropriate energy saving actions are
initiated, by the Energy Savings algorithms, which resides at the NE level.
The key feature to distinguish centralised and distributed ESM solutions is
what entity or role makes decision to initiate energy saving actions, OAM
system or NE(for example, eNB). The decision is made by OAM system in a
centralised solution while it is made by NE itself in a distributed solution
(based on NE's local trigger condition judgement). The table below summarizes
the differences between the two categories of ESM solutions, featured by three
comparison features.
* * *
**Comparison Feature** **Centralised ESM solution** **Distributed ESM
solution** Energy saving related measurements OAM system NE Decision making to
trigger ES actions OAM system NE Energy saving action execution NE NE
* * *
However, for a hybrid ESM solution, the management scenario needs to combine
both parties (OAM system and NE) of decision-making to trigger actual energy
saving actions. Information related to the energy saving decision making shall
be exchanged between OAM system and NE. Like for the definition of hybrid SON
in TS 32.500 [6], "hybrid" means that one part of energy saving algorithms is
executed in OAM system and the other part of the algorithms is executed in NE.
The functionality ensured by OAM system and NE can be distinguished by the
following aspects for a hybrid ESM solution:
a) Both OAM system and NE execute energy saving related measurements
separately.
b) The decision to trigger energy saving actions is made at OAM system or NE
level, and the trigger condition shall be combined the part from OAM system
and the part from NE level, which needs OAM system and NE to exchange
information related to decision making. For example, a scenario of decision
making at NE level may be, when an "off-peak hours of a cell" policy is
determined based on OAM system's historical statistics of a cell's traffic
load, OAM system may configure it to NE to enhance the NE's local decision
making to trigger energy saving actions.
For Example: At the NE level, the energy saving actions activation is
initiated only when both conditions A1 and B1 are met:
> A1: the current time resides at the off-peak hours of the cell;
>
> B1: the current traffic load of the cell decreases under a threshold for a
> given duration.
>
> Deactivation actions of energy saving are initiated only when either
> condition A2 or B2 is met.
>
> A2: the off-peak hours of the cell is expired;
>
> B2: the current traffic load of the cell increases above a threshold for a
> given duration.
It's also possible for OAM system to aggregate such decision-making
information from OAM system and NE level, and make decision to trigger energy
saving actions at OAM system.
c) No matter the decision is made at OAM system or NE level, the final
executor of energy saving actions is NE.
The table below summarizes the features of hybrid ESM solutions.
* * *
**Comparison Feature** **Hybrid ESM solution** Energy saving related
measurements done by OAM system and NE separately Decision making to trigger
ES actions Done at OAM system or NE level, combine both OAM system and NE's
decision making to trigger energy saving actions Energy saving action
execution NE
* * *
A hybrid ESM solution can be defined as follows:
Hybrid: In such solutions, decision making to trigger energy saving actions
can be done both:
a) At the NE level: these decisions are taken locally at NE and may trigger
energy saving actions at the NE level.
b) At OAM system: these decisions are taken at the OAM system.
Information related to decision making of Energy Savings Management shall be
exchanged between OAM system and NEs and instructions from a OAM system to a
NE may affect energy saving actions taken by that NE.
# 9 Analysis of potential OAM based solutions
## 9.1 Usage of existing standardized solutions
VOID
## 9.2 Need for defining new solutions
.VOID
# 10 Conclusions
In this study item the motivations of mobile network operators for the
introduction of Energy Savings control mechanisms have been described.
The following use cases for achieving Energy Savings have been identified:
  * ENB Overlaid
  * Carrier Frequency Restricted
  * Capacity-limited Network
  * ENB Time Scheduled Switch Off/On
For the above use cases the energy saving states can be conceptually
identified for the network element:
  * notParticipatingInEnergySaving state: state in which no energy saving functions is in progress.
  * energySaving state: state in which the network element is powered off or restricted in physical resource usage in other ways.
  * compensatingForEnergySaving state: state in which the network element is remaining powered on, and taking over the coverage areas of geographically closed network element in energySaving state.
From a network management perspective, there may be different ways to
implement the processes of enabling and disabling ESM determining the cells to
enter or leave the energySaving state:
  1. Centralized energy saving management
  2. Distributed energy saving management
  3. Hybrid energy saving management.
Based on the outcome study, normative work is needed. It is necessary to
determine the usage of existing IRPs for the purpose of Energy Savings
Management as well as potential definition of new IRP.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Evaluation of the energy saving potential
The study considers downlink data traffic only, handled via HSDPA technology.
The table below lists the key model parameters. The inter-site distance has
been chosen such that UL/DL coverage requirements are met even for the case of
12 active sites (assuming a downtilt optimised for the case of 48 active
sites).
Table A-1 List of the Key Parameters
* * *
**SYSTEM MODEL** **PROPAGATION MODEL**
# of sites 12, 24, 36 or 48 Path loss 123.22 + 35.22 log~10~ d~km~
Inter-site distance 1100 m (based on 48 sites) Antenna diagram Kathrein 741989
Downtilt 4^0^ Main lobe gain\ 11.5 dBi (including slant/feeder loss)
Carrier bandwidth 5 MHz
# Carriers/sector i = 1, 2, 3, 4 Indoor loss 8 dB
P~max~ i × 20 W σ~shadowing~ 6 dB
P~CPICH­~ i × 2 W Inter-site shadowing correlation 0.5
**TRAFFIC HANDLING** Orthogonality factor 0.10
Rate adaptation min{i × 21.6, i × 5 × log~2~(1 + SINR)} Noise figure 8 dB
Packet scheduling Round robin Noise temperature 288 K
* * *
> A typical traffic load variation over a 24 hour period is assumed, as
> depicted in Figure A.1.
{width="4.1715277777777775in" height="2.667361111111111in"}
Figure A.1 Daily traffic load variation
> **_Determining the maximum supportable load for a given quality target_**
>
> For each of the network configurations in Figure 4.2.1 , i.e. _k ∈ {48, 36,
> 24, 12}_ and _i ∈ {4, 3, 2, 1}_ , it has been determined the downlink user
> throughput performance (average and 10^th^ cell edge percentile) versus the
> network-wide average number of active data flows. The results are presented
> in Figure A.2 . Besides the throughput results, the charts also show the
> observed activity factor, i.e. the average transmit power of a sector.
> Observe that the experienced throughputs are higher for lower traffic loads,
> a higher number of active sites and more available spectrum, all as
> expected. Furthermore, the cell edge throughput percentiles (dashed curves)
> obviously lie below the average throughput curves (continuous curves). For a
> given number of active sites, the activity factor is independent of the
> available spectrum and increasing in the traffic load.
{width="5.903472222222222in" height="4.064583333333333in"}
Figure A.2 Average user and 10^th^ percentile cell edge throughput for
configurations with 48, 36, 24 and 12 active sites and 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz of
available spectrum.
> Assuming a target level of 250 kbit/s for the 10^th^ throughput percentile
> at the cell edge or, alternatively, a 1 Mb/s target level for the average
> user throughput, the maximum supported traffic load is determined for each
> configuration (in terms of the number of active sites and the available
> spectrum). These results are presented in. Figure A.3. Observe that, even if
> the target levels are quite asymmetric, the supportable traffic is
> significantly higher when considering a target on the average user
> throughput, rather than on the 10^th^ cell edge throughput percentile.
>
> Observe further that in distinct scenarios with the same number of deployed
> sector-carriers (the number of sectors × the number of carriers), it is not
> trivial which configuration supports the highest load. For instance, if we
> compare a configuration with 24 active sites and 3 carriers per sector (216
> sector-carriers) with a configuration with 36 active sites and 2 carriers
> per sector (also 216 sector-carriers), the former configuration supports the
> highest traffic load, i.e. rather more carriers than more sites. On the
> other hand, if a configuration with 24 active sites and 4 carriers per
> sector (288 sector-carriers) is compared with a configuration with 48 active
> sites and 2 carriers per sector (also 288 sector-carriers), it is the latter
> configuration that supports the highest traffic load, i.e. rather more sites
> than more carriers.
{width="5.903472222222222in" height="2.0625in"}
Figure A.3 Maximum supportable traffic load for each configuration, assuming a
1 Mbit/s\ target on the average user throughput (left chart) and a 250 kbit/s
target on the 10^th^ cell\ edge throughput percentile (right chart)
> The final step is to use these results to determine the most energy-
> efficient network configuration to provide the set performance targets for
> each hour of a 24 hour day. Assuming an adequately planned network, we set
> the peak hour traffic load equal to the supportable traffic load in a
> scenario with 48 active sites and 20 MHz spectrum (four carriers). For the
> case of a 250 kbit/s target on the 10^th^ cell edge throughput percentile,
> this gives a peak hour traffic load of about 1572 active data flows
> (throughout the network), while for the case of a 1 Mbit/s average user
> throughput target, this gives a peak hour traffic load of about 3466 active
> data flows. Considering the assumed daily traffic load fluctuations as
> depicted in Figure A.1, this immediately translates to a setting of the
> absolute traffic load in each hour of the day/night.
>
> We first need to define the assumed energy consumption model, which
> translates the number of active sites, the number of active carriers (in an
> active sector) and the activity factor to an aggregate (network-wide) energy
> consumption level. Denote with S~on~ the number of active sites and with
> S~off~ = 48 -- S~on~ the number of inactive sites. Futher denote with C~on~
> the number of active carriers (in an active sector) and with C~off~ = 4 --
> C~on~ the number of inactive carriers (in an active sector). Finally, let γ
> denote the activity factor. The applied energy consumption model is
> characterised by four parameters:
  * P~AC~ is the energy consumption of a fully active air conditioning unit per site;
  * P~CARRIER~ is the energy consumption per fully active carrier (for the entire site); this captures all energy consumption not related to the air conditioner;
  * α is the fraction of P~AC~ that is the minimum energy consumption of an air conditioning unit, regardless of the site's (in)activity or the sector's activity factor ;
  * β is the fraction of P~CARRIER~ that is the minimum energy consumption of a carrier, regardless of the carrier's (in)activity or the sector's activity factor.
> Applying a lineairity assumption of energy consumption w.r.t. sector
> activity, the following formula is used to determine the energy consumption:
>
> The part $S_{\text{off}}\left( \text{αP}_{\text{AC}} +
> 4\text{βP}_{\text{CARRIER}} \right)$ covers the energy consumption of
> inactive sites (all capable of using four carriers). The second part covers
> the energy consumption of the active sites, where:
>
> $P_{\text{AC}}\text{max}\left{ \alpha,\frac{1}{4}C_{\text{on}}\gamma
> \right}$ covers the energy consumption of the air conditioning dependent on
> the activity per carrier.
>
> $C_{\text{on}}P_{\text{CARRIER}}\text{max}\left{ \beta,\gamma \right}$covers
> the energy consumption of the active carriers dependent of the activity per
> carrier.
>
> $C_{\text{off}}\text{βP}_{\text{CARRIER}}$ covers the energy consumption of
> the inactive carriers at the active site.
If it is assumed that P~AC~ = 1500 Watt and P~CARRIER~ = 750 Watt, while we
consider different choices of α and β, while the activity factor γ is readily
obtained from the simulations (see also Figure A.2 ). Considering only the
scenario with the performance target on the 10^th^ cell edge throughput
percentile, for the case of α = β = 10% the results in Figure 4.2.2 in the
main text shows for each hour of the day the energy consumption level if we
constantly deploy a configuration with 48 sites and 4 carriers, as well as the
energy consumption level if in each hour of the day the most energy-efficient
configuration is deployed (which still satisfies the imposed performance
target).
#