# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Fault Management (FM) is a very basic functionality of network management. The
purpose of FM is to detect failures as soon as they occur and to minimize
their impact on the network services. Thus FM functionality consists of
functions for detecting, locating, isolating and correcting the failures.
These basic functions are same, or at least very similar regardless of the IT
environment.
FM functionalities had been specified and standardized by several
organizations. Even if the functions are same the specifications differ. The
differences lead to implementation of several variants of the same
functionality. This is an expensive aspect for both vendors and service
provides. This study aims to provide background information and
recommendations on how to get better alignment of FM specifications between
two telecom specification organizations, namely 3GPP and TMF.
# 1 Scope
The present document collects, compares and analyzes the specifications of
Fault Management (FM) as defined by 3GPP and TMF. These two organizations have
both a complete set of FM specifications consisting of requirement,
technology-independent and solution set specification for
\- Fault Management interface -- operations and notifications and
\- Alarm content
The present documentidentifies similarities and differences of the Fault
Management capabilities in 3GPP and TMF and provides recommendations to align
these capabilities.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".\"
[2] TMF RN306: \"MTOSI 2.0 Release Notes\", Version 2.1
[3] MTOSI 2.0: MTOSI_R2-0_DDP_Maps.xls
[4] TIP Technical Coordination Team, Feature Description, Resource FM
Harmonization, 12 December, 2008, Final, Rev 1.0
[5] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[6] MTOSI 2.0: Network Resource Assurance - DDP IA, TMF612_NRA, Version 1.0
[7] TMF518_FMW, Framework - DDP BA, Version 1.1
[8] NGMN Operations Requirements - Top ten network operations requirements for
multi-vendor, multi-technology environment.
[9] **3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".**
**[10]** 3GPP TS 32.111-3: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management;
Part 3: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker
Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[11] **3GPP TR 32.832: \"Study on Alarm Correlation and Alarm Root Cause
Analysis\".**
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [9] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[9].
OS TMF Operations System (OS) refers to any management system covering SML,
NML, and/or EML\ functionality [7]
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
API Application Programming Interface
BA Business Agreement
DDP Document Delivery Package
FMW Framework
IA Information Agreement
IIS Interface Implementation Specification
IRP Integration Reference Point
MTOSI Multi-Technology Operations System Interface
NRA Network Resource Assurance
NRM Network Resource Model
RTM Resource Trouble Management
TIP TM Forum Interface Program
TMF TeleManagement Forum
# 4 Comparison of Fault Management standards
## 4.1 Reference Architectures
### 4.1.1 3GPP
### 4.1.2 TMF TIP
## 4.2 Fault Management standards in 3GPP and TMF TIP
### 4.2.1 3GPP Alarm IRP
3GPP is using the Integration Reference Point (IRP) concept for interface,
Network Resource Model (NRM) and data definition specifications see 3GPP TS
32.150 [1] for detailed description of IRP concept.\ The 3GPP Release 9
\"Telecommunication management; Fault Management;\" interface related
specifications are:
3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Part 1: 3G fault management requirements\".
3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Part 2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
3GPP TS 32.111-3: \"Part 3: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
3GPP TS 32.111-5: \"Part 5: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP):
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions\".
3GPP TS 32.111-7: \"Part 7: Alarm IRP SOAP Solution Set (SS)\".
The 3GPP Release 10 \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management;\"
interface related specifications are:
3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Part 1: 3G fault management requirements\".
3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Part 2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
3GPP TS 32.111-6: \"Part 6: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution
Set (SS) definitions\".
The above mentioned specifications define the requirements, semantics and
syntax of the Fault Management interface and Alarm content.\ The Alarm IRP is
utilizing the services defined in 3GPP TS 32.30x (Configuration Management;
Notification IRP) and inheriting object definitions from 3GPP TS 32.31x
(Generic IRP management) and 3GPP TS 32.62x (Generic network resources IRP).
### 4.2.2 TMF TIP Resource Trouble Management
Currently TIP ecosystem has two set of specifications:
\- OSS/J Fault Management API (JSR 263)
\- MTOSI Resource Trouble Management (TMF518_RTM) and the similar requirements
in TMF 513 (basically the MTNM requirements on FM
TMF TIP is harmonizing their fault management specifications. The goal is to
have one common TIP FM specification.
MTOSI RTM specification consist of a Document Delivery Package (DDP)
containing:
\- TMF518_RTM Resource Trouble, Business Agreement (BA)
\- RTM TMF612_RTM Resource Trouble, Information Agreement (IA)
\- RTM TMF864_RTM_XML Resource Trouble, Interface Implementation Specification
(IIS)
The above mentioned specifications define the requirements, semantics and
syntax of the Fault Management interface and Alarm content. Resource Trouble
Management interface is utilizing and inheriting the notification mechanism
and object definitions specified in Framework DDP, NetworkResourceBasic DDP
and NetworkResourceAssurance DDP. The document structure is similar to 3GPP.
For further information on MTOSI specification structure, see TMF RN306 [2].
OSS/J Fault Management API (JSR 263) consists of set of
specifications/documents: Overview Document, API User Guide Document, API
Source, XML Schema and Web Services WSDL. The Fault Monitoring API provides
interfaces, as specified by the OSS/J Design Guidelines, which allow clients
to collect and acknowledge alarms. The API enables reception of alarms, state
changes, and threshold crossing alerts from the network and maintaining a list
of active alarms.
## 4.3 Interface (operations) comparison
3GPP and TMF specifications define a set of operations by which one management
system may interact with another management system. The following table
contains a list of operations defined in 3GPP Alarm IRP and identifies the
same or similar operations defined in TMF MTOSI and OSS/J (Chapter 5.4 MTOSI
-- OSS/J Harmonization for Resource FM in [4]).
Table 4.3: Interface Operations Comparison
* * *
3GPP MTOSI OSS/J acknowledgeAlarms (M) acknowledgeAlarms acknowledgeAlarms (M)
unacknowledgeAlarms (O) unacknowledgeAlarms unAcknowledgeAlarms (M)
getAlarmList (M) getActiveAlarms getAlarmsByKeys and getAlarmsByTemplate
clearAlarms (O) no equivalent clearAlarms (M) setComments (O) no equivalent
commentAlarms getAlarmCount (O) getActiveAlarmsCount getAlarmCount no
equivalent? no equivalent unclearAlarms no equivalent no equivalent
createAlarm no equivalent no equivalent createAlarms
* * *
TMF MTOSI specifies also other alarm related operation which has no direct
equivalent operations in 3GPP.\ Some operations like setting alarm reporting
on and off may be implemented by other defined mechanisms.\ The TMF MTOSI
operation groups and operations are following (RTM ops tab in [3]):
> AlarmControl
>
> \- setAlarmReportingOff
>
> \- setAlarmReportingOn
>
> \- setGtpAlarmReportingOff
>
> \- setGtpAlarmReportingOn
>
> AlarmSeverityAssignmentProfileControl
>
> \- assignAlarmSeverityAssignmentProfile
>
> \- createAlarmSeverityAssignmentProfile
>
> \- deassignAlarmSeverityAssignmentProfile
>
> \- deleteAlarmSeverityAssignmentProfile
>
> \- modifyAlarmSeverityAssignmentProfile
>
> AlarmSeverityAssignmentProfileRetrieval
>
> \- getAlarmSeverityAssignmentProfile
>
> \- getAlarmSeverityAssignmentProfileByResource
>
> \- getAlarmSeverityAssignmentProfileIterator
>
> \- getAllAlarmSeverityAssignmentProfilesWrtOs
>
> \- getAsapAssociatedResourceNames
>
> MaintenanceControl
>
> \- getActiveMaintenanceOperations
>
> \- getActiveMaintenanceOperationsIterator
>
> \- performMaintenanceOperation
>
> ProtectionControl
>
> \- performProtectionCommand
>
> ProtectionRetrieval
>
> \- getAllEquipmentProtectionGroups
>
> \- getAllNonPreemptibleUnprotectedTpNames
>
> \- getAllPreemptibleTerminationPointNames
>
> \- getAllProtectedTerminationPointNames
>
> \- getAllProtectionGroups
>
> \- getContainingProtectionGroupNames
>
> \- getEquipmentProtectionGroup
>
> \- getProtectionGroup
>
> \- retrieveEquipmentSwitchData
>
> \- retrieveSwitchData
>
> \- getEquipmentProtectionGroupIterator
>
> \- getProtectionGroupIterator
## 4.4 Notification comparison
3GPP and TMF specifications define a set of notifications by which one
management system may inform/notify another management system. 3GPP and TMF
have chosen a different approach related the notification mechanism. 3GPP has
defined several notifications for changed alarm and/or alarm content where as
TMF has specified one notification and the content of that one notification is
changed accordingly.
3GPP Alarm IRP defines following notifications (see 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5]):
> \- notifyNewAlarm (M)
>
> \- notifyAckStateChanged (M)
>
> \- notifyChangedAlarm (O)
>
> \- notifyComments (O)
>
> \- notifyClearAlarm (M)
>
> \- notifyAlarmListRebuilt (M)
>
> \- notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList (O)
TMF MTOSI RTM DDP does not contain the alarm notification definition but
imports the definition from NRA DDP:
> \- AlarmNotification
AlarmNotifcation inherits attributes from CommonEventInformation and
EventInformation defined in MTOSI FMW.
Another difference between 3GPP and MTOSI is the treatment of threshold
crossing notifications. 3GPP notify threshold crossings utilizing the generic
alarm notification that contains the threshold info in attributes. MTOSI has a
separate notification for this purpose: TCANotification defined in NRA.
## 4.5 Alarm content comparison
### 4.5.1 3GPP
3GPP Alarm IRP defines alarm content, alarm attributes, as follows (see 3GPP
TS 32.111-2 [5]):
> \- alarmId
>
> \- notificationId
>
> \- alarmRaisedTime
>
> \- alarmChangedTime
>
> \- alarmClearedTime
>
> \- eventType
>
> \- probableCause
>
> \- perceivedSeverity
>
> \- specificProblem
>
> \- backedUpStatus
>
> \- trendIndication
>
> \- thresholdInfo
>
> \- stateChangeDefinition
>
> \- monitoredAttributes
>
> \- proposedRepairActions
>
> \- additionalText
>
> \- additionalInformation
>
> \- ackTime
>
> \- ackUserId
>
> \- ackSystemId
>
> \- ackState
>
> \- commentTime
>
> \- commentText
>
> \- commentUserId
>
> \- commentSystemId
>
> \- correlatedNotifications
>
> \- source
>
> \- notificationIdSet
>
> \- clearUserId
>
> \- clearSystemId
>
> \- serviceUser
>
> \- serviceProvider
>
> \- securityAlarmDetector
### 4.5.2 TMF MTOSI
MTOSI NRA defines the content of Alarm Notification as follows [6]:
> \- acknowledgeIndication
>
> \- additionalText
>
> \- affectedPtpRefList
>
> \- aliasNameList
>
> \- isClearable
>
> \- isEdgePointRelated
>
> \- layerRate
>
> \- nativeProbableCause
>
> \- perceivedSeverity
>
> \- probableCause
>
> \- probableCauseQualifier
>
> \- rootCauseAlarmIndication
>
> \- serviceAffecting
>
> \- x733_AdditionalInformation
>
> \- x733_BackUpObject
>
> \- x733_BackedUpStatus
>
> \- x733_CorrelatedNotificationList
>
> \- x733_EventType
>
> \- x733_MonitoredAttributeList
>
> \- x733_ProposedRepairActionList
>
> \- x733_SpecificProblems
>
> \- x733_TrendIndication
And following attributes are inherited from CommonEventInformation and
EventInformation objects defined in FMW:
> \- additionalInfo
>
> \- notificationId
>
> \- sourceTime
>
> \- objectName
>
> \- objectType
>
> \- osTime
### 4.5.3 Comparison
#### 4.5.3.1 MTOSI alarm fields and 3GPP alarm fields comparison
The following table shows the MTOSI alarm fields and the equivalent field in
the 3GPP model which can be used to represent that data:
Table 4.5.3.1: Alarm Fields Comparison
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | [MTOSI | [Maps into | [Comments]{ | | | | Field]{ | the | .underline} | | | | .underline} | following | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | Field]{ | | | | | | .underline} | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | [Source | [MTOSI | [D | | | | s | Field]{ | efinition]{ | | | | tructutre]{ | .underline} | .underline} | | | | .underline} | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EventType | isEdg | TRUE if | n/a | Not mapped | | | ePointRelat | this event | | - See below | | | ed | this field | | | | | | is optional | | | | | | in this | | | | | | case. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | isClearab | Indicates | n/a | Not mapped | | | le | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Identifies | n/a | Not mapped | | | aliasNameLi | all the | | - See below | | | st | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | layerRa | The layer | Derived | | | | te | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ProbableCa | - | See 4.3 | | | probableCau | useEnumType | | | | | se | on the | | | | | | value. The | | | | | | schema | | | | | | processor | | | | | | preserves | | | | | | value\'s | | | | | | whitespace. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | ru | This | n/a | Not mapped | | | | boolean | | - See below | | | | parameter | | | | | | stands for | | | | | | Remote Unit | | | | | | (RU). It | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | location of | | | | | | the network | | | | | | resource | | | | | | the alarm | | | | | | probable | | | | | | cause is | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with. The | | | | | | default | | | | | | setting | | | | | | (false) is | | | | | | for an | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | detected | | | | | | with a | | | | | | local | | | | | | network | | | | | | resource. | | | | | | And, the | | | | | | value is | | | | | | \"true\" | | | | | | when the | | | | | | alarm is | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with a | | | | | | remote | | | | | | network | | | | | | resource. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | contra | This is a | n/a | Not mapped | | | | boolean | | - See below | | | | parameter | | | | | | used to | | | | | | distinguish | | | | | | the | | | | | | direction | | | | | | of the | | | | | | signal | | | | | | related | | | | | | alarm. The | | | | | | default | | | | | | setting | | | | | | (false) is | | | | | | for an | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | detected on | | | | | | the signal | | | | | | that is | | | | | | related to | | | | | | the sink | | | | | | atomic | | | | | | function. | | | | | | And, the | | | | | | value is | | | | | | \"true\" | | | | | | for an | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | detected on | | | | | | the signal | | | | | | that is | | | | | | related to | | | | | | the source | | | | | | atomic | | | | | | function. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | probableCau | This is | n/a | See 4.5 | | | seQualifier | used with | | | | | | other | | | | | | attributes; | | | | | | objectName, | | | | | | layerRate, | | | | | | and | | | | | | pr | | | | | | obableCause | | | | | | to uniquely | | | | | | identify an | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | is | | | | | | optional. | | | | | | Its form is | | | | | | u | | | | | | nqualified. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | native | Identifies | - | See 4.3 | | | ProbableCau | the | | | | | se | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | a | More | addit | | | | dditionalTe | information | ionalText | | | | xt | | | | | | which have | | | | | | not been | | | | | | cleared, | | | | | | and pertain | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | object as | | | | | | that to | | | | | | which this | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | (\"current | | | | | | alarm\") | | | | | | pertains. | | | | | | Value is | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | following: | | | | | | \"MORE | | | | | | _SEVERE\", | | | | | | \"NO | | | | | | _CHANGE\", | | | | | | \"LES | | | | | | S_SEVERE\" | | | | | | This field | | | | | | is | | | | | | optional. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | X733_Corr | Contains a | **cor | | | | elatedNotif | set of | relatedNoti | | | | icationList | N | fications** | | | | | otification | | | | | | identifiers | | | | | | and, if | | | | | | necessary, | | | | | | their | | | | | | associated | | | | | | object | | | | | | names. This | | | | | | set is | | | | | | defined to | | | | | | be the set | | | | | | of all | | | | | | no | | | | | | tifications | | | | | | to which | | | | | | this | | | | | | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | is | | | | | | considered | | | | | | to be | | | | | | correlated. | | | | | | This field | | | | | | is | | | | | | optional. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | X733_ | Defines one | * | | | | MonitoredAt | or more | _monitoredA | | | | tributeList | attributes | ttributes_ _| | | | | of the | | | | | | managed | | | | | | object and | | | | | | their | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | values at | | | | | | the time of | | | | | | the alarm. | | | | | | This field | | | | | | is | | | | | | optional. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | X733_Pr | Used if the |__p | | | | oposedRepai | cause is | roposedRepa | | | | rActionList | known and | irActions_ _| | | | | the system | | | | | | being | | | | | | managed can | | | | | | suggest one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | solutions | | | | | | (such as | | | | | | switch in | | | | | | standby | | | | | | equipment, | | | | | | retry, | | | | | | replace | | | | | | media). | | | | | | This field | | | | | | is | | | | | | optional. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | X733\ | Allows the |__a | | | | _Additional | inclusion | dditionalIn | | | | Information | of a set of | formation_ _| | | | | additional | | | | | | i | | | | | | nformation. | | | | | | (For | | | | | | consistency | | | | | | with X.733) | | | | | | This field | | | | | | is | | | | | | optional. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EventI | objectType | Identifies | Derived | | | nformationT | | the type of | from | | | ype | | type. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | objectName | Identifies | Derived | | | | | the name of | from | | | | | the object |__obj | | | | | associated | ectClass_ _, | | | | | with the |__objec | | | | | event. | tInstance_ _| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | osTime | The time at |__alarmR | | | | | which the | aisedTime_ _| | | | | event was | | | | | | reported by | | | | | | the OS | | | | | | (EMS). | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | comm | not | The |__notif | | | onEventInfo | ificationId | uniqueness | icationId_ _| | | rmationType | | and the | | | | | | sequence of | | | | | | the | | | | | | not | | | | | | ificationId | | | | | | are not | | | | | | guaranteed. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | sourceTime | The time at | n/a | Not mapped | | | | which the | | - See below | | | | event was | | | | | | reported by | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system (NE, | | | | | | EMS or OS). | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | vendo | Containment |__a | | | | rExtensions | for all | dditionalIn | | | | | vendor | formation_ * | | | | | extensions | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
[Unmappable fields:]{.underline}
From the analysis above the following MTOSI data is not directly mappable to
3GPP:
\- isEdgePointRelated, aliasNameList, serviceAffecting, affectedPtpRefList,
rootCauseAlarmIndication, sourceTime, ru and contra.
In order to maintain backward compatibility it is proposed to send these
fields as (name, value) pairs in additionalInformation. This will allow the
client to identify if and when the information is provided, but without
impacting the existing model.
Proposal: Add additional constants.
This requires additional constants to be added to AdditionalInformation of the
form:
_const string AI_MTOSI_ISEDGEPOINTRELATED = \"ai_mtosi_isedgepointrelated\";_
#### 4.5.3.2 Alarm Life Cycle
Alarms in MTOSI are considered \"active\" in the raised state and inactive in
the \"cleared\" state, independently of the alarm acknowledgement state --
therefore it does not fit into either of the two models in 3GPP TS 32.111-2
[5]). .
_Proposal: Allow a lifecycle model in 3GPP which meets the MTOSI behaviour_
#### 4.5.3.3 Probable Cause, Native Probable Cause and Specific Problems
MTOSI and 3GPP have different definitions of the probable cause and specific
problems field -- in addition, MTOSI uses a native probable cause field as
follows:
* * *
                        Probable Cause                  Native Probable Cause              Specific Problems
Definition in 3GPP X.733 probable cause n/a X733 specific problem Definition
in MTOSI MTOSI probable cause grouping Name of the alarm on the EMS GUI X733
specific problem
* * *
_**Proposal** : Specific Problem can be used for the Name of the alarm. There
does not seem to be any need to create another native probable cause field for
3GPP._
_However, any probable cause values defined in MTOSI that are not in the
probable cause list in 32.111-3 should be added. The table below shows the
proposed mapping for each MTOSI ProbableCause value:_
+--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | MTOSI | 3GPP TS 32.111-3 [10] | New / | | | | | | ProbableCauseEnumType value | ProbableCause Value | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | VENDOR_EXT | VENDOR_EXT = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | MINOR_EXT | MINOR_EXT = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | UNIDENTIFIED | INDETERMINATE = 0 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | AIS | ALARM_INDICATION_SIGNAL = 1 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | AMS | AMS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | ATPC_FAIL | ATPC_FAIL =n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | AU-AIS | AU_ALARM_INDICATION_SIGNAL = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | BER_SD | DEGRADED_SIGNAL = 3; | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | BER_SF | FAILED_SIGNAL = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | BLOCKED_FE | BLOCKED_FE=n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | CFG_ABORT | CFG_ABORT = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | CFG_ABORT_FE | CFG_ABORT_FE = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | DCC_FAILURE | DCC_FAILURE = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | DEMODULATION_FAIL | DEMODULATION_FAILURE = 20 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | EMS | EMS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | EMS_ALM_LOSS | EMS_ALM_LOSS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | EMS_LIFECYCLE_LOSS | EMS_LIFECYCLE_LOSS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | EMS_ALM_AND_LIFECYCLE_LOSS | EMS_ALM_AND_LIFECYCLE_LOSS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | EQPT | EQUIPMENT_MALFUNCTION = 315; | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | ENV | ENV = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | FF | FF = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | FOP_APS | FOP_APS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | INSUFF_LINKS | INSUFF_LINKS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | INSUFF_LINKS_FE | INSUFF_LINKS_FE= n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LCD | LCD = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LIF | LIF = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LOA | LOA = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LOC | LOC = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LODS | LODS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LOF | LOSS_OF_FRAME = 6 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LOM | LOSS_OF_MULTI_FRAME = 16 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LOP | LOSS_OF_POINTER = 7 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LOPC | LOPC = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LOS | LOSS_OF_SIGNAL = 8 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | LOTC | LOTC = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | MODULATION_FAIL | MODULATION_FAILURE = 19 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | MS-AIS | MS-AIS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | OS | OS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | OS_ALM_LOSS | OS_ALM_LOSS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | OS_LIFECYCLE_LOSS | OS_LIFECYCLE_LOSS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | OS_ALM_AND_LIFECYCLE_LOSS | OS_ALM_AND_LIFECYCLE_LOSS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | OSC-AIS | OSC-AIS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | OSC_BER_SF | OSC_BER_SF = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | OSC_FERF | OSC_FERF = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | OSC_LOF | OSC_LOF = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | OSC_LOS | OSC_LOS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | OSC_SD | OSC_SD = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | PLM | PAYLOAD_TYPE_MISMATCH = 9 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | RAI | RAI = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | RX_FAIL | RECEIVER_FAILURE = 61 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | RX_MIS_CONNECT | RX_MIS_CONNECT = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | RX_UNUSABLE_FE | RX_UNUSABLE_FE = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | SECURITY_VIOLATION | SECURITY_VIOLATION = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | SQL | SQL = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | SSF | SSF = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | STARTUP_FE | STARTUP_FE = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TCF | TCF = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TCFE | TCFE = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TCFI | TCFI = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TIM | PATH_TRACE_MISMATCH = 13 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TIMING_SYNCH | TIMING_SYNCH = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TSD | TSD = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TSF | TSF = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TU-AIS | TU-AIS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TX_DEGRADE | TX_DEGRADE = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TX_FAIL | TRANSMIT_FAILURE = 354 | Existing | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TX_MIS_CONNECT | TX_MIS_CONNECT = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | TX_UNUSABLE_FE | TX_UNUSABLE_FE = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | UAT | UAT = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | UNEQ | UNEQ = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | VC-AIS | VC-AIS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | VC-RDI | VC-RDI = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | VP-AIS | VP-AIS = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | VP-RDI | VP-RDI = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+ | XPIC_FAIL | XPIC_FAIL = n | New | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+----------+
#### 4.5.3.4 Alarm Filtering
This clause looks at the alarm filtering requirements for the following
operations:
> \- Get alarm counts,
>
> \- Retrieve alarms list
>
> \- Register for alarm notifications
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Filter | MTOSI | 3GPP | 3GPP | | | | Type | F | Eq | Support | | | | | iltering | uivalent | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | Alarm | Subsc | Alarm | | | | | counts | riptions | List | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | S | Source | S | S | S | S | | election | | upported | upported | upported | upported | | of | | via | -- | -- | -- | | platform | | f | assuming | assuming | assuming | | alarms | | iltering | the base | the base | the base | | or | | in the | object | object | object | | network | | object | can | can | can | | alarms | | name | r | r | r | | | | | epresent | epresent | epresent | | | | | the | the | the | | | | | \"ma | \"ma | \"ma | | | | | nagement | nagement | nagement | | | | | system\" | system\" | system\" | | | | | in the | in the | in the | | | | | NRM | NRM | NRM | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | S | Scope | Not | - | - | - | | election | | s | | | | | of NEs | | upported | | | | | to | | directly | | | | | filter | | by 3GPP. | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | Only a | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | client | | | | | | | can make | | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | | requests | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | S | Perce | S | S | S | S | | election | ivedSeve | upported | upported | upported | upported | | of alarm | rityList | via | -- the | | | | se | | f | data is | | | | verities | | iltering | returned | | | | | | on the | per | | | | | | severity | severity | | | | | | - | and the | | | | | | (sev=X) | client | | | | | | OR | can | | | | | | (sev=Y) | d | | | | | | | etermine | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | verities | | | | | | | to use | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | S | P | S | N/A | S | S | | election | robableC | upported | | upported | upported | | of | auseList | by | | | | | probable | | f | | | | | cause | | iltering | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | proba | | | | | | | bleCause | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | S | Ackno | S | S | S | S | | election | wledgeIn | upported | upported | upported | upported | | of | dication | by | | | | | acknowl | | f | | | | | edgement | | iltering | | | | | state | | on ack | | | | | | | state | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
(Filters From Table 3-1 in the RTM)
_Proposal: No changes required._
#### 4.5.3.5 Alarm Uniqueness
In 3GPP alarm uniqueness is handled by the alarm id -- in MTOSI alarm
uniqueness is handled by the combination of { layerRate, probableCause.
probableCauseQualifier, objectName }. In the generation of 3GPP messages it
will be required to map the data in these fields into a single alarmId.
_Proposal: It is assumed a mechanism can be provided to do this mapping (EMS
specific)._
#### 4.5.3.6 Handling of ADMC alarms
For 3GPP it is not clear how ADMC alarms (transient conditions) should be
reported -- the following options are available:
* * *
Option# Forwarded when the alarm is raised Sent in resync data Clearable from
the n/b system 1 Yes No No 2 Yes Yes No 3 Yes Yes Yes
* * *
Proposal: Option 3 . Add something in the alarm notification to indicate
whether the alarm is ADAC or ADMC.
Alternatively add this in the additional info field.
## 4.6 3GPP FM and TIP RAM BA comparison
This clause provides a comparison between existing 3GPP Fault Management
related specifications and TMF TIP Resource Alarm Management Business
Agreement. TIP RAM BA is the requirement specification for TIP alarm
management (common FM interface for previous MTOSI/MTNM and OSS/J FM
interfaces) and is currently in member evaluation phase. The information
agreement (IS in 3GPP) is currently in draft status and assumed to be released
during 2011. Since this study is about potential harmonization of 3GPP and TMF
Fault Management functions the inclusion of this comparison is necessary. For
complete TIP RAM BA, see [7]. The BA contains additional information than
included in this clause.
The comparison is done between the existing and stable 3GPP Alarm IRP and TMF
FM requirements (BA [7], currently work in progress). The goal is to define
the recommendations for updates of the Alarm IRP, which would satisfy TMF TIP
FM requirements and that would allow the 3GPP Alarm IRP specifications to be
the solution for TMF TIP FM.
### 4.6.1 Business Requirements
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_BR_0001 | **[Alarm Subscription]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall support | | | subscription to alarm reports based on | | | filtering conditions and the subsequent | | | reporting of alarms to subscribed OSSs. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. Notification IRP. | | | NtfSubscription. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | | | | | | From TMF point of view: | | | Relationship/dependency to TIP | | | Framework for notification services | | | | | | SA5: No change, use Notification IRP; | | | 3GPP intends to provide solution for | | | TMF requirements based on IRP Framework | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_BR_0002 | **[Alarm Synchronization]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall support | | | synchronization with respect to the | | | list of active alarms known to the | | | alarm generator OSS (the real | | | up-to-date list) and the alarm | | | subscribers, which might have an | | | out-of-date list. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. Alarm IRP. Notifications: | | | notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList and | | | notifyAlarmListRebuilt + getAlarmList | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
### 4.6.2 Category I: Static and Structural Requirements
#### 4.6.2.1 General
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0003 | **[Unambiguous Alarm ID]{.underline}** | | | | | | The alarm should have a unique and | | | unambiguous Alarm ID. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. AlarmId. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0004 | **[X.733 Alarm Attributes]{.underline}** | | | | | | **The Alarm must contain structured | | | information according to the X.733 | | | specification** | | | | | | The following attributes are needed: | | | | | | - Managed Object class | | | | | | - Managed Object instance | | | | | | - Event type | | | | | | - Event time | | | | | | - Probable Cause | | | | | | - Specific Problems | | | | | | - Perceived Severity | | | | | | - Threshold information | | | | | | - Notification identifier | | | | | | - Correlated Notifications | | | | | | - Proposed Repair Action | | | | | | - Additional Text | | | | | | - Additional Info | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0005 | **[\"Managed Object Instance\" Attribute | | | Information Structure]{.underline}** | | | | | | The information in the \"managed | | | object\" attribute of the Alarm must | | | allow a clear and unambiguous | | | identification of the component (HW or | | | SW), which is the originator of the | | | Alarm. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. objectClass + objectInstance. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0006 | **[Resource Name | | | Resolution]{.underline}** | | | | | | **The client OSS shall not be required | | | to access to an external inventory to be | | | understand the name and type of the | | | resource on which the alarm applies | | | (i.e. ManagedObject instance).** | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. objectClass + objectInstance. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0007 | **[Settable Severity]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Perceived Severity shall be settable | | | through the interface. | | | | | | (Additional note in BA: \"It can also be | | | set internally by the alarm owning | | | system\") | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Not compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | | | | | | The perceivedSeverity of an alarm record | | | is decided by the NE reporting the | | | alarm. This signals the NE\'s relative | | | (in)ability to function as planned. | | | Therefore changing this severity level | | | would result in loosing essential alarm | | | information. | | | | | | Note: TR 32.832 [11] is addressing a | | | solution for this item (see AC2). | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
#### 4.6.2.2 Correlation
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0008 | **[Alarm Correlation]{.underline}** | | | | | | An alarm can be correlated to one or | | | more underlying alarms. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | For 3GPP support refer to TR 32.832 | | | [11] | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | Refer to TR 32.832 [11] for details on | | | how 3GPP is addressing Alarm Correlation | | | and Root-cause Analysis. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0009 | **[Fault Symptom]{.underline}** | | | | | | A fault can have one or more symptoms. | | | Each symptom can be reported by an | | | alarm. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | For 3GPP support refer to TR 32.832 | | | [11] | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | Refer to TR 32.832 [11] for details on | | | how 3GPP is addressing Alarm Correlation | | | and Root-cause Analysis. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0010 | **[Contributory Alarms]{.underline}** | | | | | | A fault can have one or more | | | contributory alarms. These alarms are | | | generated as a consequence of the | | | problem. They are not sufficient by | | | themselves to identify a fault. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | For 3GPP support refer to TR 32.832 | | | [11] | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None. | | | | | | Refer to TR 32.832 [11] for details on | | | how 3GPP is addressing Alarm Correlation | | | and Root-cause Analysis. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0011 | **[Root Cause]{.underline}** | | | | | | A fault has typically one root cause, | | | which can be represented by an alarm. | | | | | | The Interface shall allow an alarm | | | generating OSS to indicate if an alarm | | | is a root cause alarm indication. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | For 3GPP support refer to TR 32.832 | | | [11] | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | Refer to TR 32.832 [11] for details on | | | how 3GPP is addressing Alarm Correlation | | | and Root-cause Analysis. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
#### 4.6.2.3 Tracking
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0012 | **[Tracking info for | | | action]{.underline}** | | | | | | When an action (ack, clear, comment...) | | | is done on an alarm, information | | | identifying the user doing the action, | | | the system from which the action is done | | | and the time of the action shall be | | | tracked and kept in the alarm. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. Maintained by IRPAgent and | | | information contained by | | | notifyAckStateChanged, | | | notifyClearedAlarm | | | | | | alarmRaisedTime, alarmClearedTime, | | | alarmChangedTime | | | | | | ackTime, ackUserId, ackSystemId | | | | | | clearUserId, clearSystemId | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0013 | **[Alarm Escalation]{.underline}** | | | | | | It shall be possible to escalate an | | | alarm and the alarm will track the | | | escalation. Several levels of escalation | | | are possible showing increasing levels | | | of escalation. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Supported from NE-perspective via | | | reporting of perceivedSeverity changes | | | (notifyChangedAlarm) | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | Refer to TR 32.832 [11] for details on | | | how 3GPP is addressing Alarm Correlation | | | and Root-cause Analysis. | | | | | | 3GPP considers this capability as | | | NM-layer feature. 3GPP may enhance | | | furture alarm interface capabilities to | | | support alarm escalation when | | | considering NM-layer alarm management | | | features. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0014 | **[Clear Status]{.underline}** | | | | | | The alarm shall include a Clear status | | | (uncleared, cleared). | | | | | | Clearance of the correlated (symptom or | | | contributory) alarms does not imply | | | clearance of the parent alarm. | | | | | | The time when the alarm was cleared | | | shall be available across the interface. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. States defined for both | | | acknowledgment and alarm clearing. | | | notifyClearedAlarm and | | | notifyChangedAlarm carries the info on | | | clear/unclear. Corresponding data: | | | | | | alarmClearedTime, clearUserId, | | | clearSystemId | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0015 | **[Ack Status]{.underline}** | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. States defined for both | | | acknowledgment and alarm clearing. | | | notifyAckStateChanged and | | | notifyChangedAlarm carries the info on | | | clear/unclear. Corresponding data: | | | | | | ackState, ackUserId, ackSystemId | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0016 | **[Comments]{.underline}** | | | | | | The alarm can include comments. | | | | | | Information identifying the user | | | entering the comment, the system from | | | which the comment is entered and the | | | time of the action shall be part of the | | | comment. | | | | | | []{.underline} | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. setCommentand getAlarmlist | | | provides this information, but | | | notifyComments does not provide the user | | | id. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
#### 4.6.2.4 Miscellaneous
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_I_0017 | **[Planned Outage]{.underline}** | | | | | | The alarm shall include a planned outage | | | indication. It indicates that the object | | | associated with an alarm is in planned | | | outage (in planned maintenance, or | | | out-of-service). This might also be used | | | when an equipment is being commissioned | | | to avoid the alarms propagating to other | | | FM systems. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | For 3GPP support refer to TR 32.832 | | | [11] | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | Refer to TR 32.832 [11] for details on | | | how 3GPP is addressing Alarm Correlation | | | and Root-cause Analysis (see section on | | | "Use of notification data"). | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
### 4.6.3 Category II: Normal Sequences, Dynamic Requirements
#### 4.6.3.1 Alarm Notification
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0018 | **[Sending/Receiving | | | Alarms]{.underline}** | | | | | | **It must be possible to send/notify | | | (Server) and receive/listen to (Client) | | | Alarms.** | | | | | | The alarm owning system will be the one | | | sending/notifying alarms, acting as a | | | server. | | | | | | The alarm receiving system will be the | | | one receiving/listening to alarms, | | | acting as client. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0019 | **[New Alarm | | | Notification]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall support the sending | | | of an Alarm Notification when an alarm | | | has been created or an alarm condition | | | has been detected. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. notifyNewAlarm | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0020 | **[Notification on Alarm | | | Change]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall support the sending | | | of Attribute Value Change notification | | | and/or State Change notifications when | | | an alarm has been updated. The | | | following modifications shall be | | | reportable: | | | | | | addition of comments | | | | | | acknowledgement or un-acknowledgement | | | of an alarm | | | | | | clearance of the alarm | | | | | | update of attributes | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. notifyAckStateChanged, | | | notifyClearedAlarm, notifyChangedAlarm, | | | notifyComments | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0021 | **[Clear Event Transport]{.underline}** | | | | | | **The interface shall support the | | | sending of Clear events as State Change | | | events.** | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. notifyClearedAlarm | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
#### 4.6.3.2 Alarm Handling
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0022 | **[Alarm Creation]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall allow one OSS to | | | create one or more alarm(s) on another | | | OSS. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Supported via AlarmIRP/notifyNewAlarm | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | Note: 3GPP solution addresses | | | interactions of management components | | | across Itf-N/Itf-P2P, but can alo be | | | applied to OSS/NM-layer internal | | | interactions. If additional | | | functionality is needed on NM-layer | | | interactions (supported by agreed use | | | cases and architectural definitions), | | | such interaction should be defined in a | | | separate interface specification. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0023 | **[Alarm Update]{.underline}** | | | | | | The interface shall allow one OSS to | | | update an alarm generated by another | | | OSS. This is possible for all settable | | | attributes. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Supported via | | | AlarmIRP/notifyChangedAlarm and | | | AlarmIRP/ | | | notifyClearedAlarm/notifyNewAlarm TBD, | | | needs more clarification | | | | | | Note that an alarm may only be updated | | | or cleared by the OSS that created the | | | alarm. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | Note: 3GPP solution addresses | | | interactions of management components | | | across Itf-N/Itf-P2P, but can alo be | | | applied to OSS/NM-layer internal | | | interactions. If additional | | | functionality is needed on NM-layer | | | interactions (supported by agreed use | | | cases and architectural definitions), | | | such interaction should be defined in a | | | separate interface specification. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0024 | **[Comment an Alarm]{.underline}** | | | | | | The interface shall allow an OSS to add | | | a comment to an alarm generated by | | | another OSS. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. setComments. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0025 | **[Change Alarm | | | Correlation]{.underline}** | | | | | | The interface shall allow an OSS to | | | request a change in the underlying | | | alarms on a parent alarm from another | | | OSS. This covers adding a new | | | correlation (symptom or contributory) | | | or removing one. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | For 3GPP support refer to TR 32.832 | | | 11] | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | Refer to TR 32.832 [11] for details | | | on how 3GPP is addressing Alarm | | | Correlation and Root-cause Analysis. | | | | | | Note: 3GPP solution addresses | | | interactions of management components | | | across Itf-N/Itf-P2P, but can alo be | | | applied to OSS/NM-layer internal | | | interactions. If additional | | | functionality is needed on NM-layer | | | interactions (supported by agreed use | | | cases and architectural definitions), | | | such interaction should be defined in a | | | separate interface specification. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0026 | **[Change Root Cause | | | Indication]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall allow an OSS to | | | request a change to the diagnosis of a | | | root cause in the alarm owning OSS. | | | | | | If accepted by the alarm owning system, | | | this is subsequently reported as an | | | Attribute Value Change event to other | | | OSSs that have subscribed to such | | | events. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | For 3GPP support refer to TR 32.832 | | | [11] | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | Refer to TR 32.832 [11] for details | | | on how 3GPP is addressing Alarm | | | Correlation and Root-cause Analysis. | | | | | | Note: 3GPP solution addresses | | | interactions of management components | | | across Itf-N/Itf-P2P, but can alo be | | | applied to OSS/NM-layer internal | | | interactions. If additional | | | functionality is needed on NM-layer | | | interactions (supported by agreed use | | | cases and architectural definitions), | | | such interaction should be defined in a | | | separate interface specification. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0027 | **[Clearing an Alarm]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall allow an OSS to | | | clear an alarm generated by another | | | OSS. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. clearAlarms | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0028 | **[UnClearing an Alarm]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall allow an OSS to | | | unclear an alarm generated by another | | | OSS. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Not Supported. | | | | | | Unclearing of alarms is likely to | | | conflict with automatic clearing of | | | alarms by the underlying systems. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None. | | | | | | Valid UC for unclear needs to be | | | identified since | | | | | | a) after an alarm is cleared, the | | | alarm is mostly likely removed and | | | unclear alarm does not make sense; | | | | | | b) when OSS-1 generates an alarm and | | | then generates a clear alarm, the | | | other OSS-2 issues unclear of this | | | alarm means OSS-1 keeps an active | | | alarm which is already cleared. | | | This is illogical. | | | | | | Note: if use of unclear is to preserve | | | the historical alarm history, then it | | | should be recognized that 3GPP has | | | Notification Log for that purpose. The | | | AlarmList is not intended for archiving | | | information. | | | | | | Note: 3GPP solution addresses | | | interactions of management components | | | across Itf-N -- 3GPP does not adress | | | OSS/NM-layer internal interactions. | | | Such interaction should be defined in a | | | separate interface specification. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0029 | **[Acknowledge an Alarm]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall allow an OSS to | | | acknowledge an alarm generated by | | | another OSS. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. acknowledgeAlarms | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0030 | **[UnAcknowledge an | | | Alarm]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall allow an OSS to | | | un-acknowledge an alarm generated by | | | another OSS. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. unacknowledgeAlarms | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0031 | **[Alarm State | | | Transition]{.underline}** | | | | | | An instance of an alarm entity must | | | follow the state transition diagram | | | (Note: diagram in TIP RAM BA) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant in principle. Differences may | | | result from acknowledgement | | | functionality. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | | | | | | Note: 3GPP has defined an alarm state | | | diagram in 32.111-2 [11]. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
#### 4.6.3.3 Alarm Administration
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0032 | **[Subscribe to Alarms]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall allow an OSS to | | | subscribe to the alarms generated by | | | other OSSs. This subscription includes | | | State Changes and Attribute Value | | | Changes that can be generated by the | | | alarm owning OSS. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. Notification IRP | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0033 | **[Filter Alarm | | | Subscription]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall allow an OSS to | | | apply a filter to its subscription for | | | alarms from another OSS. In particular, | | | alarms can be filtered based on any set | | | of alarm attributes. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. Notification IRP, subscribe, | | | filter | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0034 | **[Modify an Alarm | | | Filter]{.underline}** | | | | | | The interface shall allow an OSS to | | | modify a filter with regard to a | | | successful previous subscription for | | | alarms. | | | | | | It can include adding or removing a | | | filtering criteria. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. Notification IRP. | | | changeSubscriptionFilter | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0035 | **[Unsubscribe to Alarms]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall allow an OSS to | | | unsubscribe from the alarms generated | | | by another OSS. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. Unsubscribe | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
#### 4.6.3.4 Alarm Retrieval
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0036 | **[Retrieving all alarms]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall allow an OSS **to | | | request the alarm owning OSS to | | | retrieve all alarms (not cleared or not | | | acknowledged) present on the alarm | | | owning OSS. [ ]{.underline}** | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. getAlarmList. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0037 | **[Filtered Alarm | | | Retrieval]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Interface shall support requests to | | | retrieve alarms of an alarm owning OSS. | | | | | | The request shall be able to filter on | | | any set of alarm attributes. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. getAlarmList + filter | | | parameter | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_RAM_BA_II_0038 | **[Alarm Count]{.underline}** | | | | | | The interface shall support requests to | | | retrieve the count of alarms of an | | | alarm owning OSS. | | | | | | The request shall be able to filter on | | | any set of alarm attributes. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP support | Compliant. getAlarmCount | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Recommended 3GPP updates | None | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
# 5 Discussion of FM IF Standards Alignment Options
**[Full alignment]{.underline}**. In case of full alignment, the compared
sources become one. This is the ultimate target for the
harmonization/alignment work in general i.e. one FM specification that fulfils
all the requirements of compared sources. The full alignment, considering
equally both requirements, would anyhow lead to a completely new interface. A
new interface means a discontinuity point that leads to new implementation and
new integration work thus increasing unnecessary the cost. This shall be
avoided.
**[Partial alignment]{.underline}**. Content and functionality wise a partial
alignment can be done in many different ways e.g. both specifications would be
updated with the missing main requirements of the other source or the updates
are done per need/evaluation. The target is to have one FM interface that
fulfils the requirements of converged network fault management thus one
specification needs to be extended with the requirement set by the other
specification. And to keep the changes in minimum the updates (adding new or
changing existing items) needs to be done selectively and considering the base
specification.
The FM alignment should minimize the cost factor both for the vendors and the
operators. And provide a stable and technology independent FM interface
solution for the converged networks. The target shall be one FM interface for
converged networks. TIP FM interface work is ongoing currently will lead to a
new interface. Whereas 3GPP Alarm IRP is stable, and has been stable for years
already. The best way to do the FM alignment is to enhance the existing Alarm
IRP to capture the main requirements of TMF TIP FM and define Alarm IRP to be
the only FM interface for converged networks.
.
# 6 Recommendations for FM IF Standards Alignment
This clause identifies the recommended changes based on comparison in clause 4
and harmonization options in clause 5. The main input to the recommended
changes is the 3GPP FM and TIP RAM BA comparison in clause 4.6.
The recommendation is to change 3GPP Alarm IRP only. 3GPP Alarm IRP is a
mature and stable interface and can be extended to support converged network
fault management requirements with minor modifications.
This study identified two areas of enhancements for 3GPP alarm management
interface capabilities:
  * Improvement on alarm correlation and root cause analyzis
  * NM-layer alarm management interface capabilities
Improvement on alarm correlation and root cause analyzis:
  * Operator Top-10-Requirements [8] identified a deficiency in current Alarm management capabilities: alarm correlation and root cause analysis capabilities are missing. 3GPP has studied this topic and documented its analyzis and recommendation in TR 32.832 [11].
NM-layer alarm management interface capabilities:
  * 3GPP Alarm IRP is usable also on NM-layer interactions (as sufficiently generic and providing required functionality for transfer and management of alarm information)
  * 3GPP recommends that if additional functionality is needed on NM-layer interactions (supported by agreed use cases and architectural definitions), such interaction should be defined in a separate interface specification.
3GPP Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-x), with the recommendations listed above, will
satisfy all the converged network FM requirements. The target is to provide
only one FM solution without any competing solutions to eliminate silo
management solutions. The planned TMF TIP FM interface would mean a partially
duplicated FM interface as well as continuation of silo management. The
recommendation to TMF TIP is to accept 3GPP Alarm IRP as their FM interface
and not to develop a competing interface.
#