# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
A number of issues with version handling in the current set of SA5 OAM
specifications have recently been detected.\ It is therefore important to make
an inventory of the current situation, identify issues and recommend a
solution.
# 1 Scope
The scope of the study is to:
  * Document current version handling capabilities in SA5 OAM > specifications (clause 5)
  * Identify and agree on the use cases and requirements (clause 6) for > a coherent approach for version handling capabilities for SA5 OAM > specifications
  * Identify solution(s) with pros and cons to support the identified > requirements (clause 7). The solutions may require enhancement or > modification of rules in the IRP methodology as well as > enhancements of existing or addition of new IRP specifications, > utilizing SOA capabilities where appropriate. This includes:
  * The identification of entities that require version control (clause > 7.1)
  * The protocol(s) by which the entity version can be discovered and > registered (clause 7.2)
  * Recommend a solution (clause 8).
Note: \"Version handling\" in the context of this study addresses what kind of
support for version information that is available over the Itf-N interface,
i.e. what the IRPManager can \"see\" regarding which versions of the 3GPP
specifications that are supported by the IRPAgent, for which object instances
etc.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.362: \"Telecommunication management; Entry Point (EP)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)
[10] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.423 Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace data definition and
management
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Concepts and background
The majority of SA5 specifications today are specified as Integration
Reference Points (IRPs) following the concept and methodology outlined in the
32.15x-series specifications. There are three categories of IRP specifications
(see formal and more detailed definitions in clause 3.1 of 3GPP TS 32.150
[2]):
  * Interface IRPs
  * NRM IRPs
  * Data Definition IRPs
# 5 Current version handling capabilities
## 5.1 General
The version handling for Interface IRPs and NRM IRPs is managed with different
operations and parameters.\ Version handling for the Data Definition IRPs does
not exist.
However, there are a few specifications that are not IRPs and which do not
follow the same version handling concept. Some specifications do not have any
version handling support at all e.g.: Performance measurements, KPI and
Subscriber and Equipment Trace specifications.
Furthermore, the SOA architectural concept has been introduced in the 3GPP
Management Reference Model -- see clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS 32.101 [3]. There is a
need to consider if there are any additional needs for version handling
support with respect to SOA.
## 5.2 Interface IRPs
### 5.2.1 Generic IRP Management
3GPP TS 32.311 [x] (Generic IRP Management ): Generic parameter definition
\"**IRP document version number string** \" (a.k.a \"IRPVersion\").
3GPP TS 32.311 [x] and 3GPP TS 32.312 [x]: Generic version retrieval function
**GetIRPVersion().** This operation is inherited by all \"domain specific\"
Interface IRPs, such as Alarm IRP IS [x], and mapped to local specific
operation/method names in the respective Solution Sets. This operation is used
for the IRPManager to find out which **Interface** IRP SS versions that are
supported by an IRPAgent.
The definition of GetIRPVersion is as follows: **\"**_IRPManager wishes to
find out the IRP SS versions supported by an IRP. The IRP shall respond with a
set of supported IRP SS version(s). The list of returned IRP versions is such
that the IRPManager can use any of these versions without having to specify an
IRPVersion to the IRPAgent_.\".
The definition of the operation's output parameter (except the \"status\")
named versionNumberSet is: \"_It indicates one or more SS version numbers
(IRPVersion, as defined by \"IRP document version number string\" in clause
3.1) supported by the IRP.\"_
### 5.2.2 Entry Point IRP (EP IRP)
EP IRP in 3GPP TS 32.362 [4] has an operation named getIRPOutline. It takes as
input an IRPVersion parameter which specifies one or all supported
IRPVersions. As output is returned a supportedIRPList parameter.
getIRPOutline is defined as follows:
The IRPManager uses this operation to request the EPIRP to return the outline
information of the supported IRPs. IRPManager could set a filter constraint on
the returned information according to specific requirements.
The EPIRP shall return the outline information of all the IRPs, including
itself and other EPIRP instances that it knows, supported by the IRPAgent that
contains the EPIRP.
The EPIRP may additionally return the outline information of all the IRPs,
including EPIRP instances, supported by other IRPAgents.
## 5.3 NRM IRPs
### 5.3.1 Operations for NRM IRP versions
3GPP TS 32.662 (Kernel CM IRP): Operation **getNRMIRPVersion**. This operation
is used for the IRPManager to find out which **NRM** IRP SS versions that are
supported by an IRPAgent. However, it does not indicate which NRM versions
that are supported in each of the instantiated managed objects of the MIB.
The first and main part of the definition of getNRMIRPVersion reads as
follows:
\"When the IRPManager invokes getNRMIRPVersion to find out the Network
Resource IRP SS document versions (IRPVersions) supported by the IRPAgent, the
IRPAgent shall respond, via the versionNumberList output parameter, with a
list of supported Network Resource IRPversions.\ The rule for deriving the IRP
document version number string is defined in 3GPP TS 32.311 [20].\ An example
of this return value can contain two IRPVersions, where one indicates the 3GPP
Generic Network Resource IRPVersion (e.g. \"32.623 V4.2\" in case of CORBA
implementation) while the other indicates the 3GPP UTRAN Network Resource
IRPVersion (e.g. \"32.643 V4.1\" in case of CORBA implementation).
It is expected that vendors may provide vendor-specific extended capabilities
and features (VSE) that are based on a 3GPP published specification. It is
further expected that the vendor will publish these VSE in a document with an
unambiguous identification. \".
getNRMIRPVersion returns two parameters (except the \"status\"):
  * versionNumberList: \"It carries one or more SS version numbers supported by this IRP agent.\", and
  * vSEVersionNumberList: \"It carries one or more identifications of vendor published documents containing VSE NRMs specifications.\".
### 5.3.2 Generic NRM IRP
The two IOCs ManagedElement and ManagementNode contain the following
attribute: **swVersion**. It is defined as \"The software version of the
ManagementNode or ManagedElement (this is used for determining which version
of the vendor specific information is valid for the ManagementNode or
ManagedElement).\".
The IOC VsDataContainer contains the following attribute:
**vsDataFormatVersion**. It is defined as \"Name of the data format file,
including version.\".
## 5.4 Data Definition IRPs
### 5.4.1 State Management IRP
Version handling for the Data Definition IRPs does not exist (currently State
Management IRP is the only DD IRP).
## 5.5 Other management definitions
### 5.5.1 Performance measurements and KPIs
PM file format has version handling, consisting of
  * File format version
  * NE SW version
Measurement definitions do not have version handling.
KPIs are FFS.
### 5.5.2 Trace functions
The Trace file XML schema (see 32.423 [11] Annex A.1) file header contains a
version number.
### 5.5.3 SOA entities
FFS.
## 5.6 Release 9 features
This clause gives an overview of the current version handling capabilities by
listing the 3GPP Release 9 features/capabilities allowing IRPManager to
discover version information of certain managed entities, e.g. PM file format
version, IRPVersion of an YyyIRP, etc.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Features | Target entity to | References | | | which the IRPManager | | | | sends the discovery | | | | request | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Discover IRPVersions | An Interface YyyIRP | See getIRPVersion(), | | supported, | instance (e.g. | 6.3.1 of [5]. | | | AlarmIRP) | | | | | Note that all | | | | Interface YyyIRP | | | | inherits from | | | | ManagedGenericIRP, | | | | 5.3.1 of [5], that | | | | defines | | | | getIRPVersion(...). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Discover the outline | EPIRP | See | | information of the | | getIRPOut | | known (by the target | | line(iRPVersion...), | | entity) supported | | 6.3.1 of [4]. | | IRPs, including | | | | IRPVersion | | | | information. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Discover supported | KernelCMIRP | See | | IRPVersions and | | getNRMIRPVersion(), | | supported | | 7.3.1 of [6]). | | vendor-specific | | | | versions that are | | | | related to NRM IRP. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Discover SW version | BasicCMIRP, | See | | that is used for the | BulkCMIRP | getMoAttri | | specified IOCs. | | butes(swVersion...), | | | | 7.3.1 of [7]. | | | | | | | | Note that only | | | | ManagedElement IOC | | | | and ManagementNode | | | | IOC contains | | | | attribute | | | | swVersion(). | | | | | | | | See 6.1.3.3 and | | | | 6.1.3.5 of [9]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Discover version | BasicCMIRP, | See | | information related | BulkCMIRP | getMoAttributes(vsDa | | to vendor-specific | | taFormatVersion...), | | capabilities. | | 7.3.1 of [7]. | | | | | | | | Note this is | | | | applicable when the | | | | IOC name-contains a | | | | VsDataContainer. | | | | | | | | The VsDataContainer | | | | IOC has the | | | | attribute | | | | vsDa | | | | taFormatVersion**.** | | | | | | | | See 6.1.3.9 of | | | | [9]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Discover the File | FTIRP | Receive and process | | Format version of a | | the NotifyFileReady, | | particular file when | | 6.5.1 of [10]. | | file is created. | | | | | | It carries | | | | fileInfoList that | | | | contains the File | | | | Format information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Discover the File | FTIRP | See | | Format version of | | listAvailableFiles, | | files ready for | | 6.3.1 of [10]. | | retrieval. | | | | | | Its output parameter | | | | fileInfoList | | | | contains the File | | | | Format information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 5.7 Issues
The following issues and inconsistencies with version handling have been
identified in the current set of SA5 specifications.
Issue 1: Network Resource Model (NRM) object version handling
> In today's set of standard IRP specifications, there is support for an
> IRPManager to retrieve a list from the IRPAgent about which IRPVersion(s)
> (of the NRM IRP SSs) that the IRPAgent supports, one or more. But if the
> IRPAgent supports more than one IRPVersion, there is no standardised way to
> know which IRPVersion that a particular Managed Object (MO) instance belongs
> to. Thus, there is an information gap on Itf-N which needs to be filled.
Issue 2: Version handling of Interface IRPs versus NRM IRPs
> For IRPManager to obtain the IRPVersion(s) of an IRPAgent\'s supported
> Interface IRPs and supported NRM IRPs, IRPManager needs different
> operations. It might be beneficial for IRPManager to use
> identical/similar/same operation (to achieve some level of consistency) to
> obtain the two different kind of information.
Issue 3: Version handling of management information such as alarms,
measurements and trace data
> Currently there is no version handling defined in SA5 for management
> information such as alarms, measurements and trace data.
Issue 4: SOA support
> As SA5 have recently (Rel-9) introduced SOA (Service Oriented Architecture)
> for IRPs, SA5 should also study if and how the version handling can satisfy
> the needs of SOA, and how SOA may provide capabilities for a coherent
> version handling (e.g. registration & discovery).
# 6 Use cases and requirements
The objective of this clause is to Identify and agree on the use cases and
requirements for a coherent approach for version handling capabilities for SA5
OAM specifications.
## 6.1 Use cases
_Questions to ask & investigate: What 'things' need version control? What are
the UCs that can illustrate the reason why IRPManager needs to know the
versions of the 'things' in run-time?_
This section lists the potentially useful Use Cases for version information.
See Appendix A for their detail sequence diagrams.
  1. IRPManager requests a list of all supported interface IRPs and versions
  2. IRPManager requests the IRP reference (i.e. address of the Interface IRP such as AlarmIRP).
  3. IRPManager requests list of supported Interface IRP IRPVersions.
     * 3a Using the EPIRP
     * 3b Direct to Interface IRP (e.g. Alarm IRP)
  4. IRPManager requests a list of supported Interface IRP (e.g. AlarmIRP) operations\ (a. supported mandatory operations b. supported optional operations)
  5. IRPManager requests a list of supported Interface IRP (e.g. AlarmIRP) notifications (a. supported mandatory operations b. supported optional operations)
  6. IRPManager requests a list of supported Interface IRP (e.g. AlarmIRP) packages
  7. IRPManager requests a list of supported parameters for operations of Interface IRP (e.g. AlarmIRP)
  8. IRPManager requests a list of supported parameters for notifications of Interface IRP (e.g. AlarmIRP)
  9. IRPManager requests a list of all supported NRM IRP IRPVersions
  10. IRP Manager requests a list of all supported UTRAN NRM versions (special case of UC9)
  11. IRP Manager requests a list of all supported UTRAN NRM IOCs
  12. IRPManager requests a list of all supported UtranCell (UTRAN NRM) attributes (M/O)
  13. IRPManager requests a list with IRPVersion of each NRM object instance.
  14. IRPManager requests the IRPVersion of the supported PM file format, i.e. the XML file format definition and the ASN.1 file format definition.
  15. IRPManager request the IRPVersion of supported PM measurement types.
  16. Version handling of Trace related information: FFS
  17. Version handling of SOA related information: FFS
The following Table is a summary of the current TS support level of the above
UCs.
Legend: NS = Not Supported; NA = Not Applicable
Table 6.1-1: Summary of the current TS support level of above Use Cases
* * *
                                        EPIRP       Interface IRP (e.g. AlarmIRP)   KernelCMIRP           Bulk/Basic CM IRP
UC1 (IRP's & Versions) Supported NA NA NA UC2 (IRP Reference) Supported NA NA
NA UC3a (IRP Version) Supported NA NA NA UC3b (IRP Version) NA Supported NA NA
UC4 (supported operations) Supported Supported Supported Supported UC5
(supported notifications) Supported Supported Supported Supported UC6 (IRP
Packages) NA NA NA NA UC7 (parameters of an operation) Supported Supported
Supported Supported UC8 (parameters of a notification) Supported Supported
Supported Supported UC9 (NRM's and versions) NS NA Supported NA UC10 (one NRM
and versions) NS NA Partially Supported NA UC11 (NRM IOCs) NS NA NS NS UC12
(NRM object attributes) NS NA NS NS UC13 (NRM object instance versions) NS NA
NS NS UC14 (PM file format) NA NS NA NA UC15 (measurement types) NS NS NA NA
UC16 (Trace info) NA Supported (file version) NA NA UC17 (SOA info) FFS FFS
FFS FFS
* * *
## 6.2 Requirements
**1\. Identify one or more alternative solutions for all the non-supported Use
Cases in the above table, except the ones marked Non-practical.**
**2\. Identify one or more alternative solutions, if possible, to define a
common function (operation) for all the supported version handling
capabilities, with their pros and cons.**
# 7 Solution(s)
The objective of this clause is to identify solution(s) with pros and cons to
support the identified requirements. The solutions may require enhancement or
modification of rules in the IRP methodology as well as enhancements of
existing or addition of new IRP specifications, utilizing SOA capabilities
where appropriate.
## 7.1 Entities that require version control
Entities that require version control: **As defined in subclause 6.2.**
## **7.2** Solution **alternatives for currently non-supported Use Cases in
clause 6.1**
### 7.2.1 UC11 (NRM IOCs)
TBD
### 7.2.2 UC12 (NRM object attributes)
TBD
### 7.2.3 UC13 (NRM object instance version)
TBD
### 7.2.4 UC14 (PM file format)
TBD
### 7.2.5 UC15 (measurement types)
TBD
### 7.2.6 UC17 (SOA information)
TBD
## 7.3 Common function (operation) for all the supported version handling
capabilities
### 7.3.1 Pros and cons
Advantages with one common solution:
\- One common and consistent function, less error-prone and easy to use for
IRPManagers
Disadvantages with one common solution:
\- More redundancy; all parameters of the function are not relevant to all
requests.
\- Lots of initial work in standardisation as well as implementations to
redefine many existing capabilities
\- Not backward compatible.
### 7.3.2 Proposed solution
TBD
## 7.4 Protocol(s)
TBD
# 8 Recommendations
It is recommended to choose the following solution: ...
###### ### Annex A: Use Case Sequence Diagrams
This annex contains Sequence Diagrams for the Use Cases of clause 6.1.
  * IRPManager contacts EPIRP using the getIRPOutline operation.
  * EPRIP responds with the supportedIRPList that contains the list of all IRPs and versions. The management scope of each is optionally available in the response.
> The current system supports the discovery of the IRPVersions.
>
> The IRPManager contacts the EPIRP using the getIRPReference request.
>
> The EPIRP responds with the iRPReference.
  * IRPManager contacts EPIRP with the getIRPOutline with an input parameter (Alarm IRP Version)
  * EPIRP responds with the --systemDN and iRPList, rDN and iRPVersion
> The getIRReference is used to list one instance of the Alarm IRP. The
> IRPManager must first obtain the complete list to find one instance.
>
> Dependency: Requires use case #1.
  * IRPManager directly contacts Alarm IRP with the getIRPOutline with an input parameter (Alarm IRP Version)
  * EPIRP responds with the --systemDN and iRPList, rDN and iRPVersion
> The getIRReference is used to list one instance of the Alarm IRP. The
> IRPManager must first obtain the complete list to find one instance.
>
> Dependency: Requires use case #1.
  * Prerequisite steps: Use case 2 completed.
  * IRPManager contacts the Alarm IRP using the getOperationProfile request.
  * Alarm IRP responds with the operationNameProfile containing all supported operations.
    * The Alarm IRP only responds with **supported operations,** no indication is given if the operation is mandatory or optional.
```{=html}
``` \- Prerequisite steps: Use case 2 completed.
  * IRPManager contacts the Alarm IRP using the getNotificationProfile request.
  * The Alarm IRP responds with the notificationNameProfile containing the list of supported notifications. No indication is given if the notification is mandatory or optional.
```{=html}
``` \- Prerequisite steps: Use case 2 completed.
  * No further steps possible, there is no method to list specific package content.
  * The ability to retrieve information at the package level is not supported.,
    * Prerequisite steps: Use case 2 completed.
    * IRPManager contacts Alarm IRP with getOperationProfile request
    * The Alarm IRP responds with the operationNameProfile and operationParameterProfile. the Parameter profile contains the supported list of IRP paramters for all, not just the \"getAlarm\".
    * There is no way to discover the supported output parameters.
**USE CASE 8**
> IRPManager requests a list of supported parameters for notifications of
> Interface IRP (e.g. AlarmIRP).
  * Similar to use case 6 with notification parameters deducted from the returned list
    * With the exception: getNorificationProfile as the request and list of single NotificationProfiles in the response.
```{=html}
``` \- Prerequisits: Use case 2-1 completed.
  * IRPManager contacts EPIRP with getIRPReference request, the managerID and systemDN with a setting \"KernelCMIRP\" and rDn are passed.
  * EPRIP returns the iRPReference
  * IRPManager uses the reference (the Kernel CM IRP) to call the Kernel CM IRP with the request getNRMIRPVersion
  * The Kernel CM IRP responds with the versionNumberList.
```{=html}
``` \- As use case 8 sequence.
  * Note: It is not possible to specify \"UTRAN\"- The complete list of versions is returned, the IRPManager must therefore search the list / discover the versions specific to \"UTRAN\"
```{=html}
``` \- There is no operation by which the IRPManager can obtain the UTRAN NRM
Objects.
  * Note: The IRPManager is able to retrieve UTRAN NRM instance information using the [BasicCM getContainment operation. The response may not contain all the supported objects.]{.underline}
```{=html}
``` \- The attributes are supported when a name,value pair is returned,
otherwise not supported.
  * No explicit operation defined in basic/kernel/bulk CM.
```{=html}
``` \- This use case is achived by the getContainment operation.
  * Alternatively the upload can be used.
    * Not supported.
#