# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
[Editors Note] TBD.
# 1 Scope
[Editors Note] TBD.
The present document ...
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.712: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Transport Network (TN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.742: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Signalling Transport Network (STN) interface Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.762: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.752: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[9] ITU-T X.680 OSI networking and system aspects -- Abstract Syntax Notation
One (ASN.1)
[10] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[11] ATM Forum, Technical Committee, Network Management, M4 Network View CMIP
MIB Specification: CMIP Specification for the M4 Interface, Sep, 1995
[12] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[13] ITU-T Y.2091: "Terms and definitions for Next Generation Networks"
[14] S5vTMFa081 FMC federated network model (FNM) v1.1
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
_eNodeB LTE equivalent to the BTS_
_Fixnet Fixed network_
_NodeB UMTS equivalent to the BTS_
In ITU-T, a definition is provided for Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) which
applies in general to references to FMC in this specification.
> **fixed mobile convergence [** ITU-T Q.1762]: In a given network
> configuration, the capabilities that provide services and application to the
> end-user regardless of the fixed or mobile access technologies being used
> and independent of the user\'s location. In the NGN environment, it means
> providing NGN services to end-users regardless of the fixed or mobile access
> technologies being used (Rec. Y.2091)
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
_None_
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAA Authentication, Authorization and Accounting
AN Access Network
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
BNG Broadband Network Gateway
BRAS Broadband Remote Access Server (synonym BNG)
BSC Base Station Controller
BTS Base Transceiver Station
DNS Directory Name Service
DSL Digital Subscriber Line
DSLAM Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer
DWDM Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing
Eth Ethernet
FMC Fixed-Mobile Convergence
FN Fixed Network
FNO Fixed Network Operator
GE Gigabit Ethernet
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
HLR Home Location Register
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
LTE Long Term Evolution
MME Mobile Management Entity
MPLS Multiprotocol Label Switching
MWR Microwave Radio
NM Network Management
P-GW PDN Gateway
PDH Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy
PON Passive Optical Network
RG Residential Gateway
RNC Radio Network Controller
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SeGW Security Gateway
S-GW Serving Gateway
SHD Synchronous Digital Hierarchy
TP Terminating Point
UC Use Case
WDM Wavelength Division Multiplexing
# 4 Definition of the Problem Space
[Editors Note] Describe here what is meant with Management Convergence. What
are the different areas to be looked at? Follow a use case driven approach.
_Services offered to end users use resources from networks of multiple
technologies typically operated by more that just one type of network service
operator. Management of these services and these networks face several
challenges._
_One of the challenges is that the management standards for these technologies
are defined at different standardization fora and alike. Another challenge is
that different parts of the network are also managed by separate management
systems that do not communicate with each others and are usually also operated
by different type of network service providers._
_The figures below try to present a holistic view towards fixed and mobile
networks. The figures are informative and do not try to describe the whole
complexity of the fixed and mobile networks. Also different roles such as
fixed access provider, internet service provider, mobile network operator,
transport provider are not considered._
_Instead the perspective is topology- and site oriented. The figures show
the:_
  * _most usual sites with typical interconnections_
  * _typical functions/products within the sites_
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.6479166666666667in"}
Figure 4.1: FMC Problem Space: Typical cites and interconnections in fixed and
mobile networks
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="3.875in"}
Figure 4.2: Detailed FMC Problem Space: Typical functions and products in
fixed and mobile networks
_It should be noted that sites and functions are not all mandatory but may
vary due to specific implementations and operator demands._
_In contrast to many segmented and abstract/functional network presentations,
this blueprint intends to help understanding networks and business close to
real life._
_Consequently it might be useful as a basis for further end-to-end activities,
improvements and decisions._
# 5 Fixed-Mobile Convergence (FMC) Use Cases
[Editors Note] Identify here operational problems for which automated or semi-
automated solutions can be provided.
## 5.1 Use Cases for common Radio and Transport Management
[Editors Note] Identify operational problems that can be solved and automated
by a combined/common management of the radio and transport network
### 5.1.1 Example Deployment Scenario
The Figure 5.1.1.1 below shows a simplified example for a typical deployment
scenario in today\'s networks. It depicts network elements of the radio
network controlled by the mobile network operator's (MNO) Element/Domain
Managers (EM/DM) and network elements of the transport network controlled by
the transport network operator's (TNO) EM/DM.
The MNO and the TNO may or may not be the same operator and there also may or
may not be a common network management (NM) layer on top of the radio network
and the transport network specific EMs/DMs.
The use cases in the following sections are based on this deployment scenario.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="2.452777777777778in"}
Figure 5.1.1.1: Example deployment scenario for common radio and transport
network use cases.
### 5.1.2 FM UC with alarm from underlying transport network
  * Scenario
> Radio network is operated by a Mobile Network Operator (MNO) and transport
> network by a Transport Network Operator (TNO). The MNO does not have control
> over the transport network. In a radio network alarm condition it is useful
> to know if there is an alarm condition also in the underlying transport
> network.
  * Network Context
> The MNO manages transceiver type and controller type Network Elements (NE)
> of the radio network.
>
> The TNO manages the wireline mobile backhaul between the transceiver and the
> controller type NEs of the radio network.
>
> Transport network has edge nodes both at the transceiver and controller
> sides of the transport network. Edge node is assumed to be a
> gateway/interface node between the radio and the transport networks.
  * Description
> The MNO detects alarms at a transceiver type NE and at a controller type NE.
> The MNO starts to identify the root cause for the problem. The potential
> problem may be in the radio network but alarms from the transceiver and the
> controller type of NEs rather indicate a possibility of a problem of mobile
> backhaul (transport network). The related transport network alarms would be
> needed for end to end investigation of the potential problem.
  * Implications
> In order to solve the root cause for the radio network problem efficiently:
  * The MNO needs to get information on the alarms in the underlying > transport network.
  * The MNO needs to be able to correlate the transport network alarms > with the corresponding radio network alarms.
### 5.1.3 CM UC addition of new radio network resources
  * Scenario
> Radio network is operated by a Mobile Network Operator (MNO) and transport
> network by a Transport Network Operator (TNO). The MNO does not have control
> over the transport network. When new radio network resources are added
> configuration information needs to be transferred between the MNO and the
> TNO.
  * Network Context
> The MNO manages transceiver type (e.g. NodeB) and controller type (e.g. RNC)
> Network Elements (NE) of the radio network.
>
> The TNO manages the wireline mobile backhaul between the transceiver and the
> controller type NEs of the radio network.
>
> Transport network has edge nodes both at the transceiver and controller
> sides of the transport network. Edge node is assumed to be a
> gateway/interface node between the radio and the transport networks.
  * Description
> The MNO is managing a radio network with e.g. 80 transceiver type NEs and a
> required number of controller type NEs. The MNO wants to add 4 new
> transceiver type NEs using the same transport network.
  * Implications
> In this scenario it is assumed that the radio network of the MNO is already
> using the transport network of the TNO for service offering.
>
> In order to add new radio network resources using the transport network:
  * The MNO and the TNO need to agree on a service level agreement (SLA) > for the new radio resources.
  * When the new radio resources are available the MNO needs to provide > the TNO with required information for configuration purposes.
  * The TNO needs to configure the transport network to satisfy the > requirements set by the MNO.
### 5.1.4 PM UC supporting PM data correlation from radio and transport
networks
  * Scenario
> Radio network is operated by a Mobile Network Operator (MNO) and transport
> network by a Transport Network Operator (TNO). The MNO does not have control
> over the transport network. MNO uses PM counters to analyse offered service
> level and the network status.
  * Network Context
> The MNO manages transceiver type and controller type Network Elements (NE)
> of the radio network.
>
> The TNO manages the wireline mobile backhaul between the transceiver and the
> controller type NEs of the radio network.
>
> Transport network has edge nodes both at the transceiver and controller
> sides of the transport network. Edge node is assumed to be a
> gateway/interface node between the radio and the transport networks.
  * Description
> MNO collects and analyses PM information from radio network. MNO sees a
> degrading trend of service level or an increasing trend of error level. The
> potential problem may be in the radio network but measurements from the
> transceiver and the controller type of NEs rather indicate a problem of
> mobile backhaul (transport network). The transport network PM would be
> needed for end to end investigation of the potential problem.
  * Implications
> In order to have a good end to end view and supporting efficient decision
> making in radio network:
  * MNO needs to get PM information from the transport network either regularly or per request.
### 5.1.5 UC common Management of Radio and underlying Transport Networks
  * Scenario
> Mobile network may use transport network (e.g. IP transport network etc.) to
> provide the transport function. For the converged network management which
> focuses on managing the mobile network should have a unified interface, to
> manage the mobile network and its supporting transport network.
  * Network Context
> The mobile network and its supporting transport network.
  * Implications
    * The relation between mobile managed resource and transport managed resource needs to be known by the IRPManager.
  * Description
> The FMC management for common radio and transport management include that:
  1. Monitoring and managing the alarms information of converged network which includes mobile network and its supporting transport network.
  2. Monitoring and managing the performance information of converged network which includes mobile network and its supporting transport network.
  3. Monitoring and managing the configuration information of converged network which includes mobile network and its supporting transport network.
Figure 5.1.1.1: Converged network management
### 5.1.6 UC Ethernet VLAN provisioning
  * Scenario
> Operator, as a result of a planning exercise, realizes that additional
> infrastructure capacity is required to support service growth (e.g. to
> support new X2 links). The capacity, in the form of an Ethernet VLAN needs
> to be created and activated across a mix of wireline NEs and wireless NEs.
> The Ethernet VLAN is initially simply point to point.
  * Network Context
> The Ethernet VLAN terminates in a wireless equipment and traverses several
> wireline equipments to terminate at wireline NE.
  * Implications
> It would appear that at a minimum:
  * The relation between wireless NE and wireline NE needs to be known to the IRPManager.
  * Some configuration parameters need to be sent to the wireless NE.
```{=html}
``` \- Description
> As a result of the activation the IRPManager should be able to discover the
> Ethernet VLAN and its path related to the supported X2 link (as in our
> example). See more in 4.6.3.
### 5.1.7 UC Alarm monitoring
  * Scenario
> Operator needs to know if an alarmed radio resource, e.g. End Point
> instance, is related to or not related to any alarmed wireline resources.
  * Network Context
> The wireline circuit, terminating at both ends in wireless NEs, traverses
> several wireline NEs.
  * Implications
> It would appear that at a minimum:
  * Operator needs to know (e.g. the identifier of) the wireline network edge node resource (e.g. circuit identifier) that is related to the alarmed radio resource.
```{=html}
``` \- Description
> Knowing the wireline network edge node resource identifier, operator can
> discover the identifiers of all wireline resources supporting the alarmed
> wireless resources. Knowing their identifiers, operator can know if the
> identified wireline resources are in alarmed condition and if so, determine
> if the alarm condition is causing the alarm condition of the wireless
> resource.
## 5.2 Use Cases for Converged Networks Management
[Editors Note] Describe here examples of converged networks like the ones
specified by BBF and TISPAN. Based on this understanding identify operational
problems and scenarios (aspects of mobile/core backhaul are addressed by 5.1).
### UC Femto Access Management
> Note: This is one possible use case scenario for femto access management.
> There are other possible scenarios as well.
  * Scenario
> An operator operating both mobile and fixed networks offers for its
> customers a service where the end user can take at home into use a femto
> access point (Home Node B) to achieve better service quality over mobile
> networks.
>
> The femto access point is attached to an ADSL connection and connects to the
> operator's mobile core via fixed network.
>
> The figure below illustrates the use case with a service flow example
> showing network elements and functions relevant for the scenario. This use
> case is derived from the Detailed FMC Problem Space (Figure x.x) but the
> network elements are limited here to the minimum relevant for the femto use
> case. There could be e.g. more network elements in between AN and BNG/BRAS
> (e.g. aggregation stages). Note that depending from the deployment the
> service flow could look different and also the network elements involved
> could be different.
>
> {width="6.692361111111111in" height="3.9722222222222223in"}
Figure 5.2.1.1: Femto use case service flow with relevant network elements
  * Network context
> When managing the femto access service the operator needs to ensure that the
> network elements belonging to both mobile and fixed networks are able to
> provide the necessary service quality and resources.
>
> The most relevant network elements from management point of view specific
> for this scenario are:
  * At home premises
    * a femto access point (Home Node B) typically managed by mobile network management systems
    * a Residential Gateway (RG) typically managed by fixed network management systems
  * At local office
    * a Access Network node (AN) typically managed by fixed network management systems
  * At the central office
    * a Broadband Network Gateway (BNG), typically managed by fixed network management systems
  * At mobile control cite
    * a Femto Gateway (Home Node B Gateway), typically managed by the mobile network management systems
> Here it is assumed that the underlying network infrastructure has been
> already configured so that the service offering can take place.
>
> Not all the relevant network elements are considered in this use case, e.g.
> the IP-Core switch as well as several other network elements at the mobile
> control and the mobile core site.
  * Implications
> The relation between the abovementioned network elements in mobile and fixed
> networks need to be know to the operator's management systems.
  * Description
> From management point of view the operator needs to monitor these relevant
> network elements and also needs to be able to e.g. correlate any alarms
> between them.
## 5.3 Use Cases for Customer Facing Services Management
[Editors Note] Describe here examples of customer facing services
# 6 Potential Relationships to other SDO's and Industry Fora
[Editors Note] Identify here potentially applicable definitions of other SDO's
and Industry Fora for possible reuse by 3GPP to enable Management Convergence
(e.g. models/specifications already available and related to the FMC use cases
listed in section 5; potential SDO's/Industry Fora: ITU-T, MEF, IETF, BBF,
TMF).
# 7 Evaluation of Management Convergence Options
[Editors Note] Identify and evaluate here potential Management Convergence
Options (e.g. identify applicable external models and how to interact with
such; identify additions to 3GPP specifications if no external methods exist).
Reference [14] defines the overall architecture of a Federated Network Model
(FNM). It identifies the major components (called models) and their relations
among them. Refer to Annex C for ease of reference.
Section 7.1 describes the types of relation (called facilities) that can be
used in R0, R1, R2, R3, R4, etc.
Section 7.2 illustrates usage of these facilities in R0, R1, R2, etc.
The author of a particular model (e.g. author of the "3GPP wireless NW
concrete model"), when relating its classes with classes of other models, need
not use all facilities identified in Section 7.1
However, the author must, when relating its classes with classes of other
models, use the facilities identified in Section 7.1.
## 7.1 Facilities
The facilities identified here are used for stage 2 (e.g. IS) platform-
independent-model level usage. They are not used in stage 3 (e.g. SS)
platform-specific-model level usage.
### 7.1.1 Import facility
This facility allows a model, e.g. the "3GPP wireless NW concrete model" such
as EUTRAN NRM IRP IS to use a network resource modelled class defined
elsewhere, e.g. in Umbrella model or other concrete model. There are three
such usage cases.
#### 7.1.1.1 Case 1 usage (case-reference)
This facility allows a class defined in one model to refer (point to) class
defined in another model.
Suppose model-A has class-A1; model-X has class-X1 and class-A1 needs to point
to class-X1.
Do:
  * In Model-A IS, imports model-X::class-X1.
  * In Model-A IS, Class-A1 has an attribute that contains the Distinguished Name of model-X::class-X1.
  * In Model-A SS, not to define any definition of model-X::class-X1.
#### 7.1.1.2 Case 2 usage (case-derivative)
This facility allows a class defined in one model to derive itself from a
class defined in another model.
Suppose model-A has class-A4; model-X has class-X1 and class-A4 needs to be a
derivative of class-X1.
Do:
  * In Model-A IS, imports model-X::class-X1.
  * In Model-A IS, Class-A4 inherits from the imported class.
  * In Model-A SS, the authors decide, on case by case basis, if its SS should define its imported class (i.e. ignoring the fact that the imported class SS exists somewhere else) or not.
    1. #### Case 3 usage (case-containment)
This facility allows a class defined in one model to contain (or to be name-
contained by) a class defined in another model.
Suppose model-A has class-A4; model-X has class-X1 and class-A4 needs to name-
contain (or to be name-contained by) class‑X1.
Do:
  * In Model-A IS, imports model-X::class-X1.
  * In Model-A IS, class-A4 name-contains (or to be name-contained by) the imported class.
  * In Model-A SS, the authors decide, on case by case basis, if its SS should define a definition of the imported class (i.e. ignoring the fact that the imported class SS exists somewhere else) or not.
## 7.2 Option 1
### 7.2.1 Use ATM transport network case to illustrate the design pattern
#### 7.2.1.1 Define generic TP (terminating point) and specific TP IOCs in [2]
Replace the "Figure 4.2.1.1: Transport Network NRM Containment/Naming and
Association diagram" in [2] with the one below (cardinality not shown):
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="3.3895833333333334in"}
Figure 7.1.1.1.1: Transport Network NRM Containment/Naming and Association
diagram
The GenericCTP (generic channel termination point) and GenericPTP (generic
path termination point) are potential IOCs that can/should be aligned with TMF
SID based TerminationPoint class (which is based on ITU-T M3100).
The R1 represents a multiplexing relationship (as defined today), i.e.
multiple CTPs are multiplexed onto one PTP.
The R2, R3 represent a different type (not same type as R1) of relations that
are not yet defined by Release 10 of [2]. When two CTPs are related, it means
that the information (e.g. bits) coming out of one CTP is received by the
related CTP (and vise versa).
So, if RNCFunction has (via a TransportNetworkInterface) an
ATMChannelTerminationPoint-A which is related to another
ATMChannelTerminatedPoint-X, most probably the latter is not that of
NodeBFunction. The latter can be an ATMChannelTerminationPoint of an element
(e.g. ATM switch) of the ATMNetwork (see Annex A of [2].)
Today, a MIB can contain IOC instances of names using ExternXyz or Xyz. All
the instances whose names using Xyz are within the management scope of the
IRPAgent maintaining the MIB. The ExternXyz instances are representation of
entities that are outside the management scope of the subject IRPAgent.
For the FMC work, we would extend the capability (or semantics) of ExternXyz
to represent entities that are modelled (or defined) by another SDOs
specification and whose definition is recommended for use by 3GPP to support
FMC network management.
We suggest the following attributes that are essential for this ExternXyz
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Attribute name | Read Qualifier | Write | Comments | | | | Qualifier | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | id | M | M | DN of the IOC | | | | | instance | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ex | M | M | Identification | | ternalEntityId | | | of the entity | | | | | represented by | | | | | ExternalXyz. | | | | | The | | | | | identification | | | | | is primarily | | | | | useful for the | | | | | external | | | | | domain manager | | | | | managing that | | | | | external | | | | | entity. If the | | | | | external | | | | | domain manager | | | | | is IRP | | | | | compliant, | | | | | then this | | | | | attribute | | | | | carries a DN. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | modelS | M | M | If the | | pecificationId | | | external DM is | | | | | IRP compliant, | | | | | this carries | | | | | an IRPVersion. | | | | | | | | | | If it is not, | | | | | then it is a | | | | | string whose | | | | | precise syntax | | | | | is TBD (we | | | | | have to first | | | | | identify the | | | | | SDO involved | | | | | and understand | | | | | its way of | | | | | nami | | | | | ng/identifying | | | | | model | | | | | sp | | | | | ecifications.) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 7.2.1.2 Associate specific link with specific TP in specific NRM IRPs
Add the ATMChannelTerminationPoint IOC in Figure 6.2.1.4 of [3]. Make an
association between it and IubLink as in Figure 7.1.1.2.1.
{width="5.676388888888889in" height="0.8333333333333334in"}
Figure 7.1.1.2.1: Association between ATMChannelTerminationPoint and IubLink
### 7.2.2 Apply the design pattern (discussed in 7.1.1) for S1-MME reference
point
This section is an illustration on using the design pattern (discussed in
7.1.1) for links used in Reference Point S1‑MME.
Add the XyzChannelTerminationPoint IOC in Figure 6.2.1.3 of [5]. Make an
association between it and Link‑ENB_MME as follows.
Note that the name XyzCTP used here is simply a place-holder-name for now.
This IOC is either defined by SA5 in [2] or will be defined by an SDO (yet to
be identified) and recommended for use in [2]. This exact name of this IOC
will be decided later.
{width="4.939583333333333in" height="4.093055555555556in"}
Figure 7.1.2.1: Extended EPC NRM Containment/Naming and Association_2
## 7.3 Option 2
#### 7.3.1 Context
The following is a description of the context under which such pattern use is
appropriate:
  * IRPAgent-A has a management scope (responsibility) over mobile and transport network resources. The mobile network resource model is developed and maintained by 3GPP/SA5 while the transport network resource model is developed and maintained by another organization.
The approach is to use SubNetwork IOC to name-contain the transport network
resource model. Using a hypothetical ATM transport network resource as an
example, the ATM transport network resource model would take the place of the
\>Any (of [13]). See Appendix A for ease of reference.
#### 7.3.2 Procedure
To illustrate the use of this pattern we use a hypothetical case when UTRAN
link resources [10] are supported by ATM transport services, defined by the
ATM model [11] (see Appendix B), originally designed in ATM Forum but now
maintained by BBF.
1) Create a new TS and in this hypothetical case, the ATM NRM IRP.
2) In the new TS, make Import statements to import all relevant Managed Object
Class (see Note) definitions and their corresponding Name Bindings found in
[11], in particular, those of vcLayerNetworkDomain and vpLayerNetworkDomain.\
\ Note 1: The term Managed Object Class in [11] encompasses the meaning of the
two terms used in IRP Framework, namely Managed Object Class and Information
Object Class.
3) In the new TS, declare (e.g. draw in the Class Diagram)
vcLayerNetworkDomain and vpLayerNetworkDomain classes to be name-contained by
SubNetwork IOC.
4) Make sure the ATMChannelTerminationPoint IOC of [10] has all the attributes
of atmNetworkCTP MANAGED OBJECT CLASS of [11].\ \ Note 2: The
ATMCHannelTerminationPoint IOC does not exist in current version of [10]. It
will be present in future version when Option 1 (described in section 4.1 and
4.2 of [4] is implemented in [10].
# 8 Management Convergence Recommendations
[Editors Note] Identify and evaluate here potential Management Convergence
Options (e.g. identify applicable external models and how to interact with
such; identify additions to 3GPP specifications if no external methods exist).
###### ### Annex A: Name-Containment Class diagram from TS 32.622 [12]
Here is a class diagram extracted from [12].
{width="5.495138888888889in" height="6.647222222222222in"}
###### ### Annex B: Containment Diagram from M4 Network View CMIP MIB
Specification
The following is the Containment Diagram from [11].
{width="6.6875in" height="5.175694444444445in"}
###### ### Annex C: Brief description of FNM
This Annex contains extracts from section 6 of [14] that briefly highlights
the FNM architecture related to models for FNM NM management.
"\ 6 Elements of the FNM
This section describes the two key elements of FNM in terms of fragment
relations (6.1) and production of model definitions specifications (6.2).
**[FNM]{.underline}** is a Federation of Models for the purpose of End-to-End
Management, consisting of an Umbrella Model and a series of Domain/Technology-
specific Concrete Models.
The **[Umbrella Model]{.underline}** provides abstract definitions applicable
across Domain/Technology-specific Concrete Models to enable end-to-end
consistency of such definitions (it is described as 'abstract' in the sense
that its components are inherited by Domain/Technology-specific Concrete
Models, and that it is not designed for the purpose of partial or full
instantiation of its components and therefore not sufficient to provide
meaningful network management service).\ Domain/Technology-specific
**[Concrete Models]{.underline}** are described as 'concrete models' in the
sense that their instantiation is necessary to provide meaningful management
services. These Domain/Technology-specific Concrete Models inheriting common
definitions from the Umbrella Model for the purpose of end-to-end consistency
of management information semantics. In addition, these Domain/Technology-
specific Concrete Models have defined relationships between each other to
enable end-to-end monitoring and management of a converged network.
## 6.1 Relations between fragments and Umbrella
This section is a graphical representation of the FNM in terms of relation
between fragments and the Umbrella.
There are two areas under study currently:
  * The definitions of the classes inside the Umbrella.
  * The definitions of relation (R0) used between various classes in fragments and the Umbrella classes.
We aim to have identical R0 for use by all fragments. The relation is not
symmetrical in that the Umbrella classes need not have knowledge of its usage
by fragment classes. This would guarantee a form of consistency (e.g. resource
management style, paradigm) for managing mobile managed resources, as well as
other managed resources such as transport managed resources.
Figure C.1: Relation between fragments and Umbrella
"
###### ### Annex D: Network Management related TISPAN Standards
There are activities in TISPAN for Converged Management (NGN is equivalent to
converged management). The following documents provide high level definitions
and scenarios documented by TISPAN. These should be treated as references as
work is progressed for converged management in 3GPP.
  1. TR 188 004 is the starting point. It provides the NGN Management Vision. With the NGN network architecture and eTOM as given, it considers customer requirements, business requirements and regulatory aspects and derives a high level view on NGN management.
  2. TS 188 003 provides NGN Management requirements. They are collected from a variety of sources and are consolidated into a set of unique requirements grouped into a number of classes
  3. TS 188 001 specifies the NGN Management architecture.
  4. TS 188 005-1 contains the requirements for the NGN Network Resource Model. -2 contains the NRM IS specification.
All these docs are publicly available via
http://pda.etsi.org/pda/queryform.asp
#