# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Performance Management (PM) is a key functionality that provides the operator
with visibility into how its network is performing. Performance measurements
and KPIs are critical inputs into optimization of networks. Accurate and a
rich set of counters delivered in a timely manner is essential for *_trouble
shooting purposes and enable support for_ automatic identification of network
problems and automatic error correction and optimization of the network. ***
**_To that effect, there is a need to provide consistent counters for all
elements in a converged network._**
3GPP has specified with the PM IRP (3GPP TS 32.41x ) an interface for
Performance Management. TMF has in MTOSI and OSSJ capabilities for Performance
Management as well. Currently TMF TIP studies how Performance Management can
be aligned inside TMF.
However, there is no reason why PM functions should be different, and an
aligned management approach would greatly benefit the industry. An example of
alignment within 3GPP SA5 IRP work is that multiple Solution Sets are aligned
in that their supported management features are identical. Advantages of
alignment include:
  * CAPEX reduction (less development cost, less integration cost)
  * OPEX reduction (consistent handling of performance measurements collection)
# 1 Scope
The present document provides consistent and aligned PM and PM interfaces in
3GPP and TMF. The present document:
  * identifies similarities and differences of the PM capabilities in > 3GPP and TMF TIP PM BA;
  * proposes enhancements to 3GPP PM solutions for converged networks > and to satisfy TMF TIP PM BA requirements;
  * identifies any required changes in the 3GPP specifications;
  * identifies any required changes in the TMF specifications (to be > communicated to TMF).
Backwards compatibility of the PM IRP should be maintained as much as possible
by re-using existing specifications to the maximum extent.
The counter collected by each of the Network Elements (NE) and the definition
of those are NE specific and there is no intention to harmonize those.
However KPIs with a network view should be explored.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] **3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".**
[2] NGMN Top OPE Recommendations\
http://www.ngmn.org/uploads/media/NGMN_Top_OPE_Recommendations_1.0.pdf
[3] TM Forum business requirements
[https://collab.tmforum.org/svn/repos/tip/Features/PerformanceManagement/BA/TMF_TIP_PM_BA_0_2_5.docx]{.underline}
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
API Application programming interface
BA Business Agreement
CAPEX **Capital Expenditure**
DDP Document Delivery Package
FMW Framework
IA Information Agreement
IIS Interface Implementation Specification
IRP Integration Reference Point
MTOSI Multi-Technology Operations System Interface
NRA Network Resource Assurance
OPEX Operational Expenditure
OSSJ OSS (Operations Support System) through Java
PM Performance Management
RTM Resource Trouble Management
TIP TM Forum Interface Program
TMF TeleManagement Forum
# 4 Comparison of Performance Management standards
## 4.1 PM standards in 3GPP and TMF TIP BA
### 4.1.1 3GPP Performance Management
The following documents are relevant to the 3GPP Performance Management
analysis.
* * *
3GPP TS 32.401: \"Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements\".
3GPP TS 32.403: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements; UMTS
and combined UMTS/GSM\". 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Performance Management (PM);
Performance measurements; Definitions and template\". 3GPP TS 32.405:
\"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements; Universal Terrestrial
Radio Access Network (UTRAN)\". 3GPP TS 32.406: \"Performance Management (PM);
Performance measurements; Core Network (CN) Packet Switched (PS) domain\".
3GPP TS 32.407: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements; Core
Network (CN) Circuit Switched (CS) domain; UMTS and combined UMTS/GSM\". 3GPP
TS 32.408: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
Teleservice\". 3GPP TS 32.409: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance
measurements; IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)\".
* * *
* * *
3GPP TS 32.410: \"Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for UMTS and GSM\".
* * *
* * *
3GPP TS 32.450: \"Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN): Definitions\". 3GPP TS 32.451:
\"Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio
Access Network (E-UTRAN): Requirements\".
* * *
* * *
3GPP TS 32.412: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS)\". 3GPP TS 32.413: \"Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker
Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\". 3GPP TS 32.415: \"Performance
Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup Language
(XML) definitions\". 3GPP TS 32.416: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions\". 3GPP TS 32.417:
\"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); SOAP Solution
Set (SS)\".
* * *
* * *
3GPP TS 32.425: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)\". 3GPP TS
32.426: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Evolved Packet
Core (EPC) network\".
* * *
* * *
3GPP TS 32.432: \"Performance measurement: File format definition\". 3GPP TS
32.435: \"Performance measurement: eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file
format definition\". 3GPP TS 32.436: \"Performance measurement: Abstract
Syntax Notation 1 (ASN.1) file format definition\".
* * *
* * *
3GPP TS 32.452: \"Performance measurements Home Node B Access (HNB) network\".
3GPP TS 32.453: \"Performance measurements Home eNode B Access (HeNB)
network\".
* * *
* * *
3GPP TR 32.809: \"Telecommunication management; Feasibility study of XML-based
(SOAP/HTTP) IRP solution sets\". 3GPP TR 32.818: \"Study on 3GPP SA5 / MTOSI
XML harmonization\".
* * *
* * *
3GPP TR 32.828: \"Alignment of 3GPP Generic NRM IRP and TMF Shared Information
Data (SID) model\". 3GPP TR 32.829: \"Harmonization of 3GPP Alarm IRP and TMF
Interface Program (TIP) Fault Management\".
* * *
* * *
3GPP TR 32.831: \"Alignment of 3GPP PM IRP and TMF TIP PM\". 3GPP TR 32.832:
\"Study on Alarm Correlation and Alarm Root Cause Analysis\".
* * *
### 4.1.2 TMF TIP BA Performance Management
This clause provides a comparison between existing 3GPP PM related
specifications and TMF TIP Performance Management Business Agreement. For a
potential harmonization of 3GPP and TMF Performance Management functions, it
is necessary to compare the Business Agreement (BA) requirements and to
understand what already exists.
The comparison is done between the existing and stable 3GPP PM IRP
specifications and TMF PM BA requirements. The goal is to analyze and
determine any recommendations for updates of the PM IRP, which would satisfy
TMF TIP PM BA requirements and identify areas where this work is synergetic
with the model harmonization and FM harmonization work.
Source:
[https://collab.tmforum.org/svn/repos/tip/Features/PerformanceManagement/BA/TMF_TIP_PM_BA_0_2_5.docx]{.underline}
# A Category I: Static and Structural Requirements
## A.1 General Requirements
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_I_0035 | **[Multiple measurement producing | | | applications]{.underline}** | | | | | | The performance API shall support a | | | consuming application collecting | | | measurements from multiple producing | | | applications. | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP compliance | Compliant | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_I_0036 | **[Multiple measurement consuming | | | applications]{.underline}** | | | | | | The performance API shall support a | | | producing application providing | | | measurements to multiple consuming | | | applications. | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
###
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_I_0037 | **[Consuming applications for collecting | | | measurements]{.underline}** | | | | | | A consuming application shall be able to | | | collect measurements that were configured | | | to be produced in the producing | | | application externally, not by the same | | | consuming application. | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | N/A the mechanism is provided in 3GPP but | | | this is a requirement on the consuming | | | application (IRP Manager) | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_I_0038 | **[Consuming applications ordering | | | measurement production | | | only]{.underline}** | | | | | | A Consuming application shall be able to | | | request production of measurement data | | | independent of Consuming application | | | collecting the same. This application | | | need not be the collecting Consumer | | | Application. | | | | | | []{.underline} | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | N/A the mechanism is provided in 3GPP but | | | this is a requirement on the consuming | | | application (IRP Manager) | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
## A.2 Data Model Requirements
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_I_0001 | **[Supported time granularities for | | | measurement production & | | | collection]{.underline}** | | | | | | The performance API shall support the | | | following time granularities for both | | | measurement collection and measurement | | | production: | | | | | | - 1 minute | | | | | | - 5 minutes | | | | | | - 15 minutes | | | | | | - 30 minutes | | | | | | - 1 hour | | | | | | - X hours (any multiplication of 1 | | | hour, X \)]{.underline} | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Not compliant. Currently the filter is | | | only on the jobId. Enhancements needed | | | to support additional filters. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0010 | **[Discovery of existing measurement | | | production jobs]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support a discovery mechanism to find | | | the existing measurement production | | | jobs. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant (list measurement jobs) 32.412 | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
## B.2 Measurement Production
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0011 | **[Creating measurement production jobs | | | for measurable object | | | classes]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the creation of measurement | | | production jobs, specifying a | | | measurement object class or a list of | | | measurement object classes. The | | | production job will create measurements | | | for all the measurable objects | | | (instances) of the specified classes. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0012 | **[Creating measurement production jobs | | | for a list of measurable | | | objects]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the creation of measurement | | | production jobs, specifying a list of | | | measurable objects. The production job | | | will create measurements for all the | | | measurable objects (instances) that are | | | specified in this list. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0013 | **[Setting the granularity of | | | measurement production | | | jobs]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support setting the granularity of the | | | measurement production to one of the | | | supported granularities. | | | | | | If the requested granularity is not | | | supported by the producing application | | | an appropriate error code should be | | | returned. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0014 | **[Scheduling measurement production | | | jobs]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support setting the scheduling of the | | | measurement production. | | | | | | A schedule of measurement production | | | shall consist of start date, end date, | | | list of daily intervals and a weekly | | | schedule. All these parameters are | | | optional. If start date is omitted the | | | monitoring starts immediately. If end | | | date is omitted the monitoring will run | | | until suspended. If the daily interval | | | is omitted, the monitoring job will run | | | continuously through the day. If the | | | weekly schedule is omitted, the | | | production job will run every day of the | | | week. Alternatively, the weekly schedule | | | will indicate which days of the week the | | | monitoring job will run. | | | | | | If the requested schedule is not | | | supported by the producing application | | | an appropriate error code shall be | | | returned. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0015 | **[Scheduling the output creation of | | | measurement production | | | jobs]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support setting the scheduling of the | | | creation of measurement production jobs | | | output. It may happen that the | | | granularity of output creation will be | | | larger than the granularity of the | | | measurement production. | | | | | | The granularity of output creation | | | should be one of the supported | | | granularities. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0016 | **[Modifying measurement production | | | jobs]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the modification of a | | | measurement production job that is **in | | | stopped/suspended mode**. | | | | | | The following parameters can be changed: | | | | | | - Measured object classes | | | | | | - Measured objects | | | | | | - Time granularity | | | | | | - Schedule parameters | | | | | | - Output creation schedule | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Not Compliant. There is no modification | | | of the job that has been started . Stop | | | is removing the job therefore modifying | | | is not possible | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0017 | **[Suspend/Resume of a measurement | | | production job]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the ability to suspend a | | | measurement production job. | | | | | | It shall be possible to resume a | | | suspended measurement job. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0018 | **[Deleting a measurement production | | | job]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the ability to delete a | | | measurement production job. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0019 | **[Monitoring a measurement production | | | job execution status]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the ability to query the | | | execution status of a measurement | | | production job. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0052 | **[Support State Change | | | Notifications]{.underline}** | | | | | | The PM API should support notifications | | | to notify change in state of PM job. It | | | should be possible to raise | | | notifications irrespective of triggering | | | event for the state change | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0053 | **[Filtering State Change | | | Notifications]{.underline}** | | | | | | [It should be possible to transmit | | | sufficient information as part of state | | | change notifications, so that the | | | listeners can filter based on Production | | | Job id and destination | | | state,]{.underline} | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
## B.3 Discover Capabilities - Collection
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0020 | **[Discovery of measurement | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0020 | transport | | | mechanism]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support a query that will | | | return the supported transport | | | mechanisms per producing | | | application (data source**).** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | ??? N/A. TBD There is not query | | | to do that. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0021 | **[Discovery of supported file | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0021 | format]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support a query that | | | returns the supported output | | | file formats per producing | | | application (data source) in a | | | case where file based transport | | | mechanism is used. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | ??? N/A. TBD There is no query | | | to do that. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0022 | **[Discovery of measured object | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0022 | classes]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support a discovery | | | mechanism to find the target | | | measured object classes for | | | which measurements are being | | | produced. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | N/A See other requirements | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0023 | **[Discovery of measured | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0023 | objects]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support a discovery | | | mechanism to find the target | | | measured object instances e.g. | | | specific network elements. These | | | are the objects for which | | | measurements are being produced. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | N/A see other requirements | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0024 | **[Discovery of measured | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0024 | attributes]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support a discovery | | | mechanism to find the produced | | | measured attributes given the | | | measureable object class, and | | | optionally a counter group. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | See above requirements | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0047 | **[Discovery of common supported | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0047 | time granularity for measured | | | attributes]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support a discovery of the | | | supported time granularities for | | | a list of measured attributes. | | | It should return the time | | | granularities that are supported | | | for all the supplied measured | | | attributes if such exist. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | N/A | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## B.4 Measurements Collection
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0025 | **[Creating measurement | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0025 | collection jobs for measured | | | object classes]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support the creation of | | | measurement collection jobs, | | | specifying a measurement object | | | class or a list of measurement | | | object classes. The collection | | | job will collect the already | | | produced measurements based on a | | | transport mechanism and an | | | agreed output format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0026 | **[Creating measurement | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0026 | collection jobs for a list of | | | measured objects]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support the creation of | | | measurement collection jobs, | | | specifying a list of measured | | | objects. The collection job will | | | collect the already produced | | | measurements based on a | | | transport mechanism and an | | | agreed output format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0027 | **[Setting the granularity of | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0027 | measurement collection | | | jobs]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support setting the | | | granularity of the measurements | | | collection to one of the | | | supported granularities. | | | | | | If the requested granularity is | | | not supported by the producing | | | application an appropriate error | | | code should be returned. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0028 | **[Scheduling measurement | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0028 | collection jobs]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support setting the | | | scheduling of the measurement | | | collection. | | | | | | A schedule of measurements | | | production shall consist of | | | start date, end date, list of | | | daily intervals and a weekly | | | schedule. All these parameters | | | are optional. If start date is | | | omitted the monitoring starts | | | immediately. If end date is | | | omitted the monitoring will run | | | until suspended. If the daily | | | interval is omitted, the | | | monitoring job will run | | | continuously through the day. If | | | the weekly schedule is omitted, | | | the production job will run | | | every day of the week. | | | Alternatively, the weekly | | | schedule will indicate which | | | days of the week the monitoring | | | job will run. | | | | | | If the requested schedule is not | | | supported by the producing | | | application an appropriate error | | | code should be returned. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | []{#R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0029 | **[Modifying measurement | | .anchor}R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0029 | collection jobs]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API | | | shall support the modification | | | of a collection measurement job | | | that is **in stopped/suspended | | | mode**. | | | | | | The following parameters can be | | | changed: | | | | | | - Measured object classes | | | | | | - Measured objects | | | | | | - Time granularity | | | | | | - Schedule parameters | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Non Compliant -- Manager can | | | stop and start to modify the job | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0030 | **[Suspend/Resume a measurement | | | collection job]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the ability to suspend a | | | measurement collection job. | | | | | | It shall be possible to resume a | | | suspended measurement job. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0031 | **[Deleting a measurement collection | | | job]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the ability to delete a | | | measurement collection job. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0032 | **[Monitoring a measurement collection | | | job execution status]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the ability to query the | | | execution status of a measurement | | | collection job. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0048 | **[Retrieving a collection job based on | | | identifier]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | provide a query mechanism to retrieve a | | | specific measurement job. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Complaint | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0054 | **[Executing collection jobs by | | | identifiers of production | | | jobs]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the creation of measurement | | | collection jobs, specifying a list of | | | identifiers of production jobs. The | | | collection job will collect the already | | | produced measurements based on a | | | transport mechanism and an agreed output | | | format | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
## B.5 Ad-hoc Collection
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0041 | **[Ad-hoc measurements | | | queries]{.underline}** | | | | | | The Performance Management API shall | | | support the ability to query performance | | | measurements by sending an ad-hoc query | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Non Complaint | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0042 | **[Creating an ad-hoc query for a | | | managed object class]{.underline}** | | | | | | **An ad-hoc measurement query may | | | request the Performance measurements for | | | a specific object class.** | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | ?? | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0046 | **[Creating an ad-hoc query for a list | | | of object instances]{.underline}** | | | | | | **An ad-hoc measurement query may | | | request the Performance measurements for | | | a list of object instances.** | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | ?? | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0044 | **[Parameters of an ad-hoc measurement | | | query]{.underline}** | | | | | | **An ad-hoc measurement query should | | | request the Performance measurements by | | | specifying:** | | | | | | - **a list of measured attributes** | | | | | | - **Time granularity** | | | | | | - **Time interval (start date & time | | | and end date & time may be | | | identical)** | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | ?? | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
# C Category III: Abnormal or Exception Conditions, Dynamic Requirements
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | R_TMF_PM_BA_III_0055 | **[Reject Production Job | | | Creation]{.underline}** | | | | | | **PM API should support possibility of | | | the Producing Application to reject a | | | Production Job creation request, and | | | convey Rejection reason to the | | | Consuming Application. The Producing | | | Job May reject for one or more of the | | | following reasons** | | | | | | **-too many production jobs** | | | | | | **-incorrect Measurement Attributes** | | | | | | **-jobid already in use** | | | | | | **-granularity not supported** | | | | | | **-incorrect schedule** | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 3GPP Compliance | Compliant except the jobid since it is | | | created | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
# D Category IV: Expectations and Non-Functional Requirements
# E Category V: System Administration Requirements
Reference Use Cases from
[https://collab.tmforum.org/svn/repos/tip/Features/PerformanceManagement/BA/TMF_TIP_PM_BA_0_2_5.docx]{.underline}
{The use cases should be broken down by categories, if possible. An individual
use case may be created by using the "createUC" macro. It is important to fill
in every field of the use case, and in particular the traceability section. In
this section you should put hyperlinks to the requirements being addressed by
the use case}
## E.1 Discover Capabilities for PM Collection
### E.1.1 Discovery of measured object classes
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Id | UC_TMF_PM_BA_0001 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Name | The consuming PM application retrieves Collected | | | PM Targets -- measured object classes | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Summary | The PM consuming application asks the PM | | | producing application on Performance Measurements | | | targets | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Actor(s) | PM Consuming application | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Pre-Conditions | The PM consuming application and PM producing | | | application have successfully completed their | | | initialization procedures. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Begins When | The PM consuming application sends a request to | | | the PM producing application to be informed about | | | Performance Measurements targets | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Description | 1. The PM consuming application sends a request | | | to a producing application to receive | | | collected PM targets - managed object classes | | | level. No parameters are required. | | | | | | 2. The PM producing application returns a list | | | of measured object classes. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Ends When | In case of success: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives a response | | | > with the required information. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives an | | | > exception. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Post-Conditions | In case of success: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exceptions | > Exceptions are not defined at this stage. They | | | > will be added during the implementation phase. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Traceability | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0022 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### E.1.2 Discovery of measured objects
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Id | UC_TMF_PM_BA_0002 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Name | The PM consuming application retrieves collected | | | measured objects | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Summary | The PM consuming application asks the PM | | | producing application on measured objects | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Actor(s) | PM Consuming application | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Pre-Conditions | The PM consuming application and PM producing | | | application have successfully completed their | | | initialization procedures. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Begins When | The PM consuming application sends a request to | | | the PM producing application to be informed about | | | measured objects. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Description | 1. The PM consuming application sends a request | | | to the producing application to receive | | | collected objects. A list of object classes | | | has to be specified. | | | | | | 2. The producing application validates the | | | provided list of object classes. | | | | | | 3. The PM producing application returns a list | | | of measured object instances. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Ends When | In case of success: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives a response | | | > with the required information. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives an | | | > exception. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Post-Conditions | In case of success: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exceptions | > Exceptions are not defined at this stage. They | | | > will be added during the implementation phase. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Traceability | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0023 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### E.1.3 Discovery of measured attributes
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Id | UC_TMF_PM_BA_0003 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Name | The PM consuming application retrieves measured | | | attributes for a given measured object class. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Summary | The PM consuming application asks the PM | | | producing application on measured attributes of a | | | specific object class and optionally a counter | | | group. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Actor(s) | PM Consuming application | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Pre-Conditions | The PM consuming application and PM producing | | | application have successfully completed their | | | initialization procedures. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Begins When | The PM consuming application sends a request to | | | the PM producing application to be informed about | | | measured attributes of a specific managed object | | | class. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Description | 1. The PM consuming application sends a request | | | to the producing application to receive | | | measured attributes. An object classes has to | | | be specified and a counter group can be | | | optionally sent. | | | | | | 2. The producing application validates the | | | specified object classes. | | | | | | 3. The PM producing application returns a list | | | of object attributes that are being measured | | | for the specified object class.. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Ends When | In case of success: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives a response | | | > with the required information. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives an | | | > exception. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Post-Conditions | In case of success: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exceptions | > Exceptions are not defined at this stage. They | | | > will be added during the implementation phase. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Traceability | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0024 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### E.1.4 Discovery of measurement transport mechanism
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Id | UC_TMF_PM_BA_0004 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Name | The PM consuming application retrieves the | | | supported transport mechanisms for a PM producing | | | application. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Summary | The PM consuming application asks the PM | | | producing application on its supported transport | | | mechanisms. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Actor(s) | PM Consuming application | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Pre-Conditions | The PM consuming application and PM producing | | | application have successfully completed their | | | initialization procedures. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Begins When | The PM consuming application sends a request to | | | the PM producing application to be informed about | | | its supported transport mechanism. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Description | 1. The PM consuming application sends a request | | | to the producing application to receive its | | | supported transport mechanisms. No parameters | | | are required. | | | | | | 2. The PM producing application returns its | | | supported transport mechanism: Files, | | | Streaming, or both. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Ends When | In case of success: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives a response | | | > with the required information. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives an | | | > exception. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Post-Conditions | In case of success: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exceptions | > Exceptions are not defined at this stage. They | | | > will be added during the implementation phase. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Traceability | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0020 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### E.1.5 Discovery of supported file format
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Id | UC_TMF_PM_BA_0005 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Name | The PM consuming application retrieves the | | | supported file format for a PM producing | | | application. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Summary | The PM consuming application asks the PM | | | producing application on its supported file | | | format. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Actor(s) | PM Consuming application | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Pre-Conditions | The PM consuming application and PM producing | | | application have successfully completed their | | | initialization procedures. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Begins When | The PM consuming application sends a request to | | | the PM producing application to be informed about | | | its supported file format. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Description | 1. The PM consuming application sends a request | | | to the producing application to receive its | | | supported file format. No parameters are | | | required. | | | | | | 2. The PM producing application returns its | | | supported file format: 3GPP, MTOSI, or a | | | proprietary name. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Ends When | In case of success: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives a response | | | > with the required information. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives an | | | > exception. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Post-Conditions | In case of success: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exceptions | > Exceptions are not defined at this stage. They | | | > will be added during the implementation phase. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Traceability | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0021 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### E.1.6 Discovery of common supported time granularity for measured
attributes
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Id | UC_TMF_PM_BA_0006 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Name | The PM consuming application retrieves the common | | | time granularity for a set of measured | | | attributes. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Summary | The PM consuming application asks the PM | | | producing application on common time granularity | | | for a supplied set of measured attributes. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Actor(s) | PM Consuming application | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Pre-Conditions | The PM consuming application and PM producing | | | application have successfully completed their | | | initialization procedures. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Begins When | The PM consuming application sends a request to | | | the PM producing application to be informed about | | | the common time granularity of given measured | | | attributes. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Description | 1. The PM consuming application sends a request | | | to the producing application to receive the | | | common time granularity for a list of | | | measured attributes. A list of measured | | | attributes has to be specified. | | | | | | 2. The producing application validates the | | | specified measured attributes | | | | | | 3. The PM producing application returns a time | | | granularity out of the supported time | | | granularities. This time granularity reflects | | | the minimal common time granularity of the | | | specified list of measured attributes. If no | | | such granularity exists an empty reply is | | | returned. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Ends When | In case of success: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives a response | | | > with the required information. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives an | | | > exception. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Post-Conditions | In case of success: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exceptions | 1. Not implemented: The producing application | | | does not support this service. | | | | | | 2. Internal error: The requested operation could | | | not be performed. | | | | | | 3. Entity not found: One or more of the measured | | | attributes is not identified. | | | | | | 4. Entity not collected: One or more of the | | | measured attributes is not collected. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Traceability | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0047 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
## E.2 Measurements Collection
### E.2.1 Creating a measurement job for measured object classes
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Id | UC_TMF_PM_BA_0007 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Name | The PM consuming application creates a collection | | | measurement job for measured object classes. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Summary | The PM consuming application creates a | | | measurement collection job to be executed by the | | | PM producing application based on a list of | | | object classes. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Actor(s) | PM Consuming application | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Pre-Conditions | 1. The PM consuming application and PM producing | | | application have successfully completed their | | | initialization procedures. | | | | | | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | 1. Transport related information is set by the | | | consuming application (e.g. IP address, | | | folders for files, etc.) | | | | | | 2. Output format is known and validated by the | | | consuming application. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Begins When | The PM consuming application sends a request to | | | the PM producing application to generate a | | | measurement collection job based on the set of | | | parameters that are sent in the request. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Description | 1. The PM consuming application instructs the | | | producing application to generate a | | | measurement collection. Job based on the | | | following parameters: | | | | | | a. A measured object class | | | | | | b. Additional filtering mechanisms: counter | | | group... | | | | | | c. The transport mechanism to be used | | | | | | d. A list of measured attributes related to | | | this class. | | | | | | e. Requested time granularity of the | | | measurements | | | | | | f. Scheduling parameters: start date & time, | | | end date & time, list of daily interval | | | and a weekly schedule. All scheduling | | | parameters are optional and have default | | | behavior. | | | | | | 2. The producing application validates all | | | parameters. | | | | | | 3. The PM producing application generates the | | | measurement collection job: | | | | | | a. Data is being collected according to the | | | defined schedule, being formatted | | | according to the supported output format | | | and sent by the supported transport | | | mechanism. | | | | | | b. The PM producing application monitors the | | | execution status of the job, enabling | | | queries on its status. | | | | | | c. The PM producing application keeps the | | | data of what is being collected, | | | supporting queries about measured object | | | classes, object instances, measured | | | attributes and collection jobs. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Ends When | In case of success: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives a response | | | > containing an identifier of the newly created | | | > measurement job, indicating the success of | | | > measurement job creation. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives an | | | > exception. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Post-Conditions | In case of success: | | | | | | 1. The PM consuming application can potentially | | | send instructions to manipulate the | | | collection suspend, resume or delete the | | | collection job based on its identifier. | | | | | | 2. The PM producing application is able to | | | answer queries about the measured object | | | classes, instances and attributes based, | | | considering the new collection job. | | | | | | 3. The PM producing application is able to | | | answer queries about the status of the new | | | collection job. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exceptions | 1. Not implemented: The producing application | | | does not support this service. | | | | | | 2. Internal error: The requested operation could | | | not be performed. | | | | | | 3. Invalid Input: | | | | | | a. Illegal scheduling parameters | | | | | | b. Illegal time granularity | | | | | | 4. Entity not found: | | | | | | a. The specified object class cannot be | | | identified. | | | | | | b. One or more of the measured attributes is | | | not identified. | | | | | | 5. Data for specified Entity not collected: | | | | | | a. Data is not produced for the specified | | | object class. | | | | | | b. Data is not collected for specified | | | measured. | | | | | | 6. Communication loss with data source. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Traceability | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0025 | | | | | | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0027 | | | | | | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0028 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### E.2.2 Creating a measurement job for measured objects
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Id | UC_TMF_PM_BA_0008 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Name | The PM consuming application creates a collection | | | measurement job for a list of measured objects. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Summary | The PM consuming application creates a | | | measurement collection job to be executed by the | | | PM producing application based on a list of | | | object classes. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Actor(s) | PM Consuming application | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Pre-Conditions | 1. The PM consuming application and PM producing | | | application have successfully completed their | | | initialization procedures. | | | | | | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | 3. Transport related information is set by the | | | consuming application (e.g. IP address, | | | folders for files, etc.) | | | | | | 4. Output format is known and validated by the | | | consuming application. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Begins When | The PM consuming application sends a request to | | | the PM producing application to generate a | | | measurement collection job based on the set of | | | parameters that are sent in the request. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Description | 1. The PM consuming application instructs the | | | producing application to generate a | | | measurement collection. Job based on the | | | following parameters: | | | | | | a. A measured object class | | | | | | b. Additional filtering mechanisms: counter | | | group... | | | | | | c. The transport mechanism to be used | | | | | | d. A list of measured attributes related to | | | this class. | | | | | | e. Requested time granularity of the | | | measurements | | | | | | f. Scheduling parameters: start date & time, | | | end date & time, list of daily interval | | | and a weekly schedule. All scheduling | | | parameters are optional and have default | | | behavior. | | | | | | 2. The producing application validates all | | | parameters. | | | | | | 3. The PM producing application generates the | | | measurement collection job: | | | | | | a. Data is being collected according to the | | | defined schedule, being formatted | | | according to the supported output format | | | and sent by the supported transport | | | mechanism. | | | | | | b. The PM producing application monitors the | | | execution status of the job, enabling | | | queries on its status. | | | | | | The PM producing application keeps the data of | | | what is being collected, supporting queries about | | | measured object classes, object instances, | | | measured attributes and collection jobs. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Ends When | In case of success: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives a response | | | > containing an identifier of the newly created | | | > measurement job, indicating the success of | | | > measurement job creation. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives an | | | > exception. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Post-Conditions | In case of success: | | | | | | 1. The PM consuming application can potentially | | | send instructions to manipulate the | | | collection suspend, resume or delete the | | | collection job based on its identifier. | | | | | | 2. The PM producing application is able to | | | answer queries about the measured object | | | classes, instances and attributes based, | | | considering the new collection job. | | | | | | 3. The PM producing application is able to | | | answer queries about the status of the new | | | collection job. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exceptions | Exceptions are not defined at this stage. They | | | will be added during the implementation phase. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Traceability | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0026 | | | | | | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0027 | | | | | | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0028 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### E.2.3 Modifying a measurement collection job
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Id | UC_TMF_PM_BA_0009 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Use Case Name | The PM consuming application modifies an existing | | | collection measurement job. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Summary | The PM consuming application modifies an existing | | | measurement collection job supplying its | | | identifier and a list of parameters to be | | | changed. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Actor(s) | PM Consuming application | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Pre-Conditions | 1. The PM consuming application and PM producing | | | application have successfully completed their | | | initialization procedures. | | | | | | 2. A measurement job is already defined to be | | | executed in the PM producing application | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Begins When | The PM consuming application sends a request to | | | the PM producing application to modify a | | | measurement collection job based on the job | | | identifier and a set of parameters that are sent | | | in the request. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Description | 1. The PM consuming application instructs the | | | producing application to modify a measurement | | | collection. Job based on the following | | | parameters: | | | | | | a. A collection measurement job identifier | | | (mandatory) | | | | | | b. Additional filtering mechanisms: counter | | | group... | | | | | | c. A list of object instances | | | | | | d. Requested time granularity of the | | | measurements | | | | | | e. Scheduling parameters: start date & time, | | | end date & time, list of daily interval | | | and a weekly schedule. All scheduling | | | parameters are optional and have default | | | behavior. | | | | | | 2. The producing application validates all | | | parameters. | | | | | | 3. The PM producing application modifies the | | | measurement collection job: | | | | | | a. Data is being collected according to the | | | defined schedule, being formatted | | | according to the supported output format | | | and sent by the supported transport | | | mechanism. | | | | | | b. The PM producing application monitors the | | | execution status of the job, enabling | | | queries on its status. | | | | | | The PM producing application keeps the data of | | | what is being collected, supporting queries about | | | measured object classes, object instances, | | | measured attributes and collection jobs. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Ends When | In case of success: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives a response | | | > containing an identifier of the modified | | | > measurement job, indicating the success of | | | > measurement job modification. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > The consuming application receives an | | | > exception. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Post-Conditions | In case of success: | | | | | | 1. The PM consuming application can potentially | | | send instructions to manipulate the | | | collection suspend, resume or delete the | | | collection job based on its identifier. | | | | | | 2. The PM producing application is able to | | | answer queries about the measured object | | | classes, instances and attributes based, | | | considering the new collection job. | | | | | | 3. The PM producing application is able to | | | answer queries about the status of the new | | | collection job. | | | | | | In case of failure: | | | | | | > Nothing has changed on any of the involved | | | > applications. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exceptions | Exceptions are not defined at this stage. They | | | will be added during the implementation phase. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Traceability | R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0029 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
## 4.2 Interface (operations) comparison
There are difference in the operations defined in PM IRP and MTOSI PM
interface but at this time harmonization of the two interfaces is seen as low
priority in order to focus on fault and model harmonization needs.
Both TMF BA and 3GPP allow and support sftp as one of the interfaces for
collection and that provides a common mechanism between TMF and 3GPP for PM
collection . The file transfer mechanism is common and more popularly
deployed.
## 4.3 Performance collection methods comparison
The performance management and collection of PM counters business requirements
have been compared and compliance addressed in earlier sections. Some of the
enhancements that can be addressed in the 3GPP specs to comply with all the
requirements have been identified.
Some of the key enhancements identified to align with the BA:
  1. R_TMF_PM_BA_I_0001: 3GPP supports 5,15,30,60 min granularities for production of counters. Reporting Period in 3GPP (Collection) is multiples of GP. The Reporting periods allow for collection of PM counter as multiples of GP. BA requirements as for GP of
  2. 1 minute
  3. 5 minutes
  4. 15 minutes
  5. 30 minutes
  6. 1 hour
  7. X hours (any multiplication of 1 hour, X \ **[3GPP enhancements]{.underline}** : 3GPP to analyse this need and update
> specification accordingly.
  1. R_TMF_PM_BA_I_0004: [Supported file formats]{.underline}
i. The performance API shall support:
ii. 3GPP file format
iii. MTOSI file format
> **[3GPP discussion]{.underline}** : Even though the requirements state both
> formats, is it really necessary to have two different formats? Perhaps here
> is an area where adopting a single format will save integration cost with no
> functional value lost.
  1. R_TMF_PM_BA_I_0033: Proprietary format
> **[3GPP discussion]{.underline}** : This requirement asks for proprietary
> format. It is not clear if that helps with off the shelf OSS to provide post
> processing of PM counters. It seems like the best solution would be to have
> a standard format. This will save integration cost with no functional value
> lost. Should the BA be changed? Guidance from Operators required here.
  1. R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0040: [The Performance Management API shall support a discovery mechanism to find specific existing measurement production jobs producing measurements corresponding to a specified MOC and instances of the MOC ( list of MOs) (\)]{.underline}
> []{.underline}
>
> **[3GPP enhancements]{.underline}** : Enhancement needed to support this.
> Currently the filter is only on the jobId.
  1. R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0020: The Performance Management API shall support a query that will return the supported transport mechanisms per producing application (data source)
> []{.underline}
>
> **[3GPP enhancements:]{.underline}** Perhaps an enhancement needed here?
>
> []{.underline}
  1. R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0021: The Performance Management API shall support a query that returns the supported output file formats per producing application (data source) in a case where file based transport mechanism is used
> []{.underline}
**[3GPP discussion]{.underline}** : If we converge on a single file format
there may be no need to have this support.
[]{.underline}
  1. R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0041: Ad-hoc collection - The Performance Management API shall support the ability to query performance measurements by sending an ad-hoc query
> []{.underline}
**[3GPP enhancements]{.underline}** : Currently there is no support of ad hoc
collection. Ad hoc collection may not make sense for all PM counters but may
apply to some counters. Enhancements needed to 3GPP to support this
capability. This applies to R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0042, R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0046,
R_TMF_PM_BA_II_0044.
[]{.underline}
  1. [Continue to develop use cases for FMC and as appropriate in the context of the FMC add additional requirements and enhancements to the PM collection and PM IRP.]{.underline}
> [As part of the use cases add relevant PM counters.]{.underline}
[]{.underline}
## 4.4 File content comparison
Currently the PM file format used in 3GPP is available at
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.432/32432-a10.zip
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.432/32435-a10.zip
MTOSI 2.0 PM file format can be found at:
http://www.tmforum.org/browse.aspx?catID=6076&linkID=35252&docID=10580
The file formats can be harmonized so the integration/parsing and analysing of
the PM counters form various systems can be cost effective.
One of the top 10 requirements was to move to a simplified, lightweight PM
file format. More analysis will be done on the exact file format and that will
become part of the work item.
# 5 Discussion of PM IF Standards Alignment Options
There are difference in the operations defined in PM IRP and MTOSI PM
interface but at this time harmonization of the two interfaces is seen as low
priority in order to focus on fault and model harmonization needs.
# 6 Recommendations for PM IF Standards Alignment
Conclusions drawn from various discussions related to PM collection, interface
and file format discussion is detailed in section 4 and summarized below.
There are difference in the operations defined in PM IRP and MTOSI PM
interface but at this time harmonization of the two interfaces is seen as low
priority in order to focus on fault and model harmonization needs.
Both TMF BA and 3GPP allow and support sftp as one of the interfaces for
collection and that provides a common mechanism between TMF and 3GPP for PM
collection . The file transfer mechanism is common and more popularly
deployed.
Performance measurement types, definition of counters and KPIs are very
specific to different domains and are being defined for each Network elements
by groups/SDOs that are most knowledgeable in that area. Enhancement of KPIs
and clear, rich definition of counters in a manner that is consistent and
valid in the domain and cross domain based on various converged management
scenarios needs consideration.
The model harmonization work will drive the object modelling and the
association of the PM data with the appropriate object. This is addressed in
3GPP TS 32.828 and TS 32.833.
The performance management business requirements have been compared and
compliance addressed. Some of the enhancements that can be addressed in the
3GPP specs to reduce the gaps have been identified and can be introduced as
CRs.
PM file format in 3GPP and MTOSI are different and there is really no
necessity for it to be different. It is proposed to move to a converged PM
file format taking into account the recommendation in the top 10 to move to a
lightweight format (CSV, ascii, etc).
It is agreed to pursue the relevant changes to address some of the
harmonization and enhancements identified in the TR using CRs.
#