# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
This Technical Specification (TS) describes and defines a recommended set of
Circuit Teleservices to be supported by a PLMN in connection with other
networks as a basis for defining the network capabilities required.
## 0.1 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] 3GPP TS 22.001: \" Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.004: \" General on supplementary services\".
[5] 3GPP TS42.068 : \"Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) - Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 42.069 : \"Voice Broadcast Service (VBS) - Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.040: \" Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS) Point‑to‑Point (PP)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.041 : \" Technical realization of Short Message Service Cell
Broadcast (SMSCB)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 27.001 : \" General on Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for
Mobile Stations (MS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 27.005: \" Use of Data Terminal Equipment - Data Circuit
terminating Equipment (DTE - DCE) interface for Short Message Service (SMS)
and Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation T.4: \"Standardization of group 3 facsimile
apparatus for document transmission\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation T.30: \"Procedures for document facsimile
transmission in the general switched telephone network\".
[14] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Principles\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this TS are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905[1].
# 1 Framework for describing circuit teleservices supported
Teleservices supported by a PLMN are described by a number of attributes which
are intended to be largely independent.
These attributes are described and defined in specification 3GPP TS 22.001
[2].
They are grouped into three categories:
\- High layer attributes;
\- Low layer attributes (describing the Bearer capabilities which support the
Teleservice).
\- information transfer attributes;
\- access attributes.
\- General attributes.
Figure 1 shows the relationship between the different categories of services
attributes, and their scope within a Teleservice.
NOTE 1: A transit network may not exist.
NOTE 2: Communication may be established from both ends in principle.
Figure 1: Relationship between the categories of services attributes and their
scope\ within a Teleservice
# 2 List of the teleservice attributes
Table 1 gives the list of the attributes. For the definitions and possible
values of these attributes, see 3GPP TS 22.001 [2].
Table 1: List of Teleservice attributes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1. High layer | 1.1 Type of user | Dominant Teleservice | | capabilities | information | attribute category | | | | | | | 1.2 Layer 4 protocol | Secondary attributes | | | functions | | | | | \" \" | | | 1.3 Layer 5 \" \" | | | | | | | | 1.4 Layer 6 \" \" | | | | | | | | 1.5 Layer 7 \" \" | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2. Low layer | 2.1 Information | \" \" | | capabilities | transfer | | | (describing the | | \" \" | | Bearer capability | > 2.1.1 Information | | | which supports the | > transfer | \" \" | | Teleservice) | > capabilities | | | | > | Individual services | | | > 2.1.2 Information | (in the category) | | | > transfer mode | | | | > | | | | > 2.1.3 Information | | | | > transfer rate | | | | > | | | | > 2.1.4 Structure | | | | > | | | | > 2.1.5 | | | | > Establishment of | | | | > communication | | | | > | | | | > 2.1.6 | | | | > Communication | | | | > configuration | | | | > | | | | > 2.1.7 Symmetry | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 2.2 Access (3GPP TS | Qualifying | | | 22.001) | attributes | | | | | | | > 2.2.1 Signalling | \" \" | | | > access | | | | > | \" \" | | | > 2.2.2 Information | | | | > access | \" \" | | | | | | | 2.3 Interworking | \" \" | | | | | | | > 2.3.1 Terminating | Further specify the | | | > network type | individual services | | | > | | | | > 2.3.2 | | | | > Na | | | | tional/international | | | | > interworking | | | | > | | | | > 2.3.3 Interface of | | | | > terminal equipment | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3. General | 3.1 Supplementary | | | | services provided | | | | | | | | 3.2 Quality of | | | | service | | | | | | | | 3.3 Operational and | | | | commercial | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 3 List of teleservice categories and individual teleservices
Table 2 presents a list of all Teleservices categories and of individual
Teleservices and the associated dominant and secondary attributes.
# 4 Description of individual teleservices
The annex contains a data sheet per Teleservice with all attributes and
comments.
# 5 Bearer capabilities supporting teleservices
According to specification 3GPP TS 22.001 [2] the Bearer Capability defines
the technical features of a Teleservice as they appear to the user at the
customer access point or an appropriate interface of a fixed network. The
Bearer Capability is characterized by information transfer, access and
interworking attributes. The same set of attributes as for a Bearer Service is
used. A Bearer Capability is associated with every Teleservice.
Table 2: Teleservice categories and Teleservices
+------------+------------+------------+----+------------+-------+ | Dominant | Category | Individual | | | | | attribute | of | T | | | | | | | eleservice | | | | | | t | | | | | | | eleservice | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+----+------------+-------+ | Type of | No | Name | No | Name | | | user in- | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+----+------------+-------+ | Speech | 1 | Speech | 11 | Telephony | | | | | tra | | | | | | | ns-mission | 12 | Emergency | | | | | | | Calls | | +------------+------------+------------+----+------------+-------+ | Short | 2 | Short | 21 | Short | | | message | | message | | message | | | | | service | 22 | MT/PP | | | | | | | | | | | | | 23 | Short | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | MO/PP | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Cell | | | | | | | Broadcast | | | | | | | Service | | +------------+------------+------------+----+------------+-------+ | Facsimile | 6 | Facsimile | 61 | Alternate | T^1^ | | | | | | speech and | | | | | trans - | | facsimile | NT^2^ | | | | | | group 3 | | +------------+------------+------------+----+------------+-------+ | | | mission | 62 | Automatic | T^1^ | | | | | | Facsimile | | | | | | | group 3 | NT^2^ | +------------+------------+------------+----+------------+-------+ | Speech | 9 | Voice | 91 | Voice | | | | | Group | | Group Call | | | | | service^3^ | 92 | Service | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Voice | | | | | | | Broadcast | | | | | | | Service | | +------------+------------+------------+----+------------+-------+
Note 1: The transparent facsimile services apply to GERAN A/Gb mode of
operation only.
Note 2: The non-transparent facsimile services apply to UTRAN only.
Note 3: The Voice Group Services, TS 91 and TS 92 apply to GERAN A/Gb mode of
operation only.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Description of individual Teleservices
NOTE 1: Within the PLMN the \"Information transfer rate\" attribute is not
indicated.
# A.1 Individual Teleservices
## A.1.1 Telephony
+----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | Tel | | | | | | | | eservice | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | elephony | | | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | 1. | 1.1 Type | speech | | | | | | | or user | | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | A | HLC | 1.2 | - | | | | | | | Layer 4 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | T | | 1.3 | - | | | | | | | Layer 5 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | T | | 1.4 | - | | | | | | | Layer 6 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | R | | 1.5 | - | | | | | | | Layer 7 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | I | 2. | 2.1 | 2.1.1 | speech | | | | | | | Inf | (digital | | | | | | | ormation | represe | | | | | | | transfer | ntation) | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | pability | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | B | LLC | | 2.1.2 | circuit | | | | | | | Inf | | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | | mode | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | U | | Inform | 2.1.3 | not | | | | | | | Inf | ap | | | | | | | ormation | plicable | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | | rate | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | T | | transfer | 2.1.4 | not | | | | | | | S | ap | | | | | | | tructure | plicable | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | E | | | 2.1.5 | demand | | | | | | | Estab | MO MT | | | | | | | lishment | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | nnection | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | S | | | 2.1.6 | point- | | | | | | | Commu | to-point | | | | | | | nication | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | guration | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | | 2.1.7 | bidir | | | | | | | Symmetry | ectional | | | | | | | | symmetry | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | 2.2 | 2.2.1 | manual | | | | | | | Si | | | | | | | | gnalling | | | | | | | | access | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | Access | 2.2.2 | rate | full | | | | | | Inf | | r | | | | | | ormation | | ate/half | | | | | | access | | rate | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | at UE | (3GPP TS | i | | | | | | | 22.001) | nterface | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | 2.3 | 2.3.1 | PS | | | | | | | Visible | TN/ISDN/ | | | | | | | network | -PLMN | | | | | | | type | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | Inter- | 2.3.2 | intern | | | | | | | Na | ational/ | | | | | | | tional/I | national | | | | | | | nternat. | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rworking | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | working | 2.3.3 | 2 wire, | 4 wire | ME | | | | | I | analogue | | | | | | | nterface | | S | | | | | | of TE to | | (B+B+D) | | | | | | ter | | | | | | | | minating | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | 3. | 3.1 | 3GPP TS | | | | | | | Suppl | 22.004 | | | | | | | ementary | | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | | provided | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | Gen | 3.2 | | | | | | | | Quality | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | service | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+
Comments:
This service provides the transmission of speech information and audible
signalling tones of the PSTN/ISDN. In the PLMN and the fixed network
processing technique appropriate for speech such as analogue transmission,
echo cancellation and low bit rate voice encoding may be used. Hence, bit
integrity is not assured.
1) Transparency for telephone signalling tones is provided.
2) Transparency for voice band facsimile signals is not mandatory.
(Appropriate bearer services see 3GPP TS 22.002 [3].)
3) Transparency for end to end speech encryption is not mandatory. If a user
needs to apply this technique an appropriate bearer service (3GPP TS 22.002
[3]) can be used.
4) Transmission of DTMF is provided in the mobile to fixed direction (e.g. for
controlling voice mail boxes) during any time of an established call.
5) In A/Gb mode of operation (GERAN) speech teleservices may be provided using
the Full Rate (full rate, version 1), Enhanced Full Rate (full rate, version
2), Half Rate (half rate, version 1), Adaptive Multirate (AMR) or Wideband
Adaptive Multirate (AMR-WB) speech codecs. The default speech codec to provide
speech service in this case is Full Rate.
6) In UTRAN operation speech teleservices may be provided using the Adaptive
Multirate (AMR) or Wideband Adaptive Multirate (AMR-WB) speech codecs. The
default speech codec to provide speech service in this case is AMR.
7) In GERAN Iu mode of operation speech teleservices may be provided using the
Adaptive Multirate (AMR) or Wideband Adaptive Multirate (AMR-WB) or Enhanced
Full Rate (EFR) speech codecs. Both the Narrow Band AMR codec family (Full
Rate AMR and Half Rate AMR) and the EFR codec shall be supported by the UE.
The network shall either support at least the AMR or the EFR codec.
## A.1.2 Emergency calls
* * *
Teleservice 12, Emergency calls  
1\. 1.1 Type or user information speech (with or without additional emergency
related data)  
A HLC 1.2 Layer 4 protocol functions -  
T 1.3 Layer 5 protocol functions -  
T 1.4 Layer 6 protocol functions -  
R 1.5 Layer 7 protocol functions -  
I 2. 2.1 2.1.1 Information transfer capability speech (digital representation
and may include emergency related data)  
B LLC 2.1.2 Information transfer mode circuit  
U Inform 2.1.3 Information transfer rate not applicable for speech only call  
T transfer 2.1.4 Structure not applicable  
E 2.1.5 Establishment of connection demand MO MT  
S 2.1.6 Communication configuration point-to-point  
2.1.7 Symmetry bidirectional symmetry (when present the data component may be
a symmetric or an asymmetric bidirectional transmission)  
2.2 2.2.1 Signalling access manual  
Access 2.2.2 Information access rate full rate/half rate at UE (3GPP TS
22.001) interface  
2.3 2.3.1 Visible network type PSTN ISDN Inter- 2.3.2 National/Internat.
interworking national  
working 2.3.3 Interface of TE to terminating Ntwk. 2 wire 4 wire 3\. 3.1
Supplementary service provided 3GPP TS 22.004 (see note 3)  
Gen 3.2 Quality of service
* * *
Comments:
1) A standardized access method throughout all PLMNs is mandatory. See 3GPP TS
22.101 [14] for further information on emergency call requirements.
2) It shall be an option of the network operator whether to accept emergency
calls coming from user equipment which do not transmit an IMSI or a TMSI.
3) Emergency calls supersede all constraints imposed by supplementary services
or user equipment features used for other Tele or Bearer services. The lock
state of the UE is overridden by the SOS‑procedure.
4) Emergency calls will be routed to the emergency services in accordance with
national regulations.
5) In order to help identifying callers in cases of misuse databases in the
PLMN may be accessed to retrieve the identity of the calling UE. When
applicable, and subject to national regulations, the Public Safety Answering
Point (PSAP) may use the related data sent in conjunction with the emergency
call and provide this information to the lawful authorities.
## A.1.3 Short Message Service (SMS)
### A.1.3.1 Short message service MT/PP
* * *
Teleservice 21, Short Message MT point-to-point 1), 2)  
1\. 1.1 Type or user information short message, ≤ 160 characters  
A 1.2 Layer 4 protocol functions  
T 1.3 Layer 5 protocol functions see 3GPP TS23.040  
T 1.4 Layer 6 protocol functions see 3GPP TS 23.040  
R 1.5 Layer 7 protocol functions see 3GPP TS 23.040  
I 2. 2.1 2.1.1 Information transfer capability not applicable  
B 2.1.2 Information transfer mode not applicable  
U Inform 2.1.3 Information transfer rate not applicable  
T transfer 2.1.4 Structure not applicable  
E 2.1.5 Establishment of connection not applicable  
S 2.1.6 Communication configuration not applicable  
2.1.7 Symmetry not applicable  
2.2 2.2.1 Signalling access see 3GPP TS 27.005  
Access 2.2.2 Information access rate not applicable at UE (3GPP TS 22.001)
interface  
2.3 2.3.1 Visible network type not applicable 3)  
Inter- 2.3.2 National/Internat. interworking not applicable 3)  
working 2.3.3 Interface of TE to terminating Ntwk. not applicable 3)  
3\. 3.1 Supplementary service provided 3GPP TS 22.004  
Gen 3.2 Quality of service
* * *
Comments:
1) This service provides the transmission of a short message from a message
handling system (service centre) to a user equipment. The service centre is
functionally separated from the PLMN.
2) After reception an acknowledgement message should be sent back.
3) There is only an interworking between the PLMN and SMS Service Centre (SMS-
SC). Connections from the fixed network to the SMS-SC are out of the scope of
the 3GPP specifications.
4) The information transfer attributes refer to the connection-oriented
services (ISDN, Bluebook Q.931). The Short Message Service is not a connection
orientated service, hence the transfer attributes here are not applicable.
5) SMS MT/PP teleservice can be provided via both the CS and PS domains.
### A.1.3.2 Short message service MO/PP
* * *
Teleservice 22, Short Message MO point-to-point 1), 2)  
1\. 1.1 Type or user information short message, ≤ 160 characters  
A 1.2 Layer 4 protocol functions  
T 1.3 Layer 5 protocol functions see 3GPP TS 23.040  
T 1.4 Layer 6 protocol functions see 3GPP TS 23.040  
R 1.5 Layer 7 protocol functions see 3GPP TS 23.040  
I 2. 2.1 2.1.1 Information transfer capability not applicable  
B 2.1.2 Information transfer mode not applicable  
U Inform 2.1.3 Information transfer rate not applicable  
T transfer 2.1.4 Structure not applicable  
E 2.1.5 Establishment of connection not applicable  
S 2.1.6 Communication configuration not applicable  
2.1.7 Symmetry not applicable  
2.2 2.2.1 Signalling access see 3GPP TS 27.005  
Access 2.2.2 Information access rate not applicable at UE (3GPP TS 22.001)
interface  
2.3 2.3.1 Visible network type not applicable 3)  
Inter- 2.3.2 National/Internat. interworking not applicable 3)  
working 2.3.3 Interface of TE to terminating Ntwk. not applicable 3)  
3\. 3.1 Supplementary service provided 3GPP TS 22.004  
Gen 3.2 Quality of service
* * *
Comments:
1) This service provides the transmission of a short message from a user
equipment to a message handling system (service centre). The service centre is
functionally separated from the PLMN.
2) After reception an acknowledgement message is sent back.
3) There is only an interworking between the PLMN and SMS Service Centre (SMS-
SC). Connections from the fixed network to the SMS-SC are out of the scope of
the 3GPP specifications.
4) The information transfer attributes refer to the connection-oriented
services (ISDN, Bluebook Q.931). The Short Message Service is not a connection
orientated service, hence the transfer attributes here are not applicable.
5) Information from the following sources at the UE might be transmitted:
\- a pre-recorded message in a store;
\- a number from the dialling key pad;
\- information from an external keyboard or terminal equipment connected to
the ME.
6) SMS MO/PP teleservice can be provided via both the CS and PS domains.
### A.1.3.3 Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)
* * *
Teleservice 23, Cell Broadcast Service  
1\. 1.1 Type or user information short message, ≤ 93 characters 4)  
A 1.2 Layer 4 protocol functions  
T 1.3 Layer 5 protocol functions see 3GPP TS 23.041  
T 1.4 Layer 6 protocol functions see 3GPP TS 23.041  
R 1.5 Layer 7 protocol functions see 3GPP TS 23.041  
I 2. 2.1 2.1.1 Information transfer capability not applicable  
B 2.1.2 Information transfer mode not applicable  
U Inform 2.1.3 Information transfer rate not applicable  
T transfer 2.1.4 Structure not applicable  
E 2.1.5 Establishment of connection not applicable  
S 2.1.6 Communication configuration not applicable  
2.1.7 Symmetry  
2.2 2.2.1 Signalling access not applicable  
Access 2.2.2 Information access rate not applicable at UE (3GPP TS 22.001)
interface not applicable 2.3 2.3.1 Visible network type 2)  
Inter- 2.3.2 National/Internat. interworking 2)  
working 2.3.3 Interface of TE to terminating Ntwk. 2)  
3\. 3.1 Supplementary service provided 3GPP TS 22.004  
Gen 3.2 Quality of service
* * *
Comments:
1) This service provides the transmission of a short message from a message
handling system to all user equipments in the area of a Base Station. The
service centre is functionally separated from the PLMN. There is no
acknowledgement message after reception.
2) An interworking only with the Cell-Broadcast Service Centre is foreseen.
Connections from the fixed network to the SC are out of the scope of the 3GPP
specifications.
3) The information transfer attributes refer to the connection-oriented
services (ISDN, Bluebook Q.931). The Short Message Service is not a connection
orientated service, hence the transfer attributes here are not applicable.
4) 3GPP TS 23.041 provides up to 15 concatenated \"pages\" of up to 93
characters each.
### A.1.3.4 Short message service description
Description of:
teleservice 21, \"Short message MT/PP\";
teleservice 22 \"Short message MO/PP\"; and
teleservice 23 \"Cell Broadcast Service \".
**1 Introduction**
The purpose of this annex is to describe the short message teleservice.
Three different types of short messages are defined, namely short message
MT/PP (Mobile Terminated/Point-to-point), short message MO/PP (Mobile
Originated/Point-to-point) and Cell Broadcast Service messages.
**2 Definition of the short message service MT/PP and MO/PP**
For both mobile originated and mobile terminated services the Service Centre
acts as store and forward centre. The Service Centre is functionally separate
from the PLMN although this does not preclude an integrated implementation.
More than one service centre may be connected to a PLMN. Messages may be input
to the service centre from a fixed network customer by means of a suitable
telecommunications service either from the fixed network, e.g. speech, telex,
facsimile, etc. or from a mobile network customer. The list is not intended to
be comprehensive and it is entirely open to the service centre provider what
telecommunication services it supports. The service centre shall then reformat
the message into that provided by the short message service, for delivery to
the user equipment.
For mobile originated SMS messages the SMT formats the message into that used
by the SMS service and sends to the service centre (to allow interworking with
ERMES also ERMES-format addresses may be sent from the UE to the SC). In
general the user may use alphanumeric addresses for more user convenience. In
principle the message may be intended for a subscriber on the fixed network or
for another mobile subscriber. For the message to another mobile subscriber
the service centre should deliver as described in this section.
The message text is limited to a length of 160 characters.
The originator does not need to know the location of the mobile subscriber to
whom he wants to send a message. The message is addressed to the recipient\'s
Directory Number.
As a part of the basic service for both MT and MO, an acknowledgement will be
provided on a message by message basis to the SC (MT) or UE (MO). This
acknowledgement indicates that the PLMN has successfully transferred the
message to the UE (MT) or SC (MO).
Optionally, the SC may offer final delivery notification to the originator. In
this case, the originator may request to have a notification returned from the
SC informing her about the delivery of the Short Message to the recipient.
This delivery report indicates whether this particular message has been
correctly received at the receiving station or not, to the extent that the SC
is able to establish this. It does not indicate whether the message has been
read. If the delivery report is negative, i.e. the message has not been
successfully delivered to the recipient, it shall include the failure cause.
The delivery report is sent to the originator, if reachable, as soon as the
information (positive or negative) is available.
In addition, the SC may use the delivery report capabilities for other
purposes, such as intermediate status reports etc.
All point-to-point short messages are either to or from the service centre. A
message from one user equipment to another must pass through a service centre.
This case is effectively an MO and MT message together. The two transactions
are separate, though clearly related.
Point-to-point messages may be sent or received when the UE is engaged on a
call (voice or data), or in idle mode. However, messages which overlap the
boundary of such a call, or during a handover, may be lost, in which case they
will be sent again.
The accounting between the SC and PLMN if applicable is for agreement between
those parties.
The originator of a short message may notify the SC of an expiry time after
which the message is no longer of value and may be deleted by the SC. During
the validity period of the message, the SC shall try to deliver the message.
After the expiry date the SC will take no further step to deliver the message,
but its status may be kept by the SC to enable the originator to enquire the
result. If the originator of the short message does not request any expiry
time a standard value, e.g. 24 hours, is used.
The Service Centre may give a short message a priority status. This priority
message will be attempted to be delivered irrespective of whether or not the
UE has been identified as temporarily absent. Delivery of non-priority
messages will not be attempted if the UE has been identified as temporarily
absent.
If necessary, the originator may request the SC to perform specific operations
on a previously submitted short message, such as provision/cancellation of a
report or deletion of the short message.
The recipient of a short message will be informed by the message about the
date and time it was submitted to the SC.
If the UE Message Store is full, the Message Store Overflow indicator is
activated, and any further messages received will not be accepted. An
appropriate specific non-acknowledgement message shall be returned. By help of
an optional flow control mechanism further waiting short messages will be
transmitted after the UE has memory available again.
**3 Reply path**
The reply path facility is an enhancement to the point-to-point SMS. In the
mobile originated case the mobile user will request his Service Centre to
guarantee to forward a single reply to his message back to him (Reply Path).
In the mobile terminated case the recipient of the Short Message will get an
indication by the service centre that a reply via this Service centre will be
accepted on a subscriptionless basis. The recipient may then submit a reply to
this SC (within a period of time defined by the SC operator), which is then
forwarded to the submitter of the original message.
No subscription with the Service centre is needed by the replying user. The
costs, if any, for the reply path are allocated to the originator.
**4 Definition of the Cell Broadcast Service**
The cell broadcast service is a Teleservice which enables an Information
Provider to submit short messages for broadcasting to a specified area within
the PLMN.
The cell broadcast service is characterized by the following aspects:
\- No acknowledgement is sent from the UE.
\- The cell broadcast message is sent in a limited area, defined by the
originator of the message, by agreement with the PLMN.
\- An identifier is associated with each message. This identifier is received
by the UE and used by the short message function of the UE not to store
broadcast messages which are not wanted or which have already been received.
\- Generally, cell broadcast messages will be sent continuously, so that all
such messages are sent in turn, and then repeated. The cycle time will need to
be short enough for important messages to be received by travellers moving
through a group of cells.
\- Cell broadcast messages are MT only. The origination of these messages is
outside the scope of 3GPP specifications.
\- The maximum length of each cell broadcast message will be 93 characters.
\- Cell broadcast DRX mode is defined to improve the battery life for User
equipment. This feature is optional.
\- Reception of CBS messages for a UE is not a requirement if it is connected
in the CS domain. It should be possible for a UE to receive messages if it is
connected in the PS domain and no data is currently transmitted.
## A.1.4 Alternate speech/facsimile G3
* * *
Teleservice 61, Alternate speech and facsimile group 3  
1\. 1.1 Type or user information facsimile/speech  
A HLC 1.2 Layer 4 protocol functions Procedures according to ITU-T  
T 1.3 Layer 5 protocol functions recommendation T.30/T4.  
T 1.4 Layer 6 protocol functions  
R 1.5 Layer 7 protocol functions  
I 2. 2.1 2.1.1 Information transfer capability alternate speech/group 3 fax  
B LLC 2.1.2 Information transfer mode circuit  
U Inform 2.1.3 Information transfer rate up to 14400 bits/s  
T transfer 2.1.4 Structure not applicable  
E 2.1.5 Establishment of connection demand (MO MT)  
S 2.1.6 Communication configuration point-to-point  
2.1.7 Symmetry bidirectional symmetry  
2.2 2.2.1 Signalling access I.440/450 (GSM 04.08)  
Access 2.2.2 Information access rate fullrate  
at UE (3GPP TS 22.001) interface 2 wire analogue  
2.3 2.3.1 Visible network type PSTN ISDN PLMN Inter- 2.3.2 National/Internat.
interworking international/national  
working 2.3.3 Interface of TE to terminating 2 wire, analogue/UE  
3\. 3.1 Supplementary service provided 3GPP TS 22.004  
Gen 3.2 Quality of service
* * *
Comments:
1) This Teleservice allows the connection of ITU-T group 3 fax apparatus (send
and/or receive) to the user equipments of a PLMN. Facsimile connections may be
established to/from group 3 apparatus in the PSTN, ISDN or PLMN.
2) A high quality of service even under bad radio conditions and/or in
connection to/from moving vehicles is required.
3) Both speech and fax portions of the call will use a full rate. The fax
portion of the call may use multiple full rate channels.
4) Subscription for TS61 includes also subscription for TS62 (refer to 3GPP TS
22.001 [2]). For this reason and in order to allow a user to change between ME
supporting TS61 or TS62 both a network and a UE supporting TS61 shall also
accept call set-ups for TS62. If a subscriber originates/receives a TS61 call
but either the UE or the network do not support TS61 (but supports TS62), then
TS61 shall be negotiated to TS62 in accordance to the rules specified in 3GPP
TS 27.001 [10]. If the negotiation does not succeed, then the call shall be
released.
## A.1.5 Automatic facsimile G3
* * *
Teleservice 62, Alternate facsimile group 3  
1\. 1.1 Type or user information facsimile  
A HLC 1.2 Layer 4 protocol functions Procedures according to ITU-T  
T 1.3 Layer 5 protocol functions recommendation T.30/T4.  
T 1.4 Layer 6 protocol functions  
R 1.5 Layer 7 protocol functions  
I 2. 2.1 2.1.1 Information transfer capability Facsimile group 3  
B LLC 2.1.2 Information transfer mode Circuit  
U Inform 2.1.3 Information transfer rate up to 14400 bits/s  
T Transfer 2.1.4 Structure not applicable  
E 2.1.5 Establishment of connection demand (MO MT)  
S 2.1.6 Communication configuration point-to-point  
2.1.7 Symmetry bidirectional symmetry  
2.2 2.2.1 Signalling access I.440/450 (GSM 04.08)  
Access 2.2.2 Information access rate Fullrate  
At UE (3GPP TS 22.001) interface 2 wire, analogue  
2.3 2.3.1 Visible network type PSTN ISDN PLMN Inter- 2.3.2 National/Internat.
interworking international/national  
Working 2.3.3 Interface of TE to terminating 2 wire, analogue/UE  
3\. 3.1 Supplementary service provided 3GPP TS 22.004  
Gen 3.2 Quality of service
* * *
Comments:
1) This teleservice supports a Facsimile Group 3 Autocalling/Autoanswering
mode only.
2) This teleservice allows connection of ITU-T group 3 fax apparatus to and
from the user equipments of a PLMN. Facsimile connections may be established
to and from group 3 apparatus in the PSTN, ISDN or PLMN.
3) A high quality of service even under bad radio conditions and/or in
connection to/from moving vehicles is required.
4) If a Network receives a call set-up for TS61 and if the subscriber in
question has a subscription for TS62 only, then the network shall negotiate
TS61 to TS62 in accordance to the rules specified in 3GPP TS 27.001 [10]. If
the negotiation does not succeed, then the call shall be released. See also
item 4) in the description of TS61.
5) This teleservice may use the multislot mechanism of GERAN.
## A.1.6 Voice Group Call Service
+----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | Tel | | | | | | | | eservice | | | | | | | | 91, | | | | | | | | Voice | | | | | | | | Group | | | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | 1. | 1.1 Type | speech | | | | | | | or user | | | | | | | | Inf | | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | A | HLC | 1.2 | - | | | | | | | Layer 4 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | T | | 1.3 | - | | | | | | | Layer 5 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | T | | 1.4 | - | | | | | | | Layer 6 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | R | | 1.5 | - | | | | | | | Layer 7 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | I | 2. | 2.1 | 2.1.1 | speech | | | | | | | Inf | (digital | | | | | | | ormation | represe | | | | | | | transfer | ntation) | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | pability | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | B | LLC | | 2.1.2 | circuit | | | | | | | Inf | | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | | mode | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | U | | Inform | 2.1.3 | not | | | | | | | Inf | ap | | | | | | | ormation | plicable | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | | rate | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | T | | transfer | 2.1.4 | not | | | | | | | S | ap | | | | | | | tructure | plicable | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | E | | | 2.1.5 | demand | | | | | | | Estab | MO MT | | | | | | | lishment | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | nnection | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | S | | | 2.1.6 | mu | | | | | | | Commu | ltipoint | | | | | | | nication | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | guration | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | | 2.1.7 | bidir | | | | | | | Symmetry | ectional | | | | | | | | symmetry | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | 2.2 | 2.2.1 | manual | | | | | | | Si | | | | | | | | gnalling | | | | | | | | access | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | Access | 2.2.2 | rate | full | | | | | | Inf | | r | | | | | | ormation | | ate/half | | | | | | access | | rate | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | at UE | (3GPP TS | i | | | | | | | 22.001) | nterface | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | 2.3 | 2.3.1 | PS | | | | | | | Visible | TN/ISDN/ | | | | | | | network | PLMN | | | | | | | type | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | Inter- | 2.3.2 | intern | | | | | | | Na | ational/ | | | | | | | tional/I | national | | | | | | | nternat. | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rworking | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | working | 2.3.3 | 2 wire, | 4 wire | ME | | | | | I | analogue | | | | | | | nterface | | S | | | | | | of TE to | | (B+B+D) | | | | | | ter | | | | | | | | minating | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | 3. | 3.1 | 3GPP | | | | | | | Suppl | T | | | | | | | ementary | S 42.068 | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | | provided | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | Gen | 3.2 | | | | | | | | Quality | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | service | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+
Comments:
This service provides for speech conversation of a predefined group of service
subscribers in half duplex mode on the radio link taking into account multiple
mobile service subscribers involved in the VGCS call per cell. A detailed
service description is given in 3GPP TS 42.068 [5].
> This teleservice shall only be provided via a GERAN A/Gb mode of operation.
## A.1.7 Voice Broadcast Service
+----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | Tel | | | | | | | | eservice | | | | | | | | 92, | | | | | | | | Voice | | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | | roadcast | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | 1. | 1.1 Type | speech | | | | | | | or user | | | | | | | | Inf | | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | A | HLC | 1.2 | - | | | | | | | Layer 4 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | T | | 1.3 | - | | | | | | | Layer 5 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | T | | 1.4 | - | | | | | | | Layer 6 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | R | | 1.5 | - | | | | | | | Layer 7 | | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | unctions | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | I | 2. | 2.1 | 2.1.1 | speech | | | | | | | Inf | (digital | | | | | | | ormation | represe | | | | | | | transfer | ntation) | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | pability | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | B | LLC | | 2.1.2 | circuit | | | | | | | Inf | | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | | mode | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | U | | Inform | 2.1.3 | not | | | | | | | Inf | ap | | | | | | | ormation | plicable | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | | rate | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | T | | transfer | 2.1.4 | not | | | | | | | S | ap | | | | | | | tructure | plicable | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | E | | | 2.1.5 | demand | | | | | | | Estab | MO MT | | | | | | | lishment | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | nnection | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | S | | | 2.1.6 | b | | | | | | | Commu | roadcast | | | | | | | nication | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | guration | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | | 2.1.7 | unidir | | | | | | | Symmetry | ectional | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | 2.2 | 2.2.1 | manual | | | | | | | Si | | | | | | | | gnalling | | | | | | | | access | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | Access | 2.2.2 | rate | full | | | | | | Inf | | r | | | | | | ormation | | ate/half | | | | | | access | | rate | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | at UE | (3GPP TS | i | | | | | | | 22.001) | nterface | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | 2.3 | 2.3.1 | PS | | | | | | | Visible | TN/ISDN/ | | | | | | | network | PLMN | | | | | | | type | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | Inter- | 2.3.2 | intern | | | | | | | Na | ational/ | | | | | | | tional/I | national | | | | | | | nternat. | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rworking | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | | working | 2.3.3 | 2 wire, | 4 wire | ME | | | | | I | analogue | | | | | | | nterface | | S | | | | | | of TE to | | (B+B+D) | | | | | | ter | | | | | | | | minating | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | 3. | 3.1 | 3GPP | | | | | | | Suppl | T | | | | | | | ementary | S 42.069 | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | | provided | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+ | | Gen | 3.2 | | | | | | | | Quality | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | service | | | | | +----------+-----+----------+----------+----------+----------+----+
Comments:
This service provides for the distribution of speech, generated by a service
subscriber, to all or a predefined group service subscribers located in this
area. A detailed service description is given in 3GPP TS 42.069 [6].
> This teleservice shall only be provided via a GERAN A/Gb mode of operation.
#