# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the principal purpose and use of International
Mobile station Equipment Identities (IMEI).
3GPP TS 23.003 describes the technical manner of numbering, addressing and
identification.
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[3] ISO/IEC 7812 (1989): \"Identification cards - Numbering system and
registration procedure for issuer identifiers\".
## 1.2 Definitions and abbreviations
In addition to the following, abbreviations used in the present document are
listed in 3GPP TS 21.905.
**International Mobile Station Equipment Identity (IMEI) :** An
\"International Mobile Station Equipment Identity\" is a unique number which
shall be allocated to each individual mobile station equipment in the PLMN and
shall be unconditionally implemented by the MS manufacturer.
# 2 General
An MS can only be operated if a valid \"International Mobile Subscriber
Identity\" (IMSI) is present. An IMSI is primarily intended for obtaining
information on the use of the PLMN by subscribers for individual charging
purposes.
Besides the IMSI, the implementation of IMEI is found necessary in order to
obtain knowledge about the presence of specific mobile station equipment in
the network, disregarding whatever subscribers are making use of these
equipments.
The main objective is to be able to take measures against the use of stolen
equipment or against equipment of which the use in the PLMN can not or no
longer be tolerated for technical reasons.
The IMEI is incorporated in an UE module which is contained within the UE. The
IMEI shall be unique and shall not be changed after the ME's final production
process. It shall resist tampering, i.e. manipulation and change, by any means
(e.g. physical, electrical and software).
NOTE: This requirement is valid for new GSM MEs type approved after 1st June
2002. However, this requirement is applicable to all 3GPP system compatible
UEs from start of production.
The manufacturer implementing the IMEI module in the ME is responsible for
ensuring that each IMEI within the allocatd range is unique to the ME in which
it resides, and is also responsible for keeping detailed records of produced
and delivered MEs.
# 3 Composition of IMEI
The composition of the IMEI shall be such that each individual mobile station
equipment can be separately identified.
Information is contained in the IMEI by which the PLMN, after requesting it,
can immediately decide whether or not to accept calls made by means of this
equipment.
Secondly, the IMEI shall directly or indirectly contain all information which
is necessary for the network operator to make relations through its
administrative system to trace the equipment to its origin of production. 3GPP
TS 23.003 [2] describes the structure of the IMEI in detail.
The IMEI is complemented by a check digit. The check digit is not part of the
digits transmitted at IMEI check occasions, as described below. The Check
Digit shall avoid manual transmission errors, e.g. when customers register
stolen MEs at the operators customer care desk.
NOTE: The Check Digit is not applied to the Software Version Number.
# 4 Use of the equipment identity register
A network operator can make administrative use of the IMEI in the following
manner:
Three registers are defined, known as \"white lists\", \"grey lists\" and
\"black lists\". The use of such lists is at the operators\' discretion.
The **white list** is composed of all **number series** of equipment
identities that are permitted for use.
The **black list** contains all equipment identities that belong to equipment
that need to be barred.
Besides the black and white list, administrations have the possibility to use
a **grey list**. Equipments on the grey list are not barred (unless on the
black list or not on the white list), but are tracked by the network (for
evaluation or other purposes).
# 5 Procedure
It shall be possible to perform the IMEI check at any access attempt, except
IMSI detach, and during an established call at any time when a dedicated radio
resource is available, in accordance with the security policy of the PLMN
operator. It shall also be possible to perform the IMEI check when a UE is IMS
registered.
The network shall terminate any access attempt or ongoing call when receiving
any of the answers \"black-listed\" (i.e., on the black list) or \"unknown\"
equipment (i.e., not on the white list) from the EIR. An indication of
\"illegal ME\" shall in these cases be given to the user. Furthermore this is
equivalent to an authentication failure hence any call or IMS session
establishment or any location updating is forbidden for the MS, it cannot
answer to paging, it is just allowed to perform Emergency Calls. Emergency
calls must never be terminated as a result of the IMEI check procedure.
# 6 Use of IMEI in case of emergency calls
Emergency calls can in some PLMNs be made without having to send the
subscriber identity (IMSI) to the network. In this case the misuse of MS
equipments after placing invalid emergency calls can be restrained by using
the equipment identity.
The network request for the equipment identity is sent to the MS after the
emergency call has been set-up. The procedure is the same as for normal call
set-up.
# 7 MS Software Version Number (SVN)
A Software Version Number (SVN) field shall be provided. This allows the ME
manufacturer to identify different software versions of a given mobile.
The SVN is a separate field from the IMEI, although it is associated with the
IMEI. When the network requests the IMEI from the MS, it may also request that
the SVN is also sent towards the network.
The white list shall use the IMEI, The Black and Grey Lists may also use the
SVN.
#