# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
  1. presented to TSG for information;
```{=html}
``` 5\. presented to TSG for approval;
```{=html}
``` 5\. or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the requirements for and gives guidelines on the
MMI on the User Equipment (UE). This includes the requirements of the user
procedures for call control and supplementary service control, the
requirements on the physical input media and the output, such as indications
and displayed information.
The present document included requirements only to UE connected to CS Domain.
See 3GPP TS 22.101 [18]; for overall service principles and 3GPP TS 22.001
[19] for Circuit telecommunication services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: "General on supplementary services".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.011: "Service accessibility".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.016: "International Mobile station Equipment Identities
(IMEI)".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.083: "Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services -- Stage 1".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.084: "MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services -- Stage 1".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.090: "Stage 1 description of Unstructured Supplementary Service
Data (USSD)".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.038: "Alphabets and language".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.008: "Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols -- Stage 3".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.080: "Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification Formats and coding".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.002 : « Mobile Application Part (MAP) ».
[12] 3GPP TS 22.081: "Line Identification Supplementary Services -- Stage 1".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: "Numbering plan for the ISDN era".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation E.121: "Pictograms and symbols to assist users of
the telephone service".
[15] 3GPP TS 22.072: "Call Deflection; Stage 1".
[16] 3GPP TS 22.091: "Explicit Call Transfer Supplementary Service; Stage 1".
[17] 3GPP TS 22.093: "Call Completion to Busy Subscriber (CCBS); Stage 1".
[18] 3GPP TS 22.101: "Service principles".
[19] 3GPP TS 22.001: "Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)".
[20] 3GPP TS 22.094: "Follow Me Service description -- Stage 1".
[21] 3GPP TS 22.135: "Multicall supplementary service Stage 1".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definition applies:
**Directory Number:** A string consisting of one or more of the characters
from the set {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, *, #, a, b, c} associated with a
nature of address indicator and number plan indicator. When using the public
MMI for the control of supplementary services however, * and # cannot be part
of any SC or SI field.
NOTE 1: No such restriction on the SC and SI fields exists when using other
(e.g. menu-driven) MMI for the control of supplementary services.
NOTE 2: When using the public MMI, certain limitations on the use of one and
two digit directory numbers may apply. The use of other MMI can remove these
restrictions.
NOTE 3: This definition is not intended to require the support of all these
characters in the MMI itself.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations listed in 3GPP TR
21.905 [18] apply.
# 4 General
## 4.1 Basic philosophy
The basic idea behind the present document is that it should give a minimum
level of requirements, with emphasis on items which are seen as important from
a usage point of view. This means, that the requirements are mainly dealing
with standardized control procedures of access to services i.e. call
establishment, invocation of supplementary services and so on.
The requirements on the physical layout of input and output features are kept
to a minimum to allow for differentiated types of Ues and to ease the
introduction of future developments in the area of MMI. The standardized
control procedures describe the sequence of real actions to be taken by the
users. However, since the requirements on the physical input features are
minimal the control procedures may differ between Ues depending on the
solution of the manufacturers. The "bridge" between these requirements is
however that the same logical actions have to be taken by the user. That is,
the user has to provide the same information for the call control and
signalling no matter what the method is. This is also valid if an automatic
device is used for carrying out the same actions. The logical procedures are
therefore defined and standardized in the present document.
Optionally, the user may set the ME to disable some or all of the MMI
functions defined in the present document. This setting shall only apply when
the same SIM/USIM is in use otherwise the ME shall enable the standard MMI.
# 5 Physical user input features
## 5.1 General
This clause gives the requirements or guidelines for the MMI of the input
related UE features. Basic requirements on these features are given in 3GPP TS
22.101 [18].
## 5.2 MMI related to UE features
* Country/PLMN selection:
The method is manufacturer optional.
* International Access Function (\"+\" key):
and
* Keypad:
The physical means of entering the characters 0‑9, +, * and # (i.e. the SELECT
function) may be keypad, voice input device, DTE or other, but there must be
means to enter this information.
The relationship on the keypad between the numbers and letters (where used) is
important when mnemonic dialling may be used. The following relationship is
therefore preferred though optional.
* * *
1 6 MNO 2 ABC 7 PQRS 3 DEF 8 TUV 4 GHI 9 WXYZ 5 JKL 0
* * *
* ACCEPT, SEND and END functions:
The physical means to perform these functions may be keypad, voice input
device, DTE or other, but there must be means to perform these functions.
ACCEPT and SEND may use the same means.
* Setting of called Number Fields (Type of Number), use of the \"+\" key function:
Users may enter a called number in two formats, called here International or
Open. The Type of Number (TON) may be set to other values if required, but the
procedure for this is not defined here.
\"International format\":
This is entered by starting with a \"+\" followed by country code, even for
national calls. This method is preferred for roaming and international calls,
and highly desirable for storage of short codes or for call-forwarding.
This sets the TON to \"International\" - see 3GPP TS 24.008 [9].
\"Open format\":
This is when the \"+\" is not entered, and the number is entered in the normal
way for that network. The number may require a prefix or escape code as
normal, for example for entering the international access code or national
access code (often \"0\").
This sets the TON to \"Unknown\" - see 3GPP TS 24.008 [9]. (This is **not**
the \"National\" case, which does not permit prefix or escape digits).
Care should be taken with this format, since the dialled number will only be
correct in a given network, and may be wrong when roaming. Caution must be
applied when using stored numbers or call-forwarding.
* Setting of Called Number Fields (Number Plan Indicator):
The default Number Plan Identification (NPI) shall be ITU-T E.164 [13] if all
the digits are in the range 0‑9 and the NPI shall be \"unknown\" if other
number information is included. However, if the user selects (or has selected)
a particular NPI (procedure not defined) then that NPI shall be used.
* Entry of Bearer Capability Information Elements (BCIE):
This is required in order to indicate information such as whether it is a
voice or data call, facsimile, synchronous or asynchronous etc. The method for
entering this information is of mobile manufacturer\'s option. For those User
Equipment offering only telephony (and emergency calls), the default BCIE
shall be for telephony (or emergency call). For User Equipment supporting non-
voice services, there shall be means to set the BCIE required, by reading the
appropriate field in the SIM/USIM and possibly otherwise. This field may be
associated with or independent of the called number.
# 6 Procedures
## 6.1 General
This clause defines the MMI of the service access procedures, and
supplementary service control procedures. These procedures are defined as
logical procedures and in general no mandatory methods are specified. In order
to make the descriptions continuous and clear requirements in 3GPP TS 22.101
[18] have been included or are referenced. The mapping between the MMI
procedures and the call control entity is specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [9].
## 6.2 UE access
The UE access procedure is comprised of the initial actions the user has to
take before calls can be established or received. This procedure includes e.g.
insertion of subscriber-card and entering the PIN-code.
As there exist different types of UE and as requirements in other 3GPP
specifications allow different options the UE access procedure may differ
between User Equipment. The method for describing the UE access procedures is
by using a Mealy-graph, see annex A.
The graph shows the UE access for simple UE e.g. hand-held and they may be
different for more complex stations. It should also be noted that the exact
sequences of events are not described, these may be chosen by the
manufacturers.
## 6.3 Definition of functions
The following functions are applicable and mandatory for the logical
procedures for Mobile originated and terminated calls and for the control of
Supplementary Services:
ACCEPT: Acceptance of a mobile terminated call.
SELECT: Entry of information.
SEND: Transmission of the entered information to the network.
INDICATION: Call progress indications. Other indications may be given in
addition throughout the procedure.
END: Termination of or disconnection from the call. The execution of the END-
function may be caused by either party involved in the call by e.g.
termination, loss of coverage, invalidation of payment.
## 6.4 Call Control
### 6.4.1 General
Voice calls to and from a User Equipment shall be controlled in accordance
with the procedures described below. "Data calls" are expected to be
controlled in a similar way but are not here specified.
### 6.4.2 Voice calls
The voice call is either a normal telephony call or an emergency call.
#### 6.4.2.1 Mobile originated calls
The following sequence of functions shall be used:
SELECT: Entry of called address information.
SEND: Transmission of the called address.
INDICATION: Call progress indications.
END: Termination of the call.
#### 6.4.2.2 Emergency calls
With User Equipment supporting Telephony, it shall be possible to place an
emergency call as specified in 3GPP TS 22.101 [18].
#### 6.4.2.3 Mobile terminated calls
The following sequence of functions shall be used:
INDICATION: Alert to the user that she is being called.
ACCEPT: Acceptance of the incoming call by the user.
INDICATION: Call progress indications.
END: Termination of the call.
User Determined User Busy (UDUB): If, on being alerted by an incoming call,
the called user enters "0 SEND", this shall set UDUB for that call, which
shall either invoke call forwarding on busy, if active and operative, or else
present BUSY to the calling party.
## 6.5 Supplementary Services Control
### 6.5.1 General
The supplementary services shall be controlled in accordance with the
procedures described below. All User Equipment with MMI shall be able to be
controlled in this way, to minimize the confusion of users using different
types of User Equipment (quite likely, due to the use of the SIM IC card or
UICC) and to permit the introduction by a PLMN operator of new supplementary
services, not defined at the time of the design of a User Equipment. These
procedures are based on those recommended by ETSI/HF and ITU-T Recommendation
E.131.
The specified MMI shall be supported by the L3 signalling between the UE and
the MSC, see 3GPP TS 24.080 [10].
In addition to these specified MMI procedures the UE may be equipped with
additional enhanced MMI procedures (e.g. dedicated keys, menu procedures...),
left to the discretion of the manufacturer. These procedures shall also be
converted in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.080 [10].
### 6.5.2 Structure of the MMI
The following sequence of functions shall be used for the control of
Supplementary Services:
SELECT: Entry of the procedure information (may be a digit or a sequence of
characters).
SEND: Transmission of the information to the network.
INDICATION: Call progress indications.
The UE shall support the MMI procedure specified as:
Activation : *SC*SI#
Deactivation : #SC*SI#
Interrogation : *#SC*SI#
Registration : *SC*SI# and **SC*SI#
Erasure : ##SC*SI#
This structure consists of the following parts:
\- Service Code, SC( (2 or 3 digits);
\- Supplementary Information, SI (variable length).
The procedure always starts with *, #, **, ## or *# and is finished by #. Each
part within the procedure is separated by *.
The service code uniquely specifies the Supplementary Service, either as a
defined Supplementary Service or as a spare service code. All spare service
codes shall be reserved for future use.
The UE shall determine from the context whether, an entry of a single *,
activation or registration was intended.
For example, a call forwarding request with a single * would be interpreted as
registration if containing a forwarded-to number, or an activation if not.
The supplementary information (SI) may comprise e.g. a PIN code or Directory
Number. Where a particular service request does not require any SI, \"*SI\" is
not entered, e.g. Activation becomes *SC#SEND. Where further supplementary
information is required this is again entered as *SI, e.g. *SC*SIA*SIB#SEND.
SIB may be used to specify the tele or bearer service expressed as a Basic
Service Group to which this supplementary service request applies, SIC may be
used to specify the value of the \"No Reply Condition Timer\".
Use of SIA, SIB, SIC for a particular procedure is optional. The procedure to
be adopted where these are not all used is as follows:
*SI# shall be entered in any of the following formats:
* SIA * SIB * SIC #
* SIA * SIB #
* SIA * * SIC #
* SIA #
* * SIb * SIC #
* * SIB #
* * * SIC #
#
The denotation of the Supplementary Information and the order of entry are
specified in annex B. Supplementary Information Codes for the Teleservices and
Bearer Services are given in annex C.
The following procedures shall be used for application of supplementary
services to the call set-up procedure:
*SCn*SI#DN SEND;
where SC is the service code defined in annex B and *SI is an optional field
which may be applicable to service SC. The \"n\" is a single digit used to
indicate the numbering plan, profile, priority, etc. according to the service
being applied. For simplicity of presentation, the leading * is shown on the
assumption that the action is to activate (switch on) the required service.
However, for a deactivation (or switch off), this would become:
#SCn*SI#DN SEND;
It is assumed that the *# (interrogation) will not apply to call set-up.
Where more than one supplementary service is applicable to the call set-up,
these shall be concatenated with any applicable supplementary information
immediately following the applicable service code.
For example, if SCn and SI refer to one applicable supplementary service and
scn and si to another, then the generic procedure becomes:
*SCn*SI#scn*si#DN SEND.
NOTE: The order of entry of SC and sc is a user option, provided that any
supplementary information follows immediately after the relevant SC.
Where SI is not applicable according to the definition of the supplementary
service, then *SI is omitted. Where its use is optional, but not selected for
a particular call set-up, it may be omitted or entered as an extra * if this
is necessary to avoid ambiguity of interpretation.
NOTE: By using the # as a separator, most cases are expected to be
unambiguous.
### 6.5.3 Handling of supplementary services
#### 6.5.3.1 Handling of defined supplementary services
The MMI procedure for the defined Supplementary Services (see 3GPP TS 22.004
[2]) shall be converted to the mobile radio interface Layer 3, as specified in
3GPP TS 24.080 [10]. An appropriate message should be given/displayed to the
user in accordance with the \"return result/error\" from the network.
The service codes for the defined Supplementary Services are given in annex B.
#### 6.5.3.2 Handling of not-implemented supplementary services
The UE shall act in accordance with figure 3.5.3.2 when digits are entered to
the UE to determine whether to interpret these as call set-up requests or
supplementary service control procedures etc. This may involve a mechanism,
referred to as Unstructured SS Data, which allows the support of SS services
which are not implemented by means of the specified functional signalling. See
also 3GPP TS 22.090 [7].
Figure 3.5.3.2
The following definitions are applicable to the interpretation of figure
3.5.3.2:
1) In a call:
A UE is \"in a call\" from the time that signalling related to the
establishment or attempted establishment of a MO or MT call commences and
before the call or call attempt ends, and (if applicable) the ME has stopped
generating tones related to this call to the user.
2) UE manufacturer defined procedure:
The term \"UE manufacturer defined procedure\" shall not include the following
two cases:
(i) input which can be interpreted as being of the following form, whether or
not in a call:
CX [string]# followed by SEND;
where
string is any combination of numeric digits, *, #;
and
C comprises 1, 2 or 3 digits from the set (*,#);
and
X comprises 1, 2 or 3 numeric digits or the fourth numeric digit is non-zero;
(ii) input of the following form in a call (as defined above):
\"Entry of 1 or 2 characters defined in the 3GPP TS 23.038 [8] Default
Alphabet followed by SEND\".
3) #-string:
Input of the form.
\"Entry of any characters defined in the 3GPP TS 23.038 [8] Default Alphabet
(up to the maximum defined in 3GPP TS 24.080 [10]), followed by #SEND\".
4) Short string:
\"Entry of 1 or 2 characters defined in the 3GPP TS 23.038 [8] Default
Alphabet followed by SEND\".
5) Call setup string:
MMI input in accordance with the call set-up procedures as defined in 3GPP TS
24.008 [9] and terminated by SEND.
If the network has initiated an operation which explicitly (in the signalling)
requires a response from the user, then the user shall be able to enter a
response in the form of any string of characters followed by SEND. The mobile
shall also provide an MMI command to terminate the dialogue with a NULL
response.
The use of END shall release all calls in progress (see also subclause
3.5.5.2), terminate any outstanding unstructured SS operations, and release
any connection used for unstructured SS operations.
### 6.5.4 Registration of new password
The following procedure permits the user to change the password relating to
use of Supplementary Services. The only control procedure supported is
Registration of a new password, which replaces any previous password for the
same service. The password may not be Erased or Interrogated.
Procedure:
* 03 * ZZ * OLD_PASSWORD * NEW_PASSWORD * NEW_PASSWORD #
The UE shall also support the alternative procedure:
** 03 * ZZ * OLD_PASSWORD * NEW_PASSWORD * NEW_PASSWORD #
where, for Barring Services, ZZ = 330;
for a common password for all appropriate services, delete the ZZ, entering:
* 03 ** OLD_PASSWORD * NEW_PASSWORD * NEW_PASSWORD #
The UE shall also support the alternative procedure:
** 03 ** OLD_PASSWORD * NEW_PASSWORD * NEW_PASSWORD #
The UE will then indicate to the user whether the new password request has
been successful or not. If the new password request is rejected (e.g. due to
entry of incorrect old password) the old password remains unchanged, until it
is successfully changed by correctly repeating the procedure. Refer to 3GPP TS
22.004 [2] regarding repeated entry of incorrect password.
NOTE: The procedures shall be followed by SEND as described in subclause
3.5.2.
### 6.5.5 Handling of supplementary services within a call
#### 6.5.5.1 Call Deflection, Call Waiting, Call Hold, MultiParty Services,
Explicit Call Transfer and Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber general
principles
During a call, the following general procedures shall be available, where
applicable, for the subscriber to control the operation of:
\- Call Deflection;
\- Call Waiting;
\- Call Hold;
\- MultiParty Services;
\- Explicit Call Transfer;
\- Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber,
including their interactions. It should be noted that not all control
procedures described in 3GPP TS 22.072 [15], 3GPP TS 22.083 [5], 3GPP TS
22.084 [6], 22.091 [16], and 22.093 [17] are specified in this subclause.
Procedures:
Entering 0 followed by SEND - Releases all held calls or sets User Determined
User Busy (UDUB) for a waiting call.
Entering 1 followed by SEND - Releases all active calls (if any exist) and
accepts the other (held or waiting) call.
Entering 1X followed by SEND - Releases a specific active call X.
Entering 2 followed by SEND - Places all active calls (if any exist) on hold
and accepts the other (held or waiting) call.
Entering 2X followed by SEND - Places all active calls on hold except call X
with which communication shall be supported.
Entering 3 followed by SEND - Adds a held call to the conversation.
Entering 4 followed by SEND - Connects the two calls and disconnects the
subscriber from both calls (ECT).
Entering 4 * \"Directory Number\" - Redirect an incoming or a waiting call to
the specified followed by SEND directory number.
Entering 5 followed by SEND - Activates the Completion of Calls to Busy
Subscriber Request.
Entering \"Directory Number\" - Places all active calls (if any exist) on hold
and sets up a followed by SEND new call to the specified Directory Number.
Entering END - Releases the subscriber from all calls (except a possible
waiting call).
\"X\" is the numbering (starting with 1) of the call given by the sequence of
setting up or receiving the calls (active, held or waiting) as seen by the
served subscriber. Calls hold their number until they are released. New calls
take the lowest available number.
Where both a held and a waiting call exist, the above procedures shall apply
to the waiting call (i.e. not to the held call) in conflicting situation.
#### 6.5.5.2 Call Waiting (CW)
During a call, provided this service is active for the called party, if a
second call attempts to make contact, a \"call waiting\" indication will be
presented to the called party.
To clear the current call and accept the waiting call, enter 1 followed by
SEND, within the time out period. Alternatively, either party in the existing,
active, call may release that call. The call waiting indication then becomes
an \"alert\", and the call may be accepted as a normal call within the time-
out period.
To hold the current call and accept the waiting call, enter 2 followed by
SEND, within the time out period.
To ignore the waiting call, take no action.
To set User Determined User Busy (UDUB) for the waiting call, enter 0 followed
by SEND, within the time out period.
To redirect the waiting call to another destination, enter 4 * \"Directory
Number\" followed by SEND, within the time out period.
#### 6.5.5.3 Call hold
During a call, the initial call may be held while another call is made by
entering the second directory number followed by SEND.
To shuttle between the two calls enter 2 followed by SEND irrespective of
whether the second call was acquired using the Call Hold or acceptance of Call
Waiting procedures.
If no waiting call exists, by entering 0 followed by SEND the held call is
cleared.
To clear an active call and return to the held call enter 1 followed by SEND.
This is only possible if no waiting call exists.
#### 6.5.5.4 MultiParty
Having established calls to these two parties with one call active and the
other on hold, enter 3 followed by SEND for a multiparty conversation.
To add another remote party, the same procedure applies. Another call is
established and either this call or the existing multiparty call is placed on
hold. Entering 3 followed by SEND brings all these parties together in an
enlarged multiparty call.
To choose one party for a private communication, putting the rest of the
multiparty on hold, enter 2X followed by SEND, where X defines the call with
which communication shall be supported.
To return to the multiparty, with the previously active call placed on hold,
enter 2 followed by SEND.
To release a specific party enter 1X followed by SEND, where X is defined as
above.
If the served mobile subscriber enters END, all calls including the multiparty
are released. The multiparty is terminated.
#### 6.5.5.5 Explicit Call Transfer
Having established calls to these two parties with one call active and the
other on hold, enter 4 followed by SEND to transfer the calls.
If a subscriber has one active, one held and one waiting call, and by entering
4 SEND the active and held call are connected, after the successful completion
of the transfer, the served subscriber shall be offered the normal
notification that there is a new waiting call, as for a normal terminating
call.
#### 6.5.5.6 Special case
Provided both Call Hold and Call Waiting is active, it is possible to have one
active and one held call and then a third call attempting to make contact. In
this case, to clear the active call and accepting the waiting call (the held
call not affected) enter 1 followed by SEND (If entering 2 followed by SEND
the call state shall not be affected).
Alternatively, either party in the active call may release that call. The held
call will remain held. Within the time-out period the waiting call may then be
accepted by entering 2 followed by SEND. It shall also be allowed to accept
the waiting call by entering 1 followed by SEND.
As and additional alternative, the (controlling) subscriber B may enter END,
in which case the active and the held calls are released. The call waiting
indication then becomes an \"alert\" and the previously waiting call may be
accepted as a normal call within the time-out period.
#### 6.5.5.7 Call Deflection
If informed about an incoming call this call may be redirected to an another
destination by entering 4 * \"Directory Number\" followed by SEND.
#### 6.5.5.8 Completion of calls to busy subscribers
In a situation where a calling party A encounters busy of congestion on the B
side, the network may offer the possibility to apply the CCBS supplementary
service. If subscriber A, after being notified that CCBS is possible and
during the period where the retention timer is running (minimum 15 seconds),
enters 5 followed by SEND, this shall be interpreted as CCBS activation.
Entering of 5 SEND by subscriber A in any other situation as described above
shall not be interpreted as CCBS activation.
### 6.5.6 Other handling of supplementary services
#### 6.5.6.1 Multiple Subscriber Profile
##### 6.5.6.1.1 Registering an alternative profile
An alternative profile is registered by entering the profile ID of the new
profile, as illustrated:
* 59n # SEND
Where n is the identity of the profile desired.
An indication is given to the user showing whether this procedure was
successful.
The ID of the registered profile and other provisioned profiles may be
determined by interrogation on entering *#59# SEND
The profile so registered shall be used for all further UE originated
activities and CISS operations unless another profile is selected, or an
alternative profile is registered.
##### 6.5.6.1.2 Selecting an alternative profile on a per call basis
An alternative profile to the registered profile is selected by entering the
profile ID of the new profile along with the desired Directory Number, as
illustrated:
DN *59n# SEND
Where n is the identity of the profile desired
Continued processing of the call shall implicitly indicate that the selection
was successful, there shall be no explicit indication given to the user
concerning successful execution this selection procedure.
It is assumed that *# (i.e. interrogation) will not apply to call set-up.
#### 6.5.6.2 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
The CLIP Supplementary Service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.081[12]
##### 6.6.6.2.1 Presentation of Information
If CLIP has been provisioned for the subscriber and the UE is capable of
displaying the line identification then for each MT call the UE should either:
display the calling line identity; or
display the reason why the line identity is not available as indicated by the
Presentation Indicator.
#### 6.5.6.3 Follow Me (FM)
The Follow Me Feature is defined in 3GPP TS 22.094 [20]. FM control procedures
make use of USSD.
## 6.6 SIM/USIM interfaces
### 6.6.1 Entry of PIN and PIN2
After insertion of the IC card while the UE is switched on, or when the UE is
switched on while the IC card is inserted, or when the UE is switched on in
the case of a plug-in SIM, an indication is given to the user that the PIN
must be entered, unless the PIN is not applicable.
If the user wishes to perform a function protected by PIN2, an indication
shall be given to the user that PIN2 must be entered.
The PIN or PIN2 being entered is not revealed in any way. The PIN or PIN2
check is performed by entering the # function.
### 6.6.2 Change of PIN or PIN2
The following procedure permits the user to change the PIN or PIN2 in the
SIM/USIM:
PIN: **04*OLD_PIN*NEW_PIN*NEW_PIN#
PIN2: **042*OLD-PIN2*NEW_PIN2*NEW_PIN2#
Note that the SEND function is not used in these procedures.
An indication is given to the user showing whether this procedure was
successful.
### 6.6.3 Unblocking of PIN or PIN2
The following procedure permits the user to unblock the PIN or PIN2:
PIN: **05*PIN_UNBLOCKING_KEY*NEW_PIN*NEW_PIN#
PIN2: **052*PIN2_UNBLOCKING_KEY*NEW_PIN2*NEW_PIN2#
Note that the SEND function is not used in these procedures.
The new PIN or PIN2 must be entered whether or not it is intended to change
the PIN or PIN2. An indication is given to the user showing whether this
procedure was successful.
### 6.6.4 Reading the abbreviated dialling code
An abbreviated dialling code shall be able to be read using the following
procedure:
N(N)(N)#
Alternative additional procedures are also permitted.
### 6.6.5 Status information - return codes
The SIM/USIM gives status information, as responses to instructions. Some of
the possible return codes are deeply related to the user\'s actions and should
therefore be indicated to her.
It is mandatory to give the user the appropriate indication (respectively)
when the following codes appear:
description;
Memory Problem (eg. Update impossible);
Access conditions not fulfilled (eg. secret code verify rejected);
Unsuccessful CHV verification, no attempt left (eg. Secret code locked);
> Technical problem with no diagnostic given. However, if this code is
> returned by the SIM/USIM in response to an ENVELOPE (SMS-PP DOWNLOAD) or
> ENVELOPE (CELL BROADCAST DOWNLOAD) or similar message, then no indication
> shall be given to the user, since in this case the code is not related to a
> user action.
The status information indication can be a dedicated lamp, text-string or
others, as long as it is unambiguously made available to the user via the MMI.
As regards all other codes, it is left to the manufacturers\' discretion
whether and how the user shall be informed.
## 6.7 Presentation of IMEI
The following procedure shall instruct the ME to display its IMEI:
*#06#
The procedure shall be accepted and performed with and without an inserted
SIM/USIM. The ME shall then display the 14 digits of the IMEI (not including
the spare digit), the Check Digit and optionally the Software Version Number
as defined in 3GPP TS 22.016 [4] (as a single string, in that order).
## 6.8 In Case of Emergency access procedure
The In Case of Emergency (ICE) information is specified in TS 22.101[18]. This
clause defines the MMI of the In Case of Emergency access procedures.
The default setting is that the In Case of Emergency access procedure shall
operate whether or not the SIM PIN is locked and whether or not the handset is
locked. **It shall be possible for the subscriber to change the default
setting to prevent accessibility to the** ICE information. The unlocking of In
Case of Emergency shall occur when a star key is pressed three times (***) in
the WAIT state, provided that a star key is on the keypad.
The mealy-graph for the In Case of Emergency access procedure is shown in
Figure A.2.
Editor's Note :Access of ICE information for the voice-only device and DTE is
FFS.
###### ## Annex A (normative): UE access mealy graph
Figure A.1: Mealy-graph for the UE access procedure
{width="6.002777777777778in" height="1.7909722222222222in"}
Figure A.2: Mealy-graph for the In Case of Emergency access procedure
Assumptions and requirements:
1) Emergency calls shall be possible in all states, except in state 1.
2) Power-off should cause transition to state 1 from all other states.
3) The actions to be taken in state 5 is not defined.
4) Realization of the dotted states (3, 4 and 6) depends upon the network
requirements and the type of UE.
**Description of the states of the UE access procedure**
1) UE-OFF: The UE is in OFF-condition. This means that the equipment is not
active as an UE in a PLMN.
2) WAIT: Waiting for the completion of the UE access conditions, which are
related to the type of UE and to the PLMN, where in the UE is roaming (e.g.
location updating).
3) ENTER CARD: Request for entering of the subscriber card, (e.g. when no
built in SIM module is available).
4) ENTER PIN: Request for entering of the correct PIN.
5) FAILURE TREATMENT: Waiting for removal the actual failure condition.
6) ENTER PLMN: Request for selection of PLMN.
7) SERV-AV: The UE is in a ready state. PLMN services are available to the
user.
8) In Case of Emergency (ICE) When a star key is pressed three times (***),
the UE is unlocked and ICE information is available unless the subscriber has
decided to prevent the display of the ICE information. If the UE has been
locked in the previous state, then only the ICE information is available.
**Description of the transitions between UE access states**
> ON: The equipment becomes active as an UE in a PLMN.
>
> REQ: A request for user activity.
>
> IOC: Insertion of a subscriber card with SIM/USIM-module.
>
> COMPLETE: The PIN has been entered.
>
> ENTERED: A PLMN choice has been done.
>
> FAILURE: A failure condition has occurred in any other state during the UE
> access procedures.
>
> CONDITIONAL: One of the conditions the UE is waiting for in WAIT state has
> been lost. The UE goes back to the WAIT state.
>
> "DONE": The UE access failure condition has been corrected.
>
> OK: All the conditions the UE is waiting for in the WAIT state are
> accomplished.
>
> ICE unlock When a star key is pressed three times (***), the UE enters the
> In Case of Emergency (ICE) state unless the subscriber has decided to
> prevent the display of the ICE information.
>
> "End" key The UE goes back to the WAIT state.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Codes for defined Supplementary Services
Table B.1: Input information for handling of defined Supplementary Services
**Supplementary Service\ Service Code SIA SIB SIC**
**22.067\ ** eMLPP 75 and 75n where n=0‑4
**22.072\ ** CD 66
**22.081** \ CLIP 30 - - -\ CLIR 31 - - -\ COLP 76 - - -\ COLR 77 - - -\ \ In
temporary mode, to suppress CLIR for a single call, enter:\ " * 31 # \ SEND "\ \ In temporary mode, to invoke CLIR for a single call enter:\
" # 31 # \ SEND "
**22.082** \ CFU 21 DN BS -\ CF Busy 67 DN BS -\ CF No Reply 61 DN BS T\ CF
Not Reachable 62 DN BS -\ \ all CF 002 DN BS T\ all conditional CF 004 DN BS T
**22.083** \ WAIT 43 BS - -\ see section 4.5.5\ HOLD see section 4.5.5
**22.084** \ MPTY see section 4.5.5
**22.087\** UUS Service 1 361 R - -\ UUS Service 2 362 R - -**\** UUS Service
3 363 R - -\ all UUS Services 360 R - -\ \ If UUS shall be activated when
originating a call, enter:\ " * 36X * R # \ SEND"\ (X is
indicating the requested UUS service) **\ **
Table B.1 (concluded): Input information for handling of defined Supplementary
Services
**Supplementary Service\ Service Code SIA SIB SIC**
**22.088** \ BAOC 33 PW BS -\ BAOIC 331 PW BS -\ BAOIC exc home 332 PW BS -\
BAIC 35 PW BS -\ BAIC roaming 351 PW BS -\ \ all Barring Serv. 330 PW BS -\
Outg. Barr. Serv. 333 PW BS\ Inc. Barr. Serv. 353 PW BS
**22.091** \ ECT 96 see section 4.5.5
**22.093** \ CCBS 37 n See Section 4.5.5\ where n=1-5
**\ 22.094\** FM 214 See Section 6.5.6.3
**\ 22.096\** CNAP 300 **\- - -**
**\ 22.097\** MSP 59n PW where n=1-4
**\ 22.135\ ** MC 88 Nbr_user\ Where Nbr_user=1-Nbr_SB
**\** DN = Directory Number;\ PW = Password (see subclause 4.5.4);\ BS = Basic
Service Group (if required) -- see annex C;\ T = No Reply Condition Timer
(5‑30 seconds);\ R = UUS required option.\ SI required Y = Yes;\ N = No;\ \- =
Not applicable.
Nbr_user = maximum number of simultaneous CS bearers as defined by the within
the limits given by Nbr_SB.
Nbr_SB = maximum number of simultaneous CS bearers defined by Multicall
subscription.
The value for N**~br~** _SB shall in the range from 2 up to 7.
Details about Nbr_user and Nbr_SB specified in 3GPP TS22.135 Multicall. [21]
"UUS required" option
For the "UUS required" option two values are defined:
R = 0 UUS not required;\ R = 1 UUS required.
NOTE: If the "UUS required" option is requested for a call, the call will only
be established if the requested UUS capabilities are available.
If the "UUS required" option is not contained in an activation request UUS
shall be activated without the UUS required option.
###### ## Annex C (normative): Codes for Tele- and bearer services
Tele- and Bearer Service Supplementary Information codes (SIb).
Alternate and speech/data services are included with the equivalent data
service.
Basic Service
group number (Note 1) Telecommunication Service MMI Service Code
1 to 12 All tele and bearer services no code required
Teleservices
1 to 6, 12 All teleservices 10
1 Telephony 11
2 to 6 All data teleservices 12
6 Facsimile services 13
2 Short Message Services 16
1, 3 to 6, 12 All teleservices except SMS 19
12 Voice group services
Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) 17
Voice Broadcast Service (VBS) 18
Bearer Service
7 to 11 All bearer services 20
7 All async services 21
8 All sync services 22
8 All data circuit sync 24
7 All data circuit async 25
13 All GPRS bearer services (Note 2) 99
1,8 Telephony and All sync services 26
Note 1: See 3GPP TS 22.004 [2] for definition of Basic Service groups.
Note 2: \"All GPRS bearer services\" are not included in \"All tele and bearer
services\" and \"All bearer services\".
The grouping implies that if e.g. code 25 is used, the Supplementary Service
procedure concerned applies to all Asynchronous Data Circuit mode Bearer
Services subscribed to.
**Tele-and Bearer Service Supplementary Information Codes (SIb) for services
not defined by 3GPP**
**Code as defined in Telecommunication Service MMI Service\ 3GPP TS 29.002
[11] Code**
**PLMN specific teleservices:**
11010000 All PLMN specific teleservices 50
11010001 PLMN specific teleservice 1 51
11010010 PLMN specific teleservice 2 52
11010011 PLMN specific teleservice 3 53
11010100 PLMN specific teleservice 4 54
11010101 PLMN specific teleservice 5 55
11010110 PLMN specific teleservice 6 56
11010111 PLMN specific teleservice 7 57
11011000 PLMN specific teleservice 8 58
11011001 PLMN specific teleservice 9 59
11011010 PLMN specific teleservice 10 60
11011011 PLMN specific teleservice 11 61
11011100 PLMN specific teleservice 12 62
11011101 PLMN specific teleservice 13 63
11011110 PLMN specific teleservice 14 64
11011111 PLMN specific teleservice 15 65
**PLMN specific bearer services:**
11010000 All PLMN specific bearer services 70
11010001 PLMN specific bearer service 1 71
11010010 PLMN specific bearer service 2 72
11010011 PLMN specific bearer service 3 73
11010100 PLMN specific bearer service 4 74
11010101 PLMN specific bearer service 5 75
11010110 PLMN specific bearer service 6 76
11010111 PLMN specific bearer service 7 77
11011000 PLMN specific bearer service 8 78
11011001 PLMN specific bearer service 9 79
11011010 PLMN specific bearer service 10 80
11011011 PLMN specific bearer service 11 81
11011100 PLMN specific bearer service 12 82
11011101 PLMN specific bearer service 13 83
11011110 PLMN specific bearer service 14 84
11011111 PLMN specific bearer service 15 85
#