# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This 3GPP Technical Specification defines the stage one description of the
USIM application Toolkit (USAT). Stage one is an overall service description,
primarily from the subscriber's and serving environment\'s points of view, and
does not deal with the details of the human interface itself.
This TS includes information applicable to network operators, serving
environments and terminal, switch and database manufacturers.
This TS contains the core requirements for a USIM application Toolkit (USAT)
which are sufficient to provide a complete service.
It is highly desirable however, that technical solutions for a USIM
application Toolkit (USAT) are sufficiently flexible to allow for possible
enhancements. Additional functionalities not documented in this TS may
implement requirements which are considered outside the scope of this TS. This
additional functionality may be on a network-wide basis, nation-wide basis or
particular to a group of users. Such additional functionality shall not
compromise conformance to the core requirements of the service.
Figure 1: Scope of this TS
As indicated in Figure 1, the scope of this TS encompasses the USAT
functionality in the UE (comprising USIM and ME) and the interaction with the
PLMN environment. The USAT Server is not necessarily a separate entity as
shown in the figure; nodes providing USAT services may also exist within the
PLMN. The functionalities of the USAT servers (such as charging aspects,
security level classification etc.) are not covered by this specification.
The requirements are considered to be applicable to both GSM and UMTS systems.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative references
[1] 3GPP TS 31.101: \"UICC-Terminal Interface; Physical and Logical
Characteristics\".
[2] Void.
[3] Void.
[4] 3GPP TS 51.011: \"Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module, Mobile
Equipment (SIM - ME) interface\" Release 4.
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[8] Void.
[9] Void.
[10] Void.
[11] Void.
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] 3GPP TS 31.111: \"USIM Application Toolkit (USAT)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the USIM Application\".
[16] 3GPP TS 22.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS); Stage 1\".
[17] 3GPP TS 51.014: \"Specification of the SIM Application Toolkit for the
Subscriber Identity Module - Mobile Equipment (SIM - ME) interface\" Release
4.
[18] ETSI TS 102 240: \"UICC Application Programming Interface and Loader
Requirements; Service description\" Release 6.
[19] 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage
1\"..
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this TS the following definitions apply:
**applet:** a small program that is intended not to be run on its own, but
rather to be embedded inside another application.
**application:** USAT information in the form of software, applications,
associated resources (e.g. libraries) and/or data.
**bearer independent protocol** : Mechanism at the interface between the USIM
and the ME which provide access to the data bearers supported by the ME.
**buffer:** A dedicated memory used to temporarily store data to be sent
and/or retrieved.
**content:** data and/or information associated with, or independent of, a
particular application which may be presented to or collected from a user.
**data channel:** allow the USIM and the network to exchange data using a
selected data exchange capability.
**link:** radio resource.
**USAT service:** a service enhanced (or made possible) by USAT technology.
**USAT execution environment:** the USAT execution environment provides the
mechanisms to operate single or multiple USAT-applications.
**USAT serving environment:** an entity which delivers USAT services to the
subscriber. This is normally the PLMN operator, but could be an entity with
USAT responsibility (which may have been delegated by the PLMN operator).
**USAT subscriber:** the owner of a PLMN subscription who has entered into an
agreement with a USAT serving environment for USAT services. Access to USAT
services though other types of networks is out of scope of this specification.
**USAT server:** a node supporting USAT services in the USAT service
environment.
**user:** the user of a USAT UE , who may or may not be the subscriber.
**(U)SIM:** SIM and/or USIM.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS the following abbreviations apply:
API Application Programming Interface
CAMEL Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
CS Circuit Switched
CSE CAMEL Service Environment
IN Intelligent Network
ME Mobile Equipment
MExE Mobile Execution Environment
MMI Man Machine Interface
NO Network Operator
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
SAT SIM Application Toolkit
SCI Subscriber Controlled Input
SIM Subscriber Identity Module
UE User Equipment
USAT USIM Application Toolkit
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
Further abbreviations are given in TS 21.905 [7].
# 4 Description
USAT provides a standardised execution environment for applications stored on
the UICCand the ability to utilize certain functions of the supporting mobile
equipment. USAT provides mechanisms which allow applications, existing in
theUICC, to interact and operate with any ME which supports the specified
mechanism(s) thus ensuring interoperability between a UICC and an ME,
independent of the respective manufacturers and operators. A transport
mechanism is provided enabling applications to be down-loaded and/or updated.
A significant aspect of USAT is the highly secure environment provided by the
UICC. This is further enhanced by the fact that the subscriber and the issuer
of the UICC and also the USAT applications have a \"trusted relationship\"
(e.g. the subscriber trusts the issuer of the UICC to charge correctly for the
resources used). This allows certain features, such as call control, to be
implemented with a degree of freedom which would not be acceptable in a \"non-
trusted relationship\".
The introduction of the USAT execution environment into UEs (i.e. ME+USIM) is
a significant step forward in their evolution. The ability of UEs to support
USAT represents an extension of the UE\'s and PLMN capabilities. In order to
allow current and future technologies to exploit and benefit from this, a
standardized means of exchanging the MEs' and USIMs capability profiles is
supported.
This Technical Specification defines an enhancement of the USIM/ME interface.
# 5 High level USAT requirements
The requirements described in the present document apply independently of the
UICC/ME interfaces described in TS 31.101 [1]. However, this may imply
different technical implementations of these requirements depending on the
used interface (e.g. ISO or HSP), in order to optimize the USAT
implementation.
The high level requirements of USAT are as follows:-
\- provide the user with additional user interface functionalities to control
and invoke services (e.g. menus, icons, etc.) ;
\- to provide means for the user to personalize applications by means of
parameters, if such parameters are made available by the application;
\- provide support of a wide variety of applications;
\- provide the means for USAT to interact with the user via the input and
output devices of the ME;
\- the means to transfer applications automatically or on demand to the USIM
from a USAT server, and upgrade existing applications via the PLMN;
\- the means to transfer content automatically or on demand to or from the
USIM from or to a USAT server;
\- the means to transfer content directly from one USAT application to a
second UE with a USAT application via the PLMN;
\- the need for an inherent security architecture such that it shall be
possible for both the USAT and USAT server sides of a connection to be
authenticated (possibly implicitly by the use of digital signature or
ciphering). The USAT server shall maintain security of subscribers' personal
data and PLMN data;
\- it shall be possible to charge subscribers for the use of PLMN or third
party USAT services;
\- the means for USAT applications on the USIM to communicate with other PLMN
nodes;
\- the means for the ME and USIM to exchange USAT capability information;
\- provision of USAT API(s) to facilitate the development and downloading of
USAT applications;
\- It may be possible for the user to activate and deactivate the USIM/SIM
application execution environment; in this case the ME shall initiate a new
USIM session.- the means for the network operator to provide and manage the
USAT execution environment resources and also to provide and manage (i.e.
identify version, activate, de-activate, delete, modify, download etc.) the
applications;
\- the means for the USAT application to fully control the display of all
actions and network-responses related to the operation of the application.
Optionally under user control the ME may display the individual
actions/responses;
\- the means for the USAT application to control the PLMN
services/supplementary services and IP multimedia services via the
standardized MMI. Only the originator (i.e. either user or USAT application)
of the action shall directly receive the results/responses of that action
(e.g. network response to an SCI). Optionally under user control the ME may
display the individual actions/responses.
\- provide the user with additional user interface functionality to control
and invoke IP multimedia services
Some of the above requirements are subsequently elaborated.
# 6 SAT/USAT/ME interface requirements {#satusatme-interface-requirements
.list-paragraph}
## 6.1 (U)SAT APIs {#usat-apis .list-paragraph}
The (U)SIM-API is defined in ETSI TS 102 240 [18]. This API is valid for
(U)SAT and is referred to in this TS as (U)SAT API.
The (U)SAT API for the UICC shall allow application programmers easy access to
the functions and data described in 3GPP TS 51.011 [4], TS 31.101 [1], TS
31.102 [15], TS 51.014 [17], TS 31.111 [14], such that (U)SIM based services
can be developed and loaded onto UICCs (independent of the UICC manufacturer),
quickly and, if necessary, remotely, after the card has been issued. The
(U)SAT API shall support pro-active functions as described in 3GPP TS 51.014
[17] and TS 31.111 [14], and transport functions as described in 3GPP TS
51.011 [4] and TS 31.102 [15].
## 6.2 USAT proactive capability {#usat-proactive-capability .list-paragraph}
The USAT proactive capability is a mechanism whereby the UICC can request
specific actions to be taken by the ME by issuing \"proactive commands\" thus
establishing and maintaining an interactive dialogue with the user and/or
communicating with the network or an external device.
An ME may have a variety of configurations, for example, it may consist of a
modem connected to an external display. The USAT proactive capability
requirements are applicable to the ME as a whole without regard to any
particular configuration.
The ME shall inform the UICC of the success or otherwise of each command
issued to it by the UICC, and also indicate the command details and if
applicable add more specific information.
The proactive command set allows the USAT to instruct the ME to:
1 display text supplied by the USAT on the ME\'s display, with an indication
of priority (normal or high), and a defined action (user activity or timeout)
to terminate the text display.
2 display a text string and obtain the response in the form of a single user
keystroke or a string of keys entered by the user and pass the response to the
UICC. If the response is designated as private by the UICC the ME shall not
display the users response on the screen.
3 set up a voice call to an address with a specific priority as indicated by
the UICC with all parameters indicated by the UICC.
4 set up a data call to an address with specific bearer capability and
priority, all parameters are indicated by the UICC.
5 set up and manage a data channel (using CSD, Packet service bearer (e.g.:
GPRS, UTRAN packet service, HSDPA, ...), SMS, USSD or I-WLAN) between the UICC
and an address using information provided by the UICC. It shall be possible
for the USAT application to provide the ME with the network connectivity
parameters to be used (e.g. PDP context parameters) to establish IP
connectivity between a USAT application and a remote entity.
6 send data through a previously set up data channel. The UICC informs the ME
if the data is to be sent immediately.
7 retrieve data from the ME that has previously been received via a data
channel set up using (5) above. The UICC informs the ME as to how much data it
expects to retrieve.
8 send a short message to the network. The short message text is supplied by
the UICC to the ME in either packed or unpacked SMS 7-bit alphabet, or UCS2
alphabet.
9 send a SS control, SS MMI string or USSD string, indicating which alphabet
is used where applicable.
10 play a tone in the appropriate audio device.
11 negotiate, within reasonable tolerances, a periodic \"polling\" of the USIM
Toolkit.
12 refresh the image (if applicable) of the USIM data contained in the ME
memory, either entirely, or partially, or instruct the ME to re-initialize
completely.
13 set up an event list in the ME such that the UICC is informed by the ME
when an indicated event has occurred.
14 set up an additional menu in the ME, by issuing the ME with a menu list,
and allow indication back to the UICC of the user selected menu item.
15 provide requested information from the ME to the UICC, for example the MCC,
MNC and IMEI.
16 communicate bi-directionally with an auxiliary device, e.g. a second card
reader.
17 set up, refresh and interrogate several timers, and inform the UICC when
these expire, within reasonable tolerances.
18 display additional MMI information such as display information or tones
with commands that employ network resources, with an indication to the ME as
to the required level of ME generated MMI as a result of the interaction with
the network.
19 allow the ME to display help information with the commands, by providing
the associated text, related to the user action (e.g. menu selection).
20 Provide indication from the ME to the USAT when a key on the MMI has been
pressed in a \"menu\" (response to prompt) or and event (independent action)
methods, with key identification. This indication shall be done in a secure
manner.
> 21 send a MM to the network, using a data channel as (5) above. The MM
> content is supplied by the ME or the UICC.
>
> 22 start an ME-based application that the USAT application knows about. For
> example USAT applications have the ability to launch a micro-browser if
> provided by the ME as already described in this document (see Interactions
> with MExE), or may ask the ME to initiate a data synchronisation process.
Note: addressing of ME applications and other relevant parameters if needed,
shall be properly defined by the corresponding USAT specifications.
> 23 Provide location information from the ME to the UICC (e.g. GPS, A-GPS,
> Galileo, etc) if the ME is equipped with a positioning feature.
>
> 24 Provide a list of the CSG identities available application for selection
> together with the corresponding HNB Names from the ME to the UICC
> applications, if available to the ME.
>
> 25 Inform the UICC applications when selecting and leaving a CSG cell and to
> provide the corresponding CSG identity and HNB Name, if HNB Name is
> available.
Unless otherwise stated the following shall apply:
\- The format of text to be displayed is designated by the UICC and is either
SMS default alphabet (packed or unpacked) or UCS2 alphabet.
\- The format of the response from the ME is designated by the UICC and is
either keypad digit (0‑9, *, #, +), SMS default alphabet characters or UCS2
alphabet characters.
## 6.3 ME Capability for support of bearer independent protocol
The ME supporting bearer independent protocol shall provide to the USIM a
common interface for any type of data bearer. This interface is in addition to
dedicated commands (e.g. SMS, SS and USSD) for USAT application to exchange
data with entities outside the UICC.
The communication is initiated by the UICC. The ME negotiates with the UICC
and the addressed entity to establish the optimum channel considering the UICC
request, the network and ME capabilities.
The ME is responsible for maintaining and restoring the link should there be a
link error.
## 6.4 ME equipped with positioning features
It shall be possible for the UICC to request the current location information
from the ME for USAT applications if the ME is equipped with a positioning
feature capable of operating in autonomous, MS Assisted or MS Based modes
(e.g. GPS, A-GPS, Galileo, etc).
It shall be possible for the UICC to detect the presence of a positioning
feature in the Terminal Profile if the ME is equipped with a positioning
feature.
The ME shall inform the UICC if the location feature is disabled when the UICC
requests the ME to send the location information.
The ME shall inform the UICC if the location information retrieval is not
possible (e.g. due to lack of GPS coverage) when the UICC requests the ME to
send the location information.
The UICC request for location information shall be treated in accordance with
the principles defined in TS 22.071 [19].
# 7 USAT User Interface requirements {#usat-user-interface-requirements .list-
paragraph}
## 7.1 Data presentation requirements (e.g. Display) {#data-presentation-
requirements-e.g.-display .list-paragraph}
In order to be able to create and operate applications with a homogeneous
display(s) USAT shall fully control the display of all actions and all
network-responses concerned with the operation of the application. USAT shall,
upon completion/closure of the application, return full control to the ME.
The display of information shall be either in the form of text (i.e.
alphanumeric characters) or in graphical form or both.
Optionally under user control the ME may display the individual
actions/network responses.
## 7.2 Data acquisition requirements (e.g. Keypad) {#data-acquisition-
requirements-e.g.-keypad .list-paragraph}
In order to be able to create and operate applications with a homogeneous user
interface USAT shall fully control the function associated with the user input
for example via the keypad of the ME. Exceptions to this are keys which are
\"dedicated ME keys\" such as the ON/OFF key. USAT shall, upon
completion/closure of the application, return full control to the ME.
## 7.3 Access requirements (e.g. Menu) {#access-requirements-e.g.-menu .list-
paragraph}
A simple, powerful method for the user to access and interact with certain
USAT applications shall be provided.
It shall be possible for the USAT-Application to set up a user interface (e.g.
menu, icons) via the capabilities provided by the ME to allow the user to
interact with a USAT application using, for example, the display and keypad.
## 7.4 Menu capability {#menu-capability .list-paragraph}
### 7.4.1 Set up capability {#set-up-capability .list-paragraph}
The menu set up capability is a mechanism whereby the menu items (menu
entries/structure etc.) required by the USAT is indicated to the ME by means
of a proactive command. The menu set up capability is not directly available
to the user. As an option this may include \"help information\" items.
### 7.4.2 Selection capability {#selection-capability .list-paragraph}
The menu selection capability is a mechanism whereby the menu item selected by
the user is indicated to the USAT by the ME via the UICC-ME interface. As an
option this may include \"help information\" items.
## 7.5 Soft-key capability {#soft-key-capability .list-paragraph}
The soft-key allocation capability is a mechanism whereby the UICC indicates
to the ME the text to be displayed and the USAT function which is to be
assigned to a ME soft-key.
## 7.6 User control of the SAT/USAT execution environment
The user may be able to control the USAT execution environment via the ME in
accordance with the following cases:
i) the USAT execution environment is enabled/disabled
> ii) the USAT execution environment is not allowed to make automatic calls
>
> iii) the USAT execution environment is allowed to make automatic calls but
> only with user confirmation
>
> iv) the USAT execution environment is allowed to make automatic calls
> without user confirmation.
In addition it shall be possible for the user to independently enable/disable
the AT command feature.
Note that for ease of reading the term \"automatic call\" is used but this
shall be taken to mean any network interaction initiated by USAT including
SMS, USSD etc. but excluding user initiated interactions modified by USAT.
The user shall be notified by the ME if service access is prevented as the
result of partially disabling the USAT execution environment. It shall be
possible to enable the USAT execution environment if service access has been
prevented.
## 7.7 MMS presentation requirements
The USAT shall be able to request the ME to present to the user a Multimedia
Message (i.e. via the MMS user agent in the ME) stored in the UICC (see TS
22.140 [16]).
# 8 Network interface requirements {#network-interface-requirements .list-
paragraph}
## 8.1 USAT/Network interaction {#usatnetwork-interaction .list-paragraph}
USAT/Network interaction is required such that the USAT and the network can
bi-directionally exchange data through the ME, employing any of the transport
mechanisms defined in the section \"USAT data exchange capabilities
requirements\".
## 8.2 Communication control capability {#communication-control-capability
.list-paragraph}
The communication control capability is a mechanism whereby the use of
communication resources is either initiated by the USAT application or
modified by the USAT application subsequent to a user action. If supported by
the ME, the ME shall, at the time of the user initiated communication request,
inform the UICC of the current cell location identity. The UICC shall indicate
to the ME if the presentation of information (display, tones etc.) shall be
restricted to the explicit presentation of USAT supplied information or if it
is required to present standard PLMN information (e.g. network responses) in
addition to the USAT supplied information.
It shall be possible for the UICC:
  * to initiate and terminate a (UICC initiated) communication request with or without explicit confirmation by the user
  * to allow, bar or modify a communication request initiated by the user
  * to replace a user initiated communication request by another communication request (e.g. replace call request by an SS action etc.).
It shall be possible for the SAT/USAT serving environment to enable/disable
the communication control capability. As an option, dependant on the
subscribers subscription and the application, the user may enable/disable the
communication control capability via a SAT/USAT serving environment and/or
under the control of the Network Operator. The user shall be notified by the
ME in case network service is lost as the result of disabling the
communication control capability.
The communication control capability applies to all mobile originated requests
independent of the applicable data exchange capability. Explicitly it applies
to voice calls, IMS based communications and to all services listed in the
section \"USAT data exchange capabilities requirements\" (e.g. SMS,
supplementary service, circuit switched connection, packet switched
connection, etc.).
## 8.3 Service Interworking requirements {#service-interworking-requirements
.list-paragraph}
The USAT application shall be able to use all PLMN services and supplementary
services (SS) including those functions available to the user via the
standardized MMI (e.g. 2 SEND for Call Hold). Only the originator (i.e. either
user or USAT application) of the action shall directly receive the
results/responses of that action (e.g. network response to an SCI). Optionally
under user control the ME may display the individual actions/responses.
# 9 USAT data exchange capabilities requirements
## 9.1 Data exchange capabilities supported
USAT shall support the transmission (mobile originated) and the reception
(mobile terminated) of data by means of one of the following data exchange
capabilities, either using dedicated commands or managed by the ME (using the
Bearer Independent Protocol) ;
* * *
**Data exchange capability** SMS CSD Packet service bearer SS (MO only) USSD
(MO only) Cell Broadcast (MT only) SMS via GPRS I-WLAN Local Bearer
(Bluetooth, IrDA, RS232, USB)
* * *
# 10 Charging requirements {#charging-requirements .list-paragraph}
It shall be possible to charge the subscriber for the use of USAT
applications.
It shall be possible to charge for the following activities:-
\- subscription:
> the subscriber's registration to use USAT services
\- application transfer (download):
> the transfer of applications and/or information to a subscriber's USAT UE
\- application upgrading (download):
> the upgrading of previously transferred applications to a subscriber's USAT
> UE
\- application use:
> the use of applications by a subscriber's USAT UE
\- content:
> the provision of content within a USAT application
\- roaming:
> the use of USAT applications by a subscriber when roaming
\- transport:
> the use of a transport/bearer service (e.g. SMS)
# 11 Security requirements {#security-requirements .list-paragraph}
The integrity of the USIM and existing security mechanisms shall not be
compromised with the introduction of USAT services.
The security of the PLMN, the USIM and the USAT applications shall not be able
to be compromised by an external execution environment.
Applications running within an external execution environment are considered
\"non-trusted\" until a secure authentication and identification procedure has
been successfully performed. MExE is considered to be an external execution
environment. MExE is not covered by this specification.
Applications designed using the features in this specification may require
additional methods to provide additional data confidentiality, data integrity,
and data sender validation, or any subset thereof.
## 11.1 Secure Environment requirements {#secure-environment-requirements
.list-paragraph}
A major aspect of the UICC is the security provided by the chip technology
combined with the encryption and challenge/response procedures. The
enhancement of the UICC by USAT shall not reduce nor endanger the current
security. In addition, the USAT environment shall maintain (or improve) the
same high levels of security. Adequate (future) measures shall be taken to
ensure the fulfilment of this requirement also with future advances in
technologies/services (either network-centric and/or UE-centric).
# 12 Emergency calls
The SAT/USAT shall be able to instruct the ME to set up an emergency call to
the default emergency call centre. All other call set up requests shall
proceed as a normal call set up, and the dialled digits offered by the
SAT/USAT shall not be altered.
# 13 Roaming {#roaming .list-paragraph}
Provided a roaming agreement for the necessary transport/bearer service(s)
(e.g. SMS, GPRS) is currently valid, the USAT execution environment shall be
supported when roaming.
# 14 Interaction with supplementary services {#interaction-with-supplementary-
services .list-paragraph}
## 14.1 General {#general .list-paragraph}
This subclause defines the interaction between PLMN supplementary services and
the USAT feature. PLMN supplementary services shall not have any knowledge of
USAT based services.
## 14.2 Line Identification {#line-identification .list-paragraph}
### 14.2.1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP) {#calling-line-
identification-presentation-clip .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 14.2.2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR) {#calling-line-
identification-restriction-clir .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 14.2.3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP) {#connected-line-
identification-presentation-colp .list-paragraph}
### 14.2.4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR) {#connected-line-
identification-restriction-colr .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
## 14.3 Call Forwarding {#call-forwarding .list-paragraph}
### 14.3.1 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU) {#call-forwarding-
unconditional-cfu .list-paragraph}
USAT shall be able to modify the forwarded to number entered by the user and
displayed, upon interrogation, to the user.
### 14.3.2 Call Forwarding Busy (CFB) {#call-forwarding-busy-cfb .list-
paragraph}
USAT shall be able to modify the forwarded to number entered by the user and
displayed, upon interrogation, to the user.
### 14.3.3 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy) {#call-forwarding-on-no-reply-
cfnry .list-paragraph}
USAT shall be able to modify the forwarded to number entered by the user and
displayed, upon interrogation, to the user.
### 14.3.4 Call Forwarding on Not Reachable (CFNRc) {#call-forwarding-on-not-
reachable-cfnrc .list-paragraph}
USAT shall be able to modify the forwarded to number entered by the user and
displayed, upon interrogation, to the user.
## 14.4 Call Completion {#call-completion .list-paragraph}
### 14.4.1 Call Hold (CH) {#call-hold-ch .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 14.4.2 Call Waiting (CW) {#call-waiting-cw .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
## 14.5 Multi Party (MPTY) {#multi-party-mpty .list-paragraph}
USAT shall be able to modify the called number entered by the user.
## 14.6 Closed User Group (CUG) {#closed-user-group-cug .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
## 14.7 Advice of Charge (AoC) {#advice-of-charge-aoc .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
## 14.8 Call Barring {#call-barring .list-paragraph}
### 14.8.1 Barring of all outgoing calls {#barring-of-all-outgoing-calls
.list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 14.8.2 Barring of outgoing international calls {#barring-of-outgoing-
international-calls .list-paragraph}
#### 14.8.2.1 Mobile originated calls {#mobile-originated-calls .list-
paragraph}
No interaction.
#### 14.8.2.2 Forwarded Calls {#forwarded-calls .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 14.8.3 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to
the HPLMN country {#barring-of-outgoing-international-calls-except-those-
directed-to-the-hplmn-country .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 14.8.4 Barring of all incoming calls {#barring-of-all-incoming-calls
.list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 14.8.5 Barring of incoming calls when roaming {#barring-of-incoming-calls-
when-roaming .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
## 14.9 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) {#explicit-call-transfer-ect .list-
paragraph}
USAT shall be able to modify the transfer number entered by the user.
## 14.10 Completion of Call to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) {#completion-of-call-to-
busy-subscriber-ccbs .list-paragraph}
USAT shall be able to modify the number displayed to the user.
## 14.11 Multiple Subscriber Profile (MSP) {#multiple-subscriber-profile-msp
.list-paragraph}
No interaction.
# 15 Interaction with network features {#interaction-with-network-features
.list-paragraph}
All services available in the network shall continue to be offered and remain
applicable in addition to USAT. This includes the basic services,
supplementary services and network features.
## 15.1 Interactions with Operator Determined Barring (ODB) {#interactions-
with-operator-determined-barring-odb .list-paragraph}
### 15.1.1 Barring of all outgoing calls {#barring-of-all-outgoing-calls-1
.list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 15.1.2 Barring of all outgoing international calls {#barring-of-all-
outgoing-international-calls .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 15.1.3 Barring of all outgoing international calls except those directed
to the home PLMN country {#barring-of-all-outgoing-international-calls-except-
those-directed-to-the-home-plmn-country .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 15.1.4 Barring of outgoing calls when roaming outside the home PLMN
country {#barring-of-outgoing-calls-when-roaming-outside-the-home-plmn-country
.list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 15.1.5 Barring of outgoing premium rate calls {#barring-of-outgoing-
premium-rate-calls .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 15.1.6 Barring of incoming calls {#barring-of-incoming-calls .list-
paragraph}
No interaction.
### 15.1.7 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN
country {#barring-of-incoming-calls-when-roaming-outside-the-home-plmn-country
.list-paragraph}
No interaction.
### 15.1.8 Operator Specific Barring {#operator-specific-barring .list-
paragraph}
No interaction.
### 15.1.9 Barring of Supplementary Services Management {#barring-of-
supplementary-services-management .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
## 15.2 Interactions with Optimal Routing (OR) {#interactions-with-optimal-
routing-or .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
## 15.3 Interactions with MExE {#interactions-with-mexe .list-paragraph}
The SAT/USAT applications have the the ability to launch a micro-browser (on a
given URL and a given bearer) if provided by the ME.
## 15.4 Interactions with CAMEL {#interactions-with-camel .list-paragraph}
No interaction.
# 16 Compatibility of USAT ME's and applications
## 16.1 USAT Classification {#usat-classification .list-paragraph}
Given the wide ranging hardware capabilities of UICCs and MEs, together with
the development of USAT applications and applets, a USAT classification shall
be supported to determine their respective capability and compatibility. The
USAT classification shall apply both to UICCs, MEs and applications and
applets.
The objective is to:-
\- classify the requirements of a USAT UICC/applications and
\- identify the commands and features supported by the ME
The development and maintenance of the USAT specification is done in
accordance to the ETSI/3GPP release procedures. . I.e. annual releases of the
specifications are done providing support for new commands and enhancements of
existing commands. The annual Release may both contain commands that are
mandatory for that Release and commands that are optional.
The classification of the optional commands and features in a given Release
may be done with the concept of "Letter Classes". A Letter Class identifies a
subset of functionality of the Release, which will provide the user, USAT
serving environment and application writer with a consistent set of commands
and features.
The concept of a USAT Letter Classes is introduced to help identify the ME,
and the UICC /USAT application compatibility within a given Release. The USAT
Letter Class is distinct and unrelated to the existing PLMN UE Classmark. The
USAT Letter Classes are not used during capability negotiations, but are
intended to assist in designing applications by provision of a means for an
application designer to identify which combinations of USAT features are
supported by the MEs. Capability negotiations between the UICC and the ME are
performed at the feature level, independent of the USAT Letter Class.
In addition to classifying the ME as conforming to a specific Release and if
applicable one or several Letter Classes within the release, an ME
manufacturers declaration shall be provided. This shall indicate in detail the
commands and features supported by the ME. Any conformance testing shall be
performed in accordance to this declaration.
The support of a given Letter Class doesn't require the support of another
Letter Class.
USAT applications will be developed to execute on USAT UE´s in one or more
classifications. In order for USAT applications to be properly supported by a
USAT UE, the application shall be designated by the same classification of
USAT UE's on which they are intended to be executed.
## 16.2 ME/USIM operation
In the case of an ME not supporting SAT/USAT or not supporting a certain
SAT/USAT feature the following shall apply:
\- the USIM shall control (i.e. allow or prevent) the access to the network.\
This allows the USIM to prevent the use of a subscription (which may rely on
the support of USAT features for correct operation) in an uncontrolled manner.
\- if access to a PLMN is not prevented the ME shall support the non-USAT PLMN
features without restriction.
## 16.3 ME/UICC capability information exchange {#meuicc-capability-
information-exchange .list-paragraph}
If supported, the UICC and the ME shall exchange USAT capabilities when the
card session is initiated.
This exchange of information is important since the UICC then knows what the
ME is capable of, and the UICC can thus adapt the service made available to
the user accordingly. If the UICC does not receive any ME capability
information it shall assume that the ME does not support USAT.
A UICC that supports USAT shall not attempt to invoke USAT functions in the ME
if the ME has not indicated USAT support.
An ME that supports USAT shall not attempt to invoke USAT functions in the
UICC if the UICC has not indicated that USAT is supported and is active.
## 16.4 ME and compatibility
For compatibility testing the ME manufacturers shall provide a declaration of
the Release and if applicable the Letter Class(es) supported by the ME
including the detail of all commands and features supported by the ME. It can
be envisaged that ME implementations will exist that are compliant to a given
release and which support commands and features from later releases.
## 16.5 Void {#void .list-paragraph}
# 17 Void
#