# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 1 description for the Noise
Suppression feature for the AMR codec which enhances the input speech signal
corrupted by acoustic noise. In analogy with ITU-T Recommendations I.130 [1],
Stage 1 is an overall service description, from the service subscriber\'s and
user\'s standpoints, that views the network as a single entity which provides
services to the user.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendations I.130 (1988): \"Method for the characterization of
telecommunication services supported by an ISDN and network capabilities of an
ISDN\".
[2] GSM 01.04 (ETR 350): \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase
2+); Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[3] GSM 03.50: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in the GSM Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
GSM 01.04 [2] (ETR 350) provides a list of abbreviations and acronyms used in
GSM specifications.
# 4 Description
Noise Suppression for the AMR codec is an optional feature designed to enhance
speech quality in a range of environments where there is significant
(acoustic) background noise. The noise suppression function is a preprocessing
module that is used to improve the signal to noise ratio of a speech signal
prior to voice coding. In so doing it may use functions and/or data from the
AMR speech encoding function. It shall be possible to implement AMR Noise
Suppression in the mobile station (operating on the uplink speech signal). The
possibility to implement AMR Noise Suppression in the network (operating on
the downlink speech signal) is for further study. The noise suppression
specification shall be comprised of bit exact fixed point C code. Test vectors
shall be defined to verify operation.
The AMR Speech decoder C-code should not be altered by the Noise Suppression.
It shall be possible for the network to disable the operation of the example
noise suppression algorithm defined by this feature, whether that operation is
operational in the network, the mobile station, or both locations.
## 4.1 Applicability of Noise Suppression to Basic Services.
This feature shall be applicable (as an option) to all speech calls where the
narrowband AMR codec is utilised. Operation of noise suppression for wideband
AMR is for further study.
## 4.2 Support in Mobile Stations (MS)
Support of the Noise Suppression feature shall require modifications to future
mobile stations. Provision of the feature in AMR-capable mobile stations is a
manufacturer dependent option.
Use of the feature in the network during a call should not place any
requirements on its use within the MS. Similarly, use of the feature by the MS
during a call shall not place any requirements on its use in the network.
The network shall be able to enable or disable this example optional noise
suppression function both at call set-up and in call [Signalling between
network and mobile to allow this control is under study in SMG2 WPA].
## 4.3 Support in the Network
Provision of the feature in the network should be an option.
Use of the feature in the network during a call should not place any
requirements on its use within the MS. Similarly, use of the feature by the MS
during a call should not place any requirements on its use in the network.
The network should be able to enable or disable this example optional noise
suppression function both at call set-up and in call.
## 4.4 Parameters to be indicated and negotiated
[TBD]
## 4.5 Provision of Service
### 4.5.1 Location Independence
The Noise suppression feature shall be location independent.
### 4.5.2 Provision of service within and between networks
Provision of the feature is the same whether or not the call is wholly
contained within a network or between networks.
### 4.5.3 Subscription and Billing Information
This feature shall not be provisioned on a per-subscriber basis and no record
of the application of Noise Suppression is necessary for billing purposes.
## 4.6 Quality of Service (QoS)
### 4.6.1 Impact on Speech Quality
The following performance requirements are stated under the assumption that
the noise suppressor is tested as an integral part of the AMR speech codec
with the speech codec operating at the following rates [TBD]. The performance
requirements must be met for all these stated speech codec rates.
#### 4.6.1.1 Initial Convergence Time
The initial convergence time shall be a maximum of T seconds with T equal to
2s. The definition of this time interval shall be understood strictly in
accordance with its means of use in subjective listening experiments. Its use
shall be defined by a process whereby the first T seconds of each sample
processed through the AMR speech codec with and without noise suppression
active, is deleted before presentation to listeners. It is assumed that this
process does not reduce intelligibility, or introduce clipping or similar
effects into the resultant speech plus noise material.
To test the subjective effect of initial convergence, there will be a subset
of subjective testing defined where this initial period of T seconds is not
removed from the processed samples. These tests should be representative of
the full range of noise conditions.
#### 4.6.1.2 No Degradation in Clean Speech
The noise suppression function must not have a statistically significant
distorting effect on clean speech, in comparison with the performance of the
AMR codec without noise suppression applied. This requirement also applies to
the case where tandeming of the standardised example noise suppression
function occurs for mobile to mobile calls, in which case the reference
condition is the tandem condition without noise suppression activated.
This requirement also applies when VAD/DTX is active.
#### 4.6.1.3 No Artefacts in Residual Noise
The noise suppression function must not introduce any subjectively
objectionable artefacts in the residual noise. This requirement also applies
to the case where tandeming of the standardised example noise suppression
function occurs for mobile to mobile calls, in which case the reference
condition is the tandem condition without noise suppression activated.
This requirement also applies when VAD/DTX is active.
#### 4.6.1.4 No Speech Clipping and no Reduction in Intelligibility
The noise suppression function should introduce no subjectively objectionable
degradation such as clipping or distortion in the speech, and no reduction in
intelligibility. This requirement also applies to the case where tandeming of
the standardised example noise suppression function occurs for mobile to
mobile calls, in which case the reference condition is the tandem condition
without noise suppression activated.
This requirement also applies when VAD/DTX is active.
#### 4.6.1.5 Quality Impact compared to AMR
The AMR speech codec with noise suppression activated must produce an output
in noisy speech which is preferred amongst test listeners with statistical
significance, compared to the case where noise suppression is not used. This
requirement also applies to the case where tandeming of the standardised
example noise suppression function occurs for mobile to mobile calls, in which
case the reference condition is the tandem condition without noise suppression
activated.
This requirement also applies when VAD/DTX is active.
### 4.6.2 Impact on Speech Path Delay
The one way algorithmic delay due to the activation of AMR noise suppression
shall be no more than 7 ms in excess of the delay inserted by the AMR speech
codec.
In handsfree case, this delay is part of the 39ms delay specified in GSM 03.50
[3].
## 4.7 Impact on Complexity
Table 4.1 defines complexity limits for AMR noise suppression.
Table 4.1 Complexity Requirements for AMR Noise Suppression
* * *
Quantity Complexity Limit (Upper Bound) Number of weighted operations per
second 5 WMOPS Scratch pad RAM Re-use AMR speech encoder scratch pad RAM (or
in the case of implementation which does not reside in the same device as the
speech encoder, the available scratch pad RAM should be the same as that
defined for the AMR speech encoder) Static RAM 1,5 kwords Data ROM 1 kword
Program ROM 2000 basic ETSI operations
* * *
## 4.8 Impact on Channel Activity
The AMR speech codec with noise suppression activated should not significantly
increase channel activity when used in conjunction with DTX.
Channel activity increase will be measured thanks to the Voice Activity factor
(VAF), defined as follows.
Let x be the VAF measured by the AMR VAD as an averaged value on all clean
speech signals.
Let y be the VAF measured by the AMR VAD without AMR NS active as an averaged
value on all clean speech + noise signals (where the applicable clean speech
signal is the speech signal used in the measure of x).
Let w be the VAF measured by the AMR VAD with AMR NS active as an averaged
value on all clean speech +noise signals (where the applicable clean speech
signal is the speech signal used in the measure of x). w is required to be
less than the maximum of y and x. Any case where w is greater than y should be
further investigated.
For real word signals, w is required not to be significantly greater than y.
Any case where w is greater than y should be further investigated.
These requirements shall apply to all standardized AMR VADs. (w,x,y) are
determined using all VADs, and the requirements are checked relatively to each
AMR VAD independently.
# 5 Interaction with supplementary services
## 5.1 General
This clause defines the interactions between GSM supplementary services and
the Noise Suppression Feature.
The application of Noise Suppression shall not interfere with the provision or
invocation of any supplementary services.
## 5.2 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
No adverse interaction. If the new party is a mobile station with support for
the Noise Suppression feature, the noise suppression feature shall be invoked.
## 5.3 Call wait/Call hold.
No interaction.
## 5.4 Multiparty
No interaction.
## 5.5 Service Announcements
No interaction.
# 6 Interaction with Alternate and Followed by services
There shall be no impact on data transmission due the Noise Suppression
Feature.
# 7 Interaction with other speech services
There is no requirement for Noise Suppression in ASCI services.
# 8 Interaction with DTMF and other signalling tones
DTMF and other signalling tones transmission performance during the
application of Noise Suppression shall be no worse than the case where Noise
Suppression is turned off.
# 9 Interaction with Lawful Intercept
In the case where lawful intercept is required in a call where Noise
Suppression is activated, the Noise Suppression shall not cause any
degradation in the speech quality received by the A and B parties.
# 10 Interaction with TFO
No interaction.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Change Request History
* * *
SMG# Tdoc SMG Spec CR Cat PH Vers New\ Subject Vers
29 P-99-425 02.76 2+ 8.0.0 New version 8.0.0 for R99
**Change history**
**Date** **TSG #** **TSG Doc.** **CR** **Rev** **Subject/Comment** **Old**
**New**
2001-03 11 New version 4.0.0 for Release 4 8.0.0 4.0.0
2001-08 Clean-up 4.0.0 4.0.1
2002-06 16 Version 5.0.0 for Release 5 4.0.1 5.0.0
2004-12 26 Version 6.0.0 for Release 6 5.0.0 6.0.0
2007-06 36 Version 7.0.0 for Release 7 6.0.0 7.0.0
2008-12 42 Version 8.0.0 for Release 8 7.0.0 8.0.0
2009-12 46 Version 9.0.0 for Release 9 8.0.0 9.0.0