# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
The present document describes the Supplementary Services belonging to the
group Call Completion Supplementary Services.
The general aspects, including definitions and recommended provision, of the
description of Supplementary Services are given in specification TS 22.004
[2].
The group of Call Completion Supplementary Services is divided into the
following two Supplementary Services:
\- Call waiting (clause 1);
\- Call hold (clause 2).
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification Supplementary Services ‑ Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system; MultiParty
(MPTY) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall Stage 1\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in TR 21.905 [1].
# 1 Call Waiting (CW)
## 1.1 Definition
The Call Waiting Service permits a mobile subscriber to be notified of an
incoming call (as per basic call procedures) whilst the traffic channel is not
available for the incoming call and the mobile subscriber is engaged in an
active or held call. Subsequently, the subscriber can either accept, reject,
or ignore the incoming call.
## 1.2 Description
### 1.2.1 Description
This service operates when the traffic channel at the controlling subscriber B
is not available and B is engaged in an active or held call.
When a third party (calling subscriber C) attempts to connect to that
termination, the controlling subscriber B is given an appropriate indication
of the waiting call. A notification that the call is waiting will be sent back
towards the calling subscriber C.
The maximum number of waiting calls at one time per mobile access is one. This
means that no further calls are offered to the subscriber while a call is
waiting.
NOTE: As a network option this maximum number of waiting calls may be greater
than one. This is considered as a possible future enhancement.
### 1.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this Supplementary Service to the ongoing call is defined
in TS 22.004 [2]. The incoming, waiting, call may be of any kind.
### 1.2.3 Terminology
**(Controlling) subscriber B**
This is the subscriber who is provided by the network with the Call Waiting
Service and who reacts to the Call Waiting.
**Subscriber C**
This is the subscriber who has originated a call to B which causes the Call
Waiting Service to be invoked.
**Subscriber A**
This represents a subscriber who is engaged in a call with B, being either the
calling or the called party.
**T2; No answer time out**
The duration of this time out is the time the network will wait for a response
from subscriber B, to the offered call from subscriber C. The value of the
timer is between 0.5 and 2 minutes at the service providers discretion.
## 1.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 1.3.1 Provision
This Supplementary Service is provisioned for all Basic Services (BS)
subscribed to and to which it is applicable, i.e. not provisioned to any
subset of these BS.
### 1.3.2 Withdrawal
Withdrawal will be at the request of the subscriber or for administrative
reasons.
### 1.3.5 Activation
This Supplementary Service will be activated either collectively for all
applicable Basic Services or on a Basic Service group basis by the subscriber
using a control procedure, as specified in TS 22.030 [3], or by the service
provider. The controlling subscriber shall be informed by the network of the
success or otherwise of her action.
### 1.3.6 Deactivation
The service will be deactivated either collectively for all applicable Basic
Services or on a Basic Service group basis by the subscriber using a control
procedure, as specified in TS 22.030 [3], or by the service provider. The
controlling subscriber shall be informed by the network of the success or
otherwise of her action.
### 1.3.7 Invocation
This service is invoked by the network on arrival of an incoming call if the
service is active and the controlling subscriber B\'s traffic channel is not
available, B is engaged in an active or held call and there is no other call
currently waiting.
### 1.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
#### 1.3.8.1 Incoming call from C
When an incoming call from subscriber C arrives, the served mobile subscriber
is connected to - at least - one call (active or held) and a NDUB (Network
Determined User Busy) condition does not exist, then the CW service shall be
invoked and the call shall be offered to subscriber B with an appropriate
indication, e.g. with a \"Call Waiting Tone\".
If a response to the offered call is received from the mobile termination at
B, then the subscriber C shall be given an indication (e.g. ringing tone) that
the called subscriber is being informed of the incoming call and, if possible,
that call waiting is in operation.
#### 1.3.8.2 Terminating call by A or B
If either subscriber A or subscriber B requests that the call is terminated,
then this call shall be terminated as for basic call (see TS 22.030 [3] for
more information). Subscriber B shall then be given the normal notification
that there is a new call to her, as for a normal terminating call. The network
shall continue to indicate; e.g. ringing tone towards subscriber C as for a
normal call. B can then accept the call from C before the expiry of T2.
Subscriber B can also free resources by using the Call Hold Supplementary
Service. Subscriber B shall then be able to accept the waiting call from
subscriber C before the expiry of T2.
Alternatively, subscriber B may specifically request release or hold of the
connection to A and accept the waiting call as one action (see TS 22.030 [3]).
In this case, the network connects subscriber B to subscriber C with no
further notifications to either subscriber. This must be done before the
expiry of T2.
### 1.3.11 Interrogation
**Status check**
The controlling subscriber may interrogate the network by the use of a control
procedure, as specified in TS 22.030 [3]. The network shall respond with an
appropriate indication telling the subscriber whether the service is supported
in this network and, if so, provide a list of all Basic Service groups to
which the Call waiting Supplementary Service is active.
## 1.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
### 1.4.1 Incoming call from subscriber C ignored by subscriber B
If no response is received by the network from controlling subscriber B before
the expiry of T2, then the network shall inform the controlling subscriber B
that the call is no longer waiting. Subscriber C shall then be given a no
reply indication, unless e.g. Call Forwarding applies. The call waiting
service is then made available for a subsequent incoming call.
### 1.4.2 Incoming call from subscriber C is indicated as UDUB by subscriber B
(or terminal B)
If the waiting call is indicated as UDUB by B before the expiry of T2 the
subscriber C shall be given a busy indication, unless e.g. Call Forwarding
applies. The call waiting service is then made available for a subsequent
incoming call.
### 1.4.3 Release by subscriber C within the specified period
If calling subscriber C terminates the call attempt to subscriber B before the
expiry of T2, the call attempt from C shall be terminated, as for basic call,
and subscriber B shall be notified.
### 1.4.4 Incoming call from subscriber C is rejected by subscriber B
If the waiting call is explicitly rejected by B before the expiry of T2, the
subscriber C shall be given a reject indication. The call waiting service is
then made available for a subsequent incoming call.
## 1.5 Alternate procedures
None identified.
## 1.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
#### 1.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
If call forwarding unconditional has been activated, it takes precedence over
call waiting. Call forwarding unconditional can be activated while a call is
waiting without changing the state of the waiting call.
#### 1.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
No impact, i.e. neither Supplementary Service shall affect the operation of
the other Supplementary Service.
The following text clarifies the situation: If user B is NDUB (Network
Determined User Busy), Call Forwarding shall take place, and the call is not
offered to B. If B is not NDUB, the call shall be offered to B, and if the
UDUB (User DUB) condition occurs, then the Call Forwarding shall take place.
#### 1.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply
If the CFNRy is active and operative for the called subscriber then a waiting
call shall still be offered as described in subclause 1.3.8.1 (call waiting
indication). If no response is received to this call before the expiry of the
No Reply Condition timer, then the call forwarding on no reply service becomes
invoked and the call is forwarded as per that call forwarding on no reply
service description.
#### 1.6.83.2 Call hold
The served user may use the Call Hold service to answer subsequently a waiting
call from C.
If the served mobile subscriber has an active call and a call one hold the
network can still offer an incoming call with the waiting indication i.e. the
NDUB condition is not used the normal way (n=2 not 1).
NOTE: Although the call is offered to the subscriber, she cannot accept the
call as long as she has one active call and one call on hold.
If the served mobile subscriber has a call on hold and no active call, an
incoming call is offered as a waiting call.
#### 1.6.81.1 Calling line identification presentation
See TS 22.081 [4]
#### 1.6.84.2 MultiParty
See TS 22.084 [5] .
#### 1.6.88.6 Barring of all incoming calls
Invocation of Barring of Incoming Calls takes precedence over invocation of
Call Waiting.
Call waiting cannot be activated if barring of incoming calls is activated.
The mobile subscriber requesting for call waiting shall be informed of this
Supplementary Service incompatibility. The activation of barring of incoming
calls does not affect any currently waiting calls.
#### 1.6.88.7 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN
country
When active and operative, same as interaction with Barring of All Incoming
Calls.
## 1.7 Interactions with other services
### 1.7.1 Multicall
See TS 22.135 [6].
## 1.8 Interworking considerations
Calls originating from outside the ISDN/PLMN can undergo call waiting at B.
A special in-band indication may be provided to the calling subscriber instead
of the normal indication.
# 2 Call hold
## 2.1 Definition
The call hold service allows a served mobile subscriber, who is provisioned
with this Supplementary Service, to interrupt communication on an existing
active call and then subsequently, if desired, re-establish communication. The
traffic channel remains assigned to the mobile subscriber after the
communication is interrupted to allow the origination or possible termination
of other calls.
## 2.2 Description
### 2.2.1 Description
When the call hold service is invoked, communication is interrupted on the
traffic channel and the traffic channel is released from the existing call.
The traffic channel is reserved for the served mobile subscriber invoking the
call hold service. The served mobile subscriber can only have one call on hold
at a time.
One traffic channel should be reserved for the served mobile subscriber as
long as the subscriber has one call on hold and is currently not connected to
any other call, i.e. the network should not reserve more than one traffic
channel for a mobile station.
If the served mobile subscriber has a call on hold and is not connected to an
active call, she can:
1) Retrieve the held call.
2) Set up another call.
3) Disconnect the held call.
If the served mobile subscriber has a call on hold and is not connected to an
active call she can not receive a call, except when using the Call Waiting
Supplementary Service. For additional information, see subclause 2.6.83.1
(Interaction with Call Waiting Supplementary Service).
If the served mobile subscriber is connected to an active call and has another
call on hold, she can:
1) Alternate from one call to the other.
2) Disconnect the active call.
3) Disconnect the held call.
4) Disconnect both calls.
If the served mobile subscriber is connected to an active call and has another
call on hold, she can not receive a call. For additional information, see
subclause 2.6.83.1 (Interaction with Call Waiting Supplementary Service).
### 2.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this Supplementary Service is defined in TS 22.004 [2].
NOTE: If the served mobile subscriber has a call on hold she may set up
another call using a different telecommunications service.
## 2.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 2.3.1 Provision
This Supplementary Service is provisioned for all basic services subscribed to
and to which it is applicable, i.e. not provisioned to any subset of these BS.
### 2.3.2 Withdrawal
The service will be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
### 2.3.5 Activation
The Supplementary Service will be activated by the service provider as a
result of provision.
### 2.3.6 Deactivation
The Supplementary Service will be deactivated by the service provider as a
result of withdrawal.
### 2.3.7 Invocation
Call hold will be invoked by the served mobile subscriber by use of a control
procedure as described in TS 22.030 [3].
### 2.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
**Hold request**
The served mobile subscriber indicates to the network that communication on
the interface is to be interrupted. A call may be placed on hold:
\- on the served calling subscriber\'s interface by her at any time after the
call has been answered and before call clearing has begun.
\- on the served called subscriber\'s interface by her at any time after the
call has been answered and before call clearing has begun.
The communication on the connection is then interrupted An acknowledgement
shall be given to the served mobile subscriber, and the traffic channel is now
available for other uses. A notification shall be sent towards the held party
indicating that the call has been placed on hold.
**Disconnect**
If at any time a call is in the held state, either party may disconnect from
that call.
**Unidirectionality**
Assume that subscriber A and B are connected to a call and both have
subscribed to the call hold services. The call hold service is unidirectional,
so it is possible for:
1) only party A to have party B on hold;
For party A the call is on hold, for the held party B the call is active.
2) only party B to have party A on hold;
For party B the call is on hold, for the held party A the call is active; or
3) each party to have the other on hold.
For party A and party B the call is on hold.
**Handling of call hold service within a call**
The served mobile subscriber may control the call hold service by use of the
control procedures as described in TS 22.030 [3].
If the served mobile subscriber has a call on hold and is not connected to an
active call, she can:
1) Retrieve the held call.
A notification shall be send towards the previously held party that the call
has been retrieved.
2) Set up another call.
Results in the served mobile subscriber being engaged in that new call and
still holding the other call.
3) Disconnect the held call (as for basic call).
If the served mobile subscriber is connected to an active call and has another
call on hold, she can:
1) Alternate from one call to the other.
Results in the previously active call being held and the previously held call
becoming active. Privacy is provided between the two calls. A notification
shall be sent towards the previously held party that the call has been
retrieved and another notification shall be sent towards the party being put
on hold.
2) Disconnect the active call.
Results in the traffic channel being available for the served mobile
subscriber and the other call being still on hold. The served mobile
subscriber shall be notified that she has a call on hold. The disconnected
party shall be notified as for a basic call.
NOTE: The notification about the held call towards the served mobile
subscriber is given by the MS, not by the network.
3) Disconnect the held call.
The disconnected party shall be notified as for a basic call.
4) Disconnect both calls (as for basic call).
If the served mobile subscriber is connected to an active call and has another
call on hold, and the active call is disconnected by the other party; then the
served mobile subscriber shall be notified that she has a call on hold.
NOTE: The notification about the held call towards the served mobile
subscriber is given by the MS, not by the network.
## 2.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
### 2.4.1 Exceptional operation or unsuccessful outcome
If the network cannot retrieve a previously held call, the mobile subscriber
will be informed of the reason of the failure. (For example, the call may be
in the process of being cleared). The call state is not affected.
If the network cannot alternate between two calls, the mobile subscriber will
be informed of the reason for the failure. The call states are not affected.
### 2.4.6 Invocation
**Hold**
If a mobile subscriber tries to invoke the hold service while not subscribed
to the service or for some other reason, the service provider cannot provide
the hold service, an indication will be provided to the mobile subscriber with
the reason of failure. The call state is not affected.
## 2.5 Alternate procedures
None identified.
## 2.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
#### 2.6.83.1 Call waiting
See subclause 1.6.83.2.
#### 2.6.84.2 MultiParty
See TS 22.084 [5]
## 2.7 Interactions with other services
### 2.7.1 Multicall
See TS 22.135 [6].
## 2.8 Interworking considerations
The operation of this Supplementary Service is not affected by the nature of
the far end of the connection.
NOTE: In some networks the indication to the distant user about the held or
retrieve state of the call may not be supported.
#