# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
The present document describes the Supplementary Services belonging to the
group MultiParty Supplementary Services.
The general aspects, including definitions and recommended provision, of the
description of the Supplementary Services are given in TS 22.004.
The group of Supplementary Services MultiParty Supplementary Services consists
of one Supplementary Service:
\- MultiParty service (Clause 1).
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) Supplementary
Services ‑ Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.085 \"Closed User Group (CUG) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage
1\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in TS 21.905.
# 1 MultiParty Service (MPTY)
## 1.1 Definition
This Supplementary Service provides a mobile subscriber with the ability to
have a multi-connection call, i.e. a simultaneous communication with more than
one party.
## 1.2 Description
### 1.2.1 Description
A precondition for the multi-party service is that the served mobile
subscriber is in control of one active call and one call on hold, both calls
having been answered. In this situation the served mobile subscriber can
request the network to begin the multiParty service.
Once a multiParty call is active, remote parties may be added, disconnected or
separated (i.e. removed from the multiParty call but remain connected to the
served mobile subscriber).
The maximum number of remote parties is 5.
#### 1.2.1.1 Indication about multiParty status
Notification shall be sent towards the served mobile subscriber and all the
remote parties in a multiParty call at the invocation of this Supplementary
Service. In addition, a notification shall always be sent towards all remote
parties (i.e. not towards the served mobile subscriber) every time a new party
is added to the multiParty call. Notifications shall also be sent to remote
parties when they are put on hold and when they are retrieved in accordance
with normal Call Hold procedures.
In the case where a previously private communication is added again to the
multiParty call, a notification shall be sent towards all remote parties.
NOTE: During an interim period of time, some networks might not support the
sending of the notifications to the remote parties.
### 1.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this Supplementary Service is defined in TS 22.004.
### 1.2.3 Terminology
**Served Mobile Subscriber**
During the invocation and active phase, the service is under the control of
the served mobile subscriber, i.e. the one who has subscribed to the service.
**Remote Party**
Any participant in the multiParty call who is not the served mobile
subscriber.
## 1.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 1.3.1 Provision
This Supplementary Service is provisioned for all Basic Services (BS)
subscribed to and to which it is applicable, i.e. not to any subset of these
BS.
The provision of the Call Hold Supplementary Service is also required.
### 1.3.2 Withdrawal
Withdrawal of the service is made by the service provider upon request by the
subscriber or for service provider reasons.
### 1.3.5 Activation
The Supplementary Service shall be activated by the service provider as a
result of provision.
### 1.3.6 Deactivation
The Supplementary Service shall be deactivated by the service provider as a
result of withdrawal.
### 1.3.7 Invocation
Multi-Party service will be invoked by the served mobile subscriber by use of
a control procedure, as defined in TS 22.030.
### 1.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
Only the served mobile subscriber shall be able to add remote parties to the
multiParty call.
#### 1.3.8.1 Beginning the multiParty call
When the served mobile subscriber invokes multiParty service from the
precondition defined in Section 1.2.1, the network joins the active call and
the call on hold together into a multiParty call in which the served mobile
subscriber and the remote parties can all communicate with one another.
#### 1.3.8.2 Managing an active multiParty call
During an active multiParty call, the served mobile subscriber shall be able
to:
(i) Add another remote party, to which a private communication has been
established using the same procedures as in Section 1.3.8.1, if the number of
remote parties does not then exceed the maximum number allowed, which results
in an active multiParty call.
A \"MPTY invoke\" notification shall be sent towards all remote parties.
A Retrieve notification (according to TS 22.083) shall be sent towards all
previously held remote parties.
(ii) Put the connection to multiParty call on hold, i.e. place her connection
to the multiParty call on hold (and typically later retrieve it). The served
mobile subscriber may make an enquiry call (e.g. to a potential new remote
party) or process a Call Waiting request from this state. While the multiParty
call is on hold the remaining remote parties in the multiParty call can have
communication with each other.
As a result of this scenario, the enquiry call or the accepted waiting call
can be added to the multiParty call or released. If the call is released by
the served mobile subscriber or by the remote party, the served mobile
subscriber is in control of a held multiParty call.
A Hold notification (according to TS 22.083) shall be sent towards all remote
parties.
(iii) Separate a remote party:
Explicitly choose one remote party to have a private communication with. This
results in that remote party being removed from the multiParty call which is
placed on hold, and the conversation between the served mobile subscriber and
the designated remote party being a normal active call (see NOTE 1). The
remaining remote parties may have communication with each other in this state.
As a result of this scenario the private communication can be added again to
the multiParty call or released. If the private call is released by the served
mobile subscriber or by the remote party, the served mobile subscriber is in
control of a held multiParty call.
A Hold notification (according to TS 22.083) shall be sent towards all remote
parties, except the designated remote party to which a private communication
was established.
(iv) Terminate the entire multiParty call. When the served mobile subscriber
releases, this is interpreted as a request for termination of the entire
multiParty call even if there are calls on hold.
No further notification shall be sent.
(v) Disconnect a remote party:
Explicitly release the remote parties on a one at a time basis (see NOTE 1).
In the case when no remote parties remain, the multiParty call is terminated.
NOTE 1: If the served mobile subscriber has a private communication with one
of the remote parties and this remote party disconnects or is disconnected a
notification is sent towards the served mobile subscriber that she has a
multiParty call on hold.
The notification about the held multiparty call towards the served mobile
subscriber is given by the MS, not by the network.
#### 1.3.8.3 Managing a held multiParty call
During a held multiParty call the served mobile subscriber shall be able to:
1) Retrieve the held multiParty call, which results in an active multiParty
call.
2) Initiate a new call.
3) Process a Call Waiting request.
4) Disconnect the held multiParty call. All calls belonging to the multiParty
call shall be released.
5) Disconnect a single remote party.
During a held multiParty call the served mobile subscriber shall NOT be able
to:
Retrieve a single remote party.
#### 1.3.8.4 Managing a single call and a MPTY
##### 1.3.8.4.1 Single active call
If the served mobile subscriber is connected to a single active call
(regardless whether it is a private communication or a new initiated call) and
has a MPTY on hold, she is able to:
1) Disconnect the single active call.
2) Disconnect the held MPTY.
3) Disconnect both. All calls, even if they are on hold, shall be released.
4) Join the single active call and the held MPTY together.\ This would result
in an active MPTY, except if the number of remote parties exceeds the number
allowed.
A \"MPTY invoke\" notification shall be sent towards all remote parties.
A Retrieve notification (according to TS 22.083) shall be sent towards the
previously held remote party.
5) Alternate between both calls.
##### 1.3.8.4.2 Active MPTY and held call
If the served mobile subscriber is connected to a active MPTY and has a single
call on hold, she is able to:
1) Disconnect the active MPTY.
2) Disconnect the single held call.
3) Disconnect both. All calls, even if they are on hold, shall be released.
4) Join the single held call and the active MPTY together. This would result
in an active MPTY, except if the number of remote parties exceeds the number
allowed.
A \"MPTY invoke\" notification shall be sent towards all remote parties.
A Retrieve notification (according to TS 22.083) shall be sent towards all
previously held remote parties.
5) Alternate between both calls.
If the served mobile subscriber is connected to a active Multi Party call and
has a single call on hold, a request for establishing a private communication
will be rejected by the network. (Because this would lead to an active call
and two calls on hold, which is not supported according to the Call Hold
Supplementary Service).
An indication will be given to the served mobile subscriber with the reason
for failure.
#### 1.3.8.5 Remote parties in a Multi-Party Call
Any of the remote parties shall be able to:
a) Put her connection to the multiParty call on hold (and typically later
retrieve it). The requirements of the Call Hold service then apply;
b) Release from the multiParty call.
If a remote party releases and no remote party then remains, the requirements
of the normal call release procedures then apply.
## 1.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
If a served mobile subscriber attempts to invoke multiParty service and the
network cannot accept that request, the request will be rejected and an
indication will be given to the served mobile subscriber with a reason for
denial. Some possible reasons for rejection are:
\- service not subscribed;
\- resources cannot be allocated;
\- conflicting situation with other Supplementary Services;
\- calls are not in appropriate state (e.g. one or more calls are not answered
or are in the process of being cleared);
\- service not supported by the LPLMN.
If the service provider cannot satisfy the request to add a further remote
party (e.g. if the multiParty call has been cleared or if the maximum number
of remote parties allowed has already been reached) the served mobile
subscriber shall receive an indication that the request is denied, with the
reason for failure.
If the radio path of the served mobile subscriber is lost permanently for any
reason, the multiParty call shall be released.
## 1.5 Alternate procedures
None identified.
## 1.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
#### 1.6.81.3 Connected line identification presentation
Remote parties in an existing multiParty call who have subscribed to connected
line number identification presentation will not receive a new remote party\'s
number whenever a served mobile subscriber adds a new remote party to the
multiParty call.
#### 1.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
No interaction, the following text shall give a clarification.
Calling subscriber: If a calling subscriber attempts to establish a multiParty
call to a subscriber with call forwarding unconditional active and operative,
the forwarded-to subscriber will be alerted and can be added to the
conference.
Forwarded-to subscriber: A forwarded-to subscriber can establish a multiParty
call using an existing forwarded call as one of the multiParty connections.
#### 1.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy
No interaction, the following text shall give a clarification.
Calling subscriber: If a calling subscriber attempts to establish a multiParty
call to a subscriber with call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy active and
operative, and the forwarding condition is met, the forwarded-to subscriber
will be alerted and can be added to the conference.
Forwarded-to subscriber: A forwarded-to subscriber can establish a multiParty
call using an existing forwarded call as one of the multiParty connections.
#### 1.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply
Same as the interaction between call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy and
multiParty call.
#### 1.6.82.4 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
Same as the interaction between call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy and
multiParty call.
#### 1.6.83.1 Call waiting
No interaction. The following text is included for clarification:
A user who is active on a multiParty call, either as the served mobile
subscriber or as remote party, may receive an indication of a waiting call,
provided that the maximum number of calls at the mobile equipment will not be
exceeded.
After the multiParty call has been put on hold by this user, the waiting call
may be accepted by the user.
#### 1.6.83.2 Call hold
Any party involved in an active multiParty call (i.e. the served mobile
subscriber or a remote party) may place the connection to the multiParty call
on hold and later retrieve it.
#### 1.6.84.1 Multi-party service
It shall be possible for any remote party in a multiParty call to alternate
between two different multiParty calls.
Served Mobile Subscriber:
The served mobile subscriber cannot control more than one multiParty call at a
time.
It shall not be possible to invoke multiParty service if either or both of the
initial calls are active parts of one or two other multiParty calls.
Multi-Party Call controlled by one of the remote parties:
The network will not be required to prevent that a leg to one of the other
remote parties can be part of another multiParty call controlled by that
remote party.
#### 1.6.85.1 Closed user group
See TS 22.085.
#### 1.6.88.1 Barring of all outgoing calls
If barring of all outgoing calls is activated after a multiParty call is
invoked, any outgoing calls in progress within that multiParty call will not
be barred. Any new outgoing call is barred.
#### 1.6.88.2 Barring of outgoing international calls
Same as interworking between barring of all outgoing calls and multiParty
service.
#### 1.6.88.4 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to
the home PLMN country
Same as interaction between barring of all outgoing calls and multiParty
service.
#### 1.6.88.6 Barring of incoming calls
If barring of incoming calls is activated after a multiParty call is invoked,
any incoming calls in progress within that multiParty call will not be barred.
Any new incoming call is barred.
#### 1.6.88.7 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN
country
If barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country is
made active and operative after a multiParty call is invoked, any incoming
calls in progress within that multiParty call will not be barred. Any new
incoming call is barred.
## 1.7 Interworking considerations
Interworking with non-PLMN/ISDN:
If a remote party is neither a PLMN nor an ISDN subscriber, it is possible
that she is not notified.
Mapping of notifications:
Direction ISDN to PLMN:
3PTY and CONF shall be mapped onto MPTY.
Direction PLMN to ISDN:
MPTY shall be mapped onto CONF.
#