# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document presents describes Multicall supplementary service.
The general aspects, including definitions and recommended provision, of the
description of the 3GPP Supplementary Services are given in 3GPP TS 22.004.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.001: \"Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.024: \"Description of Charge Advice Information (CAI)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.100: \"UMTS Phase 1 Release 99\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.129: \"Handover Requirement between UTRAN and GERAN or other
Radio Systems\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.097: \"Multiple Subscriber Profile (MSP) \".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**CS Call** : Circuit switched call. A call routed through CS domain. CS call
can be for example a speech call, fax call or data call. One call shall only
use one bearer at the time
**Multiparty** : Supplementary Service for speech conference service
**N~cs~ MO** : maximum number of simultaneous mobile originating CS calls. The
value of The Value of N**~cs_~MO** is 7. If N**~cs_~MO** has been reached, no
more MO calls can be set--up
**N~CS_~MT** : Maximum number of simultaneous mobile terminating CS calls. The
value of N~CS_~MT is 7. If N~CS_~MT has been reached, additional MT call
attempts shall fail without any indication to the called subscriber
**N~br~** : Maximum number of simultaneous CS bearers. The value of N**~br~**
is the smallest value within the N**~br~** _User, N**~br~** _UE, and N**~br~**
_SN
N**~br~** _User: Maximum number of simultaneous CS bearers allowed, as defined
by the user within the limits given by N**~br~** _SB
N**~br~** _SB: Maximum number of simultaneous CS bearers allowed, defined by
the service provider in the Multicall subscription
N**~br~** _UE: Maximum number of simultaneous CS bearers supported by the UE
N**~br~** _SN: Maximum number of simultaneous CS bearers supported by the
serving network
# 4 Description
## 4.1 Description of multicall
The Multicall supplementary service enables a mobile subscriber to have
several simultaneous CS calls, each call using its own dedicated bearer.
Only one CS bearer can used for speech at any one times.
A speech call is one of TS11 (Telephony), TS12 (Emergency Calls), and TS61
(Alternate speech/fax). If the bearer capability information is not available,
e.g. the call is originated/transited by a PSTN, the basic service cannot be
deduced and the network shall, for multicall purposes, handle the call as
telephony.
A held call shall be regarded as using the bearer used while the call was
active.
NOTE: The 3GPP protocol architecture allows several parallel CS calls, the
limitation being that there is only one traffic channel in GERAN, which the
different CS calls share. This is facilitated by e.g. the Call Waiting, Call
Hold, Call Transfer and Multiparty Supplementary Services. Call configurations
related to supplementary services are not considered as Multicall. See clause
7 for interaction.
It shall be possible for each CS call to use a dedicated bearer of independent
traffic and performance characteristics. It shall be possible to release each
active CS call independently of any other CS call.
## 4.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this Supplementary Service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004.
# 5 Functional requirements
## 5.1 Provision
Multicall is provided by prior arrangement with the service provider.
Multicall shall be provisioned for all Basic Services (BS) subscribed to and
to which it is applicable, i.e. not to any subset of these BS.
When the Multicall supplementary service is provisioned the maximum number of
simultaneous CS beares available to the subscriber (N**~br~** _SB) shall be
defined as part of the subscription. The value for N**~br~** _SB shall in the
range from 2 up to 7.
## 5.2 Withdrawal
It shall be possible to withdraw the Multicall supplementary service
subscription on request of the subscriber or for administrative reasons.
## 5.3 Registration
The user shall be able to modify the maximum number of CS bearers available
(N**~br~** _User) within the limitations set by the service provider.
(N**~br~** _SB).
If the subscriber attempts to register a value for N**~br~** _User that is
higher than the value of N**~br~** _SB, the request shall be rejected and the
subscriber shall be informed on the unsuccessful outcome on the request.
## 5.4 Erasure
Data related to the Multicall supplementary service shall be erased by the
service provider as a result of withdrawal.
## 5.5 Activation
The Multicall supplementary service shall be activated by the service provider
as a result of provision.
## 5.6 Deactivation
The Multicall supplementary service shall be deactivated by the service
provider as a result of withdrawal.
## 5.7 Invocation
The Multicall supplementary service shall be invoked by the system when at
least one call is in progress and another call with a dedicated bearer is to
be set up. The Multicall service applies to mobile originating and mobile
terminating calls.
## 5.8 Interrogation
The user shall be able to interrogate the network for the values of N**~br~**
_User, N**~br~** _SB and N**~br~** _SN.
## 5.9 Call related procedures
### 5.9.1 Terminating CS call
The indication of a terminating CS call to the mobile terminal will be done by
the Multicall supplementary service until either the maximum number of bearer
(N~br~) or the maximum number of CS mobile terminating calls (N**~cs_~MT**)
has been reached.
If the maximum number of terminating calls (N~cs~_MT) has been reached, and
additional terminating call shall be reject without any indication to the
subscriber.
If the maximum number of bearers (N**~br~**) has been reached an additional
terminating call will be only indicated to the user if the user has the Call
Waiting supplementary service active, see chapter 7.4.2 for interactions with
Call Waiting.
If N**~br~** and N~cs~_MT havenot been reached, a terminating call is
indicated to the user and she may react in the following way:
a) Accept the terminating call:
\- The user/user applications shall have the possibility to allocate a new
bearer for the terminating call.
\- If the user has the Call Hold SS active, the user shall have the
possibility to reuse/share an already established bearer (e.g. release
existing calls or put an speech on hold and accept the terminating call).
b) Rejecting the terminating call:
\- If the user rejects the terminating call the call shall be released in a
normal way.
c) Ignore the incoming call:
> \- If the user ignores the indication of the terminating call (i.e. neither
> accepts nor rejects it ), the normal call handling shall apply, e.g. after
> the Alerting Timer expires the call will be released.
If there is a terminating speech call attempt and an ongoing speech call
(active or held), the terminating call shall not be indicated to user by the
Multicall service. The Call waiting call SS shall be invoked if applicable,
see chapter 7.4.2 for interactions with Call Waiting SS.
The user can have possibility to reuse/share a bearer only when she is
provisioned for Call Hold SS. See subclause 7.4.1 for interaction with Call
Hold SS.
### 5.9.2 Originating CS call
If neither N~br~ nor N~cs~_MO have not been reached and the user wants to
establish a new originating CS call she may act in the following way:
a) allocate a new bearer for the originating call;
b) reuse/share an already established bearer (e.g. to put an speech on hold
and set-up a new call).
The user can have possibility to reuse/share a bearer only when she is
provisioned for Call Hold SS. See subclause 7.4.1 for interaction with Call
Hold SS. The mobile terminal shall not originate a speech call requesting a
new bearer when there is already an active speech call.
## 5.10 Charging requirements
Each of the calls using a dedicated bearer shall be charged individually.
Allocation of a dedicated bearer shall be visible in the charging data.
# 6 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
## 6.1 Exceptional operation or unsuccessful outcome
The number of simultaneous CS bearers supported by the system may vary in
different regions. For instance, after handover the number of simultaneous
bearers available to the served subscriber may be lower than the number of
already established bearers. Such events shall trigger changes to individual
calls in any multicall scenario.
The handover requirements for multicall are specified in 3GPP TS 22.129 [6].
## 6.2 Registration
If the system cannot accept a registration request, the served mobile
subscriber shall receive a notification that Multicall registration was not
successful. Possible causes are:
\- service not subscribed to;
  * N**~br~** _User > N~**br** _~SB;
  * insufficient information.
## 6.3 Erasure
No exceptional operation identified.
## 6.4 Activation
No exceptional operation identified.
## 6.5 Deactivation
No exceptional operation identified.
## 6.6 Invocation
If the served subscriber attempts to set up a new call with a dedicated bearer
while the maximum number of bearers available to the subscriber (N**~br~**)
has been reached, the call attempt shall be rejected by normal procedures,
indicating that no more bearers are available.
## 6.7 Interrogation
When a mobile subscriber who is not provided with the Multicall supplementary
service interrogates the service data of the Multicall supplementary service,
she shall be notified that she is not subscribed to the service.
## 6.8 Roaming in non-supporting networks
Roaming into networks not supporting the Multicall supplementary service shall
be possible. The served subscriber will not have any access to the Multicall
supplementary service and the system should behave accordingly.
When the served subscriber performs any procedure related to Multicall service
as described in the clauses above while roaming in a non-supporting network,
she shall be notified that the service is not available.
# 7 Interaction with other services
## 7.1 Line Identification
### 7.1.1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
No impact, i.e. CLIP shall be provided with all calls.
### 7.1.2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
No impact, i.e. CLIR shall be provided with all calls.
### 7.1.3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
No impact, i.e. COLP shall be provided with all calls.
### 7.1.4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
No impact, i.e. COLR shall be provided with all calls.
## 7.2 Call Forwarding
### 7.2.1 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
No impact.
### 7.2.2 Call Forwarding on Busy (CFB)
No impact.
NOTE: CFB shall be invoked when the network detects a NDUB condition. The
maximum number of bearers available to the subscriber (N**~br~**) affects the
NDUB condition. For the NDUB definition specific for Multicall, see annex A.
> This means that for the case of N**~br~** = 1, the system behaviour shall be
> the same as for a subscriber who is not provided with the Multicall service.
### 7.2.3 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
No impact.
### 7.2.4 Call Forwarding on Not Reachable (CFNRc)
No impact.
## 7.3 Call Completion
### 7.3.1 Call Hold (CH)
No impact, i.e. it shall be possible to put an established speech call on
hold.
Irrespective of whether the maximum number of CS bearers (N**~br~**) is
reached or not, and a terminating call is indicated to the user, she shall be
able to accept the terminating call by applying the Call Hold service to an
active speech call. By that she makes the bearer of the held call available to
the new call.
NOTE 1: This means that for the case of N**~br~** = 1, the system behaviour
shall be the same as for a subscriber who is not provided with the Multicall
service.
NOTE 2: There is no change to the maximum number of held calls allowed for the
Multicall supplementary service. The maximum number of held calls is still 1
per a subscriber.
### 7.3.2 Call Waiting (CW)
When the subscriber has at least one ongoing call and a new terminating call
is speech; then Call Waiting shall be invoked if:
1) there is an active speech call and Call Waiting is active and operative for
speech or;
2) there is a held speech call, with no active call on the same bearer, and
Call Waiting is active and operative for speech or;
3) there is a held speech call, with an active non-speech call on the same
bearer, and Call Waiting is active and operative for that non-speech basic
service or;
4) there are no speech calls (including a call on hold), the maximum number of
bearers (N**~br~**) has been reached and Call Waiting is active and operative
for at least one of the basic services currently in use.
When the subscriber has at least one ongoing call and a new terminating call
is not speech; then Call Waiting shall be invoked if the maximum number of
bearers (N**~br~**) has been reached and Call Waiting is active and operative
for at least one of the basic services currently in use.
NOTE: There is no change to the maximum number of waiting calls allowed for
the Multicall service. The maximum number of waiting calls is still 1 per a
subscriber.
## 7.4 Multi Party (MPTY)
No Impact.
The number of MPTY member may be limited by N~cs~_MO, N~cs~_MT and N~cs~.
## 7.5 Closed User Group (CUG)
No impact.
## 7.6 Advice of Charge (AoC)
The subscriber shall receive the AoC indication individually for each CS call.
For the AoCC service, the ACM (Accumulated Call Meter as defined in TS 22.024)
shall reckon the sum of the charge generated by all simultaneous CS calls.
## 7.7 Call Barring
No impact.
### 7.7.1 Barring of all outgoing calls
No impact.
### 7.7.2 Barring of outgoing international calls
No impact.
### 7.7.3 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the
HPLMN country
No impact.
### 7.7.4 Barring of all incoming calls
No impact.
### 7.7.5 Barring of incoming calls when roaming
No impact.
## 7.8 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
No impact.
## 7.9 Completion of Call to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
The definition of the IDLE state of subscriber A and destination B is not
modified, i.e. a subscriber is considered to be IDLE when all the bearers
(calls) for her have been released.
A subscriber to whom CCBS can be invoked shall be regarded as NDUB under the
specific NDUB condition for Multicall (See Annex A).
## 7.10 Multiple Subscriber Profile (MSP)
No impact. The Multicall supplementary service shall be provisioned on a per
subscriber basis. Nbr_SN, Nbr_SB, and Nbr_user shall apply over all profiles.
## 7.11 Calling Name Presentation (CNAP)
No impact.
## 7.12 User-to-User Signalling (UUS)
No Impact
## 7.13 enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service (eMLPP)
No impact.
## 7.14 Call Deflection (CD)
No impact.
# 8 Interaction with other network features and services
## 8.1 CAMEL
No impact.
## 8.2 IST
No impact.
## 8.3 ODB
No impact.
## 8.4 Emergency Calls
The network shall handle emergency call at first priority. When a user
originates an emergency call, the network shall behave as follows:
  * The network, which supports Multicall, shall accept the emergency call within the serving network capability regardless of Multicall subscription limitation to the user.
  * The MS shall ensure that an emergency call setup request is acceptable to a serving network which does not support multicall, if necessary by releasing one or more existing call.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Busy definition
NDUB (Network Determined User Busy) occurs when:
  1. The maximum number of mobile terminating calls (N**~cs~_MT**) has been reached (NOTE 1).
  2. The maximum number of bearers (N**~br~**) has been reached and the maximum number of waiting calls has been reached (NOTE 2, NOTE3).
NOTE 1: This can occur even if bearers are still available, e.g. when the MS
is engaged in MPTY SS. If the maximum number of mobile terminating calls
(N~cs~_MT) has been reached, the Call Waiting SS cannot be invoked.
NOTE 2: If Call Waiting is provisioned and activated, and when the maximum
number of bearers has been reached the Call Waiting SS can be invoked. This
case is not regarded as NDUB. See subclause 7.3.2 for interaction with Call
Waiting SS.
NOTE 3: According to the speech bearer number limitation, the incoming speech
call shall be regarded as encountering NDUB when the MS is engaged in a speech
call (including a held call) and Call Waiting SS is not provisioned and
activated for the user, irrespective of the further availability of bearers
for the user. For the condition under which Call Waiting SS shall be invoked
in this case, see subclause 7.3.2.
For User Determined User Busy (UDUB) condition see TS 22.001 Annex C.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Cross Phase Compatibility
This section details the cross phase compatibility requirements relating to
the service requirements in this document.
NOTE: When a change is introduced which affects the 3GPP specifications, it is
said to be \'backward compatible\' if existing equipment can continue to
operate and perform correctly with equipment that conforms to the new
implementation.
# B.1 Compatibility With Existing Standards
Where the service and operational requirements in this document relate to core
network functionality, compatibility is required.
Multicall mechanisms are not applicable for GERAN.
# B.2 Compatibility With Future Releases
It is envisaged that 3GPP standards will evolve in future releleases, for
example with the addition of new service requirements. The standards which
define the technical implementation should be developed in such a way that it
is practical to add the requirements in this section in a backward compatible
manner.
Following chapters include requirements that are foreseen for future release.
## B.2.1 Multicall configuration
When having one active CS call and one held call on the same bearer. It shall
be possible to create a new CS bearer and to move one of the calls to the new
bearer, resulting both calls being active within the limits set by the
operator/user and within the capability of the terminal. See figure 2: Split
of bearer.
When having two calls (multicall) on the separate bearers. It shall be
possible to join both calls to one of the two bearers, put the one of the
calls to hold and to release unused CS bearer. It shall be possible to select
which call to put on hold. See figure 2: Combination of bearers. _(Note: there
is no clear end-user service requirement for this feature at time being)_.
NOTE: Due to that only speech calls can be put on hold, so one of the two
active Cs calls has to be a speech call.
Figure 2: Illustration for split of bearer and combination of bearers
## B.2.2 Several simultaneous speech calls / bearers
A Key requirements for multicall is to allow several simultaneous CS calls
with dedicated bearers. The most important usage scenario is to allow several
CS data bearers to be bind at application level resulting to higher than
64kbits/s data rates. Another important feature is to allow simultaneous
speech and data calls.
It\'s been proposed that the multicall feature could be introduced in a phased
manner; meaning that in the first phase, i.e. 3GPP release 99 does only
support one active speech call at a time. However, Call control should not
prohibit a complete set of multiple speech bearer services in future releases
and UTRAN shall be designed in a flexible way to support multiple speech
bearers. The specific NDUB definition for speech call shall be removed when
multiple speech call is supported. At this release , Supplementary Services
Call Waiting, Multiparty and Call Hold are used to offer simultaneous speech
calls to user.
N~**cs** ~ may be extended in further releases.
If multiple simultaneous speech calls are supported in the future then the
Call Hold service may be used to reconfigure the number of bearers supporting
speech calls if required during handover. e.g. in the case of handover to
GERAN where only one speech call can be active at a time. This requirement is
dependent on the user subscribing to Call Hold.
## B.2.3 CCBS
At this release CCBS no enhancements for CCBS is required.
In the future releases the definition of IDLE state of subscriber A and
destination B should be modified in away that the IDLE state is reach even if
there are active CS calls but the maximum limit of CS calls is not reached.
#