# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In Rel-8, 3GPP has specified the basic functionalities for the support of Home
Node B (HNB) and Home eNodeB (HeNB). The requirements for these basic
functionalities were captured in TS 22.011.
From Rel-9 onward, it has been agreed to consolidate all the requirements from
Rel-8 and further requirements for HNB and HeNB in a new TS, which is this
specification.
# 1 Scope
This specification defines the service requirements for the basic
functionalities for the support of Home NodeB (HNB) and Home eNodeB (HeNB) --
jointly referred to as H(e)NB -- and the further functionalities that will
enable the mobile operators to provide more advanced services as well as
improving the user experience.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void
[3] 3GPP TS 22.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) user
services; Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Aspects; Service Principles\".
[5] TR-069 Amendment 2: \"CPE WAN Management Protocol v1.1, Broadband Forum",
viewable at http://www.broadband-
forum.org/technical/download/TR-069Amendment2.pdf
[6] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and
procedures for cell reselection in connected mode".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.268: \"Public Warning System (PWS) requirements\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[11] 3GPP TS 31.115: \"Secured packet structure for (Universal) Subscriber
Identity Mobule (U)SIM Toolkit applications\".
[12] 3GPP TS 31.116: \"Remote APDU Structure for (U)SIM Toolkit
applications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Closed access mode:** H(e)NB provides services only to its associated CSG
members.
**Home based network** : An IP based network in the same premises as, and is
connected to, the H(e)NB.
**Hybrid access mode:** H(e)NB provides services to its associated CSG members
and to non-CSG members.
**Open access mode:** H(e)NB operates as a normal NodeB or eNodeB.
**HNB** : A HNB is a Customer-premises equipment that connects a 3GPP UE over
UTRAN wireless air interface to a mobile operator's network using a broadband
IP backhaul.
**HeNB** : A HeNB is a Customer-premises equipment that connects a 3GPP UE
over EUTRAN wireless air interface to a mobile operator's network using a
broadband IP backhaul.
**H(e)NB Gateway** : H(e)NB Gateway is a mobile operator's equipment (usually
physically located on mobile operator premises) through which the H(e)NB gets
access to mobile operator's core network.
**H(e)NB Hosting Party** : A H(e)NB Hosting Party has a contractual
relationship with the operator, related to the provision of access to the
operator's network via one or more H(e)NBs.
NOTE: A H(e)NB Hosting Party is likely to have the billing relationship with
the operator. A H(e)NB Hosting Party will typically be the "lead" user in a
household, but could be e.g. the corporate IT manager in an enterprise
context.
**H(e)NB Subsystem** : A H(e)NB Subsystem consists of the H(e)NB and the
H(e)NB Gateway.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> CSG Closed Subscriber Group
>
> HNB Home NodeB
>
> HeNB Home eNodeB
>
> H(e)NB HNB and HeNB
# 4 General
## 4.1 Description
Access to 3G and evolved 3G (EPS) services may be provided via UTRAN or
E-UTRAN cellular base stations belonging to e.g. domestic, business,
commercial enterprises. This type of access may be provided by the PLMN by
means of HNB and HeNB (jointly referred to as H(e)NB). The H(e)NB provides
services either only to a Closed Subscriber Group (CSG) or to other mobile
subscribers too. The H(e)NB is connected to the mobile operator core network
using IP via any suitable access technology.
# 5 Common requirements for Home NodeB / Home eNodeB
## 5.1 HNB and HeNB Installation, identification and location requirements
\- H(e)NB shall have a unique equipment identity.
\- All the H(e)NBs serving the same CSG share the same unique (within the
PLMN) identity called CSG Identity.
NOTE: CSGs of different PLMNs are considered different, even if the PLMNs are
indicated to the UE as \"equivalent PLMNs\" [10].
\- It shall be possible to support at least 125 million CSG Identities within
a PLMN of an operator.
\- The radio transmitter of a H(e)NB shall not be activated until configured
and authorised by the operator.
\- When installing, provisioning, configuring or re-configuring an H(e)NB the
operator shall be able to:
\- verify the H(e)NB\'s identity.
\- obtain the geographical location of the H(e)NB.
NOTE: The scenario where a H(e)NB is connected to one operator's network and
later changed to another operator's network is not required.
\- The operator shall be able to determine that the H(e)NB is installed and
operated in accordance with all relevant regulatory requirements.
\- The operator shall be able to configure the settings of the H(e)NB. In the
case where the H(e)NB has detrimental impact on the spectrum usage, the H(e)NB
can be set to out-of-service by the operator.
  * Installation and activation of a new H(e)NB shall require no reconfiguration of the operators network.
  * The impact of H(e)NB on the core network should be minimised.
## 5.2 OA&M Requirements
  * H(e)NB shall support the automatic discovery of an operator's management platform.
  * It shall be possible to make use of the operator's management platform to carry out OA&M functions for H(e)NB. The management connection between H(e)NB and the operator\'s management platform shall be end-to-end secure.
  * H(e)NB shall support OA&M procedures which allow the operator to remotely configure the H(e)NB, deploy software upgrades, detect and report changes in RF conditions and perform general OA&M tasks. The OA&M procedures shall be as closely aligned as possible with those that are commonly used in broadband access networks such as defined in TR-069 Amendment 2 [5].
  * If the connection between H(e)NB and the rest of the operator network is out of service, then it shall be possible within an operator's defined time period for the H(e)NB to deactivate the air-interface.
  * When the H(e)NB Hosting Party authentication is required by the MNO, the H(e)NB shall not activate the air-interface unless the authentication of the H(e)NB Hosting Party has been performed successfully.
## 5.3 Access Control requirements
### 5.3.1 General
\- Subject to operator and H(e)NB Hosting Party agreement, the operator shall
be able to configure the H(e)NB with open, hybrid or closed access mode.
\- When the H(e)NB is configured for open access mode, it shall be possible
for the H(e)NB to provide services to subscribers of any PLMN, subject to
roaming agreement.
\- When the H(e)NB is configured for hybrid access mode, it shall be possible
for the H(e)NB to provide services to:
\- its associated CSG members, and
\- subscribers of any PLMN not belonging to its associated CSG, subject to
roaming agreement.
\- When the H(e)NB is configured for closed access mode, only users that
belong to its associated CSG shall be able to obtain services.
\- CSG members may include subscriber of any PLMN subject to roaming
agreement, defined as HPLMN CSG Roaming.
\- The VPLMN may support VPLMN Autonomous CSG Roaming by providing CSG
membership to the roaming subscriber without exchanging any CSG specific
information with the HPLMN. The VPLMN shall disable VPLMN Autonomous CSG
Roaming on a per HPLMN basis if requested by the home operator.
NOTE: VPLMN Autonomous CSG Roaming and HPLMN CSG Roaming can be active in the
same VPLMN
\- The CSG membership granted to the subscriber during his stay in the VPLMN
may be retained by the VPLMN (e.g. in case the subscriber moves to another
PLMN and subsequently returns to the VPLMN).
### 5.3.2 Closed Subscriber Group
\- The CSG manager shall be able, under the operator supervision, to add,
remove and view CSG membership
NOTE: the interaction of the user with the application that manages the
Allowed CSG Lists is out of scope of 3GPP (e.g. Web interface).
\- For each subscriber, the network maintains a single CSG list containing the
CSG identities that the subscriber is allowed to use.
\- The UE shall contain a list of allowed CSG identities (Allowed CSG List).
It shall be possible to store the Allowed CSG List in the USIM. When
available, the list on the USIM shall be used. It shall be possible for both,
the operator and the UE, to modify the Allowed CSG List.
\- The UE shall allow the user to introduce new CSGs to the Allowed CSG List
by means of manual CSG selection only.
\- The UE shall maintain an operator controlled list of allowed CSG identities
(Operator CSG list). It shall be possible to store the Operator CSG list in
the USIM. When available, the list on the USIM shall be used. It shall be
possible for the operator to modify the Operator CSG List.
\- The two lists are maintained independently from each other. A change in the
Operator CSG list shall not trigger the UE to modify the Allowed CSG list to
reflect such change automatically.
\- Except during manual CSG selection, all CSG cells belonging to a CSG
identity not included in the Allowed CSG List or Operator CSG list shall be
considered not suitable by the UE ("not suitable" as specified in TS 25.304
[6] and TS 36.304 [7]).
\- Each CSG identity shall be associated to a subscriber group which
identifies the subscribers allowed to access the CSG.
\- When the subscriber group is updated, the affected UE shall be informed
accordingly.
\- For temporary members, it shall be possible to limit the period of time
during which the subscriber is considered a member of a CSG (granted access
rights). It shall be possible to configure a time period for each temporary
member.
\- The time period shall be configurable by the CSG manager and/or the
operator operating the CSG and shall span from 1 decihour to several days.
Unlimited membership to the CSG is allowed.
\- When a CSG is no longer considered available to provide services, except
for emergency calls (i.e. due to time period expiry or removal of the CSG
membership), it shall be possible to continue the established communication in
another cell not belonging to this CSG.
\- In hybrid access mode when services cannot be provided to a CSG member due
to a shortage of H(e)NB resources it shall be possible to continue the
established communication of non-CSG members in another cell.
\- In hybrid access mode, to minimise the impact on CSG members from
established communication of non-CSG members, it shall be possible for the
network to allow the data rate of established PS communication of non-CSG
members to be reduced.
## 5.4 Display requirements
### 5.4.1 CSG Type
The CSG Type is an indicator provided by the UE that is configured by the
operator.
  * It shall be possible for the operator to associate a CSG identity in the UE's Allowed CSG List or the Operator CSG List with a CSG Type. Therefore, it is possible that a CSG identity stored in different UEs may either be associated with the same CSG Type or with different CSG Types.
NOTE: The CSG Type allows, for example, information on the applied billing
regime to be given to the user.
  * When a UE camps on a cell with a CSG identity that is part of the UE's Allowed CSG List and or the Operator CSG List has an associated CSG Type, a UE that has a display capability shall provide the user with the associated CSG Type. A UE that does not have a display capability may provide the CSG Type by other means, e.g. voice notification.
  * If the CSG Type for a CSG identity has not been configured in the UE, the UE may provide the HNB Name instead. In this case, the user is notified that the UE is providing the HNB Name rather than CSG Type.
  * It shall be possible to store the CSG Type in the USIM. As an option, the CSG Type may be stored in the ME. If the CSG Type is present in the USIM, a CSG Type stored in the ME shall be ignored. If the CSG Type is present in the Operator CSG list, a CSG Type present in the Allowed CSG list shall be ignored.
  * The CSG Type shall be stored in text and/or graphical format. When the CSG Type has a text component, the CSG Type text length shall not exceed 12 characters in any language.
### 5.4.2 HNB Name
HNB Name is a common name referring to HNB/HeNB as defined in TR 21.905 [1].
\- It shall be possible for a CSG cell and for a hybrid cell to broadcast a
HNB Name in free text format. The UE may display the HNB Name when camping on
the cell where it is broadcasted. The HNB Name, if broadcasted or stored in
the UE, shall be available to the user during manual CSG selection. The HNB
Name shall be configurable by the operator or the H(e)NB Hosting Party at the
discretion of the operator.
\- The HNB Name length shall not exceed 48x8 bits.
NOTE 1: In order to allow the maximum flexibility in the way the HNB Name is
configured in any language, UTF-8 coding should be used; this allows a maximum
length of 48 characters coded on one byte, 24 characters on two bytes, 16
characters on 3 bytes down to a minimum of 12 characters if all characters are
encoded on 4 bytes.
\- If available and depending on operator preferences a HNB Name may be stored
together with the associated CSG Identity in the UE's Operator CSG List.
\- If available and depending on operator preferences a HNB Name may be stored
together with the associated CSG Identity in the UE's Allowed CSG List.
\- A HNB Name present in the Operator CSG list shall take precedence over a
HNB Name present in the Allowed CSG list, which in turn shall take precedence
over the broadcasted HNB Name.
NOTE 2: The UE's Operator CSG List and Allowed CSG List are stored on the USIM
or, optionally, in the ME as specified in section 5.3.2.
NOTE 3: The HNB Name is necessary in order to aid the user in choosing the
correct CSG identity when performing a manual CSG identity selection.
## 5.5 Mobility Aspects for Home NodeB and Home eNodeB
### 5.5.1 PLMN selection
The standard automatic and manual network selection procedures are used to
register a UE on a PLMN via a H(e)NB.
### 5.5.2 Idle-mode operation
In addition to normal cell reselection procedures, the following requirements
apply:
\- It shall be possible to support idle mode mobility between a H(e)NB cell
and other cells and between H(e)NB cells.
\- A UE in idle mode shall prefer to select a cell whose CSG Identity is in
the UE's Allowed CSG List or in the Operator CSG list, when the cell
reselection criteria has been met.
NOTE: All CSG identities on the Allowed CSG list and the Operator CSG list
have the same priority.
\- The cell reselection procedure should not result in excessive power
consumption in the UE.
### 5.5.3 Connected mode operation
\- It shall be possible to support service continuity, including handover,
between a H(e)NB cell and other cells and between H(e)NB cells. This includes
H(e)NB cells in residential and enterprise environment.
\- For operational and deployment purposes, handovers between a H(e)NB cell
and other cells and between H(e)NB cells should not significantly increase
mobility related signalling.
\- Data session(s) may be terminated by the network after the UE leaves the
H(e)NB coverage area on a per UE basis (e.g. based on subscriber tariff
change).
### 5.5.4 Manual CSG selection
The user shall be able to request the UE to perform a scan for available CSGs.
When such request is received the UE shall perform a scan of available CSGs,
their CSG Identities and their HNB Names. In the UE display, the available
CSGs shall be represented by their associated HNB Names and PLMN Name(s). If
the HNB Name is not available, the CSG Identity shall be displayed instead.
An indication shall be given to the user as to which of the available CSGs is
contained in the Allowed CSG List or Operator CSG list. The available CSGs
shall be displayed in the following order:
\- The CSGs, whose CSG Identities are contained in the Allowed CSG list.
\- The CSGs, whose CSG Identities are contained in the Operator CSG List.
\- Any other CSG, whose CSG Identity is not included in the Allowed CSG List
or the Operator CSG list.
The HPLMN shall configure, on a PLMN basis, the UE to display the available
CSGs so that either:
\- all CSGs are displayed, or
\- only CSGs in the Operator CSG List are displayed.
NOTE: It is assumed that OMA DM/OTA will be used by the HPLMN to configure the
ME/USIM
By default, the UE shall display all available CSGs for any PLMN, unless the
UE has been configured by the HPLMN, for a specific PLMN, to display only CSGs
in the Operator CSG List that are available.
When the user selects an entry in the list, the UE shall reselect any of the
available cells with the CSG chosen by the user.
The UE shall attempt to register to the PLMN.
If the registration attempt is accepted, the UE shall add the CSG identity to
the Allowed CSG list unless the cell is a hybrid cell or the identity is
already present in the list.
If the registration attempt is accepted and the UE is allowed to add the CSG
identity to the Allowed CSG list then the UE may add the broadcasted HNB Name
to the Allowed CSG list.
If the registration attempt is rejected and the CSG entry is in the Allowed
CSG list, that CSG and the associated HNB Name shall be removed from the
Allowed CSG list.
In addition, when the user manually selects a CSG in a PLMN, which is
different from the last registered PLMN, the following behaviour applies:
\- The UE shall enter into Manual PLMN Selection state.
\- The UE shall attempt to register to the PLMN. This PLMN shall not be stored
as the Last Registered PLMN.
\- When the UE is no longer in the service area of the CSG the UE shall return
to the previous PLMN Selection state.
## 5.6 Services support
### 5.6.1 General
\- Subject to availability of network resources there shall be no difference
in the user experience when using the PLMN provided services via H(e)NB or via
NodeB/eNodeB (NB/eNB).
\- Depending on operator preferences and in compliance with regulatory
requirements ETWS and PWS [9] shall be supported.
\- Any additional registration and paging load as a result of H(e)NB
deployment shall be minimized.
\- Deployment of H(e)NBs and NB/eNBs on the same spectrum should not degrade
the performance of UEs receiving service from NB/eNBs.
\- Deployment of H(e)NBs and NB/eNBs on the same spectrum should not degrade
the NB/eNB's coverage and capacity.
### 5.6.2 Emergency services
\- Subject to local regulatory requirements, H(e)NB shall support emergency
calls, as specified in TS 22.101 [4].
\- It shall be possible for the operator to provide location information of
the UE attempting an emergency call over a H(e)NB. The location information
shall be sufficiently accurate to comply with the regulatory requirements that
apply to the area where the H(e)NB is deployed.
### 5.6.3 IMS Interworking
\- The operator can provide CS-to-IMS interworking as specified in the IMS
Centralized Services clause of TS 22.101 [4].
## 5.7 Local IP Access (LIPA)
### 5.7.1 Description
Local IP Access provides access **for IP capable UEs** **connected via a
H(e)NB (i.e. using H(e)NB radio access)** to other IP capable entities in the
same residential/enterprise IP network. Data traffic for Local IP Access is
expected to not traverse the mobile operator's network except mobile operator
network components in the residential/enterprise premises. Signaling traffic
will continue to traverse the mobile operator network. The
residential/enterprise IP network itself and the entities within that network
are not within the scope of 3GPP standardisation.
NOTE: It is not precluded that a small amount of data traffic for Local IP
Access (e.g. user packets that trigger paging) be forwarded via the mobile
operator\'s network, provided there is a trust relationship between the H(e)NB
hosting party and the mobile operator.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="4.790277777777778in"}
### 5.7.2 General requirements
A H(e)NB subsystem shall be able to support Local IP Access in order to
provide access for IP capable UEs connected via a H(e)NB subsystem (i.e. using
H(e)NB radio access) to other IP capable entities in the same
residential/enterprise IP network.
\- Simultaneous access from a UE to the mobile operator's core network (e.g.
internet, PLMN services) and Local IP Access to a residential/enterprise IP
network shall be supported.
\- Subject to regulatory requirements, Local IP Access traffic shall be
routable only between the UE, H(e)NB and other entities within the
residential/enterprise IP network.
\- A UE shall have a valid subscription with the mobile operator in order to
use Local IP Access.
\- A UE shall be able to use Local IP Access in a visited network subject to
roaming agreement between mobile operators.
\- The HPLMN shall be able to enable/disable LIPA usage when the UE roams to
particular VPLMNs.
\- Local IP Access shall not affect services running in parallel for the same
UE.
\- Pre-Rel 10 UEs should be able to use Local IP Access.
\- The user may be notified when a H(e)NB provides access to a
residential/enterprise IP network
\- A UE using Local IP Access shall be contactable by another IP endpoint in
the same residential/enterprise IP network via Local IP Access.
\- The operator shall be able to configure the network to support connection
request from a UE so that a LIPA connection is used when the UE is located
within the residential/enterprise IP network, and a regular connection via the
Core Network is used otherwise.
\- It shall be possible for a UE to maintain its IP connectivity to the
residential/enterprise IP network when moving between H(e)NBs within the same
residential/enterprise IP network. Any interruption to this IP connectivity
shall be limited to levels comparable to that of the IP connectivity for PLMN
services.
NOTE: Loss of access to the residential/enterprise IP network is acceptable as
a UE moves out of H(e)NB coverage.
\- The mobile operator shall be able to configure the H(e)NB to enable/disable
Local IP Access.
\- The mobile operator shall be able to enable/disable Local IP Access per
user subscription per CSG.
\- The H(e)NB Hosting Party, within the limits set by the mobile operator,
shall be able enable/disable Local IP Access per H(e)NB.
\- The H(e)NB subsystem shall allow the mobile operator to make traffic and
signalling performance measurements related to Local IP Access for each user
and for the H(e)NB.
\- The H(e)NB subsystem shall allow the mobile operator to collect fault
management information related to Local IP Access for each H(e)NB.
NOTE: It is possible for the H(e)NB Hosting Party to use additional access
control mechanisms (e.g. using a password) to restrict access of UEs to the
residential/corporate IP network. However, such additional access control is
out of scope of 3GPP standardisation.
\- Local IP Access shall not compromise the security of the mobile operator's
network.
## 5.8 Managed Remote Access to home based network
\- The H(e)NB may support remote access for a CSG member to the home based
network from a UE via a PLMN in order to provide access to IP capable devices
connected to the home based network.
\- It shall be possible to restrict the access to the home based network on
per-subscriber basis (e.g. some subscribers may have managed access to their
home network and others may not).
## 5.9 Selected IP Traffic Offload (SIPTO) at Local Networks
It shall be possible that a H(e)NB SubSystem supports Selected IP Traffic
Offload to provide access for a UE connected via a H(e)NB (i.e. using H(e)NB
radio access) to a defined IP network (e.g. the Internet). The following
requirements apply to the H(e)NB SubSystem to support Selected IP Traffic
Offload at the local residential/enterprise IP network:
  * Selected IP Traffic Offload shall be possible to be done without traversing the mobile operator network, subject to regulatory requirements.
  * The mobile operator and the H(e)NB Hosting Party, within the limits set by the mobile operator, shall be able to enable/disable Selected IP Traffic Offload per H(e)NB.
\- Based on mobile operator SIPTO policies and configured user consent per
APN, the network shall be able to offload traffic.
Note: There is a possibility that the user\'s service experience will be
different if the user\'s traffic is offloaded via SIPTO at local
residential/enterprise IP networks.
\- The SIPTO policies may be defined per APN or per IP flow:
\- SIPTO policies per APN indicate whether all traffic associated with a
specific APN is subject to offload;
\- SIPTO policies per IP flow are routing policies indicating which APN to use
for a specific IP flow. The Operator may provide routing policies to the UE
that assist the UE in routing the IP flows towards an appropriate APN. This is
applicable for UE regardless of whether or not it has established IP
connectivity to the local enterprise/residential network.
\- The mobile operator shall be able to configure the SIPTO policies either
statically or dynamically.
\- Simultaneous connectivity from the UE to the mobile operator's core network
and to a defined IP network (e.g. the Internet) via a fixed
residential/enterprise IP network using SIPTO shall be supported.
\- Simultaneous access from the UE to PLMN services and to fixed services via
a fixed residential/enterprise IP network using SIPTO shall be supported.
Requirements that are common with Selected IP Traffic Offload in the mobile
operator networkcan be found in section 4.3.5 in [4].
## 5.10 UICC and H(e)NB
Optionally, the H(e)NB may support identification and authentication of the
H(e)NB Hosting Party by means of a UICC-based application.
This application may also contain information for the initial provisioning
(e.g. the O&M system contact).
If the H(e)NB supports the H(e)NB Hosting Party application,
\- The H(e)NB shall support the use of the operator's UICC application
management platform to configure the Hosting Party application.
\- The UICC application shall be able to acquire the geographical location of
the H(e)NB.
Note: UICC application management is specified in 3GPP TS 31.115 [11] and 3GPP
TS 31.116 [12].
## 5.11 Void
### 5.11.1 Void
### 5.11.2 Void
# 6 Requirements for Home NodeB
## 6.1 Access Control
\- It shall be possible to control access (i.e. accept and reject connection
requests) of pre-Release 8 UEs.
NOTE: Such mechanisms may be different for those used to access control a
Release 8 UE.
\- The operation of a HNB shall not adversely impact the performances of a
pre-Release 8 UEs operating in the area where the HNB is active and vice
versa.
\- The total bandwidth from the HNB towards the network for 4 simultaneous
TS11 or TS12, including signalling and overhead, shall not exceed 200 kbps
## 6.2 Void
# 7 Requirements for Home eNodeB
## 7.1 Services support
### 7.1.1 Void
# 8 Quality of Service
## 8.1 General
\- Subject to agreement between the mobile operator and the broadband access
provider, it shall be possible to request resources from the broadband IP
backhaul for the QoS treatment for sessions traversing the H(e)NB subsystem.
## 8.2 Admission Control
\- The network shall be able to perform admission control based on the
available H(e)NB backhaul resource.
\- The network shall be able to set different criteria for admissionThe
network control in a hybrid cell for CSG and non-CSG members.
# 9 Security and privacy
## 9.1 General
\- The use of H(e)NB shall not compromise the security of any PLMN or
broadband access network.
## 9.2 Security Requirements
\- The H(e)NB shall provide a high level of security, equivalent or better
than Rel-8 3GPP systems.
\- Security policy shall be under the control of the H(e)NB network operator.
\- The H(e)NB shall not impact the security of the UE.
## 9.3 Privacy
\- The H(e)NB shall not compromise user privacy for UEs that are using the
H(e)NB, including communication confidentiality, location privacy and identity
protection.
# 10 Charging Aspects
NOTE: Refer to charging requirements in TS 22.115 [8]
###### ## Annex A (informative): Use cases
These use cases do not imply any requirement beyond that which is contained in
the normative part of this TS.
**Usecase-1: H(e)NB Mobility**
User A connects to the H(e)NB via mobile device. User A should be able to move
around within the H(e)NB coverage in the home or enterprise. User should also
be able to invoke additional services based on user policy and operator
policy.
**Usecase-2: H(e)NB Guest Users**
User A and User B are subscribers of Operator 1 and Operator 2 respectively.
User A visits User B in his home and User B allows User A to use H(e)NB in
User B's home. User A should be able to access all the services he is
subscribed to from Operator 1 based on the policies set by User B and operator
2. Operator 1 and Operator 2 have roaming agreement.
**Usecase-3: HNB/HeNB -- NB/eNB Handovers**
User A subcribes to cellular services of Operator 1 and is authorised to
access a HNB/HeNB from same or other operator. User A starts service in the
H(e)NB coverage and continues moving into a cellular network. Similarly User A
starts service in cellular network and continues moving into H(e)NB coverage.
User A does not see any impact on services due to mobility in both cases.
**Usecase-4: Access to Home based services**
User A connects to the H(e)NB via mobile device. User A should be able to
access home based services (e.g. local digital media servers and digital media
players) from the mobile device. Other users may access the home based
services subject to H(e)NB Hosting Party policies.
**Usecase-5: Media Transfer**
User A connects to the H(e)NB via mobile device. User A starts viewing video
streaming service on the mobile device. User A then wants to continue viewing
the video on a different screen for better viewing. User A should be able to
transfer the session to a high-definition TV or PC connected via broadband
connection. User A should also be able to transfer the session from the TV or
PC to a mobile device and continue the session in the H(e)NB coverage and also
in the cellular network.
**Usecase-6: IMS capable [HNB used for coverage purposes]{.underline}**
In this scenario, the reason for an operator to introduce IMS capable HNB is
to offload voice traffic from his existing CS core network to IMS. However, as
in this scenario the usage of \'legacy\' services (e.g. CS Fax) is still
assumed - only the utilization of network resources is to be changed - it is
requested that IMS capable HNB provides all the services/ capabilities that
are provided through regular Node B from the beginning.
**Usecase-7: IMS capable [HNB for a new business model]{.underline}**
This scenario starts with a view that HNB is located in the user's residence
and the UE is the preferred equipment to interact with home services/
applications. New business can be expected there. In this scenario, some of
the CS services/ capabilities that are provided through regular Node B might
not be needed or might be provided in a later step if the operator could
instead offer attractive new services under IMS capable HNB only.
**Usecase-8: IMS capable [HNB for Green field operator]{.underline}**
This scenario expects new players to get into the mobile market. In this
scenario, they would aim to deploy cost efficient and future proof
infrastructure, i.e. no CS domain but IMS/PS domain only, regardless of
whether or not UEs have IMS client on them.
**Usecase-9: Hybrid access mode**
In order to improve the coverage in a shopping mall, H(e)NBs are deployed. The
shopping mall owner may have been provided a special deal by the network
operator where the employees of the shopping mall will get preferential
charging rates and priority access when accessing services via these H(e)NBs.
In exchange, the shopping mall owner allows the public to use the H(e)NBs to
access the normal network operator services. The H(e)NB Hosting Party should
not need to manage the public access and the public should not need to do
anything special in order to get services on the H(e)NB.
**Use case-10: Open access mode**
Typically to enhance coverage or capacity of an operator's public network, for
example in railway stations, airports, stadiums, etc, taking benefit of the
H(e)NBs additional functionality (e.g. uncoordinated deployment).
**Usecase-11:** **HNB interacts with Home network**
User A connects with his UE (possibly a pre-Rel 9 UE) to the HNB with IMS
Interworking and Local IP Access to the home network capabilities. The home
network accommodates home network devices (Intercom, Door lock, Network radio,
Photo server, etc.) and the HNB. User A should be able to communicate with a
visitor at Intercom via the mobile device.
**Usecase-12: HNB interacts with IP-PABX**
User A connects with his UE (possibly a pre-Rel 9 UE) to a HNB with IMS
Interworking and Local IP Access to the home network capabilities at an
office. The HNB might be deployed and interconnect with an enterprise
extension telephone system (e.g. SIP based PABX). User A should be able to
make/receive an extension call to/from fixed line UE under SIP based PABX. In
addition, User A with the mobile device and User B with computers should be
able to access a common groupware server at the office and share the same
information such as schedule, emails, etc.
[]{.underline}
**Usecase-13: Electronic customer guide in shopping centre, using Local IP
access**
A department store or shopping centre provides electronic shopping guide. When
user A enters into a shopping centre where a shopping centre H(e)NB is
installed, an invitation indication shows up on his mobile device which he
accepts. This allows him access to the centre's H(e)NB. Subsequently, he
accesses the centre's customer service server, which is only accessible
through the H(e)NB where he uploads his shopping list. The customer service
server responds a list of sale items of similar nature. He accepts or declines
the various choices and the final shopping list is downloaded to his UE. While
user A is waiting, User A watches free TV show or advertisement provided
through the H(e)NB for the shop customer. While in the shopping centre the
user has simultaneous access to operator's and local shopping centre services.
**Usecase-14: Local IP Access**
The user has the subscription through home operator H. The user is served by
the home operator H. The UE obtains IP connectivity in both a local gateway to
obtain local connectivity for IMS services (e.g. as in local IP access or for
enterprise scenarios with call to other terminals in the PABX area) and to a
home gateway (as in normal connectivity for IMS services). For IMS sessions to
be routed to e.g. remote terminals, the traffic is sent through the
connectivity with the home gateway, whereas for IMS session that can be routed
locally (e.g. based on local phone number), the traffic is sent through the
connectivity with the local gateway through the local IP access. Whether the
UE routes a specific IMS session through the local access or the home gateway
can be controlled on a per session basis. Also, the UE may obtain local
connectivity by default (e.g. based on static configuration by the operator)
or dynamically based on indication by the IMS server.
**Usecase-15:**
Subscriber A from Network A owns HNB/HeNB A because of no macro network
coverage .
Guest user B from Network B visits subscriber A's house. Subscriber A wants to
allow guest user B access to HNB/HeNB A while the guest user B is visiting.
**Usecase-16:**
Corporation A has sites in country A, B and C.
Corporation A has employees from country A and B.
Employees in country A are from Operator AA and AB.
Employees in country B are from Operator B.
Corporation A has HNB/HeNB in country A from Operator AA and country B from
Operator B.
Employees from country A and B are allowed access to HNB/HeNBs in country A
and B.
**Usecase-17: Content-sharing services in the residential IP network**
During a trip to the zoo Alice has taken several pictures and has recorded a
video clip on her UE. After returning home her UE connects to the H(e)NB in
the home and accesses the residential IP network. The local devices (video,
printer, ..) are automatically discovered by the UE. Alice views the videos on
her video player, prints photos on her printer, uploads her media onto media
server, and downloads media for her next outing.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Clarification of H(e)NB Access Modes
Table B.1 illustrates the different H(e)NB Access Modes and what access is
allowed for UEs of any release depending on whether the UE is allowed access
to the CSG.
In Table B.1 "Access" means "Access to services".
"Preferential access" means the user will get preferential access to the cell.
Table B.1: H(e)NB access for UEs of any release
* * *
                                 H(e)NB Access Mode               
                                 Open                 Closed      Hybrid
UE allowed access to CSG Access Access Preferential Access UE not allowed
access to CSG Access No Access Access
* * *
NOTE: Pre Release 8 UEs can only access HNBs
###### ## Annex C (informative): Overview of identifiers and names.
Table C.1: Overview of identifiers and names
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | *** | **_used |_** ass | **_perm | * |_** di | **_com | | item_** | for** _| ociated | anently |_ *distr | splayed | ment** _| | | | with_**| stored | ibution | to | | | | | | in** _| me | user_**| | | | | | | thod** * | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | H(e)NB | - | H(e)NB | - | O&M | NO | not | | eq | adminis | (p | H(e)NB | pro | | known | | uipment | trative | hysical | | cedures | | to UE, | | i | p | entity) | - | | | th | | dentity | urposes | | adminis | | | erefore | | | | | tration | | | not | | | | | d | | | useable | | | | | atabase | | | by UE | | | | | of | | | to | | | | | the | | | i | | | | | o | | | dentify | | | | | perator | | | a | | | | | | | | H(e)NB | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | CSG | - au | - a | - | - p | YES, if | A CSG | | i | tomatic | | H(e)NB | rovided | HNB | i | | dentity | and | CSG, | | by | Name is | dentity | | | | | - | O&M | not | is | | | manual | i.e.\ | adminis | to | av | unique | | | CSG | a | tration | | ailable | within | | | se | | d | H(e)NBs | | a PLMN. | | | lection | group | atabase | | | In the | | | | of | of | - p | | UE a | | | - | | the | rovided | | CSG ID, | | | access | users | o | by | | to | | | | | perator | | | ­gether | | | control | (UEs). | | home | | with a | | | to | | - | | | network | | | CSG | - One | Allowed | PLMN | | iden | | | | or | CSG | to | | tifier, | | | cells | | | UEs | | ide | | | | More | List | | | ntifies | | | | H | in | (the | | a CSG | | | | (e)NBs\ | the | | | g | | | | | UE | Home | | lobally | | | | (CSG | if | | | un | | | | | | PLMN | | iquely. | | | | cells) | user | and | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (UE) | Visited | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | PLMN | | | | | | | member | | | | | | | | of | should | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | CSG\ | sync | | | | | | | | hronize | | | | | | | (USIM | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | entry | | | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | takes | rmation | | | | | | | | ) | | | | | | | prec | | | | | | | | e­dence | | | | | | | | | - P | | | | | | | over | rovided | | | | | | | ME) | | | | | | | | | > to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > UE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > by | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > OMA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > DM | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > when | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | stored | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > ME, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - P | | | | | | | | rovided | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > UE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > by | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > OTA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > when | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | stored | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > USIM | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - P | | | | | | | | rovided | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | manual | | | | | | | | CSG | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | lection | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | broa | | | | | | | | dcasted | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | H(e)NB | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | HNB | for | CSG | - | - P | YES | If a | | name | sup | id | H(e)NB | rovided | during | HNB | | (op | porting | entity\ | | by | manual | name is | | tional) | (ease | ( | - | O&M | sel | stored | | | of use) | relatio | adminis | to | ection, | in the | | | manual | nship:\ | tration | | O | UE it | | | CSG | m CSG | d | H(e)NBs | PTIONAL | needs | | | sel | ID :\ | atabase | | during | to be | | | ection, | n HNB | of | - Opt | normal | ass | | | disp | names) | the | ionally | ope | ociated | | | lay­ing | | o | | ration. | with a | | | a | | perator | stored | | CSG | | | "fr | | | by | (USIM | id | | | iendly" | | - UE | | entry | entity. | | | name to | | | user | takes | Initial | | | the | | | in | prec | config | | | user | | | UE | e­dence | uration | | | | | | | over | in the | | | | | | - | bro | UE may | | | | | | broa | ad­cast | be done | | | | | | dcasted | and ME) | by the | | | | | | by | | o | | | | | | | | perator | | | | | | H(e)NB | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | sale). | | | | | | | | Later, | | | | | | | | a HNB | | | | | | | | name is | | | | | | | | imp | | | | | | | | licitly | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | ociated | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | current | | | | | | | | CSG | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | dentity | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | UE when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | stores | | | | | | | | the HNB | | | | | | | | name | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | CSG | for | CSG | - | - p | YES, if | UE | | Type | add | i | adminis | rovided | CSG is | needs | | | itional | dentity | tration | by | in | to | | | info | ( | d | | Allowed | as | | | rmation | relatio | atabase | initial | CSG | sociate | | | (on | nship:\ | of | UE | List. | a CSG | | | e.g. | n CSG | the | | (USIM | Type | | | billing | ID :\ | o | configu | entry | with a | | | mode) | 1 CSG | perator | ration, | takes | CSG | | | to the | Type) | | OTA | prec | id | | | user | | - UE | and | e­dence | entity\ | | | when | | | | over | Asso | | | camping | | | device | ME) | ciation | | | on a | | | | | done by | | | CSG | | | mana | | o | | | cell | | | ge­ment | | perator | | | (i.e. | | | to | | (the | | | after | | | UEs | | Home | | | CSG has | | | | | PLMN | | | been | | | | | and | | | se | | | | | Visited | | | lected) | | | | | PLMN | | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | | hronize | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | | | ) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#