# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the service requirements for Network
Improvements for Machine Type Communications. In particular it will:
\- identify and specify general requirements for machine type communications;
\- identify service aspects where network improvements (compared to the
current human-to-human oriented services) are needed to cater for the specific
nature of machine-type communications;
\- specify machine type communication requirements for these service aspects
where network improvements are needed for machine type communication.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.011: \" Service accessibility\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**MTC Device:** A MTC Device is a UE equipped for Machine Type Communication,
which communicates through a PLMN with MTC Server(s) and/or other MTC
Device(s).
NOTE: A MTC Device might also communicate locally (wirelessly, possibly
through a PAN, or hardwired) with other entities which provide the MTC Device
"raw data" for processing and communication to the MTC Server(s) and/or other
MTC Device(s). Local communication between MTC Device(s) and other entities is
out of scope of this technical specification.
**MTC Feature:** MTC Features are network functions to optimise the network
for use by M2M applications.
**MTC Server:** A MTC Server is a server, which communicates to the PLMN
itself, and to MTC Devices through the PLMN. The MTC Server can also have an
interface which can be accessed by the MTC User. The MTC Server can:
> \- Provides services for other servers (e.g. The MTC Server is a Services
> Capability Server [3] for an Application Server [3]), and/or
>
> \- Provides services for applications and can host the application (e.g. The
> MTC Server is an Application Server [3]).
**MTC User:** A MTC User uses the service provided by the MTC Server.
**MTC Subscriber:** A MTC Subscriber is a legal entity having a contractual
relationship with the network operator to provide service to one or more MTC
Devices.
NOTE: Typically a M2M service provider is the party holding subscriptions in
order to provide connectivity between MTC Devices and the MTC Server. In
practise certain roles can collapse, e.g. the network operator acts as the
same time as Service Provider.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
NIMTC Network Improvements for Machine Type Communications
MNO Mobile Network Operator
MTC Machine-Type Communications
# 4 Overview of system optimisations for machine-type communications
Machine type communication is a form of data communication which involves one
or more entities that do not necessarily need human interaction.
A service optimised for machine type communications differs from a service
optimised for Human to Human communications. Machine type communications is
different to current mobile network communication services as it involves:
a) different market scenarios,
b) data communications,
c) lower costs and effort,
d) a potentially very large number of communicating terminals with,
e) to a large extent, little traffic per terminal.
For the purpose of the present document, the term MTC is used for the purpose
to describe use-cases and illustrate the diverse characteristics of machine
type communication services.
The informative annex A gives an overview of MTC use-cases which also
illustrate different overload scenarios which will require overload control
functions to prevent overload and to differentiate between services offered to
different subscribers with different service requirements. In particular,
certain MTC services and MTC applications, as exemplified in annex B, are more
tolerant and can accept a lower level of performance requirements for its
communication services. However some MTC services will have similar service
requirements as current mobile network communication services.
# 5 MTC communication aspects
## 5.1 MTC communication scenarios
### 5.1.1 Introduction
For MTC communication the following communication scenarios can be identified:
a) MTC Devices communicating with one or more MTC Server
b) MTC Devices communicating with each other
### 5.1.2 MTC devices communicating with one or more MTC servers
The network operator provides network connectivity to MTC Server(s). This
applies to MTC Server(s) controlled by the network operator (refer to figure
5-1) or to MTC Server(s) not controlled by the network operator (refer to
figure 5-2.)
{width="5.01875in" height="2.452777777777778in"}
Figure 5-1: Communication scenario with MTC devices communicating with MTC
server. MTC server is located in the operator domain.
Figure 5-2: Communication scenario with MTC devices communicating with MTC
server. MTC server is located outside the operator domain.
### 5.1.3 MTC devices communicating with each other
The communication scenario where the MTC Devices communicate directly without
intermediate MTC Server (refer to figure 5-3) is not considered in this
release of the specification.
Figure 5-3: MTC Devices communicating directly with each other without
intermediate MTC server.
## 5.2 (void)
# 6 Categories of features for Machine-Type Communications
Machine Type Communication (MTC) applications do not all have the same
characteristics. This implies that not every system optimisation is suitable
for every MTC application. Therefore, MTC Features are defined to provide
structure for the different system optimisation possibilities that can be
invoked. MTC Features provided to a particular subscriber are identified in
the subscription. MTC Features can be individually activated.
The following MTC Features have been defined:
\- Secure Connection
# 7 Service requirements
## 7.1 Common service requirements
### 7.1.1 General
The following are MTC common service requirements:
\- The network shall enable the network operator to identify per subscription
which individual MTC Features are subscribed to by a particular MTC
Subscriber.
\- The network shall provide a mechanism for the MTC Subscriber to activate or
deactivate MTC Features.
\- The network shall enable the network operator to identify which individual
MTC Features are activated for a particular MTC Subscriber.
NOTE: The activation/deactivation functionality can be provided via a web
interface that is outside the scope of 3GPP specifications.
\- The network operator shall be able to restrict the use of a USIM to
specific MEs/MTC Devices.
\- The network shall provide a mechanism to reduce peaks in the data and
signalling traffic resulting from very large numbers of MTC Devices (almost)
simultaneously attempting data and/or signalling interactions.
\- The network shall provide a mechanism to restrict downlink data and
signalling when the network is overloaded.
\- The network shall provide a mechanism to restrict access towards a specific
APN when the network is overloaded.
\- A MTC Device may support the Extended Access Barring (EAB) mechanism
defined in TS 22.011 [2].
\- A MTC Device supporting the EAB mechanism shall be able to be configured
for EAB by the HPLMN.
\- The HPLMN shall be able to configure EAB on a MTC Device that supports it.
\- Once configured, and upon reception of broadcasted EAB information, the MTC
Device shall adhere to the defined EAB mechanisms.
Note: The decision of whether a MTC Device is configured for EAB is out of
3GPP scope. In general, MTC Devices considered more tolerant to access
restrictions are well suited to be configured for EAB.
\- The system shall provide mechanisms to efficiently maintain connectivity
for a large number of MTC Devices.
\- The network operator shall be able to reduce the frequency of mobility
management procedures.
\- The network shall provide mechanisms to handle MTC Devices and applications
on MTC Devices registering on the IP multimedia core network subsystem and
accessing its capabilities including interaction with IMS application
servers/enablers.
\- Configuration parameters which are provided in the USIM shall take
precedence over parameters provided in the MTC Device if both exist.
\- MTC Devices may or may not be kept attached to the network when not
communicating, depending on MTC Application requirements.
\- MTC Devices may keep their data connection or not keep their data
connection when not communicating, depending on MTC Application requirements.
### 7.1.2 MTC device triggering
The requirements related to MTC Device triggering include the following:
\- The network shall be able to trigger MTC Devices to initiate communication
with the MTC Server based on a trigger indication from the MTC Server.
\- The system shall provide a mechanism such that only trigger indications
received from authorized MTC Servers will lead to triggering of MTC Devices.
\- Upon receiving a trigger indication from a source that is not an authorised
MTC Server, the network shall be able to provide the details of the source
(e.g. address) to the MTC User.
\- The system shall provide a mechanism to the MTC User to provide a set of
authorized MTC Server(s).
\- Upon receiving a trigger indication, if the network is not able to trigger
the MTC Device, the 3GPP system may send an indication to the MTC Server that
triggering the MTC Device has been suppressed.
NOTE: suppression of triggering could be due to system conditions such as
network congestion.
\- A MTC Device shall be able to receive trigger indications from the network
and shall establish communication with the MTC Server when receiving the
trigger indication. Possible options may include:
\- Receiving trigger indication when the MTC Device is attached to the
network, but has no data connection established.
\- Receiving trigger indication when the MTC Device is attached to the network
and has a data connection established.
### 7.1.3 Addressing
The system shall provide mechanisms, according to operator policy, where an
MTC Server can send a mobile terminated message to the MTC Device. Scenarios
include:
\- The MTC Server is located in the public IPv6 address space. The MTC Device
is assigned a public IPv6 address by the MNO.
Figure 7-1: MTC server and the MTC Device in the public IPv6 address space
\- The MTC Server is located in a public IPv4 address space; the MTC Device is
assigned a private IPv4 address by the MNO.
> Alternatively, the MTC Server is located in a private IPv4 address space and
> is assigned a private IPv4 address by the MNO; the MTC Device is assigned a
> private IPv4 address by the MNO corresponding to the same IPv4 address space
> as the MTC Server.
Figure 7-2: MTC server in a public or private IPv4 address space, MTC Device
in a private IPv4 address space
### 7.1.4 Identifiers
The requirements for MTC related to identifiers include the following:
\- The system shall be able to uniquely identify the ME.
\- The system shall be able to uniquely identify the MTC Subscriber.
NOTE: The two requirements above also apply to human-to-human communications.
However, for Machine-Type Communication identifiers will have to be able to
cater for a number of identifiers at least two orders of magnitude higher than
for human-to-human communications.
\- The system shall provide mechanisms for the network operator to efficiently
manage numbers and identifiers related to MTC Subscribers.
### 7.1.5 Charging requirements
Per MTC Device the core network shall be able to:
\- stop creation of per individual subscription CDRs for particular
subscriptions.
\- count MTC Device initiated signalling per signalling type (e.g. mobility
signalling) by means of bulk CDRs or CDRs per individual subscription.
\- count MTC Feature activation / de-activation by means of bulk CDRs or CDRs
per individual subscription.
### 7.1.6 Security requirements
The security requirements for MTC include the following:
\- MTC optimizations shall not degrade security compared to non-MTC
communications
### 7.1.7 Remote MTC device management
The operator shall be able to manage MTC Devices using existing mechanisms
(e.g. OMA DM)
## 7.2. Specific service requirements -- MTC Features
### 7.2.1 Void
### 7.2.2 Void
### 7.2.3 Void
### 7.2.4 Void
### 7.2.5 Void
### 7.2.6 Void
### 7.2.7 Void
### 7.2.8 Void
### 7.2.9 Void
### 7.2.10 Secure connection
The MTC Feature Secure Connection is intended for use with MTC Devices that
require a secure connection between the MTC Device and MTC Server/MTC
Application Server.
For the Secure Connection MTC Feature:
\- The network operator shall be able to efficiently provide network security
for connection between MTC Device and a MTC Server or between MTC Device and a
MTC Application Server in case there is a direct connection with the MTC
Application Server. This applies even when some of the devices are roaming
i.e. connected via a VPLMN.
### 7.2.11 Void
### 7.2.12 Void
### 7.2.13 Void
### 7.2.14 Void
###### ## Annex A (informative): Use cases
**Addressing from a centralized entity Use Case**
Metering devices are typically monitored and controlled by a centralized
entity outside or inside the network operator system. Due to the need for
centralized control, the centralized entity will inform or poll the metering
device when it needs measurement information rather than the metering device
autonomously sending measurements. Depending on the nature of the metering
application, low latency responses are sometimes required (metering for high
pressure pipelines for example). To accomplish this, the centralized entity
will need to inform the metering device when it needs a measurement. Typically
due to the limitation of IPv4 address space, the metering terminal is behind a
NAT (Network Address Translator) where it is not assigned a routable IPv4
address.
**Theft /Vandalism Vulnerable MTC Application Use Case**
In contrast to the traditional H2H devices, which are carefully held and
protected by a person, MTC Devices are often located in remote areas and
ideally are untouched after installation for many years. The remote locales
make these devices more susceptible to tampering by unauthorised persons. The
tampering of the MTC Device is often accompanied by damage to the metering
device. The network has security mechanisms for protection for this type of
activity which may not be effective for MTC Devices. The network can not
prevent it but can detect it as early as possible in order to deactivate the
ME's service and the related USIM. In addition, often theft/vandalism
vulnerable MTC Devices are stationary after initial installation and
activation. The stationality of the MTC Device can be utilized to improve the
detection of theft. If a known stationary devices moves, it can be concluded
that the MTC Device has been stolen and thus the account deactivated.
**Time Controlled MTC Application Use Case**
For some MTC applications the actual time at which communication takes place
is less important, but low communication costs are extremely important. A
network operator can offer low communication fees for this type of
applications by allowing communication to take place during low traffic time
periods only. Possibly the network operator may want to dynamically adjust
these time periods based on the actual network traffic load at a specific
time.
**Radio Network Congestion Use Case**
Radio network congestion because of mass concurrent data transmission takes
place in some MTC applications. One of the typical applications is the bridge
monitoring with a mass of sensors. When a train passes through the bridge, all
the sensors transmit the monitoring data almost simultaneously. The same thing
happens in hydrology monitoring during the time of heavy rain and in building
monitoring when intruders break in. The network should be optimized to enable
a mass of MTC Devices in a particular area to transmit data almost
simultaneously.
**Core Network Congestion Use Case**
With many MTC applications, a large number of MTC Devices is affiliated with a
single MTC User. These MTC Devices together are part of a MTC Group. The MTC
User associated with the MTC Group owns a MTC Server which is connected to the
PS network of a mobile network operator via an Access Point Name (APN) using
the Gi interface. The MTC Devices in the MTC Group communicate with this MTC
Server.
Typically, the MTC Devices in the MTC Group are scattered over the network in
such a way that the data simultaneously sent by the MTC Devices in any
particular cell is limited and will not cause a radio network overload.
Despite this, when a high number of MTC Devices are sending/receiving data
simultaneously, data congestion may occur in the mobile core network or on the
link between mobile core network and MTC Server where the data traffic related
to MTC Group is aggregated. Preferably, a network operator and the MTC User
have means to enforce a maximum rate for the data sent/received by the MTC
Group.
{width="3.9368055555555554in" height="2.097916666666667in"}
Figure A-1: Congestion in mobile core network and on the link between mobile
core network and MTC Server
**Signalling Network Congestion Use Case**
Congestion in the signalling network is caused by a high number of MTC Devices
trying almost simultaneously: (1) to attach to the network or (2) to
activate/modify/deactivate a connection. In a 3GPP system supporting MTC
applications such an overload of the network can be caused by e.g. many mobile
payment terminals that become active on a national holiday or by high numbers
of metering devices becoming active almost simultaneously after a period of
power outage. Also some MTC applications generate recurring data transmissions
at precisely synchronous time intervals (e.g. precisely every hour or half
hour). Preferably, the 3GPP system provides means to the network operator and
MTC User to spread the resulting peaks in the signalling traffic.
{width="4.027083333333334in" height="2.151388888888889in"}
Figure A-2: Signalling network congestion.
**Access Control with billing plan Use Case**
In some configurations, it may be necessary to restrict the access of a UICC
that is dedicated to be used only with machine type modules associated with a
specific billing plan. It should be possible to associate a list of UICC to a
list of terminal identity such as IMEISV so that if the UICC is used in an
other terminal type, the access will be refused. See the following
configuration:
{width="4.7027777777777775in" height="3.873611111111111in"}
Figure A-3: Access Control with billing plan
**Extra Low Power Consumption Use Case**
For high mobility case, tracking MTC devices such as animal tracking MTC
devices in natural world with high mobility require extra low power
consumption because it is almost impossible to replace the battery or recharge
the battery for animal tracking MTC device. Compared to the tracking devices
installed in the cars and trucks because cars and trucks could generate
electricity by themselves, extra low power consumption for these MTC devices
is required.
For cargo tracking, the cargo with a tracking MTC device could move very fast
such as on a train or lorry and could stand still such as in the dock before
loading or unloading. It is not desired to either change its battery or
replace battery during the transport period, so extra low power consumption
MTC devices are also required.
For prisoner tracking MTC devices are already used by police, prisoners will
not cooperate with police and would wish the MTC devices have flat batteries;
therefore, extra low power consumption feature is required for these MTC
devices. For the tracking MTC devices of elder people who have memory problem,
children or pets, even the batteries of these MTC devices could be replaced or
charged, however, considering the worst scenario -- if they are missing, it
requires the MTC devices with extra low power consumption and long working
time in order to find them.
For low mobility case, the gas meter MTC devices must be battery powered.
Extra low power consumption for gas MTC devices is much more critical than
electricity meters.
**Extra Low Power Consumption with Time Controlled MTC Devices Use Case**
Time Controlled MTC Devices which send or receive data only at certain pre-
defined periods may be operated in one or more modes that minimize power
consumption.
An MTC Device may be operated in a mode where it is expected to receive non-
periodic messages (e.g., emergency messages or notifications of altered access
period as with the MTC Feature Time Controlled outside the time controlled
periods. The MTC Device should minimize power consumption while in a mode to
support this.
If the application requires the MTC Device to send or receive data within pre-
defined periods and receive non-periodic messages outside these periods,
operation at the lowest possible power consumption level to extend battery
life should be achieved.
**Location Specific MTC Devices Trigger Use Case**
MTC Devices are generally programmed to autonomously set up a connection to
report an event. However, in some implementations it is required that MTC
Devices are triggered by the M2M application e.g. by sending them a SMS. In
the future millions of this type of MTC Devices will be deployed, while it may
be desirable from a M2M application perspective to poll only a sub-set of the
MTC Devices in a specific area. For example, during a storm a water authority
wants to get status information of dike sensors in a specific area. It is then
required that only sensors in that specific area are triggered.
As for several M2M applications the MTC Devices are at fixed locations, which
are well known by the M2M application owner, it is a waste of network
resources to store the location information of these MTC devices in the
network. Also scalability issues will come in play if millions of terminals
need to be polled in a relative short time.
A more efficient and scalable polling mechanism is required to trigger M2M
devices based on location information provided by the application or user, to
subsequently set up a data or other type of connection e.g. a SMS, PDP context
to the network.
**End-to-end security for roaming MTC devices**
An MTC Application communicates with a large number of MTC Devices that are
located globally and may or may not be mobile. Examples of such devices are
mobile navigation systems and payment terminals. Connectivity for the MTC
Devices is provided by a single network operator that uses its roaming
agreements to connect MTC Devices that are not within range of its own
network.
From the perspective of the operator of the MTC application its MTC Server and
the domain of its network operator are part of a trusted domain. However, the
domain of the roaming operator are not seen as part of the trusted domain, as
is depicted in the figure below.
{width="3.8402777777777777in" height="2.182638888888889in"}
Figure A-4: End-to-end security for roaming MTC devices
The operator of the MTC application therefore requires end-to-end security for
messages exchanged between MTC application and MTC Devices. The network
operator does not have control over the security features in the domain of the
roaming operators. Furthermore, for efficiency reasons the roaming operators
may decide on a local breakout to for instance the Internet for MTC traffic in
which case the information partly travels over the Internet. The network
operator needs to satisfy the MTC application owner's end-to-end security
requirement without relying on network security alone.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Examples of MTC applications
Some examples of machine‑type communication applications are listed in the
following table. This list is not exhaustive and is intended to be indicative
of the scope of machine‑type communication applications.
+----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Service Area | MTC applications | +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Security | Surveillance systems | | | | | | Backup for landline | | | | | | Control of physical access (e.g. to buildings) | | | | | | Car/driver security | +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Tracking & Tracing | Fleet Management | | | | | | Order Management | | | | | | Pay as you drive | | | | | | Asset Tracking | | | | | | Navigation | | | | | | Traffic information | | | | | | Road tolling | | | | | | Road traffic optimisation/steering | +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Payment | Point of sales | | | | | | Vending machines | | | | | | Gaming machines | +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Health | Monitoring vital signs | | | | | | Supporting the aged or handicapped | | | | | | Web Access Telemedicine points | | | | | | Remote diagnostics | +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Remote Maintenance/Control | Sensors | | | | | | Lighting | | | | | | Pumps | | | | | | Valves | | | | | | Elevator control | | | | | | Vending machine control | | | | | | Vehicle diagnostics | +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Metering | Power | | | | | | Gas | | | | | | Water | | | | | | Heating | | | | | | Grid control | | | | | | Industrial metering | +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Consumer Devices | Digital photo frame | | | | | | Digital camera | | | | | | eBook | +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
#