# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To ensure competitiveness in a longer time frame an evolution of the overall
3GPP system needs to be considered.
This document investigates the functionality and requirements needed to
integrate Single Sign-On (SSO) and identity management capabilities within the
3GPP network and their corresponding offered services. The Single Sign-On
(SSO) feature enables a 3GPP operator to become an Identity Provider and
leverage existing 3GPP services and authentication mechanisms to grant access
to Affiliated Application Services located outside the operator's domain
without additional user intervention.
The Single Sign-On(SSO) framework is characterized by:
\- positioning the operator as the preferred Identity Provider;
\- executing user authentication for Affiliated Application Services using
3GPP authentication mechanisms and infrastructure;
\- providing reliable and robust secure credential handling;
\- cost-efficient deployment and operation; and
\- delivering convenience and ease of use for the consumer accessing
Application Services (on a mobile device).
# 1 Scope
The Single Sign-On (SSO) framework integration with 3GPP network resource and
services intends to execute a comprehensive set of use cases and service
requirements to serve various operator authentication configurations.
The scope of the Single Sign-On (SSO) integration study is to:
\- provide service and deployment scenarios for 3GPP operators adopting an
integrated approach to SSO, including web, person-to-person and M2M service
scenarios;
\- provide transparent identification and seamless authentication to web
services on behalf of the user;
\- support a comprehensive set of use cases of integration of different
Identity and SSO frameworks (e.g OpenID) for various operator authentication
configurations;
\- define use cases and provide service requirements for Operators sharing
controlled user credentials with Affiliated Application Service Providers;
\- define use cases and service requirements associated with ensuring that the
intended user is making use of the associated SSO capability (including the
case when the UE has been stolen or lost);
\- realize the Identity Provider role within the 3GPP network ecosystem and
its influence among outside internet web service providers; and
\- provide an enhanced user experience with secure, reliable access and
authentication to Affiliated Application Services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ...
[aa] OpenID Foundation \"OpenID Authentication 2.0\",
http://openid.net/specs/openid-authentication-2_0.html.
[bb] 3GPP TR 33.924
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Affiliated Application Service Provider:** An Application Service Provider
having a trust relationship with the SSO Provider. The Affiliated ASP is
referred to as the Relying Party in the OpenID Specification [aa].
**Application Service:** A network-based service delivered to the user through
an application that resides on the UE. The Application Service may be web-
based or non-web-based.
**Application Service Provider:** A party that offers Application Services.
**Credentials:** Evidence that proves the identity of a user and is critical
to the process of authentication.
**Identity Provider:** A party that provides the service of asserting a user's
identity to an Application Service.
**OpenID Provider:** An OpenID Authentication server on which a Relying Party
relies for an assertion that the end user controls an Identifier (see OpenID
Specification "OpenID Authentication 2.0" [aa]).
**SSO Provider:** A party receiving identity assertions from an Identity
Provider and providing authentication of users to Application Service
Providers.
**SSO Service:** A service in which a user is authenticated once (i.e.,
"single sign-on") and provided with seamless access to multiple Application
Services.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ASP Application Service Provider
IdP Identity Provider
OP OpenID Provider
RP Relying Party
SSO Single Sign-On
# 4 Use cases, services and user groups
## 4.1 Introduction
This Clause investigates a set of use cases for integration of different
Identity and SSO frameworks (e.g., OpenID) with the 3GPP networks set up for
various authentication configurations (e.g. with and without GAA/GBA via TR
33.924) . It also explores service requirements for operators that enable
authenticated access to Affiliated Application Service Providers.
The following common pre-conditions are assumed for all use cases:
\- The Operator provides an SSO Service.
\- The user has a service subscription with SSO support.
\- The user has at least one data service account.
\- The user agrees to the terms and condition to use SSO with the Operator.
\- The user agrees to the terms and condition to use SSO with the Affiliated
Application Service.
\- Service agreements and charging schemes are already in place between
Affiliated Application Service Providers and Operators.
\- The user is able to access the Application Service via devices registered
with the operator.
## 4.2 Use case 1: Affiliated Application Service access
### 4.2.1 Pre-conditions
A user has purchased a subscription plan that includes an operator managed SSO
Service. The user has multiple Application Service accounts and IMS-based
domain services already established. The user's device is a non-3GPP device
(e.g., fixed consumer device or a WiFi-only mobile device) and does not have a
UICC/smartcard.
\- Operator acting as an SSO Provider has pre-provisioned the SSO credentials
within the network and non-3GPP device.
### 4.2.2 Service flows
A user has an established service with an operator and relies on his operator
to provide a SSO Service. The user wishes to use a 3rd party movie service
such as Netflix, to access his personal account to select and view a movie of
his choice, on a consumer device. Immediately upon entering the service, the
user is seamlessly and transparently connected to his account without
providing login and password credentials. The user freely selects a movie and
watches it using an application on his device, without interruption.
The user is transparently authenticated by an SSO Service, which is provided
by the operator. The absence of a UICC in this scenario necessitates the use
of non-UICC based credentials. More specifically the means of network access
for this scenario could, for example, employ the use of SIP-Digest or PKI
based credentials.
### 4.2.3 Requirements
\- The SSO Service provided by the operator shall provide secure seamless and
transparent access to Affiliated Application Services for non-3GPP devices
lacking a UICC.
## 4.3 Use case 2: Multiple service access to Operator service and Affiliated
Application Service
### 4.3.1 Pre-conditions
A user has purchased a subscription plan that includes the SSO Service. The
user has multiple Application Service accounts and operator services such as
IMS-based domain services or mobile data services already established.
\- Login and access credentials are already secured within the network and UE.
\- Applications are installed on the UE if needed to access a service.
### 4.3.2 Service flows
A user is using an operator service such as IMS messaging services and wishes
to add an Affiliated Application Service, such as a social website.
Immediately upon accessing the service, the user is transparently connected to
his account without providing login and password credentials.
## 4.4 Use case 3: Mobility access to Affiliated Application Services across
Operator domains
### 4.4.1 Pre-conditions
A user has purchased a subscription plan that includes the SSO Service. The
user has multiple Application Service accounts and operator services such as
IMS-based domain services or mobile data services already established.
\- Login and access credentials are already secured within the network and UE.
\- Applications are installed on the UE if needed to access a service.
### 4.4.2 Service flows
A user is on a train watching an Internet TV show on his laptop using LTE. The
viewing mechanism can be any application used for accessing the service. As
the user travels and moves from one Operator network to another, the SSO
Service manages the change in Identity providers seamless, transparently and
without delay. The user watches the TV show without interruption.
## 4.5 Use case 4: Accessing an Affiliated Application Service using OpenID
A user, who has a subscription with a mobile network operator, accesses an
Affiliated Application Service which supports _OpenID_ , for example an online
photo service. The user's network operator is also an _OpenID_ identity
provider. Upon making a request, which contains the user's _OpenID_ identifier
to the online photo service, the user gains an authenticated access to the
photo service for viewing access-protected photographs without being involved
in the authentication procedure.
### 4.5.1 Pre-conditions
\- The user's network operator is also an _OpenID_ identity provider.
\- The _OpenID_ identifier has been established by the network operator.
\- The online photo service is an Affiliated Application Service that supports
_OpenID._
\- The online photo service trusts the user's network operator for the user
authentication.
### 4.5.2 Entities involved in the use case
The following entities are involved in the authentication procedure:
\- User with the user equipment (UE), which is capable of running a web client
or a dedicated application and communicating with the appropriate operator
credentials.
\- Application Web server --- an entity providing an online photo service. It
plays the role of a Relying Party.
\- _OpenID_ identity providing service (OP), which is controlled by the
operator.
\- Operator's HSS.
### 4.5.3 Additional requirements for the entities participating in the
authentication
\- Requirements for UE
UE must be capable of:
\- Authenticating with the use of operator controlled credentials.
\- Conditions for the application web server (Relying Party).
The application server **must be able to support _OpenID_ specification [aa]**
\- Requirements for the OP
OP must be able to:
\- Perform authentication based on operator controlled credentials.
\- Serve as an _OpenID_ identity provider.
## 4.6 Use case 5: User authentication
### 4.6.1 Pre-conditions
The following pre-conditions apply to this use case:
\- The UE is equipped to recognize a certain pre-defined condition (e.g. an
event such as power-up of the UE, request from network) to trigger
authentication of the user.
\- The UE securely stores the user's SSO authentication credentials.
\- The UE is provisioned with an operator's policy that governs triggering of
the user authentication.
### 4.6.2 Service flows
According to Operator provisioned policies, the user is authenticated by the
UE. Upon successful authentication, the UE then securely stores the time when
the authentication was carried out. Later, the user proceeds to access an
OpenID supported application service. The UE retrieves and presents the
identity and evidence of local authentication (e.g. time of successful
authentication, and assurance level of authentication to the application
service. The application service receives the evidence, and upon inspection,
grants the user access to the service transparently (i.e., without requiring
the user to be further involved in the authentication procedure).
### 4.6.3 Requirements
\- The Operator shall be able to configure policies which govern the user
authentication procedures.
\- Affiliated Application Service Providers shall be able to request a user
re-authentication.
\- The user shall be authenticated according to the service providers'
authentication assurance level and freshness of the authentication.
## 4.7 Use case 6: Automation of authentication method
### 4.7.1 Pre-conditions
The following pre-conditions apply to this use case:
\- The UE supports more than one option of access network based SSO
authentication method (e.g., 3GPP GBA, 3GPP AKA, 3GPP ISIM, 3GPP SIP-Digest,
EAP variants).
\- The UE supports user-entered SSO credentials (identity and password).
### 4.7.2 Service flows
A user accesses an SSO (e.g. OpenID) supported Affiliated Application Service
on a UE. The UE and SSO Provider agree on an SSO authentication method to be
used to access the service without requiring further user involvement. The
user proceeds to seamlessly access the service accordingly.
### 4.7.3 Requirements
\- When a user accesses an Affiliated Application Service, the UE and SSO
Provider shall be able to agree on an authentication method to be used without
requiring user involvement.
\- A different authentication method may be selected each time the user is to
be authenticated for access to an Affiliated Application Service.
## 4.8 Use case 7: Seamless service detection, redirection and supply of
credentials by a UE
### 4.8.1 Pre-conditions
The following pre-conditions apply to this use case:
\- A user has previously registered his SSO identifier(s) with appropriate
Identity Provider(s) (IdP(s)).\ NOTE: There may be multiple SSO methods and
IdPs supported by the UE (e.g., OpenID, Liberty Alliance).
\- The user has registered with the IdP(s) and stored his SSO credentials
(e.g., identity and password) in the UE.
### 4.8.2 Service flows
Current SSO services require the user to view a screen and recognize when
credentials are being sought and supply manually the credentials upon request.
In order for the user to avoid having to recognize and entering his or her
credentials manually, possibly having to repeat this process for each and
every service, the process needs to be automated by the UE.
### 4.8.3 Requirements
\- The UE is required to automatically detect a request for credentials from
the Affiliated Application Service Provider and SSO Provider, possibly
requiring this action for several service providers, and supply the
credentials automatically without user intervention.
## 4.9 Use Case 8: Seamless transition between 3GPP access and non-3GPP access
### 4.9.1 Pre-conditions
\- A user has a subscription with the mobile network operator that includes
SSO Service.
\- The user's UE supports access via 3GPP and non-3GPP networks.
\- The social network is a web service that supports SSO Service.
\- The social network service trusts the user's network operator for the user
authentication.
### 4.9.2 Service flows
A user has a User Equipment (UE) that is able to establish a connection both
via 3GPP networks and via non-3GPP networks (e.g., public or private WLAN).
The user has a subscription that includes an SSO Service with a mobile network
operator and accesses an Affiliated Application Service Provider (ASP), for
example a social network. The user gains an authenticated access to his social
network account without being involved in the authentication procedure. The
SSO Service asserts authentication to the ASP regardless of the access
technology over which the user may be connected. A transition from or to
non-3GPP access is seamless and transparent to the user.
### 4.9.3 Entities involved in the use case
The following entities are involved in the authentication procedure:
\- User with the user equipment (UE), which is capable to establish an IP
connection via both 3GPP access and non-3GPP access.
\- Application Service Provider--- an entity providing a social network
service. It plays the role of a Relying Party.
\- SSO Service, which is controlled by the operator.
\- Operator's HSS.
### 4.9.4 Requirements
\- The SSO framework shall be able to support seamless transitions between
3GPP access and non-3GPP access technologies during the same SSO service
session.
\- Transitions between 3GPP access and non-3GPP access technologies shall be
transparent to the user from an SSO service perspective.
\- The user shall be able to initiate the SSO service regardless of the access
technology, using the following credentials .......
Editors note: The list of credentials to be considered is yet to be finalized.
## 4.10 Use case 9: User identity acknowledgement for SSO usage
A user submits a notification to the operator when he becomes aware that his
UE is stolen or lost. Subject to the user's request, the operator pauses SSO
support for the user. When he want to access an Affiliated Application
Service, he is requested to provide login and password credentials.
Additionally, if he submits evidence that he is the intended user the SSO
support can be resumed by the operator.
### 4.10.1 Requirements
When an operator receives a notification from a user that his UE is lost or
stolen, the operator shall pause the SSO support for that user until evidence
is provided by that user to resume the SSO support.
When the SSO support for a user is paused, any further attempt to access a
service shall require the user to be authenticated via other form of
credential(s).
## 4.11 Use case 10: Using the 3GPP SSO Service by another (non-MNO or other
MNO) SSO Provider
### 4.11.1 Pre-conditions
\- A user has a subscription with the mobile network operator that includes
SSO Service.
\- The user has an SSO Service that uses a 3^rd^ party IdP like Facebook.
\- The user has a subscription with YouTube that was created using Facebook as
the SSO service (subscription is identified by Facebook ID).
\- YouTube trusts Facebook for user identity and authentication.
\- Facebook and the user's network operator trust each other for the user
identity and authentication. FACEBOOK and the SSO Provider have created
interworking relationship between them.
\- The SSO Provider configuration has already happened between the 3GPP SSO
Service and the 3^rd^ party IdP.
### 4.11.2 Service flows
A user is registered to a web based SSO service, for example Facebook that he
uses to connect to web application servers (RPs). The user has already
established subscriptions with numerous web based applications, among them
YouTube, using Facebook as its SSO service. The user 3GPP network operator has
established an SSO Service based on 3GPP credentials and offers the user to
join this service. The user, seeing the value in this service wishes to make
use of this service but wants to be sure he will be able to seamlessly access
all his existing subscriptions (that were created using his Facebook Identity)
using the operator service (without the need to re-open and/or re-configure
all his existing subscriptions in the different web services/RPs). The
operator offers the user to use the 3GPP 3rd Party SSO Service which means
that: the 3GPP SSO Service can be utilized to seamlessly sign on to an RP
subscription which was created using a FACEBOOK Identity after a simple one
time set-up session which configures interworking relationship between the
existing IdPs (like FACEBOOK) and the 3GPP SSO Service. and the 3GPP SSO
Service have interworking relationship with automation facilitated between
them.
The User joins the 3GPP SSO Service and during the registration process
configures all his existing IdPs (like Facebook) to be part of the
interworking services.
The user having joined the 3GPP SSO Service, requests to access Youtube with
the subscription that was created using Facebook SSO service. The SSO
authentication request is identified to be part of the "SSO interworking
Service with the 3^rd^ party IdP identified as Facebook, and uses the 3GPP SSO
Service to validate the user identity followed by connecting the user,
seamlessly (without any request to authenticate to Facebook) to Youtube to
watch his favourite clip.
### 4.11.3 Entities involved in the use case
The following entities are involved in the authentication procedure:
\- User with the user equipment (UE), which is capable of establishing an IP
connection.
\- Application Web server --- e.g., an entity providing an online book store
service. It plays the role of a Relying Party.
\- A 3^rd^ Party SSO Provider -- an entity which provides SSO and Identity
management service to the user and which acts as an IdP (e.g., for YouTube).
\- 3GPP SSO Service, which is controlled by the operator and includes the
interworking with the 3rd Party SSO Service functionality.
\- Operator's HSS.
### 4.11.4 Additional requirements for the entities participating in the
authentication
\- The SSO framework shall support an interworking relationship between the
3GPP SSO Service and SSO Service from other providers.
\- Login to a subscription created using a 3rd Party SSO Service using the
3GPP SSO Service shall be transparent to the User (looks the same as login to
a subscription created using a 3GPP operator provided SSO Service).
\- The user shall be able to configure which 3rd party IdPs that will have
interworking relationship with the 3GPP SSO Service.
\- The user shall be able to maintain his or her other SSO Identities
registered to the original IdPs.
# 5 Business Models
The mobile operator may become an SSO Provider, interworking with the user-
centric services provided outside of that operator's domain. This Clause
studies the potential business models for the mobile operator and the
Affiliated Application Service Providers.
The mobile operator provides the SSO functionalities for the Affiliated
Application Service Provider either directly or via cooperation with an
independent SSO Provider and the service provider may pay the mobile operator
with a fixed rate or based on the number of service users. The mobile operator
has a business agreement with an Affiliated Application Service Provider to
provide SSO services.
This model offers the following benefits:
\- The user may access the third party service via operator's network with SSO
support.
\- The mobile operator may provision more attractive services for the users.
\- Subscribers of the mobile operators and the Affiliated Application Service
Providers rely on a trusted Identity and SSO Provider.
# 6 Deployment Scenarios
All use cases described in Clause 4 need to take into account that Operators
may or may not support various authentication capabilities which could
potentially be used for SSO, e.g., GBA, AKA, SIP DIGEST, username/password or
other capabilities.
# 7 Service Aspects
This Clause studies Service requirements for operator-centric SSO interworking
with current state of the art identity management systems (e.g. OpenID, OAuth,
SAML).
# 8 Charging Aspects
The mobile operator may become a SSO provider. This Clause studies Charging
requirements for operator-centric SSO interworking with current state of the
art identity management systems (e.g. OpenID).
# 9 Security Aspects
A mobile operator may become a SSO provider, interworking with the user-
centric Web services provided outside of that operator's domain. This Clause
studies Security requirements for operator-centric SSO interworking with
current state of the art identity management systems (e.g. OpenID, OAuth,
SAML).
# 10 Privacy Aspects
This clause studies Privacy requirements for operator SSO interworking with
the Application Services provided outside of that operator's domain.
# 11 Suggested Requirements
## 11.1 Requirements for the UE
REQ_UE_001: The UE **shall support** SSO authentication without user
intervention based on operator-controlled credentials.
REQ_UE_002: The UE **shall support a request for user re-** authentication
from Affiliated Application Service Providers or the SSO Provider.
REQ_UE_003: Transitions between 3GPP access and non-3GPP access technologies
shall be transparent to the UE from an SSO Service perspective.
REQ_UE_004: The UE shall be able to initiate the SSO Service regardless of the
access technologies supported by the UE.
## 11.2 Requirements for an SSO Service
REQ_SSO_001: The SSO Service provided by the SSO Provider shall provide secure
seamless and transparent access to Affiliated Application Services to the
user.
REQ_SSO_002: The SSO Service provided by the SSO Provider shall provide secure
seamless and transparent access to Affiliated Application Services for
subscribers to the SSO Service using 3GPP or non-3GPP devices.
REQ_SSO_003: The SSO Service **shall be able to support the OpenID
specification [aa].**
REQ_SSO_004: The SSO Service shall support authentication based on operator-
controlled credentials.
REQ_SSO_005: The SSO Service shall support varying user authentication
assurance levels (e.g., from weak to strong) and freshness of the user
authentication.
REQ_SSO_006: The SSO Service shall support negotiation of an agreed
authentication method between the SSO Provider and the UE each time the user
is authenticated.
REQ_SSO_007: The SSO Service shall support seamless service continuity between
3GPP access and non-3GPP access technologies during the same Affiliated
Applications Service session.
# 12 Summary and conclusions
\
#