# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This study aims to examine the use cases and potential requirements that allow
different Public User Identities of the form sip:user\@domain belonging to the
same domain to be:
\- assigned by multiple network operators, where an individual Public User
Identity is served by only a single network operator for all IMS services;
\- provisioned by network operators in the case where other URI schemes have
already been, or are going to be, provisioned by different service providers
in the internet.
The Public User Identities could be SIP URIs associated with or derived from
user identities of services from the Internet domain.
This study also aims to clarify the relationships (e.g., business,
interworking) between the Domain Name Owner, the assignee of sip:user\@domain
where it is not the same as the domain owner, and operators sharing the domain
name.
Any potential regulatory aspects will also be considered.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[3] GSM Association PRD IR.67 (V5.1): \"DNS/ENUM Guidelines for Service
Providers & GRX/IPX Providers\".
[4] IETF RFC 1034: \"Domain Names - Concepts and Facilities\".
[5] IETF RFC 1035: \"Domain Names - Implementation and Specification\".
[6] GSM Association PRD AA.80 (V3.2) : \"Agreement for IP Packet eXchange
(IPX) Services\".
[7] GSM Association PRD IR.34 (V4.9): \"Inter-Service Provider IP Backbone
Guidelines\".
[8] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"Multimedia Telephony Service and supplementary
services\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Domain Host** : The entity that hosts and manages the Domain Name on behalf
of the Domain Name Owner on the Internet.
**Domain Name** : As defined in [4] and [5].
**Domain Name Owner** : The entity that is noted in the Internet (i.e. ICANN
or one of its subsidiaries) as owning the Domain Name.
**IMS Intermediate Network:** An network that provides an interconnect between
two operator's networks, an operator's network and another Intermediate
Network, or between two other Intermediate Networks.
NOTE 1: The third case above is not a valid scenario on the IP Packet eXchange
(IPX).
**IMS Network‑Independent Public User Identity (INIPUI)** : A Public User
Identity in the form of a SIP URI where the Domain Name part is a Shared
Domain Name.
**IMS Network‑Independent Public User Identity (INIPUI) User:** An entity that
is identified by an IMS Network-Independent Public User Identity.
**IMS Network-Independent Public User Identity** **(INIPUI) Host** : The
entity that hosts and manages the INIPUIs.
**IMS Network-Network Interface (NNI):** The connection between two operators,
that can consist of zero or more Intermediate Networks, and which is totally
transparent to the End User. An example of a common NNI used by mobile
operators is the IP Packet eXchange (IPX).
**IMS Network-Independent Public User Identity (INIPUI) Registry** : An entity
that provides mapping of IMS Network-Independent Public User Identities and
IMS NNI-Routable Identifiers.
**IMS NNI-Routable Identifier:** An identifier that uniquely identifies the
terminating network (and together with the username, identifies a unique
subscriber belonging to that network).
NOTE 2: This identifier is never seen by an end user; it is used for routeing
purposes only (in the same way as a SIP URI returned from an ENUM look‑up is
used).
NOTE 3: This identifier is not considered globally routable because the
identifier could differ depending on the querying entity (i.e. INIPUI Operator
or IMS Intermediate Network). Thus an identifier returned to one querying
entity might not be routable by another querying entity.
**INIPUI Operator:** An IMS operator who provides IMS-based Services for a
Shared Domain Name.
**IP Packet eXchange (IPX)** : The IPX is an inter-operator IP backbone
network that is transparent to subscribers. The commercial details of it are
defined in [6] and the technical details are defined in [7].
**Shared Domain Name:** The Domain Name in the IMS Network-Independent Public
User Identity, and which is served by multiple INIPUI Operators.
**SIP URI:** As defined in [8].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ICANN Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
INIPUI IMS Network-Independent Public User Identity
IPX IP Packet eXchange
PUI Public User Identity
# 4 Background
IMS network independent PUIs based on Internet domain names are being explored
to satisfy customer requirements for PUIs based on their domains rather than
PUIs based on E.164 telephone numbers or operator owned domains. Currently,
alphanumeric SIP URIs from the same domain, e.g. user.name\@operator.com, can
only be provided by a single operator. If the operator that provides URIs for
domain \@operator.com has subsidiaries in different countries, those
subsidiaries cannot provide URIs for the same domain \@operator.com.
Permitting an operator's national/regional subsidiaries in different
countries/regions to provide URIs for the same domain will allow operators to
keep a single domain name for their international subscriber base.
Although domains typically refer to an operator, e.g. \@operator.com, users
may wish to use URIs based on their own domains, rather than SIP URIs based on
E.164 numbering or operator-owned domains. This is especially true in the case
of large corporations as they would prefer to use their own domain name, e.g.
\@company.com. For the enterprise case, in general there are two scenarios
that need to be considered. In the first scenario, a corporation has IMS-based
services provided by different operators within one country. In the second
scenario, a multinational corporation has IMS-based services provided on an
operator-per-country basis. It follows that allowing different operators
within one country and also from different countries to provide URIs for the
same domain will provide increased flexibility.
Implementing such PUIs in a secure fashion will present some novel challenges.
Current and proposed implementations in [2] and [3] rely on a private DNS
infrastructure to resolve PUIs to the serving operator which depends on
information about E.164 and E.212 numbering resource assignment to operators
and operator ownership of other domains.
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Domain Name Sharing
Although domains typically refer to an operator, e.g. \@operator.com, it is
also possible to have domains that refer to corporations, e.g. \@company.com.
The most straightforward use case involves a single corporation that has IMS
subscriptions with various operators within a single country. In this case,
the user identities will be provisioned by the different operators that the
corporation has a subscription with.
This use case can be expanded to cover the scenario where the corporation
obtains IMS-based services from different IMS networks of the same operator
(e.g. regional network).
## 5.2 Multinational Corporations
For multinational corporations with locations in several different countries
that use a single domain name \@company.com, it is likely that they will
require IMS-based services to be provided by different operators in different
countries. As a result, Public User Identities will need to be provisioned by
different operators. This is illustrated in the following diagram.
{width="6.167361111111111in" height="3.609722222222222in"}
Figure 1: Multinational Corporation Scenario
## 5.3 Operator with Multiple Subsidiaries
For the case of an operator with domain \@operator.com, if the operator has
subsidiaries in different countries or in different regions, the operator
subsidiary in Country Y or Region X will need to be allowed to provide Public
User Identities for domain \@operator.com. This is illustrated in the diagram
below.
Figure 2: Operator with Multiple Subsidiaries Scenario
## 5.4 Different URI Schemes
A corporation that uses different services may have different service
providers for each service. For example, email services may be provided by an
ISP and IMS-based services may be provided by a telco operator. Therefore, it
needs to be possible for URIs of different schemes to be administered by
different entities, e.g. sip:myname\@company.com by the telco operator and
mailto:myname\@company.com by an ISP.
## 5.5 Independent Name Space Provider
A corporation may have a business providing services, e.g. email, to retail
customers under its own domain name, for example, example.com. The corporation
might partner with an operator or operators to allow its users to employ their
email IDs as PUIs in IMS, e.g. jennyjones@example.com.
## 5.6 User Identities from Internet-based Services
Operators, together with a provider of services in the Internet domain, could
provide their subscribers a facility to import user identities from the
provider of services in the Internet domain (e.g. email address, social
network ID, instant messaging user ID) into the IMS domain. The imported user
identity may need to be converted into a SIP URI and could then be used as the
subscriber's IMS Public User Identity, alongside the existing subscriber's IMS
Public User Identity.
In this scenario, different user identities for one particular provider of
services in the Internet domain could be associated with different network
operators.
# 6 INIPUI Ecosystem Business Relationships
Figure 3: Diagram of the business relationships between the entities within
the INIPUI ecosystem
NOTE 1: The INIPUI Registry ecosystem is out of the scope of 3GPP.
NOTE 2: The above nodes in the diagram represent roles. A single entity can
take on more than one of these roles.
NOTE 3: The Domain Name Owner could allow another entity to use the Shared
Domain Name.
The INIPUI and the Internet ecosystems are completely independent. The only
common point is the Domain Name Owner has control over the use of the Shared
Domain Name in both ecosystems.
Details of the relationships between entities within the INIPUI ecosystem are
as follow, where the numbering refers to the numbering in Figure 1:
1) The Domain Name Owner has an agreement with ICANN or an official ICANN
subsidiary for a Domain Name. This Domain name will be used as a Shared Domain
Name.
2) The Domain Name Owner has an agreement with an Internet-based Domain Host
in order to provide Internet‑based services.
NOTE 4: The Domain Name Owner and the Internet‑based Domain Host could be the
same entity.
3) The Domain Name Owner has an agreement with one or more INIPUI Operators to
provide IMS-based services for their INIPUI Users. Each INIPUI User is
assigned a Username within the Shared Domain Name. A Username is unique within
the Shared Domain Name and is associated with a single INIPUI Operator.
4) The INIPUI Host has an agreement with the INIPUI Operators to provide
operator-specific information of the INIPUIs to the INIPUI Registry ecosystem.
5) The INIPUI Host has an agreement with the Domain Name Owner to provide
domain-specific information of the INIPUIs to the INIPUI Registry ecosystem.
6) The INIPUI Host has an agreement with one or more INIPUI Registries to
provide details of INIPUI and associated IMS NNI‑Routable Identifier mappings.
7) An IMS Operator that does not support INIPUIs does not need to have any
agreement with the INIPUI Host or INIPUI Registry.
8) An INIPUI Operator could have an agreement with a number of INIPUI
Registries in order to map INIPUIs to associated IMS NNI‑Routable Identifiers.
# 7 Service Scenarios
## 7.1 Call between users provisioned by same INIPUI Operator
In this scenario, user Red\@example.com calls user Blue\@example.com. Both Red
and Blue have been provisioned by the same INIPUI Operator, Operator A. This
is shown in the following diagram.
{width="3.3993055555555554in" height="2.5416666666666665in"}
Figure 4: Call between two users provisioned by the same INIPUI Operator
The procedure within Operator A's network upon receiving the request from
Red\@example.com to contact Blue\@example.com is as follows:
1) Is Blue\@example.com a subscriber of Operator A? Yes
2) Call is routed within Operator A
In this scenario, Operator A does not have to query an INIPUI Registry outside
the network, but Operator A is not prohibited from doing so.
## 7.2 Call between users provisioned by different INIPUI Operators
### 7.2.1 Scenarios
In this scenario, again Red\@example.com calls Blue\@example.com. However,
this time Red\@example.com is provisioned by Operator A while
Blue\@example.com is provisioned by Operator B.
In general, there are 3 basic scenarios:
\- Operator A is capable of routing the call directly to Operator B
\- Operator A routes the call to an IMS Intermediate Network where:
\- the IMS Intermediate Network is capable of routing the call to Operator B
\- the IMS Intermediate Network routes the call to another IMS Intermediate
Network that is capable of routing the call to Operator B
### 7.2.2 Direct Interconnect
In this particular scenario, Operator A is capable of performing the routing.
{width="5.136111111111111in" height="1.957638888888889in"}
Figure 5: Direct interconnect
The procedure within Operator A's network upon receiving the request from
Red\@example.com to contact Blue\@example.com is as follows:
1) Is Blue\@example.com a subscriber of Operator A? No
2) Locate INIPUI Registry for example.com
3) Query INIPUI Registry for Blue@example.com
4) INIPUI Registry returns the IMS NNI-Routable Identifier, Blue@operatorB.com
5) Resolve destination for Blue@operatorB.com
6) Route call on to Operator B
NOTE 1: Yellow highlighting indicates a proposed modification to existing
procedures
### 7.2.3 Indirect Interconnect
In this case, Operator A and Operator B are interconnected by one or more
intermediate networks. Again the case where user Red\@example.com calls user
Blue\@example.com is considered.
{width="4.514583333333333in" height="2.642361111111111in"}
Figure 6: Indirect interconnect with a single IMS Intermediate Network
providing the INIPUI Registry
{width="4.865277777777778in" height="2.6555555555555554in"}
Figure 7: Indirect interconnect with two IMS Intermediate Networks and INIPUI
Registry provided by IMS Intermediate Network 1
{width="4.829861111111111in" height="2.6555555555555554in"}
Figure 8: Indirect interconnect with two IMS Intermediate Networks and INIPUI
Registry provided by IMS Intermediate Network 2
The procedure within Operator A's network upon receiving the request from
Red\@example.com to contact Blue\@example.com is as follows:
1) Is Blue\@example.com a subscriber of Operator A? No
2) Route call on to IMS Intermediate Network 1 (possibly after an INIPUI
Registry query, which may have succeeded or failed)
IMS Intermediate Network 1 will then either do steps (1a-4a):
1a) Locate INIPUI Registry for example.com
2a) Query INIPUI Registry for Blue\@example.com
3a) INIPUI Registry returns the IMS NNI-Routable Identifier,
Blue@operatorB.com
4a) Resolve destination for Blue\@operatorB.com
5a) Route call on to Operator B (e.g. via one or more IP-layer and/or SIP-
layer intermediate networks)
OR:
1b) Route call on to IMS Intermediate Network 2 (who will perform steps 1a-5a
above)
NOTE 2: Yellow highlighting indicates a proposed modification to existing
procedures.
Theoretically there may be more than two IMS Intermediate Networks, in which
case IMS Intermediate Network N will forward on to IMS Intermediate Network
N+1 who will perform either the steps 1a-4a above or forward on to IMS
Intermediate Network N+2 (and so on), However, some implementations (such as
the IPX) may mandate a maximum of IMS Intermediate Networks (for the IPX, this
maximum is two).
# 8 Security Aspects
The following scenarios have been identified for possible security
requirements:
\- Because data on the INIPUI Registry may be considered as private user data,
access to the INIPUI Registry needs to be limited to entities that require
access in order to provision and/or query INIPUIs.
\- To avoid the scenario where the Shared Domain Name is hijacked in the
INIPUI ecosystem, during the INIPUI Registry provisioning there is a need for
the INIPUI Host to ensure that the Domain Name Owner controls the Shared
Domain Name in the Internet ecosystem.
\- To protect against malicious attacks, the INIPUI Registry itself needs to
be secure.
The last two bullets are outside the scope of 3GPP.
The first bullet is a valid concern and results in the following potential
requirement:
\- An INIPUI Operator accessing an INIPUI Registry, for either provisioning or
query, shall provide the INIPUI Registry with credentials that indicate that
the INIPUI Operator is allowed access.
# 9 Charging Aspects
## 9.1 End User and Domain Name Owner
The following scenarios have been identified for possible End User and Domain
Name Owner charging:
\- The INIPUI User or Domain Name Owner could be charged, e.g. a fixed monthly
charge, for the availability of INIPUI, irrespective of INIPUI usage.
NOTE 1: This scenario does not generate charging requirements in addition to
those already specified in [9].
\- The INIPUI User or Domain Name Owner could be charged on a per terminating
call basis, when receiving a call made to an INIPUI.
\- The calling party could be charged on a per originating call basis, when:
\- making a call towards any INIPUI;
\- making a call towards an INIPUI with a generic top-level domain, e.g.
\@example.com;
\- making a call towards an INIPUI with a country-specific top-level domain,
e.g. \@example.co.uk.
Subject to regulatory requirements, the user could be informed about the
charges (e.g. in terms of rates, destination country, destination network or
other information requested by the regulators).
## 9.2 Network Operator
The following scenarios have been identified for possible network operator-
based charging:
\- When acting as an IMS Intermediate Network, a network operator could charge
another network operator for routing a call to an INIPUI based on the
terminating top-level domain name, e.g. handling for \@example.com could be
charged more than \@example.co.uk because of the additional handling that may
be needed for a generic top-level domain rather than a country-specific top-
level domain.
\- A network operator could charge the Domain Name Owner for providing hosting
services in the case the network operator assumes the INIPUI Host role.
\- A network operator could charge the originating INIPUI Operator and/or IMS
Intermediate Network for providing access to the INIPUI Registry in the case
the network operator assumes the INIPUI Registry and/or INIPUI Host role.
The scenarios described above do not generate charging requirements in
addition to those already specified in [9].
A network operator terminating a call from an INIPUI User may require
information about the location of the calling UE to assess settlement charges.
# 10 Potential Requirements
Subject to regulatory requirements, multiple INIPUI Operators shall be able to
associate SIP URIs of type \"sip:user\@domain\" (also known as \"alphanumeric
SIP URIs\") that share a single domain name.
Subject to regulatory requirements, an INIPUI operator shall be able to
associate a SIP URI scheme with a domain name that has other URI schemes from
different service providers.
NOTE 1: This allows customers who use an INIPUI Operator in one geographic
region to use another INIPUI Operator in another region without affecting the
domain name used (which may be part of a corporate branding), as well as
choose a different service provider for different service offerings e.g.
different INIPUI operator compared to their email provider.
NOTE 2: Provisioning of the INIPUI Registry for a particular Shared Domain
Name is done by a single entity, the INIPUI Host. This ensures the uniqueness
of the username, when assigned by different INIPUI operators, within a Shared
Domain Name. The INIPUI Host also needs to ensure each INIPUI provisioned in
the INIPUI Registry is authorised by the Domain Name Owner.
The IMS shall support a mechanism for an INIPUI User to be globally reachable
by any subscriber, regardless of whether the originating operator supports
INIPUI. In addition, an IMS operator that is serving inbound roaming INIPUI
Users shall not be required to support any additional configuration on top of
what already exists.
The IMS shall support the use of INIPUI as an IMS identity between the calling
User and their INIPUI operator.
The use of INIPUI shall be transparent to the UE and therefore INIPUIs shall
be usable by legacy UEs, subject to the UE support of alphanumeric SIP URI.
When the user enters the INIPUI of the called party, the UE shall display the
INIPUI that was entered, subject to the UE display capability. For Terminating
Identification Presentation (TIP), the INIPUI of the terminating party shall
be displayed according to the requirements in TS 22.173 [10].
The IMS shall support passing of an INIPUI of the originating user and the
INIPUI shall be displayed as CLI to the called party, subject to the UE
display capability.
# 11 Conclusion
This technical report analysed the following:
\- the relationship between entities and roles within the INIPUI ecosystem
\- the use cases that support the use of INIPUI
\- the service and interworking scenarios for INIPUI
\- the regulatory, security and charging aspects
As a result, potential requirements have been identified in section 10.
Therefore it is proposed that these potential requirements are introduced into
TS 22.228 section 7.5.1.
###### ### Annex A: INIPUI Registry architecture/organisation
# A.1 General
Although the architecture/organisation of INIPUI Registries is outside the
scope of 3GPP, it is helpful to explain some aspects that aid in the
understanding of the INIPUI principle as a whole.
# A.2 Relation of INIPUI Registry to IMS
The function of the INIPUI Registry is to map one SIP URI, an INIPUI, to
another SIP URI. This means that the interface between the INIPUI Registry and
querying entities (i.e. Originating INIPUI Operators and IMS Intermediate
Networks) could be considered to be part of the IMS (i.e. in order to allow
the SIP URIs to be exchanged).
In order to provision the INIPUI Registry with INIPUI mappings, similarly, SIP
URIs will need to be input to the INIPUI Registry. It follows that the
interface between the INIPUI Registry and provisioning entity could also be
considered to be part of the IMS but only if the INIPUI Host is an INIPUI
operator.
The INIPUI Registry itself is not considered to be part of the IMS.
# A.3 Connectivity between INIPUI Registries and Querying Entities
The organisation of INIPUI Registries is out of the scope of 3GPP and is up to
the operator community to decide. However, the organisation of INIPUI
Registries in terms of data sharing amongst individual INIPUI Registries
impact the connectivity requirements for querying entities.
In general, there are three possible scenarios:
\- when all of the INIPUI Registries share their data, only one INIPUI
Registry needs to be queried;
\- when none of the INIPUI Registries share their data, all INIPUI Registries
need to be queried;
\- when a set of INIPUI Registries share their data only between themselves,
all possible sets of INIPUI Registries need to be queried.
From the network operator point of view, the first bullet above would be
preferred.
# A.4 Provisioning entries into the INIPUI Registry
The relationship between INIPUI Registries and the provisioning entities is
illustrated in the following diagram.
Figure 9: Relationship between the INIPUI Registry and the provisioning
entities
Provisioning of the INIPUI Registry for a particular Shared Domain Name is
done by a single entity, the INIPUI Host. This ensures the uniqueness of the
username, when assigned by different INIPUI operators, within a Shared Domain
Name.
Depending on the deployment scenario, one of the INIPUI Operators for the
Shared Domain Name could take on the role of the INIPUI Host, as mentioned in
Annex B.
###### ### Annex B: Example Relationship Scenarios
# B.1 Operator Domain Name
In the case where the Shared Domain Name is an operator domain, e.g.
\@operator.com, the following roles would typically be taken on by a network
operator:
\- Domain Name Owner
\- INIPUI Host
\- INIPUI Operator
The INIPUI User in this case is typically the subscriber of the network
operator.
# B.2 Enterprise Domain Name
In the case where the Shared Domain Name is a domain of a corporation, e.g.
\@company.com, the following roles would typically be taken on by a network
operator:
\- Domain Name Owner
NOTE: This role could be taken on by a network operator, for example, in the
case of a small-medium enterprise that would prefer to outsource the role of
Domain Name Owner.
\- INIPUI Host
\- INIPUI Operator
The INIPUI User in this case is typically the employee of the corporation.
# B.3 Independent Name Space Provider
In the case where the Shared Domain Name is a domain of an independent name
space provider, e.g., \@example.com, the following roles would typically be
taken on by a network operator:
\- INIPUI Operator
The independent name space provider might take on the roles of:
\- Domain Name Owner
\- Domain Host
\- INIPUI Host
The INIPUI User in this case is typically a customer of the independent name
space provider.
#