# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The development of fixed and mobile broadband technologies (e.g. G/E-PON
allows about 100Mbps downlink and 100Mbps uplink, LTE allows the possibility
of the speed up to 100Mbps downlink and 50 Mbps uplink) and more and more
powerful mobile handsets have boosted popular usage of content distribution
services (e.g. Live streaming and Content on Demand) on mobile handsets.
With the explosive growth of media content consumption, the number of media
servers to provide streaming services is required to be increased almost
linearly with the number of users. In addition, centralized streaming media
servers require considerable demands towards the bandwidth of the backbone IP
network. So it\'s required to deploy more and more edge servers close to UEs
to guarantee service quality with the increasing number of users.
Peer-to-peer technology can be used between edge servers and UEs to relieve
the above problem. Not only the edge servers handle the requests from its
locally served UEs, but also they can handle the requests transferred from the
neighbouring edge servers. Similarly, if the UE\'s capabilities permit, the UE
can offer spare uplink bandwidth and storage space while obtaining data, and
uploads data to other requested destinations. Content is transmitted in a
segmented manner, and most of the traffic can be spread across the edge of the
network, which helps reduce the storage and bandwidth demands of centralized
servers. So the system capability is improved along with the increasing number
of edge servers and UEs.
IMS, proposed by 3GPP, is viewed as a fixed and mobile convergence core
network to provide multimedia services, and defines an infrastructure for user
authentication, registration, service discovery, and multimedia session
control and etc. So this Technical Report is aimed to study content
distribution services in a Peer-to-Peer manner based on IMS from SA1\'s
perspective and it is expected to identify the use cases and potential service
requirements.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report presents the overview, use cases and other aspects (e.g.
Mobility, Charging, Security and etc.) of IMS based Peer-to-Peer Content
Distribution Services. And the potential service requirements will be
identified. The objectives are to study IMS based content distribution
services with the following aspects:
  * Identifying the user cases to describe how users, operators and > service providers will may benefit by using/deploying IMS based > content distribution services in fixed and mobile convergence > networks with Peer-to-Peer technology;
  * Identifying service aspects where IMS network improvements are > needed to cater for content distributed services for above > accesses;
  * Identifying mobility, charging and security related requirements in > the case of content distribution services on IMS;
  * Identifying potential copyright issues;
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Aspects; Service Principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services and Service Capabilities\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.233: \"Transparent end-to-end packet-switched streaming
service; Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) user
services; Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.220: \"Service requirements for Home NodeBs and Home eNodeBs\".
[8] 3GPP TS 21.201: \"Technical Specifications and Technical Reports relating
to an Evolved Packet System (EPS) based 3GPP system\".
[9] Open IPTV Forum release 2: \"Functional Architecture\".
http://www.openiptvforum.org/docs/OIPF-
Functional_Architecture_v2_0-2009-09-08.pdf
[10] ETSI TS 182 019 release 3: \"TISPAN - Content Delivery Network (CDN)
architecture\".
[11] Draft ETSI RTS 182 027 release 3: \"TISPAN - IPTV Architecture, IPTV
functions supported by the IMS subsystem\".
[12] Draft ETSI TR 182 010:\" Peer-to-peer for content delivery for IPTV
services, analysis of mechanisms and NGN impacts\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
**Peer-to-Peer:** A concept related to A distributed network architecture
composed of participants that make a portion of their resources (such as
processing power, disk/cache storage or network bandwidth) directly available
to other network participants.
**Peers** : The entities (e.g. UE, network entity) of both suppliers and
consumers of resources, in contrast to the traditional client-server model
where only servers supply, and clients consume.
**User Peer:** The UE type of participants in the Peer-to-Peer network both
providing services to other participants and requesting services from other
participants, e.g. PC terminals.
**Network Peer: The participants** in the Peer-to-Peer network **deployed and
controlled by operators/service providers** both providing services to other
**participants (e.g. User Peer or Network Peer)** and requesting services from
other **participants** , e.g. the cache server deployed by operators/service
providers.
**Content Source Server:** An entity, which stores the source content, and
provisions interface for other entities to fetch content.
**Content Cache Server:** An entity, which caches partial/entire source
content to be distributed to end users. The data on Content Cache Server is
obtained from the Content Source Server or other Content Cache Servers via
pre-distribution of the source content or upon users\' request. The Content
Cache Servers usually are deployed at the edge of the network to accelerate
content distribution.
**Content Control Server:** An entity, which performs the management of
content indexing and control content distribution (e.g. how the source content
is distributed from the Content Source Server to the Content Cache Servers).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
P2P Peer-to-Peer
CDS Content Distribution Service
CoD Content on Demand
CDN Content Delivery Network
G-PON Gigabit Passive Optical Network
E-PON Ethernet Passive Optical Network
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
H(e)NB Home NodeB and Home eNodeB
# 4 General Description
## 4.1 Overview
The following figure explains the network elements involved in IMS based Peer-
to-Peer Content Distribution service and how they interact with each other.
IMS UEs initiate the content distribution service via fixed or mobile access
network to IMS CN Subsystem. IMS UE will be redirected to the portal, which
offers content indexing, browsing and searching functionalities. The content
is usually stored on content source servers (e.g. Network entities or UEs) and
content cache servers are deployed close to the users to accelerate content
distribution.
User profile is stored in IMS and the terminal capabilities (e.g. processing
capabilities, screen size) are stored in Peer-to-Peer application service,
when available. After IMS UEs request content distribution services, User
Profile will provide the P2P application service with the user\'s preferences
and terminal capabilities will be used to decide whether or not the client is
capable of receiving the requested content. Content control is used to control
how the content is distributed in the network and where IMS UEs can get the
requested content.
Figure 4.1 Overview of IMS based Peer-to-Peer Content Distribution System
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Content-on-Demand Service for Large numbers of Online Users
### 5.1.1 Service Description
Figure 5.1 CoD for large numbers of online users
Jessica is an IMS subscriber of operator A, and she wants to view the popular
movie \"_Transformer_ \", but for some reason she doesn\'t want to watch it in
cinema. She notices from a pushed advertisement on her IMS client that _IMS
online movie theatre_ can provide \"_Transformer_ \" on demand with a
discounted price. So she decides to watch it from online movie theatre.
(1) Jessica starts her IMS P2P application client and begins IMS registration
process. After Jessica finishes her registration, the IMS P2P application
(e.g. a Portal) delivers the program information to the P2P client. Jessica
searches and selects the \"_Transformer_ \" in the program list of the Portal
to tell the P2P application that \"I want to watch _Transformer_ \";
(2) After receiving Jessica\'s request, the P2P application queries the
locations of film storage resources of \"_Transformer_ \", and then sends back
the list of resource locations to Jessica. At the beginning the content cache
server 2 has some initial parts of \"_Transformer_ \" (e.g. Part 1 and 2) and
the content source server has all parts of it. So the P2P application tells
Jessica \"the content cache server 2 has \"_Transformer_ \", you may download
from it\";
Note: \"_Transformer_ \" is segmented into 10 parts beforehand(named in order
as Part 1, Part 2, Part 3 and so on). Only part 1 and part 2 of
\"_Transformer_ \" are downloaded to the cache server 1 since they are the
most frequently viewed parts. And then the cache server 2 can obtain part 1
and part 2 from the cache server 1 rather than the content source server.
(3) Jessica\'s UE asks the content cache server 2 \"Which parts of
\"_Transformer_ \" do you have? Can I download them?\";
(4) Upon receiving \"yes\", Jessica\'s UE downloads the first two parts of
\"_Transformer_ \" from the content cache server 2 and begins to watch
\"_Transformer_ \" and the rest of parts of \"_Transformer_ \" will be
retrieved from the content source server.
(5) Jessica\'s UE updates the information (e.g. which parts Jessica currently
have) to the P2P application service and retrieves the latest information of
where the \"_Transformer_ \" parts are distributed from the P2P application
service periodically, e.g. every 2 minutes;
(6)-(8) As time goes by, more and more users around Jessica (in domain 2) join
the watching queue of \"_Transformer_ \" and are served by content cache
server 2. More and more users tend to watch the parts that the cache server 2
doesn\'t have, so those parts will be retrieved from the source server. As a
consequence, the content source server becomes congested and the Quality of
Experience for the end users deteriorates. Fortunately, from step (5), the
users in domain 2 know that the content cache server 1 has cached the rest
parts of \"_Transformer\"_ and can serve some of the users. As a result, the
workload of the content source server is relieved to some extent and can serve
more users.
(9)-(10) As time goes by, a lot more and more users in domain 1 and 2 join the
watching queue of \"_Transformer_ \", and as a consequence the content cache
server 1 and 2 are getting overloaded. Fortunately, from step (5), Jessica\'s
UE knows from the P2P application service that Jason, Alice and Bob\'s UEs
around her have some parts of \"_Transformer_ \", so Jessica\'s UE tries to
download some parts of \"_Transformer_ \" from her three neighbours via the
most appropriate access technology; As a result, the workload of the content
cache servers is relieved to some extent and can serve more users.
### 5.1.2 Service Benefit
\- IMS users\' registration, authentication and service discovery can be
reused to support the CoD service.
\- It helps reduce backbone bandwidth consumption and content source server
workload if Peer-to-Peer CoD is used because the content can be obtained from
multiple sources rather than the central source server.
\- If the content is segmented and distributed in the network, it helps reduce
the time-to-market of CoD since the segments of video content are smaller and
can be downloaded to the cache servers more quickly.
## 5.2 Live Streaming Service for Large numbers of Online Users
### 5.2.1 Service Description
Figure 5.2 Live streaming for large numbers of online users
It is Olympic Games time, and the live final basketball game starts at 8:00 pm
tonight. Jessica can\'t go to the stadium to watch it live due to the limited
number of available tickets Jessica is an IMS subscriber of operator A and she
notices from a pushed advertisementon her IMS streaming client that _IMS Live
Channel_ can broadcast the final basketball game live. So she decides to watch
the final basketball game from _IMS Live Channel_.
(1) Around 8:00 pm, Jessica starts her IMS streaming client and begins IMS
registration process. After Jessica finishes her registration, the IMS
streaming service (e.g. a Portal) delivers the information of live channels to
the client. Jessica searches and selects the basketball game live channel in
the broadcast channel list to tell the IMS streaming client that \"I want to
watch basketball game now\";
(2) After receiving Jessica\'s request, the IMS streaming service can\'t
provide access to IP multicast services due to some reason (e.g. capacity
bottleneck or the access router doesn\'t support IP multicast functionality),
so it turns to application level mulitcast based on Peer-to-Peer model, and
the multicast Peer-to-Peer service offers the basketball game with a small
delay; it queries the locations of the channel resources of \"basketball
game\", and then sends back the list of resource locations to Jessica. At the
beginning only the content cache server has cached the basketball game. So the
IMS streaming service tells Jessica \"the content cache server has the
basketball game, you may stream from it\";
Note: the basketball game streaming is being segmented into parts in a fixed
length continuously.
(3) Jessica\'s UE downloads the parts of basketball game from the content
cache server and begins to watch the basketball game;
(4) Jessica\'s UE updates the information (e.g. which parts Jessica currently
have in her cached memory) to the IMS P2P application service and retrieves
the latest information of where the basketball game parts are distributed from
the IMS periodically, e.g. every 10 seconds;
(5)As time goes by, more and more users in domain 1 join the watching queue of
the basketball game and the content cache server is getting overloaded.
Fortunately, from step (4), Jessica\'s UE knows that Jason, Alice and Bob\'s
UEs around her have some cached parts of the basketball game, so Jessica\'s UE
tries to download some parts of the basketball game from her three neighbours;
As a result, the workload of the content cache servers is relieved to some
extent and the content cache servers can serve more users.
### 5.2.2 Service Benefit
Application level multicast based on Peer-to-Peer is a good alternative to IP
multicast to achieve nearly live streaming for large number of online users.
However, this service may cause some latency, but still provides nearly real-
time experience to users.
## 5.3 Efficient Software Distribution to large numbers of Users
### 5.3.1 Service Description
Operator A runs an IMS network with a large number of subscribers (e.g. more
than 10 million) and a critical software bug in IMS client software has just
been identified and the software patch needs to be distributed to every user
as quickly as possible, otherwise, this software defect might bring potential
serious security issues.
Since the end users are geographically distributed in the network, the whole
network is divided into different domains and some cache servers close to the
end users in each domain have been deployed in order to reduce download time
and lower cross-network traffic.
(1)If some users (e.g. Alice and Bob in Area 1) request to upgrade their IMS
client software or the network might request to upgrade end users\' IMS client
software by force. And then the software patch from the software source server
is distributed into the cache servers in that domain.
(2)The software patch is delivered to Alice and Bob from the cache servers
close to them.
(3)As more and more cache servers request to cache the software patch from the
software source server, the software source server might get congested, and
instead the cache server might choose to download (parts of) the software
patch from the domains that already cache the software patch.
Note: If the software patch is too large, and it will be segmented into parts
in a fixed length (e.g. 1M bytes).
(4) As more and more users (e.g. Jerry and Michael) in Area 1 request to
download the software patch, the cache servers in Area 1 might get congested.
Since Alice has already cached (parts of) the software patch, she can provide
(parts of) the software patch to Jerry and Michael.
(5) Before Bob collects all parts of the software patch, some unusual event
(e.g. network congestion or software crash) happens, and as a consequence,
Bob\'s IMS P2P application client loses the connection to the P2P application
service. Therefore, Bob\'s IMS P2P application client has to re-establish the
connection with the P2P application service. Bob\'s IMS P2P application client
doesn\'t have to start downloading the software patch from scratch and then it
interacts with the Software Source Server to continue downloading the
remaining parts that have not been finished before such unusual event happens.
Figure5.3 Efficient software distribution to large numbers of users
### 5.3.2 Service Benefit
With the introduction of Peer-to-Peer the software update can be distributed
to large numbers of users in a short period of time with a proliferated way.
# 6 P2P Content Distribution Service Considerations in Fixed and Mobile
Network
## 6.1 Considerations on Types of User Equipment
There are several criteria for consideration on whether different types of UE
are capable of playing the role of User Peers.
\- Battery consumption;
\- Available upload/download bandwidth;
\- Available computing capability;
\- Available storage space (including disk storage and cache storage);
\- Availability of UEs;
For PC/Laptop type of UEs, usually battery consumption is not a problem, and
the computing capability and storage space are usually sufficient. So the
upload/download bandwidth is the key factor to determine whether User Peer
functionality can be enabled or disabled on PC/Laptop type of UEs.
For mobile handsets type of UEs, storage space and computing capability
usually are not abundant, and furthermore, battery is rather limited. So it
should be cautious to enable User Peer functionality on mobile handsets type
of UEs.
## 6.2 Considerations on Types of Access Network
### 6.2.1 Comparison of Different Access Networks
Available bandwidth and mobility are major factors to be considered to select
User Peers.
Fixed-line networks (e.g. xDSL, LAN) tend to have high bandwidth. Furthermore,
UEs attached to fixed-line are more likely to have stable connections for a
longer time. So, it is preferable to select UEs attached to fixed-line network
(e.g. xDSL, LAN) as User Peers.
WLAN have relatively high bandwidth. Therefore it is also preferable to select
UEs attached to WLAN as User Peers.
Note: In order to improve users\' experience operators could deploy cache
servers with the enhancement of Network Peers in conjunction with WLAN Access
Points.
3G macro cells and LTE macro cells have more limited bandwidth and the
bandwidth is always shared among many users and services. Thus, UEs attached
to 3G macro are normally not suitable to play the role of User Peer. UEs
attached to LTE macro network may be considered to enable the functionality of
User Peers only if there is spare bandwidth for use given the fact that voice
traffic has higher priority over other data traffic.
H(e)NB have a relatively high bandwidth, which is shared among a small number
of users. UEs attached to H(e)NB could play the role of User Peer.
Note: In order to improve users\' experience it is also preferable to deploy
cache servers with the enhancement of Network Peers in conjunction with H(e)NB
to serve users in the given CSG.
Different access networks have different mobility patterns and bandwidth. UEs
attached to the fixed-line (e.g. xDSL) are less likely to move and may be
attached to the same access point for a longer time. UEs attached to WLAN or
H(e)NB also tend to move less frequently compared to those attached to macro
cells.
So, in conclusion, it can be seen that it is more preferable to select UEs
attached to fixed-line, WLAN or H(e)NB as User Peers.
### 6.2.2 Network Peer Deployment Based on Types of Access Network
Depending on the content popularity, the content cache server with the
enhancement of Network Peer could be deployed with macro cell controllers,
H(e)NB or WLAN Access Point, which is close to the edge of the access network.
When Network Peers are deployed on the macro cell controllers, network
operators have more control over the cache and each Network Peer could serve a
large number of users. Network Peers deployed on H(e)NB or WLAN have lower
bandwidth to the core network and could be powered off by users, but a larger
amount of such cache servers could be deployed. Thus, it is more preferable to
cache niche conents (contents only interested by a small number of users) on
cache servers in H(e)NB or WLAN. While for popular contents, it is more
desirable to be cached in macro cell controllers which have higher bandwidth
to the core network.
## 6.3 Interworking with the CDN
Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) are widely deployed to accelerate content
distribution over a large area network. It improves network performance by
maximizing bandwidth, and improves content accessibility as well as
maintaining correctness through content replication. In a CDN, content is
replicated from the origin server to cache servers, and scattered over the
globe, in order to deliver content to end-users in a reliable and timely
manner from nearby optimal surrogates.
IMS Peer-to Peer Content Distribution System can benefit from the CDN through
the following two ways:
\- To take advantage of the content stored/cached in the existing CDNs, the
CDN can simply be viewed as the Content Source Server with the minimum changes
on the CDN system.
\- In order to better leverage the infrastructure of the existing CDNs, it\'s
beneficial to enhance the edge servers in the existing CDNs to perform the
functionalities of Network Peers since a large number of edge servers usually
are deployed in the existing CDNs.
# 7 Potential Service Requirements
Based on the use cases in clause 5 and considerations in clause 6 following
possible requirements can be identified:
## 7.1 Requirements to the IMS CN subsystem
\- IMS shall be able to provide Peer-to-Peer content distribution services for
users, i.e. IMS UE is capable of obtaining content from multiple User/Network
Peers.
\- IMS shall be able to select qualified User Peers among available UEs
according to the policies preconfigred in the network.
\- The UEs attached to access networks which can provide upload/download
bandwidth higher than the predefined limit by the operator are preferred.
\- The UEs which maintain stable network connections are preferred.
\- IMS shall be able to provide the UE with the appropriate server to obtain
the addresses of Peers, from which the UE can retrieve the requested content.
## 7.2 Requirements to the IMS P2P application service
\- IMS P2P application service shall support segmentation and segments
indexing of the distributed content (e.g. Content on Demand, Live streaming,
and File downloading).
\- IMS P2P application service shall notify the users of the appropriate Peers
to retrieve the requested content segments.
\- IMS P2P application service shall be able to provide the UE with the
appropriate server to obtain the addresses of Peers, from which the UE can
retrieve the requested content.
\- IMS P2P application service shall be able to resume Peer-to-Peer file
downloading after interruption without starting from the beginning.
\- IMS P2P application service shall be able to select qualified Network Peers
according to the policies preconfigured in the network.
\- Those entities, which are deployed at the edge of the network and have
stable connections and sufficient cache and storage space, are preferred.
\- The popular content shall be able to be cached across the stable Network
Peers, which are controlled and owned by operators.
\- The existing CDN shall be able to support the Network Peer functionality of
IMS based Peer-to-Peer Content Distribution System.
\- IMS based Peer-to-Peer Content Distribution System shall be able to obtain
the source content from the CDN.
# 8 Potential Charging Requirements
Charging models that shall be supported by the IMS P2P Content Distribution
Service include (non-exhaustive list):
\- The network shall be able to charge based on content
\- The network shall be able to charge based on the types of services, such as
live streaming service, CoD service or downloading service
\- The network shall be able to charge based on the duration that user uses
the service
\- The network shall be able to charge based on the traffic that users receive
\- The network shall be able to support alternate party charging
\- The network shall be able to charge based on the amount of resources UEs
contribute
# 9 Potential Security Requirements
> Since the User Peers might contribute resources to other users and to some
> extent are out of control of operators/service providers, the users might
> cheat the system and tamper with the content uploaded for other users. The
> following requirements to the P2P application service need to be considered:
  * The network shall be able to identify whether the User Peers > honestly report the information of their contributed resources > (e.g. cached or stored content);
  * The network shall be able to identify whether the User Peers tamper > with the content uploaded for other users;
  * The network shall be able to protect the content exchanged among > users against unauthorized access (e.g. undesirable leakage of > and/or modification on possibly copyright-protected content).
  * The network shall be able to prevent the User Peers against > distributing any illegal content to other users.
# 10 Copy rights Issues
Since IMS based Peer-to-Peer Content Distribution Service might allow the User
Peers to exchange (parts of) the content, it might bring about potential copy
right issues even if the source of the content originates from the content
server rather than User Peers themselves.
Therefore the following requirements to the P2P application service should be
considered:
  * The network shall be able to prevent the unauthorized > re-distribution of copyrighted content stored or cached in the > User Peers;
  * The network shall be able to identify and prevent the distribution > of copyrighted content uploaded by the users;
# 11 Conclusion
This TR has identified the following use cases: Content on Demand, Live
Streaming, and File Downloading. The related service requirements, charging
requirements and security requirements are also identified. Also,
considerations on UE types, 3GPP access networks and non-3GPP access networks
have been discussed.
In order to support Peer-to-Peer Content Distribution Services, it is
concluded that IMS needs to be enhanced, and for this, cooperation with other
SDOs dealing with content distribution may be needed.
#