# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This document studies the feasibility of interworking between 3GPP systems and
Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs). For the purpose of this document the
term 3GPP - WLAN interworking refers to the utilisation of resources and
access to services within the 3GPP system by the WLAN UE and user
respectively. The intent of 3GPP - WLAN Interworking is to extend 3GPP
services and functionality to the WLAN access environment. Thus the WLAN
effectively becomes a complementary radio access technology to the 3GPP
system.
The WLAN provides access to services located in WLANs and/or networks behind
the WLAN. In 3GPP - WLAN interworking, 3GPP system functionalities can reside
behind the WLAN or in parallel to the WLAN. In the case of 3GPP system
functionalities located behind WLAN, the interworking between 3GPP system and
WLAN may include:
\- Enabling usage of 3GPP system functionalities between mobile terminals and
3GPP systems via the WLAN (e.g. providing SIP calls)
\- Utilising 3GPP system functionalities to complement the functionalities
available in the WLAN ( e.g. providing charging means, authentication,
authorization, and accounting functions )
In a case when the WLAN is seen as a parallel system to the 3GPP system, the
interworking between the systems may include
\- Creation of mechanisms for selecting and switching between the WLAN and
3GPP systems
Enabling any of these interworking cases may result in modifications or
additions in 3GPP systems, in WLANs or both.
# 1 Scope
This document studies the feasibility of interworking between 3GPP systems and
Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs). This document identifies and describes:
> \- Scenarios for 3GPP - WLAN Interworking
>
> \- 3GPP - WLAN interworking service requirements
>
> \- Guidelines for standardisation of 3GPP-WLAN interworking
The document includes a number of different scenarios of 3GPP-WLAN
interworking ranging from common billing to the provision of services
seamlessly between the WLAN and the 3GPP system. In addition, 3GPP-WLAN
interworking feasibility study includes the analysis of a number of
environments where both the 3GPP system and WLAN may be deployed. Finally,
this report outlines some of the different WLAN technologies that may be
interworked with 3GPP systems.
It is beyond the scope of 3GPP to develop new system functionalities for WLANs
that are not interworking with any 3GPP system functionality.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 21.133: \"Security Threats and Requirements\"
[3] 3GPP TS 22.001: \"Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.057: \"Mobile Execution Environment (MExE); Service
description; Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.060: \" General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.071: \" Location Services (LCS); Service description, Stage
1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL); Service definition - Stage 1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service principles\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.105 "Services and Service Capabilities"
[11] Open Mobile Alliance (OMA): OMA-RD-Parlay_Service_Access-V1_0-20100427-A
[12] 3GPP TS 22.129: \"Handover Requirements between UTRAN and GERAN or other
Radio Systems\"
[13] 3GPP TS 22.140: \"Multimedia messaging service; Stage 1\".
[14] 3GPP TS 22.141: \" Presence Service; Stage 1\".
[15] 3GPP TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service; Stage 1\".
[16] 3GPP TS 22.177: \" Speech-enabled services; Stage 1\".
[17] 3GPP TS 22.226: "Global Text Telephony, Stage 1."
[18] 3GPP TS 22.228: \" Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem; Stage 1\".
[19] 3GPP TS 22.233: "Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming
service; Stage 1"
[20] 3GPP TS 22.240: \"3GPP Generic User Profile (GUP) requirements; Stage
1\".
[21] 3GPP TS 22.242: \" Digital Rights Management (DRM); Stage 1\".
[22] 3GPP TS 22.243: \" Distributed speech recognition based automated voice
services \".
[23] ISO/IEC 8802-11 IEEE Std 802.11, 1999 Edition : \"Information technology
- telecommunications and information exchange between systems \- local and
metropolitan area networks - specific requirements. Part 11: wireless LAN
Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications\".
[24] IEEE Std 802.11b-1999 (Supplement to ANSI/IEEE Std 802.11, 1999 Edition)
[25] IEEE Std 802.11a-1999 (Supplement to ANSI/IEEE Std 802.11, 1999 Edition)
[26] IEEE STD 802.1X: \" Standards for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks:
Port Based Access Control, June 14, 2001\".
[27] ETSI TR 101 683: \"Broadband Radio Access Networks (BRAN); HIPERLAN Type
2; System Overview\"
[28] DTS/BRAN-0020003-2 Broadband Radio Access Networks (BRAN); HIPERLAN Type
2; Interworking between HIPERLAN/2 and 3rd Generation Cellular and other
Public systems
[29] MMAC HiSWANa Network Specification Ver. 2.0
[30] Bluetooth Specification 1.1
[31] RFC0791 - Internet Protocol
[32] RFC2486 - The Network Access Identifier
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**APN:** Access Point Name
**Environment:** The type of area to be covered by the WLAN network of a 3GPP
- WLAN interworking; e.g. public, corporate and residential.
**Home WLAN:** The WLAN that is interworking with the HPLMN of the 3GPP \-
WLAN interworking user.
**Interworking WLAN** : WLAN that interworks with a 3GPP system**.**
**Online Charging : See [1]**
**Offline Charging : See [1]**
**Serving WLAN** : The interworking WLAN that the user is connected to, i.e.
either a visited or a home WLAN.
**Visited WLAN:** An interworking WLAN that Interworks only with a visited
PLMN.
**WLAN coverage:** an area where wireless local area network access services
are provided for interworking by an entity in accordance with WLAN standards.
**WLAN roaming** : The ability for a 3GPP - WLAN interworking user
(subscriber) to function in a serving WLAN different from the home WLAN
**3GPP - WLAN Interworking:** Used generically to refer to interworking
between the 3GPP system and the WLAN family of standards**.**
## 3.2 Symbols
None
## 3.3 Abbreviations
**AAA: Authentication, Authorisation and Accounting** (See [1])
**AP:** Access Point. WLAN Access Points act as the "Base Stations"
**HIPERLAN/1:** HIPERLAN/1 (High Performance Radio Local Area Network / 1) is
a standard developed by ETSI for Wireless Networking to provide short-range
wireless communications, with user date rates up to around 20 Mbit/s. It was
designed to operate in the 5.15-5.35 GHz band in Europe.
**HIPERLAN/2:** HIPERLAN/2 is a standard developed by ETSI for Wireless
Networking to provide higher speeds of up to 54 Mbit/s. It is designed to
operate in Europe 5.15-5.35 GHz and 5.470-5.725 GHz
**HiSWANa:** HiSWAn a standard developed by MMAC for Wireless Networking to
provide higher speeds of up to 54 Mbit/s. It is designed to operate in Japan
in the 5 Ghz Waveband.
**IPv4:** Internet Protocol version 4.
**IPv6:** Internet Protocol version 6.
**LAN:** Local Area Network.
**NAI:** Network Access Identifier
**SSID:** Service Set Identifier (802.11b) or Service Set Identification (IEEE
802.11 wireless networks)
**WLAN:** Wireless Local Area Network.
**802.11b:** 802.11b is a standard developed by IEEE for Wireless Networking.
It offers a range of data speeds up to 11 Mbit/s for short ranges. 802.11b
operates in the 2.4GHz frequency bands (2.4-2.4835 GHz).
**802.11a:** 802.11a is a standard developed by IEEE for Wireless Networking.
It offers a range of data speeds up to 54 Mbit/s for short ranges. 802.11a
operates in the 5GHz frequency bands.
# 4 Background
## 4.1 WLAN technologies
There are several different technologies that fall into the WLAN category. An
existing industry standard is IEEE 802.11b operating in the 2.4 GHz ISM band.
A new entrant for this same band is Bluetooth. New technologies such as IEEE
802.11a and ETSI BRAN Hiperlan2 are being developed for 5GHz bands [23, 24,
25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30].
Despite the different radio technologies, most WLANs are commonly used for
transportation of IP packets. The specific WLAN technology used in each
wireless IP network is not very visible for the layers above IP [31].
Service interworking between 3GPP systems and WLANs should reuse the
established ways of using WLANs, i.e. transportation of IP packets. 3GPP \-
WLAN interworking should thus be built on top of harmonising layer(s) (e.g.
IP) and not limited to any specific WLAN technology.
Defining 3GPP - WLAN interworking based IP allows easier phased introduction
of more advanced interworking scenarios as well as parallel provisioning of
different interworking scenarios by the same WLAN.
However, if some standard mechanisms for realising specific system functions
within a WLAN exist, they should be considered to be reused for 3GPP system
interworking to ensure compatibility with generic WLANs.
## 4.2 Interworking model
An Interworking relationship is defined as a technical arrangement between two
platforms for realising the interworking functionality. Figure 4.1 shows
different entities and illustrates the concept of many to many relationships
between PLMNs and WLANs.
Seen from the user, WLAN A and WLAN B are home WLAN networks where as WLAN C
is a visited WLAN.
{width="5.593055555555556in" height="4.363888888888889in"}
Figure 1: Interworking Model
## 4.3 Deployment and usage
It is recognised that WLANs are, and will continue to be deployed by
independent ( i.e.non 3GPP) operators and that these WLANs may or may not be
interworked with a 3GPP system. Futher, these WLAN's may overlap partially or
completely with WLANs that are interworked with Home and/or Visited 3GPP
systems. Lastly, WLANs interworked with Home and Visited 3GPP systems may also
overlap each other, as well as the UTRAN for each 3GPP system. These
situations create multiple permutations of coverage areas and service states
which will need to be carefully understood and managed.
### 4.3.1 Network Coverage Areas and user states
The figure below illustrates a range of overlapping coverage areas. Different
user states can be identified by different trajectories through the coverage
areas. Table 1 describes a number of coverage areas that are derived from the
Figure below.
{width="2.5625in" height="3.1597222222222223in"}
Figure 2: User States
Assumptions: WLAN1(s) interworked with 3GPP-H (HPLMN); WLAN2(s) interworked
with 3GPP-V(VPLMN); WLAN3(s) not interworked.
Table 1: Description of User States
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | State | Description | WLAN Coverage | 3GPP PLMN | | | | | Coverage | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 | Switch on | No coverage | No coverage | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 | Single network | Coverage only | No coverage | | | WLAN1 coverage | available from | | | | | WLAN1(s) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3 | Overlapping | Single network | Home network | | | 3GPP & WLAN | coverage | coverage | | | coverage | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4 | Single network | No coverage | Home network | | | 3GPP-H | | coverage | | | coverage | | | | | (HPLMN) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5 | Multiple | No coverage | Coverage from | | | networks 3GPP | | home network | | | coverage | | and other | | | | | operator(s) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6 | Network(s) | No coverage | Coverage from | | | 3GPP-V | | visited | | | coverage | | network(s) | | | (VPLMN) | | only | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7 | Overlapping | Coverage only | Coverage from | | | 3GPP & WLAN | available from | visited | | | coverage | WLAN2(s) | network only | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8 | Multiple 3GPP | WLAN1(s) & | Coverage from | | | & Multiple | WLAN2(s) | Home and | | | WLANs | | Visited | | | | (NOTE 1): | Networks | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 | Multiple WLAN | Coverage | No coverage | | | coverage | available from | | | | | WLAN1(s) & | | | | | WLAN2(s) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10 | Single WLAN2 | Coverage only | No coverage | | | network | available from | | | | coverage | | | | | | WLAN2(s) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 11 | Multiple WLAN | Coverage | No coverage | | | coverage | available from | | | | | WLAN1 & WLAN3 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12 | WLAN(s) | Coverage only | No coverage | | | coverage not | available from | | | | interworked | WLAN3(s) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1 : May | | | | | also include | | | | | WLAN 3 (Not | | | | | Illustrated) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 4.4 Environments
There are number of different possible operating environments where
interworking of the 3GPP system and the WLANs may be desired. The 3GPP
operates universally in Public, Corporate, or Residential environments. WLANs
may also be deployed in any of these environments and it would be advantageous
if the standards for 3GPP - WLAN interworking could accommodate all of these
environments. Such capability would further enhance the ease of use for the
mobile system user and virtually extend the effective coverage areas of each
system.
The different environments may involve different administrative domains and
wide diversity of WLAN technical capabilities. As an example, the security
capabilities and policies may differ between public, corporate and residential
WLANs. These differences may lead to different interworking methods between
3GPP and WLANs. Hence, it is to be recognised that 3GPP - WLAN interworking
may not be possible in all cases for both technical and non-technical
considerations.
The environments and some of their characteristics may be summarised as
follows:
The "[Public]{.underline}" environment includes all areas where there is
unrestricted public presence, including outdoor areas, streets, transportation
centres, retail stores, hotels, restaurants and public spaces and lobbies in
major civic buildings. Here, for example, the WLAN operator is expecting
general access and will likely have a system policies and equipment suitable
for 3GPP - WLAN interworking.
The "[Corporate]{.underline}" environment includes offices and factories where
the users are restricted to employees of the business. Restricted visitor
access may also be accommodated in this environment. The Corporate WLAN
operator is providing service primarily for internal uses, and access to other
networks may be screened (i.e. with a "firewall"). There may be several WLANs
deployed within the corporation, not all of which are to be interworked with
3GPP. Thus, interworking between Corporate WLAN and 3GPP may involve some
different policies and techniques than for other environments.
The "[Residential]{.underline}" environment includes individual homes and
apartments where the users are restricted to the residents and their guests.
Here, the WLAN owner and user are most likely the same. However, in a multi-
tenant building, there may be a single WLAN (i.e. owned by the landlord)
serving many users. The interworking of residential WLAN with 3GPP may involve
some different policies that for other environments.
## 4.5 User access to services
In terms of the user's access to services, it is envisaged that the user will
have access to the same set of services, irrespective of the radio access
technology used (i.e. 3GPP UTRAN or WLAN). This may include access to a range
of different services, including:
\- Access to corporate Intranet services;
\- Access to operator local services; and
\- Access to the public Internet.
Access to Interworked WLANs using 3GPP defined authentication means does not
preclude a customer from accessing non Interworked WLANs via other
authentication means..
## 4.6 Target user experience
In each of these user/network states, the target user experience is the same
whether the user transitions to the new state from a previous state or whether
he turns on his WLAN enabled client device in a particular state. These user
experiences are summarised in the following table and assumes the user is
primarily seeking data connectivity. Two modes of human computer interaction
are described for each situation; manual mode is when the user is given
complete discretion to choose, whereas automatic mode (note that these are not
the same as "automatic" and "manual" PLMN selection modes described in section
6.3.1.1) is when the UE is more "intelligent" using proximity or context to
trigger changes to the bearer, application or service.
Table 2: Target User Experience
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | State | Description | User Interface | Comments | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 | No coverage | Dial-up | | | | | networking | | | | | client (or | | | | | equivalent), | | | | | shows "no | | | | | network | | | | | connection" | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 | Single network | In manual | In manual | | | WLAN coverage | mode, | mode, icon/gui | | | | equipment | may regularly | | | | notifies the | update to show | | | | user via the | whether | | | | icon that | network | | | | network | connectivity | | | | connectivity | may be | | | | may be | available | | | | possible | | | | | | Security icon | | | | In automatic | may be | | | | mode, | displayed , | | | | equipment | for example a | | | | automatically | "padlock" | | | | attempts | | | | | registration / | | | | | authentication | | | | | / encryption, | | | | | and updates | | | | | network | | | | | connectivity | | | | | icon | | | | | appropriately. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3 | Overlapping | In manual | Consideration | | | 3GPP & WLAN | mode, user | needs to be | | | coverage | should be made | given to | | | | aware that | interaction of | | | | several radio | Circuit | | | | technologies | Switched | | | | are now | services | | | | available. | (voice and | | | | | data) with the | | | | In automatic | packet side of | | | | mode 3GPP | the user | | | | and/or WLAN is | equipment. For | | | | selected based | example for | | | | on | devices that | | | | predetermined | cannot support | | | | choices, (set | voice at the | | | | by UE, the | same time as | | | | user, network, | WLAN packet | | | | location or | access. | | | | context). | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4 | Single network | In automatic | State changes | | | 3GPP coverage | mode, user | based on of | | | (HPLMN) | equipment, | "network | | | | changes to | connectivity | | | | 3GPP air | icon" to | | | | interface. | indicate a | | | | Registration / | change in data | | | | authentication | rates | | | | / encryption | | | | | are performed | Review Network | | | | as required. | Connectivity / | | | | | Security / | | | | Update of | Charging | | | | Security icon | policy | | | | if security | "status" and | | | | level is | consider means | | | | modified. | of | | | | | notification, | | | | Update of | which could be | | | | Charging | via icons. | | | | policy if | Users could | | | | modified | specify which | | | | | status | | | | | indicators | | | | | they are | | | | | interested in, | | | | | and how they | | | | | would like | | | | | them to be | | | | | displayed | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5 | Multiple | Network | | | | networks 3GPP | selection is | | | | coverage | covered by | | | | | 3GPP standards | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6 | Single network | Network | | | | 3GPP coverage | selection is | | | | (VPLMN) | covered by | | | | | 3GPP standards | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7 | Overlapping | Same as (3) | A Method | | | 3GPP & WLAN | with | should be | | | coverage | notification | provided to | | | | of WLAN | allow the | | | | roaming | operator to | | | | | provide the | | | | | user with | | | | | preferred | | | | | bearer service | | | | | depending on | | | | | the context of | | | | | use, including | | | | | device, | | | | | application, | | | | | bearer, QoS | | | | | amongst others | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8 | Multiple 3GPP | In manual | (Note 1) | | | & Multiple | mode, user | | | | WLANs | should be made | | | | | aware that | | | | | several radio | | | | | technologies | | | | | are now | | | | | available. | | | | | | | | | | In automatic | | | | | mode 3GPP | | | | | and/or WLAN is | | | | | selected based | | | | | on | | | | | predetermined | | | | | choices, (set | | | | | by UE, the | | | | | user, network, | | | | | location or | | | | | context). | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 | Multiple | In manual mode | | | | networks WLAN | user is | | | | coverage | notified of | | | | | available | | | | | networks | | | | | | | | | | Not covered by | | | | | standards; In | | | | | automatic | | | | | mode, | | | | | connectivity | | | | | is established | | | | | via preferred | | | | | network | | | | | settings | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10 | Single network | In manual | Same as in | | | coverage from | mode, | | | | WLAN | equipment | State 2. | | | interworking | notifies the | | | | with VPLMN | user via the | | | | | icon(s) that | | | | | network | | | | | connectivity | | | | | may be | | | | | possible via a | | | | | Visited | | | | | network. | | | | | | | | | | In automatic | | | | | mode, | | | | | equipment | | | | | automatically | | | | | attempts | | | | | registration / | | | | | authentication | | | | | /encryption, | | | | | and updates | | | | | network | | | | | connectivity | | | | | icon | | | | | appropriately, | | | | | indicating the | | | | | use of Visited | | | | | network (that | | | | | is, Roaming | | | | | situation). | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 11 | Multiple | Same as (2) | | | | networks WLAN | | | | | coverage | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12 | Not | User is | | | | interworked | notified of | | | | WLAN3 | available | | | | | coverage; | | | | | experience | | | | | dependent on | | | | | relationship | | | | | between WLAN3 | | | | | and 3GPP HPLMN | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1 : May | | | | | also include | | | | | WLAN(s) not | | | | | interworked | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 4.7 Terminal aspects
Two modes of user equipment are foreseen for the 3GPP - WLAN interworking:
\- Single mode 3GWLAN , which is an independent WLAN UE. This terminal handles
all the 3GPP - WLAN interworking services that are offered to the user through
the interworked WLAN.
\- Multimode 3GWLAN, which is a dual mode WLAN - 3GPP system UE. This terminal
handles all the 3GPP - WLAN interworking services that are offered to the user
through either the interworked 3GPP system or the interworked WLAN.
The single mode may be dominant for scenario 1 through 3. The multi mode
terminal may be dominant for Scenario 4 and above.
# 5 Main concepts
This chapter describes an approach for a flexible, general, scalable and
future proof 3GPP - WLAN interworking. The approach is flexible and scalable
in the sense that it can be implemented in steps from a quite simple 3GPP -
WLAN interworking, to fully seamless inter system operation. The approach is
general in that there are no limitations on the WLAN that can be interworked.
The approach is also future proof in that it ensures interworking with both
current and future WLAN and 3GPP releases. The following section (5.1) defines
a number of different scenarios for interworking that provide an indicative
roadmap for development.
Interworking between 3GPP Systems and WLAN should be possible with minimum
coordination of the respective standards. The goal is to avoid changes to WLAN
standards and to minimise changes in existing 3GPP specifications.
Also, the goal is to allow 3GPP - WLAN interworking with Release 99, Release 4
and Release 5, however it is acknowledged that the actual fulfilment of this
goal will vary from scenario to scenario.
## 5.1 Interworking scenarios
In this chapter six 3GPP - WLAN interworking scenarios are described. Each
scenario realises an additional step in integrating WLAN in the 3GPP service
offering and naturally includes the previous level of integration of the
previous scenario.
3GPP -WLAN interworking scenarios may be considered with the aid of the
simplified reference diagram in figure 1. This reference diagram illustrates
the elements of the 3GPP system and WLANs being interworked. These may be
interconnected in a variety of ways to develop the progressive scenarios
outlined in this section.
Figure 3: 3GPP System - WLAN interworking simplified reference model
[Scenario 1 - Common Billing and Customer Care]{.underline}
This is the simplest scheme of 3GPP -WLAN interworking. The connection between
the WLAN and the 3GPP system is that there is a single customer relationship.
The customer receives one bill from the mobile operator for the usage of both
3GPP and WLAN services. Integrated Customer Care allows for a simplified
service offering from both the operator and the subscriber's perspective. The
security level of the two systems may be independent.
This scenario does not pose any new requirements on 3GPP specifications.
Use case: Jim Beam is a 3GPP subscriber who would like to access the WLAN
service provided by his home operator. Jim wants the charges for the WLAN
usage included on his 3GPP service bill. Jim's home 3GPP operator provides him
with a user name and password to access the WLAN. Jim has access to Internet
services and resources from the WLAN but does not have access to 3GPP services
or resources other than those he can normally access from the Internet.
[Scenario 2 - 3GPP system based Access Control and Charging]{.underline}
This is the scenario where authentication, authorization and accounting are
provided by the 3GPP system. The security level of these functions applied to
WLAN is in line with that of the 3GPP system [2]. This ensures that the user
does not see significant difference in the way access is granted. This may
also provide means for the operator to charge access in a consistent manner
over the two platforms.
Reusing the 3GPP system access control principles allows for additional
benefits seen from a user and 3GPP system operator standpoint. First, the 3GPP
system operator may easily allow subscribers within his existing 3GPP system
customer base to access the WLAN with a minimum effort both for the subscriber
and the operator. In addition, the maintenance of the subscriber may also be
simplified.
No requirements are put upon the set of services to be offered in the WLAN
part beyond those inherently offered by being addressable in an IP network..
Use case : Angus Lagavulin is 3GPP subscriber who needs a more secure way of
accessing the WLAN than user name and password. Angus's home 3GPP operator
modifies his 3GPP user profile to include WLAN access and Angus purchases a
WLAN NIC equipped with a UICC associated with his 3GPP account. Angus is
authenticated on the WLAN from the credentials on the UICC but does not have
access to 3GPP services other than those he can normally access from the
Internet.
Jack Daniels is a 3GPP subscriber and wants to access 3GPP packet switched
services and WLAN service without having to swap NIC's in his laptop. Jack
purchases a dual mode (3GPP/WLAN) NIC. Jack can access 3GPP and WLAN service
using separate sessions without changing any hardware.
[Scenario 3: Access to 3GPP system PS based services]{.underline}
The goal of this scenario is to allow the operator to extend 3GPP system PS
based services to the WLAN. These services may include, for example, APNs, IMS
based services, location based services, instant messaging, presence based
services, MBMS and any service that is built upon the combination of several
of these components [5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 13, 14. 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22]
Even though this scenario allows access to all services, it is an
implementation question whether only a subset of the services is actually
provided.
However, service continuity between the 3GPP system part and the WLAN part is
not required.
Use case : Jose Cuervo is a 3GPP subscriber and wants to access to his 3GPP
packet switched services, e.g MMS, that he cannot normally access through the
Internet. Jose has a dual mode NIC in his laptop and is able to receive his
MMS through the WLAN or 3GPP system.
[Scenario 4: Service Continuity]{.underline}
The goal of this scenario is to allow the services supported in Scenario 3 to
survive a change of access between WLAN and 3GPP systems. The change of access
may be noticeable to the user, but there will be no need for the user/UE to
re-establish the service. There may be a change in service quality as a
consequence of the transition between systems due to the varying capabilities
and characteristics of the access technologies and their associated networks.
It is also possible that some services may not survive, as the continuing
network may not support an equivalent service.
The criteria and decision mechanism for change of access network is under
investigation.
Change in service quality may be a consequence of mobility between radio
access technologies, due to varying capabilities and characteristics of radio
access technologies.
NOTE : The use of the term service continuity is different to the definition
given in [12]
Use case : Jari Finlandia is a 3GPP subscriber who travels frequently and has
a PDA equipped with a WLAN and 3GPP transceiver. Jari would like to be able to
move freely about airports and hotels without having to establish a 3GPP
session when he moves out or range of the WLAN. Jari's PDA can switch between
3GPP and WLAN as required based on the parameters (e.g. QOS) in his profile on
the same session. However, Jari may experience brief interruptions in data
flow during the transitions between 3GPP and WLAN.
[Scenario 5: Seamless services]{.underline}
The goal of this scenario is to provide seamless service continuity, as
defined in [12],between the access technologies, for the services supported in
Scenario 3.
By seamless service continuity is meant minimizing aspects such as data loss
and break time during the switch between access technologies.
Use case : Seamus Bushmills is a 3GPP subscriber with a multimedia terminal
that includes VoIP capability. Seamus spends a lot of time in places with WLAN
service and would like to utilise WLAN for his multimedia calls when possible.
However, Seamus is on the go and may need to leave the area with WLAN in the
middle of a call. Seamus would like to maintain his multimedia and VoIP
sessions when he leaves WLAN coverage without noticeable interruption. Seamus
purchased a WLAN card for his terminal, and can switch between 3GPP and WLAN
as necessary without interrupting the session.
[Scenario 6: Access to 3GPP CS Services]{.underline}
This scenario allows access to services provided by the entities of the 3GPP
Circuit Switched Core Network over WLAN. This scenario does not imply any
circuit-switched type of characteristics to be included into WLAN.
It shall be possible to provide a technical implementation that would allow:
\- Access to services provided by the 3GPP CS core network entities over WLAN
interface.
\- Seamless and user-transparent switching between access technologies for a
connection carrying service provided by the entities of 3GPP CS core network
The table below defines the service and operational capabilities of each
scenario.
Table 3 : Scenarios and their Capabilities
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Sce | S | S | S | S | S | S | | narios: | cenario | cenario | cenario | cenario | cenario | cenario | | | 1: | 2: 3GPP | 3: | 4: | 5: | 6: | | Service | Common | system | Access | Service | S | | | and | Billing | based | to 3GPP | con | eamless | Access | | oper | and | Access | system | tinuity | s | to 3GPP | | ational | C | Control | PS | | ervices | system | | Capabi | ustomer | and | based | | | CS | | lities: | Care | C | s | | | based | | | | harging | ervices | | | S | | | | | | | | ervices | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Common | X | X | X | X | X | X | | billing | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Common | X | X | X | X | X | X | | c | | | | | | | | ustomer | | | | | | | | care | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3GPP | | X | X | X | X | X | | system | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | Access | | | | | | | | Control | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3GPP | | X | X | X | X | X | | system | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | Access | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | harging | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Access | | | X | X | X | X | | to 3GPP | | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | | PS | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ervices | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | WLAN | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Service | | | | X | X | X | | Con | | | | | | | | tinuity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | S | | | | | X | X | | eamless | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | tinuity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Access | | | | | | X | | to 3GPP | | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | | CS | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ervices | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | eamless | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | obility | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
**Service and operational Capabilities:**
_Common billing_ : The user will receive the bill for the services consumption
on either platform in a coordinated way. However, it does not include any
requirement to harmonize the tariff structure or level of services on the two
platforms.
_Common customer care_ : The user will not have to bother about which platform
that might have caused his need to consult the customer care.
_3GPP system based Access Control_ : The user faces control procedures
(authentication and authorization) similar for WLAN as within the 3GPP domain.
_3GPP system based Access Charging_ : This capability enables that the 3GPP
charging mechanism can be reused for WLAN.
_Access to 3GPP system PS based services from WLAN_ : The user is offered
access to the same PS based services over WLAN as may be accessed via the 3GPP
system.
_Service continuity:_ services will survive the process of change of access
network technology between WLAN and a 3GPP system.
_Seamless service continuity_ : to provide seamless service continuity between
the access technologies by minimizing aspects such as data loss and break time
during the switch between access technologies.
_Access to 3GPP system CS based Services with seamless mobility:_ to allow the
operator to grant access to 3GPP system CS based services through the WLAN.
## 5.2 Ownership, operation, and trust
### 5.2.1 Ownership
Ownership of the WLAN to be interworked with a 3GPP network may be one or more
of the following general classes
1) The WLAN owner is a 3GPP system operator.
2) The WLAN owner is a public network operator who is not a 3GPP system
operator. This may include, for example, fixed network operators, operators of
mobile networks other than 3GPP systems or public WLAN operators.
3) The WLAN owner is an entity providing WLAN access in a local area (i.e.
building manager/owner or airport authority) but who is otherwise not a public
network operator. In this class it may be considered that a primary purpose of
the WLAN operations is to provide local services and internet access as well
as WLAN interworking.
4) The WLAN owner is a business entity that may be providing a WLAN for its
internal use that also wishes to allow interconnection, and possibly visitor
use, for some or all of their WLANs. The entity may have more than one WLAN in
operation in a location of which some may be interworked to 3GPP systems and
some may not be interworked. In this class it may be considered that the
primary purpose of the WLAN operations is for its own business and WLAN
interworking is a secondary consideration.
This is not intended to be a restrictive list, but rather, illustrative of
possibilities. There are many other possible combinations.
### 5.2.2 Operations
For 3GPP system subscribers, the operation of the interworked WLAN for
creating charging records should follow the same principles as for other
networks interworked with 3GPP systems. The end responsibility for billing,
for example, should be with the subscriber's home operator. To assist billing,
the home operator should receive charging records associated with WLAN usage.
### 5.2.3 Internetworking trust
3GPP systems interworking with WLANs should consider the possibility of
security weaknesses within the WLAN. The level of trust for physical
communications and signalling in the network may be affected by the security
of the servers, their operating software and the procedures used in the
interworked WLAN. The level of trust of communication between the WLAN and the
3GPP system may be considered to have three levels -
1) The WLAN may be completely untrusted by the UE and the 3GPP system.
2) The WLAN contains elements that may be trusted by the UE and the 3GPP
system. For example, the WLAN may include trusted servers that look after
aspects of security and authentication interworking with the 3GPP systems
(e.g. 802.1x, 802.11i). However, other elements of the network may be
untrusted.
3) All of the elements of the WLAN may be fully trusted by the UE and the 3GPP
system.
Mutual authentication between the UE and the WLAN/3GPP System should be used
to assure the needed level of trust by both entities for interworking and
access to services. In the case of an untrusted interworked network, this may
limit the charging possibilities as, for example, some messages may be
spurious. For a network with trusted servers and authenticated messages, the
charging records may be considered trusted.
## 5.3 Service capability interworking
The following table provides the use cases for scenarios 3 to 6 with specific
service capabilities [5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 13, 14. 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22].
Table 4 : Use Cases
* * *
Service capability Use case Service domain SMS A user should be able to send
and receive SMS messages between themselves and terminals in the 3GPP system.
The content, size restrictions, and notifications should be equivalent. PS+CS
MMS User connected via WLAN, should be able to send and receive MMS messages.
The user interaction with the client application is the same as when they are
connected via the 3GPP system. PS Presence The user's presentity should be
able to interact with the Presence server. The user may want to set different
access rules if they are connected via the WLAN. (Note : this is currently not
supported by the presence service) PS IMS The user should be able to access
all IMS based services (e.g. IMS messaging and Group Management). The QoS
provided by the WLAN may affect the services available PS LCS The user should
be able to use applications that make use of Location information, without the
need to enter the location into the application manually. . PS+CS MBMS MBMS is
a bearer service used by 3^rd^ party or operator provided applications. These
applications should be available to the user in the WLAN. PS MexE MexE
provides an access independent standardised API which should work when the
user is connected through WLAN. PS+CS OSA An OSA application should be able to
interact with a UE connecting via WLAN. CS+PS UE Management (UEM) It should be
possible for an operator to be able to provide a similar level of customer
support regardless of how the user is connected to their services.
* * *
# 6 Service Requirements
This chapter provides the service and operational requirements for each of the
scenarios identified and for which high-level description is provided in
chapter 5.
## 6.1 General Requirements
Interworking between WLAN and 3GPP systems could be implemented in different
ways. The WLAN could be an integral part of the 3GPP system or the two systems
could be separate. The WLAN could interwork with one or more 3GPP systems and
that a 3GPP system could interwork with one or more WLANs.at the network side.
The following guidelines for deployment of WLAN - 3GPP Interworking are
recommended.
\- The functional split between WLAN and 3GPP system should be clearly
specified
\- Interworking between WLAN and 3GPP system should pose as few 3GPP specific
requirements to WLANs as feasible
  * Interworking means between WLAN and 3GPP system should be able to support many-to-many relationship between the two systems (i.e. the specifications should allow that one WLAN can interwork with several 3GPP systems and one 3GPP system can interwork with several WLANs).
## 6.2 Interworking Scenario 1
There are no requirements affecting 3GPP specifications for Scenario 1.
## 6.3 Interworking Scenario 2
### 6.3.1 Service aspects
WLAN-3GPP system interworking service is defined as a wireless IP connectivity
service where the radio access technology is of type WLAN.
The service is subject to a 3GPP system subscription.
The WLAN-3GPP system interworking service should support IPv4 and IPv6 based
connectivity.
Quality of Service is out of the scope in this scenario 2 (see 5.1).
It should be possible to support the following categories of service
1) General Internet services
2) Access to intranets
#### 6.3.1.1 Network Selection
The broad aims of 3GPP Network Selection are to:
\- Maximise availability of networks to the user
\- Support both manual and automatic network selection
\- In the case of automatic network selection:
\- Prioritise the Home network
\- Allow the operator to define a home, preferred or forbidden list of
networks
It is recommended that similar concepts are developed for WLAN selection.
It is noted that through discrimination of the Network Operator Identifier (s)
values being transmitted by the available access points, the user can
determine which of available networks is the one they wish to use. It is also
conceivable that a function similar to the preferred PLMN (Public Land Mobile
Network) list could be implemented into a W LAN smart client.
#### 6.3.1.2 System recognition
Integrated devices should be capable of recognizing the range of air interface
options available, and communicating these choices to the end user. For
example, the IEEE 802.11 standard supports Network Operator Identifier
functionality. Network Operator Identifier is a network identity sent in
"text" over the 802.11 radio interface .This information could be used when
system recognition and network selection takes place.
### 6.3.2 Access control
Access control for a 3GPP system subscriber accessing the WLAN -3GPP system
interworking service shall be provided by the 3GPP system.
Successful 3GPP system based access control is a prerequisite for usage of the
WLAN - 3GPP interworking service.
It shall be possible to reuse existing UICC cards, containing the SIM/USIM,
for the access control.
NOTE: Additional methods of access control could be defined in the future.
> 3GPP compatible access control for users accessing WLAN may:
\- Reuse existing 3GPP permanent subscriber databases (e.g. HLR)
> To be WLAN compatible one major characteristic is assumed:
\- Reuse of the standard WLAN radio interface mechanisms for authentication
interworking with 3GPP compatible access control.
#### 6.3.2.1 Authentication
Authentication procedures shall be able to prohibit user session establishment
(and hence subsequent radio and network resource allocation) prior to
successful authentication.
### 6.3.3 Security
The level of security of the 3GPP system shall not be compromised by
deployment of the 3GPP -WLAN interworking system
Access control for users accessing WLAN shall have the same level of security
as a 3GPP system authentication procedure.
The following objectives were identified in relation to user security features
for 3GPP:
\- User anonymity
\- Authentication
\- Encryption (user data and signalling)
\- Integrity
\- Strong security for authentication data
The following objectives were identified in relation to network operator
security features for 3GPP systems:
Features:
\- Establish basis to trust other network operators
\- Maintain Roaming Agreement principle for WLAN interworking
\- Allow 3GPP and WLAN Operators to use their own security algorithms
\- Avoid transporting sensitive information related to inter-operator roaming
over insecure networks.
\- Avoid (detect and/or block) fraudulent user ambiguity (use of same
subscription in multiple locations and/or sessions)
### 6.3.4 Roaming aspects
3GPP -WLAN interworking system should provide the ability for 3G subscribers
to access the WLAN service and roam between 3GPP networks and WLANs. A 3GPP
system operator should be able to have roaming with WLAN operators that are
not also 3GPP system operators. This implies the pre-existence of a roaming
mechanism and a service agreement between the different network operators
involved.
UE shall be able to select the visited network when accessing the WLAN. The
selection within the UE can be automated or done by the user.
### 6.3.5 Terminal aspects
#### 6.3.5.1 General
3GPP system based access control requires the existence of similar level of
security for the access control related functions within the user equipment as
exists in 3GPP user equipment.
One identified option to realise this requirement is to have a UICC card
containing SIM or USIM application in the UE.
Deployed WLAN devices (according WLAN standards, e.g. 802.11, HiperLan 2 etc),
that meet interworking requirements, (e.g. security), shall be supported
without upgrading the functionality.
User involvement in enabling scenario 2 interworking functionality in
terminals shall be minimized (e.g. installation of software).
#### 6.3.5.2 Accessing UICC data
One objective is to minimize complexity of administration for authentication
and billing. The approach to this is to use the UICC.
Several options have been identified, which may require further study,
including:
\- Dedicated UICC card reader within the WLAN card
\- External UICC Card reader
\- By WLAN device communicating with UICC (e.g. via Bluetooth or IrDA port)
Each of these should be considered in conjunction with the section on Security
objectives section 6.3.3.
### 6.3.6 Naming and addressing
Usage of NAI format ensures that 3GPP based access control will be compatible
with standard WLAN equipment and with IETF AAA protocols such as Diameter.
This approach also enables smooth simultaneous usage of 3GPP based and
non-3GPP based access control solutions over the same WLAN.
The user identification for 3GPP based access control shall be based on
Network Access Identifier (NAI) format (user@realm) [32].
### 6.3.7 Charging and billing
Charging and billing in the 3GPP system shall not be compromised by the
interworking with the WLAN. Other aspects regarding charging and billing shall
be accommodated as for interworking between 3GPP systems.
#### 6.3.7.1 Online charging support
3GPP -WLAN interworking system shall have the possibility to provide online
charging.
As the charging information affects the service rendered, a mechanism shall be
available to allow the 3GPP system to indicate to the WLAN that the service
rendered should be terminated, interrupted or modified (for example for pre-
paid users).
#### 6.3.7.2 Offline charging support
Offline charging shall utilise the existing 3GPP system Charging Gateway, i.e.
WLAN charging shall be based on charging records delivered to 3GPP Charging
Gateway.
## 6.4 Interworking scenario 3
The goal of Scenario 3 is to make access to 3GPP system PS based services
available to the user through the WLAN. The following service requirements
apply to the interworking scenario 3.
### 6.4.1 Service aspects
The services available should include all services based on 3GPP System PS
domain capabilities (e.g. IMS).
As the charging and QoS parameters may differ between the WLAN and 3GPP
system, it shall be possible for the user to select which interface to use.
This process may be automated by a function in the terminal.
The user's actions related to service invocation should be the same when using
either the WLAN or the 3GPP system.
Simultaneous usage of both radio access technologies will depend on the
requirements of the user's application, the capabilities of the UE and the
coverage of the radio access technologies. The standards shall not preclude
the simultaneous use of both WLAN and 3GPP radio access technologies.
For example, the following cases -
\- The UE might use the WLAN for data services (internet access) together with
the 3GPP system for a speech call.
\- The UE and the WLAN and 3GPP systems might elect to use both access
technologies simultaneously in order to balance traffic, system capabilities
or for radio resource management.
#### 6.4.1.1 IMS service aspects
WLAN should support all IMS capabilities
Support of real time IMS services will require QoS support in WLAN. If the
WLAN technology does not offer sufficient support for QoS, best effort
approach may be used to approximate the service.
NOTE: Currently the IMS does not support parallel registrations. No use cases
have yet been identified that would require parallel IMS registrations of the
UE over WLAN and over UTRAN/GERAN.
#### 6.4.1.2 LCS service capability interworking
The requirements for support of Location Based services via the WLAN are:
1 When a LCS client requests the location of a user access via a Interworking
WLAN, then it shall be possible to determine the location of the device. The
accuracy of the position may be limited to the known area of coverage of the
Access Point.
2 The LCS client should not need to know which access technology is being used
in order to obtain the location information
3 The security and privacy requirements as specified in TS 22.071 [7] shall be
met
NOTE: The position methods in the WLAN are outside the scope of 3GPP
### 6.4.2 Service access control
When enabling access to 3GPP services that require separate authentication and
access control, such as IMS, the service authentication and access control
mechanisms developed for that service must be used.
Access to IMS service over WLAN must comply with the separation of access and
service authentication and thus IMS authentication is done separately and only
after WLAN access authentication (see Scenario 2) has succeeded.
### 6.4.3 Security aspects
The security requirements established in sub-section 6.3.3 shall be applied
for scenario 3.
### 6.4.4 QoS aspects
The 3GPP system end-to-end QoS principles should be applicable to WLAN.
It should be possible to charge based on the level of QoS provided and on the
QoS subscription.
It should be possible to base QoS provisioning in WLANs on the user\'s
subscription.
### 6.4.5 Roaming aspects
It should be possible to support roaming so that the same sets of services are
accessible when roaming into a visited WLAN.
## 6.5 Interworking scenario 4
The following service requirements apply to the interworking scenario 4 for
service continuity for transitions between 3GPP Systems and WLANs. These
requirements cover only aspects of the transitions between 3GPP Systems and
WLANs and do not include those that may be internal to the WLANs (as these are
outside the scope of 3GPP).
NOTE : The use of the term service continuity is different to the definition
given in [12]
### 6.5.1 Service aspects
The transition between access technologies may occur under two conditions -
1) It should be possible for the UE to make automatic transitions between the
WLAN and the 3GPP system (e.g. when entering or leaving regions of system
coverage) with no manual actions from the user required.
2) It should be possible for the user to manually activate the transition
between the WLAN and the 3GPP system. To aid the user, it should be possible
for the UE to indicate to the user the availability of systems, for example,
when there is a change of coverage or at the user's request.
The specifications shall cover service continuity for environments where the
3GPP Systems and the WLANs involved may be operated by the same network
operator, different network operators or other entities with suitable
interworking agreements. There may be more than one target 3GPP system or WLAN
for transition, in addition to the serving system, in a given geographical
area.
It should be possible for the user to be notified when a transition between
the WLAN and the 3GPP system occurs, as there may be a change in the
communication, the quality of service or the cost.
After the handover the user shall remain connected to the selected external
network (e.g. internet, intranet) independently of the radio interface being
used.
### 6.5.2 Service continuity cases
Service continuity shall support the following cases:
> 1\. Continuity of active 3GPP PS domain based services (e.g. IMS, PSS) when
> transitioning between 3GPP system and the WLAN.
  1. Continuity of WLAN services when transitioning between WLAN coverage > areas. (Note: this case may involve a (temporary) transition > through a 3GPP system.)
In these service continuity cases the transitions may be from 3GPP system to a
WLAN, or from a WLAN to a 3GPP system. Service continuity need not be
supported for services using resources specific to the source domain that
cannot be maintained using resources in the target domain.
### 6.5.3 Charging and network management
Means shall be standardised that allow charging records to reflect the
transistions between the WLAN and the 3GPP system. This includes the time and
type in addition to the QoS variations.
A capability to provide network management information relating to frequency
of occurrence and type of transition between radio access technologies should
be defined.
### 6.5.4 Security
The security requirements established in sub-section 6.3.3 shall be applied
for scenario 4.
The specifications shall assure that transition of radio access technology
does not compromise the security of the network providing the new services,
the (possibly different) network providing the original services, and the UE
or the user's application.
### 6.5.5 Performance requirements
#### 6.5.5.1 Change of QoS
During transition between 3GPP Systems and WLANs, the change of service
quality shall not cause a service to drop, although the user may notice some
change in performance.
It may happen that a target network cannot support the requested QoS or
service provided by the current serving network. If all services cannot be
accommodated in the target system, a transition of radio access technology to
a reduced set of services shall be possible. If the newly negotiated QoS is
not acceptable, the UE/user may terminate the connection/context.
#### 6.5.5.2 Requirements on multiple services
Means shall be defined to allow transition of multiple sessions/services
between the 3GPP systems and the WLANs.
## 6.6 Interworking scenario 5
. During handover from a 3GPP System to a WLAN or from a WLAN to a 3GPP
system, change of service shall be no greater than that which may occur during
intra 3GPP System handover i.e. it shall not be noticeable to the user. A
seamless change of service shall be possible when
\- the UE stays within limits for the service (i.e. pedestrian rate of motion)
in both the WLAN and 3GPP System;
\- the UE remains during the time of handover within coverage of both systems.
## 6.7 Interworking scenario 6
No use cases have been identified for this scenario. Without such use cases it
is not considered worthwhile doing any further development on this scenario in
3GPP.
# 7 Summary and conclusion
The service scenarios outlined in this report provide a path for evolution
from entry-level services to full availability of 3GPP services to the WLAN
access user. Each of these scenarios provides an increasing level of service
that is built upon the lower level scenarios. A deployment initially directed
at one service scenario provides the basis for further development. Within a
3GPP network, there may be interworking with WLAN encompassing several service
scenario levels. The services may thus be tailored to suit the network
capabilities and the operating environment.
## 7.1 Impact on Specifications
The study has concluded that the stage 1 requirements for WLAN-3GPP
Interworking can be included through changes to existing specifications. The
following list summarises the impact on the specifications for each of the
interworking scenarios.
NOTE 1: This is the initial list of impacted specifications. Further details
on these impacts may be identified during the specification work.
1- Interworking scenario 1 : Common Customer Care and billing
There are no requirements affecting 3GPP specifications for Scenario 1.
2- Interworking scenario 2 :Common Access Control and charging
Section 6.3 identifies the requirements related to this scenario. The
following specifications are expected to be impacted by this scenario.
\- 3GPP TS 22.101, to include the general requirements and those on service
aspects and roaming.
\- 3GPP TS 22.011, to include the aspects on Network selection and system
recognition.
\- 3GPP TS 21.133, to include the security requirements
\- 3GPP TS 22.115, to include the requirements on charging.
3- Interworking scenario 3 - Access to 3GPP system PS based services
Section 6.4 identifies the requirements related to this scenario. The services
available should include all services based on 3GPP System PS domain
capabilities. Section 5.3 lists the use cases for this and following scenarios
with specific service capabilities.
The following specifications are expected to be impacted by this scenario.
  * 3GPP TS 22.101, to include the service aspects.
  * 3GPP TS 22.105, to include the QoS aspects
4- Interworking scenario 4 - Service continuity
Section 6.5 identifies the requirements related to this scenario. The services
available will survive the process of change of access network technology
between WLAN and a 3GPP system although there may be a change in service
quality (e.g. data rate, delay may be different) as a consequence of the
transition between systems due to the varying capabilities and characteristics
of the access technologies and their associated networks.
The following specification is expected to be impacted by this scenario.
\- 3GPP TS 22.129, to include the service continuity aspects
5- Interworking scenario 5 - Seamless services
Section 6.6 identifies the requirements related to this scenario. In this
scenario, the continuity of services when transitioning between the 3GPP and
WLAN access technologies is seamless (i.e. the user experiences no
interruption of the available services during the transition).
The following specification is expected to be impacted by this scenario.
\- 3GPP TS 22.129, to include the service continuity aspects
## 7.2 Phasing of the work
This report has identified 6 levels of interworking. As the level of
interworking increases, so does the amount of specification work. It is
proposed that Scenarios 2 to 5 be worked together, however, if a split in the
feature is required at a later time then the split could be made between some
of the scenarios.
## 7.3 Conclusion
This technical report has analysed various scenarios and service requirements
for interworking 3GPP system and WLAN. From this study it is concluded that
the feature, interworking between 3GPP system and WLAN requires specification
work within 3GPP. The recommendation is that the work be started as a single
feature and that phasing of the work occur at a later date if necessary. It is
also recommended that the stage 1 requirements be added to existing
specifications that have been identified.
###### ### Annex A: Impacted Specifications
The following table analyses the requirements in each of the subsections and
indicates if these requirements can easily be added to existing requirements.
+------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Section No | Title | Analysis | TS and section | | | | | number | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6 | Service | - | - | | | Requirements | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.1 | General | Basic high | ST22.101, 4.8 | | | Requirements | level | (new) | | | | requirements | | | | | setting out the | | | | | prinicples of | | | | | the | | | | | integration. | | | | | Could be | | | | | contained in a | | | | | new subsection | | | | | in 22.101 | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.2 | Interworking | No requirements | | | | Scenario 1 | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3 | Interworking | - | - | | | Scenario 2 | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.1 | Service aspects | Implies roaming | TS 22.101, | | | | to WLAN - this | section 17 | | | | should be | | | | | covered in TS | TS 22.101 | | | | 22.101. The | subsection | | | | remainder | 7.2.6 (new) | | | | consider | | | | | services | | | | | aspects. | | | | | Suggest a new | | | | | section in TS | | | | | 22.101 | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.1.1 | Network | Recommends the | TS 22.011 | | | Selection | concepts of | | | | | 3GPP systems be | | | | | met. These are | | | | | defined in TS | | | | | 22.011 | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.1.2 | System | Similar to | TS 22.011 | | | recognition | previous | | | | | section. | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.2 | Access Control | | TS 21.133 | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.2.1 | Authentication | | TS 21.133 | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.3 | Security | | TS 22.101 | | | | | and/or TS | | | | | 21.133 | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.4 | Roaming aspects | | TS 22.101 | | | | | section 17 | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.5 | Terminal | | TS 22.101 | | | Aspects | | section 14? | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.5.1 | General | Identifies | TS 22.101 | | | | option for | section 13 | | | | UICC, add to TS | | | | | 22.101 section | | | | | 13. The | | | | | secuirty | | | | | aspects should | | | | | be handled in | | | | | TS | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.5.2 | Accessing UICC | May be able to | TS 22.101 | | | Data | add to TS | section 13? | | | | 22.101, section | | | | | 13. | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.6 | Naming and | High level | TS 22.101, | | | Addressing | n | section 11 | | | | aming/numbering | | | | | is handled in | | | | | TS 22.101 | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.7 | Charging and | Basically | TS 22.101 | | | Billing | requires WLAN | section 6 | | | | to use the 3GPP | | | | | charging | TS 22.115 | | | | records. | | | | | Suggest this is | | | | | covered in TS | | | | | 22.101 section | | | | | 16 and TS | | | | | 22.115 | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.7.1 | Online charging | See above | | | | support | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.3.7.2 | Offline | See above | | | | charging | | | | | support | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.4 | Interworking | - | | | | Scenario 3 | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.4.1 | Service aspects | - | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.4.1.1 | IMS Service | These are high | TS 22.101, | | | Aspects | level services | section 7 | | | | aspects and | | | | | could be | | | | | handled in TS | | | | | 22.101 section | | | | | 7. | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.4.2 | Service Access | Simply requires | - | | | Control | that the | | | | | existing IMS | | | | | capability is | | | | | used - so no | | | | | new requirement | | | | | for the 3GPP | | | | | system. | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.4.3 | Security | - | - | | | aspects | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.4.4 | QoS aspects | Requires that | TS 22.105 | | | | the QoS | | | | | principles be | | | | | used | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.4.5 | Roaming aspects | Simply requires | TS 22.101 | | | | roaming support | section 17 | | | | between | | | | | interworked | | | | | WLANs | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.5 | Interworking | Basically | TS 22.129 | | | Scenario 4 | requires the | | | | | ability to meet | | | | | the intersystem | | | | | requirements | | | | | for 3GPP. This | | | | | is simply | | | | | another | | | | | intersystem | | | | | scenario. | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.5.1 | Service aspects | See comment for | | | | | 6.5 | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.5.2 | Service | See comment for | | | | Continuity | 6.5 | | | | cases | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.5.3 | Charging and | | TS 22.105 | | | Network | | | | | Management | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.5.4 | Security | | TS 21.133 | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.5.5 | Performance | See comment for | TS 22.129 | | | Requirements | 6.5 | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.5.5.1 | Temporary | See comment for | TS 22.129 | | | degradation of | 6.5 | | | | service | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.5.5.2 | Requirements on | See comment for | TS 22.129 | | | multiple | 6.5 | | | | services | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.6 | Scenario 5 | See comment for | TS 22.129 | | | | 6.5 | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6.7 | Interworking | No requirements | - | | | Scenario 6 | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
#