# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document studies how services to the end user should be delivered and
managed regardless of how the user accesses the services (e.g. using CS or
IMS) and to ensure a consistent user experience.
The services in scope include but are not restricted to:
  * Conversational voice and video services
  * Messaging services
  * Supplementary Services as applied to the above.
For each of the above types, the service features that should be supported
when accessing the service via CS or IMS using any appropriate access type are
described. Also, how each service will behave when transferring between
domains is described.
The work will also consider how to support existing (\"traditional\") services
while allowing new, innovative services to be provided to the end user using
the enhanced capabilities of the IMS. It will cover possible migration paths
from where services are provided on both CS and IMS to IMS Call and Service
Control. Also, this work will consider roaming and call handling, interaction
with legacy terminals, and the provision of user state and location for
services accessed via CS or IMS and for services transferred between them.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Definition of Service Sets in different domains
## **_4.1 CS/PS (non-IMS) domain_**
### 4.1.1 CS Services (teleservices & bearer services)
Telephony
Emergency calls
Short Message Service (SMS MO/SMS MT)
Alternate speech and facsimile (Group 3)
Automatic facsimile (Group 3)
Asynchronous Data -- 2G
Synchronous Data -- 2G
High Speed Circuit Switched Data (HSCSD) -- 2G
Circuit Switched Data - 3G
### 4.1.2 PS main services
GPRS (including EDGE) -- 2G
Packet Data (including HSPA) -- 3G
### 4.1.3 Supplementary services
Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
Connected Line Identification Presentation (CoLP)
Connected Line Identification Restriction (CoLR)
Calling Name Presentation (CNAP)
Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber busy (CFB)
Call Forwarding on no reply (CFNRy)
Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable (CFNRc)
Call Waiting (CW)
Call Hold (HOLDcall)
Multi-party (MPTY)
Multi-call (MC)
Closed User Group (CUG)
Completion of Calls to Busy Subscribers (CCBS)
Call Deflection (CD)
Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
Barring of all outgoing calls (BAOC)
Barring of all outgoing international calls (BOIC)
Barring of all outgoing international calls except home country (BOIC ex HC)
Barring of all incoming calls (BAIC)
Barring of all incoming calls when roaming outside HPLMN (BAIC-roam)
Operator Determined Barring (ODB)
User to User signalling (UUS)
Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD MO/USSD MT)
Advice of Charge (AoC)
Support of Private Numbering Plan (SPNP)
### 4.1.4 Other services
Customised Applications for Mobile Network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL). This
enables support for:
\- Value Added Services in HPLMN and VPLMN (available in most networks)
\- Optimised routing of mobile originated voice communications when roaming
Enhanced Multi-Level Precedence & Pre-emption (eMLPP)
Support of Localised Service Area (SoLSA)
## **_4.2 IMS domain_**
### 4.2.1 Main services
Multimedia Telephony Service
### 4.2.2 Supplementary services
Note that the Supplementary Services listed below apply only to the Multimedia
Telephony Service
Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
Malicious Call Identification (MCID)
Anonymous Call Rejection (ACR)
Communication Waiting (CW)
Communication Diversion (CDIV)
Communication Hold (HOLDcomm)
Communication Barring (CB)
Completion of Communication to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
Conference (CONF)
Explicit Communication Transfer (ECommT)
Closed User Group (CUG)
Reverse Charging
Advice of Charge (AOC)
## **_4.3 TS & BS relationship between domains_**
The mapping between the teleservices and bearer services in the IMS and non-
IMS domains is defined below. Generally, the services used in one domain
should still work if the user moves to another domain, however, the
capabilities of the domain will dictate how the service performs. For example,
the user will experience a much reduced data rate in moving from 3G HSPA to
GPRS. This may make it impossible to continue the service. Some services
defined for 2G/CSD have no equivalent in IMS (e.g some of the data services).
It is not possible, therefore to define behaviour for these services.
The UE state (e.g. free, busy, not available etc) should be handled
consistently to ensure that incoming and outgoing communications are handled
appropriately. For example, the the UE is on a voice call in the non-IMS
domain and an incoming communication arrives in the IMS domain, the
appropriate action can be taken, e.g signal "Communication Waiting" or divert
on busy to voicemail.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Non-IMS Domain | Equivalent IMS | Service Behaviour | | Service | Domain Service | Required | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Telephony | Multimedia Telephony | When moving between | | | Service | IMS to non-IMS, | | | | voice service at | | | | least should be | | | | maintained. | | | | | | | | UE state should be | | | | handled | | | | consistently. For | | | | example, if a user | | | | is on 2G and is busy | | | | on a voice call, any | | | | voice communication | | | | incoming from IMS | | | | should encounter a | | | | busy condition. | | | | | | | | Other multimedia | | | | communications | | | | could, however, be | | | | delivered to the UE | | | | if possible. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Emergency Calls | Multimedia Telephony | Emergency voice | | | Service | calls should be | | | | maintained when | | | | transferring between | | | | domains | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SMS | SMS | SMSs can be sent | | | | transparently | | | | through IMS so this | | | | service should work | | | | consistently across | | | | domains | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Facsimile services | Not defined | Not defined | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Asynchronous Data | No equivalent | Not defined | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Synchronous Data | No equivalent | Not defined | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HSCSD | No equivalent | Not defined | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3G CSD | No equivalent | Not defined | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Packet data | No equivalent | Not defined | | connection | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | No equivalent | Data session | Not defined | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc194312189 .anchor}
## **_4.4 SS and other services relationship between domains_**
The mapping between the Supplementary Services in the IMS and non-IMS domains
is defined below. Generally, the Supplementary Services should be consistent
as far as possible across the domains. As a default, settings used (e.g. Call
Forwarding numbers) should be the same in both domains. The settings should be
sent only once from the UE, the modification of settings in one domain should
update the settings in the other domain automatically. However, it should also
be possible to maintain separate settings if required in the different
domains. For example, it should be possible to set Communication Diversion
destinations for the separate media parts of the Multimedia Telephony Service
including the voice part and have a different Call Forwarding number for voice
when in the non-IMS domain..
Not all Supplementary Services have equivalents in the other domain, however.
In these cases, some are not domain dependent and for others the appropriate
service behaviour cannot be defined.
Also, there are some non-IMS services that have no equivalent in IMS and vice-
versa or are not domain dependent, these are shown at the end of the table
below.
* * *
Non-IMS Domain Service Equivalent IMS Domain Service Service Behaviour
Required CLIP/CLIR OIP/OIR Consistency of presentation CoLP/CoLR TIP/TIR
Consistency of presentation CNAP OIP/OIR Consistency of presentation No
equivalent MCID Not defined No equivalent ACR Not defined Call Forwarding CDIV
Call forwarding/CDIV should work consistency no matter which domain the user
is in. The settings (e.g.. forwarding numbers) should remain the same across
domains for all the parts of the service for which there is an equivalent.
However, it should be possible to set different forwarding destinations in the
different domains for non-IMS voice and the voice part of Multimedia Telephony
Service Call Waiting Communication Waiting The busy state of the user should
be available to both domains so that this can be applied no matter from which
domain an incoming call/communication originates Call Hold Communication HOLD
Any calls held in one domain should remain held on moving to a different
domain. It should be possible to un-hold a call that was put on hold in
another domain. Multiparty CONF Any conference (multiparty) calls set up in
one domain should remain in force if any user moves to another domain. Multi-
call No equivalent Not defined Closed User Group Closed User Group Consistency
required across domains CCBS CCBS Should work consistently across domains Call
Deflection Defined in CDIV Should work consistently across domains Explicit
Call Transfer ECommT Should work consistently across domains. The UE state
(i.e. if busy or not) should be available in both domains to ensure that this
can be applied consistently. Call Barring Communication Barring Call/
Communication Barring should work consistency no matter which domain the user
is in. The settings (i.e. barred numbers) should remain the same across
domains. ODB Included in Communication Barring As above No equivalent Message
Waiting Indication Not defined No equivalent Reverse Charging Not defined UUS
No equivalent Not defined USSD No equivalent Not defined AoC AoC Consistent
support across domains. If the user moves from one domain to the other during
the communication, the AoC should indicate the correct charge for the total
duration of the communication. SPNP No equivalent Not defined eMLPP No
equivalent Not defined Other Services  
CAMEL CAMEL The services offered should be consistent.
* * *
# 5 Service alignment between domains
## 5.1 Connection scenarios
{width="6.69375in" height="5.236805555555556in"}
The possible connection scenarios are:
a) 2G (GSM/GPRS) radio access network connected to Circuit Switched and Packet
Switched core;
b) 3G (UMTS) radio access network connected to Circuit Switched and Packet
Switched core;
c) 2G (GSM/GPRS) radio access network connected to IMS via the PS core;
d) 3G (UMTS) radio access network connected to IMS via the PS core;
e) WLAN radio access network connected to Circuit Switched and Packet Switched
core (GAN);
f) WLAN radio access network connected to IMS via the PS core.
Each of the above connection scenarios will have its own service
characteristics. There is a range of access speeds from the radio access
networks and a range of capabilities from the core networks and these will
determine how a particular service can be delivered and, therefore, the
customer experience.
## 5.2 Network configurations
For many operators' networks, there will be a range of connection scenarios in
use as described above. This will arise as the core networks and access
networks are upgraded. The options for how networks are upgraded are described
in section 6, below. What is clear is that most operators will have networks
in which there are mixed capabilities for a considerable period and that the
way services are managed needs to be considered. The key points to consider
concerning customer service experience are described below.
## 5.3 Service experience
The user's service experience needs to be consistent depending on the
connection scenario used.
Specifically, the following is required:
  * The use of Supplementary Services should be applied consistently across domains and, as a default, the setting of SS parameters in one domain should be reflected in the other domain. For example, any Call Forwarding and Call Barring numbers set by the user should be retained and used whichever domain is used.
  * It should, however, be possible to set different parameters in different domains if required. For example, capability to have different settings for Supplementary Services in IMS for enhanced services such as Multimedia Telephony Service should be possible.
  * The smooth transition of services as the user moves from one connection scenario to another. If the user moves from a high capability scenario to a low capability scenario (e.g. from 3G/IMS to 2G/Circuit Switched) the service should be degraded gracefully. An example is the degradation of Multimedia Telephony to a voice only call. Subsequently, if the user moves back to a high capability scenario, the added features should become available again.
# 6 Use cases
## 6.1 Use case 1, MSC server control of all accesses
This use case describes the situation where an operator has introduced packet
access and support for the services and service control on the MSC Server.
Initially users have voice service over CS on GSM/UMTS. Service and control
for this is provided by the MSC. Voice service is transferred to VoIP on UMTS
and WLAN. Service and control for VoIP is provided by MSC Server.
The user should be unaware of the change. For example, there should be no need
for the user to change any settings (e.g. for supplementary services), and the
services delivered should be as good as or better than before.
## 6.2 Use case 2, migrating to IMS
This use case describes the situation where an operator is undertaking a
migration and has different configurations in the network in different
regions.
Users on this operator use newer networks in part of the country and fallback
to older networks elsewhere. For example, in the cities there is WiMAX, HSPA,
UMTS and GSM/GPRS controlled by IMS; in urban areas there is HSPA, UMTS and
GSM/GPRS controlled by MSC Servers and in rural areas there is just GSM/GPRS
controlled by MSCs.
The user should experience a minimum service level when on the legacy part of
the network and should generally be unaware that he/she is using the more
advanced parts of the network except for the availability of new and improved
services where provided. Additionally, there should be no need for the user to
change any settings (e.g. for supplementary services) when moving from one
part of the network to another.
## 6.3 Use case 3, after migration to IMS
This use case describes the situation where an operator has migrated all
services and service control onto IMS from the traditional GSM network
Initially, users have voice service over CS, text messaging (SMS) over GSM and
IM/Presence service over GSM/GPRS. Voice and SMS service and control are
provided over MSCs/CAMEL; IM/Presence service and control is provided over
dedicated platform in the core network. All of these services have been
migrated to IP based technology. All services are now provided and controlled
by IMS.
The user should be unaware of the migration except for the availability of new
and improved services. For example, there should be no need for the user to
change any settings (e.g. for supplementary services), and the services
delivered should be as good as or better than before.
## 6.4 Use case 4, inter-working between IMS & CS based networks
This use case describes the situation where users in a network that has
completely migrated to IMS service and service control are communicating with
users on legacy (CS based) networks.
Users on their Home PLMN have VoIP voice service provided and controlled by
IMS. They need to be able to connect with other users on other networks who
have voice service over CS that is provided and controlled by MSCs/CAMEL.
The user should be unaware that he/she is communicating with a user on a
network with a different configuration. All supplementary services should
continue to work correctly and as expected.
## 6.5 Use case 5, roaming
This use case describes the situation where a user from a network that has
completely migrated to IMS service and service control roams on a legacy (CS
based) network.
Users on their Home PLMN have VoIP voice service provided and controlled by
IMS. A user roams onto a VPLMN that has voice services provided and controlled
by MSCs/CAMEL. The VPLMN does not support PS access of sufficient quality for
VoIP.
The user should be unaware that he/she is roaming on a legacy network except
that some advanced services may not be available. There should be no
difference in how the voice service is used including the use of supplementary
services.
From the operator perspective, calls to and from the user should be handled in
the most cost-effective manner. For example, outgoing calls from that user in
the VPLMN should be handled locally with efficient routing of connections to
and from the Home PLMN.
# 7 Migration scenarios
## 7.1 Background
Currently only one service is defined for the IMS, which is similar to an
existing CS service, i.e. the Multimedia Telephony Service. Although it can be
expected that also other services will be defined there will always be a set
of services and features which is not available in the IMS or which has
slightly different behaviour, despite a possible alignment.
For existing customers consistent service behaviour is very important. Adding
new services and features is possible but it is nearly impossible to change or
delete others (e.g. fax).
Additionally more and more different access systems are integrated (such as
WiFi, WiMax, LTE etc.) and subscribers want to use their services regardless
of the access, even regardless if the move from one access to the other (cp.
VCC).
With these basic conditions several migration scenarios are possible.
## 7.2 Abrupt switch over to centralized IMS call and service control
In this scenario all subscribers are switched over to centralized IMS call and
service control at a certain point in time. This would require that
\- most services are available in IMS
\- use of legacy services which are not available in IMS is very low (thus it
may be acceptable to switch them off)
\- radio coverage for broadband packet access is the same as that for circuit
switched services.
It may be doubted if the last bullet point can be fulfilled in the near future
in every network - HPLMN and VPLMNs. So instead it should be investigated how
IMS can be used to control CS calls. This will be done in the ICS work item,
TR 22.892 and TR 23.892.
Advantages of this migration path are:
\- short time period in which both CS service control and IMS must be operated
and maintained
\- full support of service continuity over CS and PS is possible after switch
over
Disadvantages are:
\- need for re-implementation of existing services
\- possible late switch over as some IMS unsupported services may still be
required
\- need for service alignment between CS and IMS before the switch over
\- may result in early write-off of existing core-network assets
## 7.3 Smooth phase out of CS
In this migration scenario CS call control and IMS exist side by side for
longer time. CS services are controlled in the CS domain, at the beginning
only new services are offered via the IMS. This would mean that there is no
immediate re-implementation of legacy services in the IMS needed, but also
that these legacy services would not be available from a PS access system.
Therefore it should be investigated how CS call control can be offered via PS
access systems.
Later on, when the coverage of PS access systems is sufficiently high, the
most important services are available on the IMS and most people use the new
IMS based services the CS system can be switched off.
Advantages of this migration path are
\- no need for immediate re-implementation of legacy services in the IMS
\- full support of service continuity over CS and PS is possible
\- maximises the use of existing core network assets
Disadvantages are
\- CS service control must operated and maintained for long time
# 8 Conclusions
With the various types of access and core networks that can be used, it is
important that a consistent and predictable service is offered to the end
user. This applies to the Tele-Services and Bearer Services and their IMS
equivalents as well as the Supplementary Service set.
For the various voice, video and data services, it is important that the user
experience is as consistent as possible across the different domains and that
as the user moves from one domain to another the service is maintained as far
as possible within the capabilities of the domain. This also applies to the
various Supplementary Services that are applicable. It is important,
therefore, that the new capabilities offered by enhanced networks are made
available to the end user while at the same time ensuring that the service
offered is degraded gracefully if the user moves to a less capable domain.
This also means that it is highly desirable to have some consistency in how
the different types of mobile device interact with the network. This is to
ensure that services such as Call/Communication Waiting, Call
Forwarding/Communication Diversion and Call/Communication Barring all work
correctly. The cases that need to be considered are where the user moves from
one domain (i.e. a particular access network and a particular core network) to
another and where the operator enhances the network by changing out old
technology for new.
Consideration needs to be given to the user experience when roaming also to
ensure that it is possible to deliver the appropriate service level consistent
with the capabilities of the serving and home networks.
Some of the requirements identified in this TR will be met by the ICS (IMS
Centralised Services) work and work on VCC. Some may need changes to existing
Stage 1 specifications. The intention is to ensure that there is a consistency
of data across the domains for supplementary services and that service control
allows the transfer of services across domains whilst maintaining the highest
level of service possible consistent with the capabilities of the domain.
#