# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the characteristics of the Layer 1 transport
channels and physicals channels in the FDD mode of UTRA. The main objectives
of the document are to be a part of the full description of the UTRA Layer 1,
and to serve as a basis for the drafting of the actual technical specification
(TS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.201: \"Physical layer - general description\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.211: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.212: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.213: \"Spreading and modulation (FDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.221: \"Transport channels and physical channels (TDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.222: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (TDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.223: \"Spreading and modulation (TDD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.224: \"Physical layer procedures (TDD)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.215: \"Physical layer - Measurements (FDD)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio Interface Protocol Architecture\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.302: \"Services Provided by the Physical Layer\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.133: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management
(FDD)\".
[15] 3G TS 25.427: \"UTRAN Overall Description :UTRA Iub/Iur Interface User
Plane Protocol for DCH data streams\".
[16] 3GPP TS 25.435: \"UTRAN Iub Interface User Plane Protocols for Common
Transport Channel Data Streams\".
# 3 Symbols, abbreviations and definitions
## 3.1 Symbols
_N~data1~_ The number of data bits per downlink slot in Data1 field.
_N~data2~_ The number of data bits per downlink slot in Data2 field. If the
slot format does not contain a Data2 field, _N~data2\ ~_ = 0.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
16QAM 16 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
4PAM 4 Pulse-Amplitude Modulation
64QAM 64 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
AI Acquisition Indicator
AICH Acquisition Indicator Channel
BCH Broadcast Channel
CCPCH Common Control Physical Channel
CCTrCH Coded Composite Transport Channel
CPICH Common Pilot Channel
CQI Channel Quality Indicator
DCH Dedicated Channel
DPCCH Dedicated Physical Control Channel
DPCH Dedicated Physical Channel
DPDCH Dedicated Physical Data Channel
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
E-AGCH E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel
E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated Channel
E-DPCCH E-DCH Dedicated Physical Control Channel
E-DPDCH E-DCH Dedicated Physical Data Channel
E-HICH E-DCH Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel
E-RGCH E-DCH Relative Grant Channel
FACH Forward Access Channel
FBI Feedback Information
F-DPCH Fractional Dedicated Physical Channel
FSW Frame Synchronization Word
HS-DPCCH Dedicated Physical Control Channel (uplink) for HS-DSCH
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared Channel
HS-PDSCH High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Channel
HS-SCCH Shared Control Channel for HS-DSCH
ICH Indicator Channel
MBSFN MBMS over a Single Frequency Network
MICH MBMS Indicator Channel
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MUI Mobile User Identifier
NI MBMS Notification Indicator
PCH Paging Channel
P-CCPCH Primary Common Control Physical Channel
PICH Page Indicator Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PSC Primary Synchronisation Code
RACH Random Access Channel
RNC Radio Network Controller
S-CCPCH Secondary Common Control Physical Channel
SCH Synchronisation Channel
SF Spreading Factor
SFN System Frame Number
SSC Secondary Synchronisation Code
STTD Space Time Transmit Diversity
TFCI Transport Format Combination Indicator
TSTD Time Switched Transmit Diversity
TPC Transmit Power Control
UE User Equipment
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
## 3.3 Definitions
**HS-DSCH cell set:** A set of cells that can be configured together as the
serving and secondary serving HS-DSCH cells for a UE. This term is applicable
also to non-serving cells in an active set.
# 4 Services offered to higher layers
## 4.1 Transport channels
Transport channels are services offered by Layer 1 to the higher layers.
General concepts about transport channels are described in [12].
A transport channel is defined by how and with what characteristics data is
transferred over the air interface. A general classification of transport
channels is into two groups:
\- Dedicated channels, using inherent addressing of UE;
\- Common channels, using explicit addressing of UE if addressing is needed.
### 4.1.1 Dedicated transport channels
There exists two types of dedicated transport channel, the Dedicated Channel
(DCH) and the Enhanced Dedicated Channel (E-DCH).
#### 4.1.1.1 DCH - Dedicated Channel
The Dedicated Channel (DCH) is a downlink or uplink transport channel. The DCH
is transmitted over the entire cell or over only a part of the cell using e.g.
beam-forming antennas.
#### 4.1.1.2 E-DCH -- Enhanced Dedicated Channel
The Enhanced Dedicated Channel (E-DCH) is an uplink transport channel in CELL
DCH.
### 4.1.2 Common transport channels
There are six types of common transport channels: BCH, FACH, PCH, RACH, HS-
DSCH and E-DCH.
#### 4.1.2.1 BCH - Broadcast Channel
The Broadcast Channel (BCH) is a downlink transport channel that is used to
broadcast system- and cell-specific information. The BCH is always transmitted
over the entire cell and has a single transport format.
#### 4.1.2.2 FACH - Forward Access Channel
The Forward Access Channel (FACH) is a downlink transport channel. The FACH is
transmitted over the entire cell. The FACH can be transmitted using power
setting described in [16].
#### 4.1.2.3 PCH - Paging Channel
The Paging Channel (PCH) is a downlink transport channel. The PCH is always
transmitted over the entire cell. The transmission of the PCH is associated
with the transmission of physical-layer generated Paging Indicators, to
support efficient sleep-mode procedures.
#### 4.1.2.4 RACH - Random Access Channel
The Random Access Channel (RACH) is an uplink transport channel. The RACH is
always received from the entire cell. The RACH is characterized by a collision
risk and by being transmitted using open loop power control.
#### 4.1.2.5 Void
#### 4.1.2.6 Void
#### 4.1.2.7 HS-DSCH -- High Speed Downlink Shared Channel
The High Speed Downlink Shared Channel is a downlink transport channel shared
by several UEs. The HS-DSCH can be associated with one downlink DPCH or
F-DPCH, and one or several Shared Control Channels (HS-SCCH). The HS-DSCH is
transmitted over the entire cell or over only part of the cell using e.g.
beam-forming antennas.
#### 4.1.2.7A E-DCH - Enhanced Dedicated Channel
The Enhanced Dedicated Channel (E-DCH) is an uplink transport channel in
CELL_FACH state and IDLE mode.
## 4.2 Indicators
Indicators are means of fast low-level signalling entities which are
transmitted without using information blocks sent over transport channels. The
meaning of indicators is specific to the type of indicator.
The indicators defined in the current version of the specifications are:
Acquisition Indicator (AI), Page Indicator (PI) and MBMS Notification
Indicator (NI).
Indicators may be either boolean (two-valued) or three-valued. Their mapping
to indicator channels is channel specific.
Indicators are transmitted on those physical channels that are indicator
channels (ICH).
# 5 Physical channels and physical signals
Physical channels are defined by a specific carrier frequency, scrambling
code, channelization code (optional), time start & stop (giving a duration)
and, on the uplink, relative phase (0 or π/2). The downlink E-HICH and E-RGCH
are each further defined by a specific orthogonal signature sequence.
Scrambling and channelization codes are specified in [4]. Time durations are
defined by start and stop instants, measured in integer multiples of chips.
Suitable multiples of chips also used in specification are:
> Radio frame: A radio frame is a processing duration which consists of 15
> slots. The length of a radio frame corresponds to 38400 chips.
>
> Slot: A slot is a duration which consists of fields containing bits. The
> length of a slot corresponds to 2560 chips.
>
> Sub-frame: A sub-frame is the basic time interval for E-DCH and HS-DSCH
> transmission and E-DCH and HS-DSCH-related signalling at the physical layer.
> The length of a sub-frame corresponds to 3 slots (7680 chips).
The default time duration for a physical channel is continuous from the
instant when it is started to the instant when it is stopped. Physical
channels that are not continuous will be explicitly described.
Transport channels are described (in more abstract higher layer models of the
physical layer) as being capable of being mapped to physical channels. Within
the physical layer itself the exact mapping is from a composite coded
transport channel (CCTrCH) to the data part of a physical channel. In addition
to data parts there also exist channel control parts and physical signals.
## 5.1 Physical signals
Physical signals are entities with the same basic on-air attributes as
physical channels but do not have transport channels or indicators mapped to
them. Physical signals may be associated with physical channels in order to
support the function of physical channels.
## 5.2 Uplink physical channels
### 5.2.1 Dedicated uplink physical channels
There are five types of uplink dedicated physical channels, the uplink
Dedicated Physical Data Channel (uplink DPDCH), the uplink Dedicated Physical
Control Channel (uplink DPCCH), the uplink E-DCH Dedicated Physical Data
Channel (uplink E-DPDCH), the uplink E-DCH Dedicated Physical Control Channel
(uplink E-DPCCH) and the uplink Dedicated Control Channel associated with HS-
DSCH transmission (uplink HS-DPCCH).
The DPDCH, the DPCCH, the E-DPDCH, the E-DPCCH and the HS-DPCCH are I/Q code
multiplexed (see [4]).
#### 5.2.1.1 DPCCH and DPDCH
The uplink DPDCH is used to carry the DCH transport channel. There may be
zero, one, or several uplink DPDCHs on each radio link.
The uplink DPCCH is used to carry control information generated at Layer 1\.
The Layer 1 control information consists of known pilot bits to support
channel estimation for coherent detection, transmit power-control (TPC)
commands, feedback information (FBI), and an optional transport-format
combination indicator (TFCI). The transport-format combination indicator
informs the receiver about the instantaneous transport format combination of
the transport channels mapped to the simultaneously transmitted uplink DPDCH
radio frame. There is one and only one uplink DPCCH on each radio link.
Figure 1 shows the frame structure of the uplink DPDCH and the uplink DPCCH.
Each radio frame of length 10 ms is split into 5 subframes, each of 3 slots,
each of length T~slot~ = 2560 chips, corresponding to one power-control
period. The DPDCH and DPCCH are always frame aligned with each other.
Figure 1: Frame structure for uplink DPDCH/DPCCH
The parameter k in figure 1 determines the number of bits per uplink DPDCH
slot. It is related to the spreading factor SF of the DPDCH as SF = 256/2^k^.
The DPDCH spreading factor may range from 256 down to 4. The spreading factor
of the uplink DPCCH is always equal to 256, i.e. there are 10 bits per uplink
DPCCH slot.
The exact number of bits of the uplink DPDCH and the different uplink DPCCH
fields (N~pilot~, N~TFCI~, N~FBI~, and N~TPC~) is given by table 1 and table
2. What slot format to use is configured by higher layers and can also be
reconfigured by higher layers.
The channel bit and symbol rates given in table 1 and table 2 are the rates
immediately before spreading. The pilot patterns are given in table 3 and
table 4, the TPC bit pattern is given in table 5.
The FBI bits are used to support techniques requiring feedback from the UE to
the UTRAN Access Point for operation of closed loop mode transmit diversity.
The use of the FBI bits is described in detail in [5].
Table 1: DPDCH fields
* * *
Slot Format #i Channel Bit Rate (kbps) Channel Symbol Rate (ksps) SF Bits/
Frame Bits/ Slot N~data~ 0 15 15 256 150 10 10 1 30 30 128 300 20 20 2 60 60
64 600 40 40 3 120 120 32 1200 80 80 4 240 240 16 2400 160 160 5 480 480 8
4800 320 320 6 960 960 4 9600 640 640
* * *
There are two types of uplink dedicated physical channels; those that include
TFCI (e.g. for several simultaneous services) and those that do not include
TFCI (e.g. for fixed-rate services). These types are reflected by the
duplicated rows of table 2. It is the UTRAN that determines if a TFCI should
be transmitted and it is mandatory for all UEs to support the use of TFCI in
the uplink. The mapping of TFCI bits onto slots is described in [3].
In compressed mode, DPCCH slot formats with TFCI fields are changed. There are
two possible compressed slot formats for each normal slot format. They are
labelled A and B and the selection between them is dependent on the number of
slots that are transmitted in each frame in compressed mode.
If UL_DTX_Active is TRUE (see [5]), the number of transmitted slots per radio
frame may be less than the number shown in Table 2.
Table 2: DPCCH fields
Slot Format #i | Channel Bit Rate (kbps) | Channel Symbol Rate (ksps) | SF | Bits/ Frame | Bits/ Slot | Npilot | NTPC | NTFCI | NFBI | Transmitted slots per radio frame  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
0 | 15 | 15 | 256 | 150 | 10 | 6 | 2 | 2 | 0 | 15  
0A | 15 | 15 | 256 | 150 | 10 | 5 | 2 | 3 | 0 | 10-14  
0B | 15 | 15 | 256 | 150 | 10 | 4 | 2 | 4 | 0 | 8-9  
1 | 15 | 15 | 256 | 150 | 10 | 8 | 2 | 0 | 0 | 8-15  
2 | 15 | 15 | 256 | 150 | 10 | 5 | 2 | 2 | 1 | 15  
2A | 15 | 15 | 256 | 150 | 10 | 4 | 2 | 3 | 1 | 10-14  
2B | 15 | 15 | 256 | 150 | 10 | 3 | 2 | 4 | 1 | 8-9  
3 | 15 | 15 | 256 | 150 | 10 | 7 | 2 | 0 | 1 | 8-15  
4 | 15 | 15 | 256 | 150 | 10 | 6 | 4 | 0 | 0 | 8-15  
The pilot bit patterns are described in table 3 and table 4. The shadowed
column part of pilot bit pattern is defined as FSW and FSWs can be used to
confirm frame synchronization. (The value of the pilot bit pattern other than
FSWs shall be \"1\".)
Table 3: Pilot bit patterns for uplink DPCCH with N~pilot~ = 3, 4, 5 and 6
| Npilot = 3 | Npilot = 4 | Npilot = 5 | Npilot = 6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Bit # | 0 | 1 | 2 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
Slot #0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 | 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 | 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 | 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 | 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 | 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 | 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 | 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1  
Table 4: Pilot bit patterns for uplink DPCCH with N~pilot~ = 7 and 8
| Npilot = 7 | Npilot = 8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Bit # | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
Slot #0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 | 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 | 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1  
The relationship between the TPC bit pattern and transmitter power control
command is presented in table 5.
Table 5: TPC Bit Pattern
+-----------------+-----------------------------------+---+ | TPC Bit Pattern | Transmitter power control command | | +-----------------+-----------------------------------+---+ | NTPC = 2 | **NTPC = 4** | | +-----------------+-----------------------------------+---+ | 11 | 1111 | 1 | | | | | | 00 | 0000 | 0 | +-----------------+-----------------------------------+---+
Multi-code operation is possible for the uplink dedicated physical channels.
When multi-code transmission is used, several parallel DPDCH are transmitted
using different channelization codes, see [4]. However, there is only one
DPCCH per radio link.
A period of uplink DPCCH transmission prior to the start of the uplink DPDCH
transmission (uplink DPCCH power control preamble) shall be used for
initialisation of a DCH. The length of the power control preamble is a higher
layer parameter, N~pcp~ , signalled by the network [5]. The UL DPCCH shall
take the same slot format in the power control preamble as afterwards, as
given in table 2. When N~pcp~ > 0 the pilot patterns of table 3 and table 4
shall be used. The timing of the power control preamble is described in [5],
subclause 4.3.2.3. The TFCI field is filled with \"0\" bits.
#### 5.2.1.2 HS-DPCCH
Figure 2A illustrates the frame structure of the HS-DPCCH. The HS-DPCCH
carries uplink feedback signalling related to downlink HS-DSCH transmission
and to HS-SCCH orders according to subclause 6A.1.1 in [5]. The feedback
signalling consists of Hybrid-ARQ Acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK) and Channel-
Quality Indication (CQI) and in case the UE is configured in MIMO mode of
Precoding Control Indication (PCI) as well [_3_]. Each sub frame of length 2
ms (3*2560 chips) consists of 3 slots, each of length 2560 chips. The HARQ-ACK
is carried in the first slot of the HS-DPCCH sub-frame. The CQI, and in case
the UE is configured in MIMO mode also the PCI, are carried in the second and
third slot of a HS-DPCCH sub-frame. There is at most one HS-DPCCH on each
radio link. The HS-DPCCH can only exist together with an uplink DPCCH. The
timing of the HS-DPCCH relative to the uplink DPCCH is shown in section 7.7.
Figure 2A: Frame structure for uplink HS-DPCCH
The slot formats for uplink HS-DPCCH are defined in Table 5A.
Table 5A: **HS** -DPCCH fields
+----------+----------+----------+-----+----------+-------+----------+ | Slot | Channel | Channel | SF | Bits/ | Bits/ | Tra | | Format | Bit Rate | Symbol | | | | nsmitted | | #i | (kbps) | Rate | | Subframe | Slot | slots | | | | (ksps) | | | | per | | | | | | | | Subframe | +----------+----------+----------+-----+----------+-------+----------+ | 0 | 15 | 15 | 256 | 30 | 10 | 3 | +----------+----------+----------+-----+----------+-------+----------+ | 1 | 30 | 30 | 128 | 60 | 20 | 3 | +----------+----------+----------+-----+----------+-------+----------+
#### 5.2.1.3 E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH
The E-DPDCH is used to carry the E-DCH transport channel. There may be zero,
one, or several E-DPDCH on each radio link.
The E-DPCCH is a physical channel used to transmit control information
associated with the E-DCH. There is at most one E-DPCCH on each radio link.
E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH are always transmitted simultaneously, except for the
following cases when E-DPCCH is transmitted without E-DPDCH:
\- when E-DPDCH but not E-DPCCH is DTXed due to power scaling as described in
[5] section 5.1.2.6, or
> \- during the _n~dtx~_ E‑DPDCH idle slots if _n~max~_ >_n~tx1~_ as described
> in [3] section 4.4.5.2.
E-DPCCH shall not be transmitted in a slot unless DPCCH is also transmitted in
the same slot.
Figure 2B shows the E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH (sub)frame structure. Each radio frame
is divided in 5 subframes, each of length 2 ms; the first subframe starts at
the start of each radio frame and the 5^th^ subframe ends at the end of each
radio frame.
An E-DPDCH may use BPSK or 4PAM modulation symbols. In figure 2B, M is the
number of bits per modulation symbol i.e. M=1 for BPSK and M=2 for 4PAM.
The E-DPDCH slot formats, corresponding rates and number of bits are specified
in Table 5B. The E-DPCCH slot format is listed in Table 5C.
Figure 2B: E-DPDCH frame structure
Table 5B: E-DPDCH slot formats
+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | Slot | Channel | Bits | SF | Bits/ | Bits/ | Bi | | Format | Bit | /Symbol | | Frame | S | ts/Slot | | #i | Rate | | | | ubframe | | | | (kbps) | M | | | | N~data~ | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | 0 | 15 | 1 | 256 | 150 | 30 | 10 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | 1 | 30 | 1 | 128 | 300 | 60 | 20 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | 2 | 60 | 1 | 64 | 600 | 120 | 40 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | 120 | 1 | 32 | 1200 | 240 | 80 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | 4 | 240 | 1 | 16 | 2400 | 480 | 160 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | 480 | 1 | 8 | 4800 | 960 | 320 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | 6 | 960 | 1 | 4 | 9600 | 1920 | 640 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | 7 | 1920 | 1 | 2 | 19200 | 3840 | 1280 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | 1920 | 2 | 4 | 19200 | 3840 | 1280 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+ | 9 | 3840 | 2 | 2 | 38400 | 7680 | 2560 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+---------+---------+
Table 5C: E-DPCCH slot formats
+-----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Slot | Channel | SF | Bits/ | Bits/ | Bits/Slot | | Format | Bit Rate | | Frame | Subframe | | | #i | (kbps) | | | | N~data~ | +-----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 0 | 15 | 256 | 150 | 30 | 10 | +-----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+
### 5.2.2 Common uplink physical channels
#### 5.2.2.1 Physical Random Access Channel (PRACH)
The Physical Random Access Channel (PRACH) is used to carry the RACH.
##### 5.2.2.1.1 Overall structure of random-access transmission
The random-access transmission is based on a Slotted ALOHA approach with fast
acquisition indication. The UE can start the random-access transmission at the
beginning of a number of well-defined time intervals, denoted _access slots._
There are 15 access slots per two frames and they are spaced 5120 chips apart,
see figure 3. The timing of the access slots and the acquisition indication is
described in subclause 7.3. Information on what access slots are available for
random-access transmission is given by higher layers.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="2.908333333333333in"}
Figure 3: RACH access slot numbers and their spacing
The structure of the random-access transmission is shown in figure 4. The
random-access transmission consists of one or several _preambles_ of length
4096 chips and a _message_ of length 10 ms or 20 ms.
{width="5.529861111111111in" height="1.6368055555555556in"}
Figure 4: Structure of the random-access transmission
##### 5.2.2.1.2 RACH preamble part
Each preamble is of length 4096 chips and consists of 256 repetitions of a
signature of length 16 chips. There are a maximum of 16 available signatures,
see [4] for more details.
##### 5.2.2.1.3 RACH message part
Figure 5 shows the structure of the random-access message part radio frame.
The 10 ms message part radio frame is split into 15 slots, each of length
T~slot~ = 2560 chips. Each slot consists of two parts, a data part to which
the RACH transport channel is mapped and a control part that carries Layer 1
control information. The data and control parts are transmitted in parallel. A
10 ms message part consists of one message part radio frame, while a 20 ms
message part consists of two consecutive 10 ms message part radio frames. The
message part length is equal to the Transmission Time Interval of the RACH
Transport channel in use. This TTI length is configured by higher layers.
The data part consists of 10*2^k^ bits, where k=0,1,2,3. This corresponds to a
spreading factor of 256, 128, 64, and 32 respectively for the message data
part.
The control part consists of 8 known pilot bits to support channel estimation
for coherent detection and 2 TFCI bits. This corresponds to a spreading factor
of 256 for the message control part. The pilot bit pattern is described in
table 8. The total number of TFCI bits in the random-access message is 15*2 =
30. The TFCI of a radio frame indicates the transport format of the RACH
transport channel mapped to the simultaneously transmitted message part radio
frame. In case of a 20 ms PRACH message part, the TFCI is repeated in the
second radio frame.
{width="5.593055555555556in" height="2.4166666666666665in"}
Figure 5: Structure of the random-access message part radio frame
Table 6: Random-access message data fields
* * *
Slot Format #i Channel Bit Rate (kbps) Channel Symbol Rate (ksps) SF Bits/
Frame Bits/ Slot N~data~ 0 15 15 256 150 10 10 1 30 30 128 300 20 20 2 60 60
64 600 40 40 3 120 120 32 1200 80 80
* * *
Table 7: Random-access message control fields
* * *
Slot Format #i Channel Bit Rate (kbps) Channel Symbol Rate (ksps) SF Bits/
Frame Bits/ Slot N~pilot~ N~TFCI~ 0 15 15 256 150 10 8 2
* * *
Table 8: Pilot bit patterns for RACH message part with N~pilot~ = 8
+----------+--------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | N~pilot~ = 8 | | | | | | | | +----------+--------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Bit # | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | +----------+--------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Slot #0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | 3 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | 5 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | | | 6 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | | | 7 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | | | 9 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | 10 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | 11 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | 12 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | | | 13 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | 14 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | +----------+--------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
#### 5.2.2.2 Void
## 5.3 Downlink physical channels
### 5.3.1 Downlink transmit diversity
Table 10 summarises the possible application of open and closed loop transmit
diversity modes on different downlink physical channel types. Simultaneous use
of STTD and closed loop modes on the same physical channel is not allowed. In
addition, if Tx diversity is applied on any of the downlink physical channels
allocated to a UE(s) that is configured to use P-CPICH as a phase reference on
both antennas, then Tx diversity shall also be applied on P-CCPCH and SCH. If
Tx diversity is applied on SCH it shall also be applied on P-CCPCH and vice
versa. Regarding CPICH transmission in case of transmit diversity used on SCH
and P-CCPCH, see subclause 5.3.3.1.
With respect to the usage of Tx diversity for DPCH or F-DPCH on different
radio links within an active set, the following rules apply:
\- Different Tx diversity modes (STTD and closed loop) shall not be used on
the radio links within one active set.
\- No Tx diversity on one or more radio links shall not prevent UTRAN to use
Tx diversity on other radio links within the same active set.
\- If STTD is activated on one or several radio links in the active set, the
UE shall operate STTD on only those radio links where STTD has been activated.
Higher layers inform the UE about the usage of STTD on the individual radio
links in the active set.
\- Regarding the usage of Tx diversity for DPCH on different radio links
within an active set, if closed loop TX diversity is activated on one or
several radio links in the active set, the UE shall operate closed loop TX
diversity on only those radio links where closed loop TX diversity has been
activated. Higher layers inform the UE about the usage of closed loop TX
diversity on the individual radio links in the active set.
Furthermore, if the UE is not configured in MIMO mode in a cell the following
restrictions apply in this cell:
  * If a DPCH is associated with an HS-PDSCH subframe in the same cell, the transmit diversity mode used for the HS-PDSCH subframe shall be the same as the transmit diversity mode used for the DPCH associated with this HS-PDSCH subframe.
  * If an F-DPCH is associated with an HS-PDSCH subframe in the same cell, the transmit diversity mode used for the HS-PDSCH subframe shall be the same as the transmit diversity mode signalled for the F-DPCH associated with this HS-PDSCH subframe.
  * If neither DPCH nor F-DPCH is associated with an HS-PDSCH subframe the transmit diversity mode used for the HS-PDSCH subframe shall be the STTD if the P-CCPCH in the cell is using transmit diversity. Otherwise, no transmit diversity is used for the HS-PDSCH subframe.
  * If the UE is configured with a secondary serving HS-DSCH cell not associated with either DPCH or F-DPCH in the same cell, the diversity mode used for the HS-PDSCH subframe of that cell is configured by higher layers and independent from that used in the serving HS-DSCH cell.
If the UE is configured in MIMO mode in a cell then a DPCH or F-DPCH
associated with an HS-PDSCH subframe can be either in transmit diversity mode
or in no transmit diversity mode in this cell.
Regardless of whether or not the UE is configured in MIMO mode in a cell,
  * If the DPCH associated with an HS-SCCH subframe in the same cell is using either open or closed loop transmit diversity on the radio link transmitted from the HS-DSCH serving cell, the HS-SCCH subframe from this cell shall be transmitted using STTD, otherwise no transmit diversity shall be used for this HS-SCCH subframe.
  * If an F-DPCH for which STTD is signalled is associated with an HS-SCCH subframe in the same cell, the HS-SCCH subframe shall be transmitted using STTD, otherwise no transmit diversity shall be used for this HS-SCCH subframe.
  * If neither DPCH nor F-DPCH is associated with an HS-SCCH subframe the transmit diversity mode used for the HS-SCCH subframe shall be the STTD if the P-CCPCH in the cell is using transmit diversity. Otherwise, no transmit diversity is used for the HS-SCCH subframe.
  * If the UE is configured with a secondary serving HS-DSCH cell not associated with either DPCH or F-DPCH in the same cell, the diversity mode used for the HS-SCCH subframe of that cell is configured by higher layers and independent from that used in the serving HS-DSCH cell.
The transmit diversity mode on the associated DPCH or F-DPCH may not change
during a HS-SCCH and or HS-PDSCH subframe and within the slot prior to the HS-
SCCH subframe. This includes any change between no Tx diversity and either
open loop or closed loop mode.
If the UE is receiving a DPCH on which transmit diversity is used from a cell,
or if the UE is receiving an F-DPCH for which STTD is signalled from a cell,
the UE shall assume that the E-AGCH, E-RGCH, and E-HICH from the same cell are
transmitted using STTD.
Table 10: Application of Tx diversity modes on downlink physical channel
types\ \"X\" -- can be applied, \"--\" -- not applied
* * *
Physical channel type Open loop mode Closed loop mode  
TSTD STTD Mode 1 P-CCPCH -- X -- SCH X -- -- S-CCPCH -- X -- DPCH -- X X
F-DPCH -- X -- PICH -- X -- MICH -- X -- HS-PDSCH (UE not in MIMO mode, UE
configured without a secondary serving HS-DSCH cell) -- X X HS-PDSCH (UE not
in MIMO mode in this cell, UE configured with a secondary serving HS-DSCH
cell) (*1) (*2) -- X -- HS-PDSCH (UE in MIMO mode in this cell ) (*2) -- -- --
HS-SCCH (*1) -- X -- E-AGCH -- X -- E-RGCH -- X -- E-HICH -- X -- AICH -- X --
* * *
NOTE *1: The Tx diversity mode can be configured independently across cells.
NOTE *2: The MIMO mode can be configured independently across cells.
#### 5.3.1.1 Open loop transmit diversity
##### 5.3.1.1.1 Space time block coding based transmit antenna diversity
(STTD)
The open loop downlink transmit diversity employs a space time block coding
based transmit diversity (STTD).
The STTD encoding is optional in UTRAN. STTD support is mandatory at the UE.
A block diagram of a generic STTD encoder is shown in the figure 8, figure 8A
and figure 8B below. Channel coding, rate matching and interleaving are done
as in the non-diversity mode. For QPSK, the STTD encoder operates on 4 symbols
_b~0~_ , _b~1~_ , _b~2~_ , _b~3~_ as shown in figure 8. For AICH, E-RGCH,
E-HICH the $b_{i}$ are real valued signals, and $\overline{b_{i}}$is defined
as $- b_{i}$. For channels other than AICH, E-RGCH, E-HICH the $b_{i}$ are
3-valued digits, taking the values 0, 1, \"DTX\", and $\overline{b_{i}}$is
defined as follows: if $b_{i}$ = 0 then $\overline{b_{i}}$= 1, if $b_{i}$ = 1
then $\overline{b_{i}}$= 0, otherwise $\overline{b_{i}}$ = $b_{i}$.
Figure 8: Generic block diagram of the STTD encoder for QPSK
For 16QAM, STTD operates on blocks of 8 consecutive symbols b~0~, b~1~, b~2~,
b~3~, b~4~, b~5~, b~6~, b~7~ as shown in figure 8A below.
{width="5.9875in" height="4.105555555555555in"}
Figure 8A: Generic block diagram of the STTD encoder for 16QAM
For 64QAM, STTD operates on blocks of 12 consecutive symbols b~0~, b~1~, b~2~,
b~3~, b~4~, b~5~, b~6~, b~7~, b~8~, b~9~, b~10~, b~11~ as shown in figure 8B
below.
Figure 8B: Generic block diagram of the STTD encoder for 64QAM
##### 5.3.1.1.2 Time Switched Transmit Diversity for SCH (TSTD)
Transmit diversity, in the form of Time Switched Transmit Diversity (TSTD),
can be applied to the SCH. TSTD for the SCH is optional in UTRAN, while TSTD
support is mandatory in the UE. TSTD for the SCH is described in subclause
5.3.3.5.1.
#### 5.3.1.2 Closed loop transmit diversity
Closed loop transmit diversity is described in [5]. Closed loop transmit
diversity mode 1 shall be supported at the UE and may be supported in the
UTRAN.
### 5.3.2 Dedicated downlink physical channels
There are four types of downlink dedicated physical channels, the Downlink
Dedicated Physical Channel (downlink DPCH), the Fractional Dedicated Physical
Channel (F-DPCH), the E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH), and the E-DCH
Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel (E-HICH).
The F-DPCH is described in subclause 5.3.2.6.
Within one downlink DPCH, dedicated data generated at Layer 2 and above, i.e.
the dedicated transport channel (DCH), is transmitted in time-multiplex with
control information generated at Layer 1 (known pilot bits, TPC commands, and
an optional TFCI). The downlink DPCH can thus be seen as a time multiplex of a
downlink DPDCH and a downlink DPCCH, compare subclause 5.2.1.
Figure 9 shows the frame structure of the downlink DPCH. Each frame of length
10 ms is split into 15 slots, each of length T~slot~ = 2560 chips,
corresponding to one power-control period.
{width="5.072916666666667in" height="2.1569444444444446in"}
Figure 9: Frame structure for downlink DPCH
The parameter k in figure 9 determines the total number of bits per downlink
DPCH slot. It is related to the spreading factor SF of the physical channel as
SF = 512/2^k^. The spreading factor may thus range from 512 down to 4.
The exact number of bits of the different downlink DPCH fields (N~pilot~,
N~TPC~, N~TFCI~, N~data1~ and N~data2~) is given in table 11. What slot format
to use is configured by higher layers and can also be reconfigured by higher
layers.
There are basically two types of downlink Dedicated Physical Channels; those
that include TFCI (e.g. for several simultaneous services) and those that do
not include TFCI (e.g. for fixed-rate services). These types are reflected by
the duplicated rows of table 11. It is the UTRAN that determines if a TFCI
should be transmitted and it is mandatory for all UEs to support the use of
TFCI in the downlink. The mapping of TFCI bits onto slots is described in [3].
In compressed frames, a different slot format is used compared to normal mode.
There are two possible compressed slot formats that are labelled A and B. Slot
format B shall be used in frames compressed by spreading factor reduction and
slot format A shall be used in frames compressed by higher layer scheduling.
The channel bit and symbol rates given in table 11 are the rates immediately
before spreading.
Table 11: DPDCH and DPCCH fields
Slot Format #i | Channel Bit Rate (kbps) | Channel Symbol Rate (ksps) | SF | Bits/ Slot | DPDCH Bits/Slot | DPCCH Bits/Slot | Transmitted slots per radio frame NTr |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  | NData1 | NData2 | NTPC | NTFCI | NPilot |   
0 | 15 | 7.5 | 512 | 10 | 0 | 4 | 2 | 0 | 4 | 15  
0A | 15 | 7.5 | 512 | 10 | 0 | 4 | 2 | 0 | 4 | 8-14  
0B | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 0 | 8 | 4 | 0 | 8 | 8-14  
1 | 15 | 7.5 | 512 | 10 | 0 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 4 | 15  
1B | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 0 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 8 | 8-14  
2 | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 14 | 2 | 0 | 2 | 15  
2A | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 14 | 2 | 0 | 2 | 8-14  
2B | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 4 | 28 | 4 | 0 | 4 | 8-14  
3 | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 12 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 15  
3A | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 10 | 2 | 4 | 2 | 8-14  
3B | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 4 | 24 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 8-14  
4 | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 12 | 2 | 0 | 4 | 15  
4A | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 12 | 2 | 0 | 4 | 8-14  
4B | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 4 | 24 | 4 | 0 | 8 | 8-14  
5 | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 10 | 2 | 2 | 4 | 15  
5A | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 8 | 2 | 4 | 4 | 8-14  
5B | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 4 | 20 | 4 | 4 | 8 | 8-14  
6 | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 8 | 2 | 0 | 8 | 15  
6A | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 8 | 2 | 0 | 8 | 8-14  
6B | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 4 | 16 | 4 | 0 | 16 | 8-14  
7 | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 6 | 2 | 2 | 8 | 15  
7A | 30 | 15 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 4 | 2 | 4 | 8 | 8-14  
7B | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 4 | 12 | 4 | 4 | 16 | 8-14  
8 | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 6 | 28 | 2 | 0 | 4 | 15  
8A | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 6 | 28 | 2 | 0 | 4 | 8-14  
8B | 120 | 60 | 64 | 80 | 12 | 56 | 4 | 0 | 8 | 8-14  
9 | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 6 | 26 | 2 | 2 | 4 | 15  
9A | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 6 | 24 | 2 | 4 | 4 | 8-14  
9B | 120 | 60 | 64 | 80 | 12 | 52 | 4 | 4 | 8 | 8-14  
10 | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 6 | 24 | 2 | 0 | 8 | 15  
10A | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 6 | 24 | 2 | 0 | 8 | 8-14  
10B | 120 | 60 | 64 | 80 | 12 | 48 | 4 | 0 | 16 | 8-14  
11 | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 6 | 22 | 2 | 2 | 8 | 15  
11A | 60 | 30 | 128 | 40 | 6 | 20 | 2 | 4 | 8 | 8-14  
11B | 120 | 60 | 64 | 80 | 12 | 44 | 4 | 4 | 16 | 8-14  
12 | 120 | 60 | 64 | 80 | 12 | 48 | 4 | 8* | 8 | 15  
12A | 120 | 60 | 64 | 80 | 12 | 40 | 4 | 16* | 8 | 8-14  
12B | 240 | 120 | 32 | 160 | 24 | 96 | 8 | 16* | 16 | 8-14  
13 | 240 | 120 | 32 | 160 | 28 | 112 | 4 | 8* | 8 | 15  
13A | 240 | 120 | 32 | 160 | 28 | 104 | 4 | 16* | 8 | 8-14  
13B | 480 | 240 | 16 | 320 | 56 | 224 | 8 | 16* | 16 | 8-14  
14 | 480 | 240 | 16 | 320 | 56 | 232 | 8 | 8* | 16 | 15  
14A | 480 | 240 | 16 | 320 | 56 | 224 | 8 | 16* | 16 | 8-14  
14B | 960 | 480 | 8 | 640 | 112 | 464 | 16 | 16* | 32 | 8-14  
15 | 960 | 480 | 8 | 640 | 120 | 488 | 8 | 8* | 16 | 15  
15A | 960 | 480 | 8 | 640 | 120 | 480 | 8 | 16* | 16 | 8-14  
15B | 1920 | 960 | 4 | 1280 | 240 | 976 | 16 | 16* | 32 | 8-14  
16 | 1920 | 960 | 4 | 1280 | 248 | 1000 | 8 | 8* | 16 | 15  
16A | 1920 | 960 | 4 | 1280 | 248 | 992 | 8 | 16* | 16 | 8-14  
* If TFCI bits are not used, then DTX shall be used in TFCI field.
NOTE 1: Compressed mode is only supported through spreading factor reduction
for SF=512 with TFCI.
NOTE 2: Compressed mode by spreading factor reduction is not supported for
SF=4.
NOTE 3: If the Node B receives an invalid combination of data frames for
downlink transmission, the procedure specified in [15], sub-clause 5.1.2,may
require the use of DTX in both the DPDCH and theTFCI field of the DPCCH.
The pilot bit patterns are described in table 12. The shadowed column part of
pilot bit pattern is defined as FSW and FSWs can be used to confirm frame
synchronization. (The value of the pilot bit pattern other than FSWs shall be
\"11\".) In table 12, the transmission order is from left to right.
In downlink compressed mode through spreading factor reduction, the number of
bits in the TPC and Pilot fields are doubled. Symbol repetition is used to
fill up the fields. Denote the bits in one of these fields in normal mode by
_x_ ~1~, _x_ ~2~, _x_ ~3~, ..., _x~X~_. In compressed mode the following bit
sequence is sent in corresponding field: _x_ ~1~, _x_ ~2~, _x_ ~1~, _x_ ~2~,
_x_ ~3~, _x_ ~4~, _x_ ~3~, _x_ ~4~,..., _x~X,~_.
Table 12: Pilot bit patterns for downlink DPCCH with N~pilot~ = 2, 4, 8 and 16
| Npilot = 2 | Npilot = 4 (*1) | Npilot = 8 (*2) | Npilot = 16 (*3) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Symbol # | 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
Slot #0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 | 11 00 01 00 10 11 11 10 01 11 01 10 10 00 00 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 11 00 01 00 10 11 11 10 01 11 01 10 10 00 00 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 11 00 01 00 10 11 11 10 01 11 01 10 10 00 00 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 10 10 01 00 01 10 00 00 10 11 01 11 00 11 11 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 11 00 01 00 10 11 11 10 01 11 01 10 10 00 00 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 10 10 01 00 01 10 00 00 10 11 01 11 00 11 11 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 11 11 10 01 11 01 10 10 00 00 11 00 01 00 10 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 10 00 00 10 11 01 11 00 11 11 10 10 01 00 01  
NOTE *1: This pattern is used except slot formats 2B and 3B.
NOTE *2: This pattern is used except slot formats 0B, 1B, 4B, 5B, 8B, and 9B.
NOTE *3: This pattern is used except slot formats 6B, 7B, 10B, 11B, 12B, and
13B.
NOTE: For slot format _n_ B where _n_ = 0, ..., 15, the pilot bit pattern
corresponding to N~pilot~/2 is to be used and symbol repetition shall be
applied.
The relationship between the TPC symbol and the transmitter power control
command is presented in table 13.
Table 13: TPC Bit Pattern
+-----------------+-----------------------------------+----------+---+ | TPC Bit Pattern | Transmitter power control command | | | +-----------------+-----------------------------------+----------+---+ | NTPC = 2 | NTPC = 4 | NTPC = 8 | | +-----------------+-----------------------------------+----------+---+ | 11 | 1111 | 11111111 | 1 | | | | | | | 00 | 0000 | 00000000 | 0 | +-----------------+-----------------------------------+----------+---+
Multicode transmission may be employed in the downlink, i.e. the CCTrCH (see
[3]) is mapped onto several parallel downlink DPCHs using the same spreading
factor. In this case, the Layer 1 control information is transmitted only on
the first downlink DPCH. DTX bits are transmitted during the corresponding
time period for the additional downlink DPCHs, see figure 10.
In case there are several CCTrCHs mapped to different DPCHs transmitted to the
same UE different spreading factors can be used on DPCHs to which different
CCTrCHs are mapped. Also in this case, Layer 1 control information is only
transmitted on the first DPCH while DTX bits are transmitted during the
corresponding time period for the additional DPCHs.
Note : support of multiple CCTrChs of dedicated type is not part of the
current release.
{width="4.604861111111111in" height="4.260416666666667in"}
Figure 10: Downlink slot format in case of multi-code transmission
#### 5.3.2.1 STTD for DPCH and F-DPCH
The pilot bit pattern for the DPCH channel transmitted on antenna 2 is given
in table 14.
\- For N~pilot~ = 8, 16 the shadowed part indicates pilot bits that are
obtained by STTD encoding the corresponding (shadowed) bits in Table 12. The
non-shadowed pilot bit pattern is orthogonal to the corresponding (non-
shadowed) pilot bit pattern in table 12.
\- For N~pilot~ = 4, the diversity antenna pilot bit pattern is obtained by
STTD encoding both the shadowed and non-shadowed pilot bits in table 12.
\- For N~pilot~ = 2, the diversity antenna pilot pattern is obtained by STTD
encoding the two pilot bits in table 12 with the last two bits (data or DTX)
of the second data field (data2) of the slot. Thus for N~pilot~ = 2 case, the
last two bits of the second data field (data 2) after STTD encoding, follow
the diversity antenna pilot bits in Table 14.
STTD encoding for the DPDCH, TPC, and TFCI fields is done as described in
subclause 5.3.1.1.1. For the SF=512 DPCH, the first two bits in each slot,
i.e. TPC bits, are not STTD encoded and the same bits are transmitted with
equal power from the two antennas. The remaining four bits are STTD encoded.
For F-DPCH, the TPC bits are not STTD encoded and the same bits are
transmitted with equal power from the two antennas.
For compressed mode through spreading factor reduction and for N~pilot~ > 4,
symbol repetition shall be applied to the pilot bit patterns of table 14, in
the same manner as described in 5.3.2. For slot formats 2B and 3B, i.e.
compressed mode through spreading factor reduction and N~pilot~ = 4, the pilot
bits transmitted on antenna 2 are STTD encoded, and thus the pilot bit pattern
is as shown in the most right set of table 14.
Table 14: Pilot bit patterns of downlink DPCCH for antenna 2 using STTD
| Npilot = 2 (*1) | Npilot = 4 (*2) | Npilot = 8 (*3) | Npilot = 16 (*4) | Npilot = 4 (*5) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Symbol # | 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 0 | 1  
Slot #0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 | 01 10 11 10 00 01 01 00 11 01 11 00 00 10 10 | 01 10 11 10 00 01 01 00 11 01 11 00 00 10 10 | 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 00 00 11 10 11 00 10 10 00 01 11 01 10 01 01 | 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | 10 01 00 01 11 10 10 11 00 10 00 11 11 01 01 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 00 00 11 10 11 00 10 10 00 01 11 01 10 01 01 | 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | 10 01 00 01 11 10 10 11 00 10 00 11 11 01 01 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 00 10 10 00 01 11 01 10 01 01 00 00 11 10 11 | 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | 10 10 11 00 10 00 11 11 01 01 10 01 00 01 11 | 01 10 11 10 00 01 01 00 11 01 11 00 00 10 10 | 10 01 00 01 11 10 10 11 00 10 00 11 11 01 01  
NOTE *1: The pilot bits precede the last two bits of the data2 field.
NOTE *2: This pattern is used except slot formats 2B and 3B.
NOTE *3: This pattern is used except slot formats 0B, 1B, 4B, 5B, 8B, and 9B.
NOTE *4: This pattern is used except slot formats 6B, 7B, 10B, 11B, 12B, and
13B.
NOTE *5: This pattern is used for slot formats 2B and 3B.
NOTE: For slot format _n_ B where _n_ = 0, 1, 4, 5, 6, ..., 15, the pilot bit
pattern corresponding to N~pilot~/2 is to be used and symbol repetition shall
be applied.
#### 5.3.2.2 Dedicated channel pilots with closed loop mode transmit diversity
In closed loop mode 1 orthogonal pilot patterns are used between the transmit
antennas. Closed loop mode 1 shall not be used with DPCH slot formats for
which Npilot=2. Pilot patterns defined in the table 12 will be used on antenna
1 and pilot patterns defined in the table 15 on antenna 2. This is illustrated
in the figure 11 a which indicates the difference in the pilot patterns with
different shading.
Table 15: Pilot bit patterns of downlink DPCCH for antenna 2 using closed loop
mode 1
|  | Npilot = 4 | Npilot = 8 (*1) | Npilot = 16 (*2) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Symbol # |  | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 |  |   
Slot #0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 |  | 01 10 11 10 00 01 01 00 11 01 11 00 00 10 10 | 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 00 00 11 10 11 00 10 10 00 01 11 01 10 01 01 | 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | 10 01 00 01 11 10 10 11 00 10 00 11 11 01 01 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 00 00 11 10 11 00 10 10 00 01 11 01 10 01 01 | 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | 10 01 00 01 11 10 10 11 00 10 00 11 11 01 01 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 00 10 10 00 01 11 01 10 01 01 00 00 11 10 11 | 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | 10 10 11 00 10 00 11 11 01 01 10 01 00 01 11 |  |   
NOTE *1: This pattern is used except slot formats 0B, 1B, 4B, 5B, 8B, and 9B.
NOTE *2: This pattern is used except slot formats 6B, 7B, 10B, 11B, 12B, and
13B.
NOTE: For slot format _n_ B where _n_ = 0, 1, 4, 5, 6, ..., 15, the pilot bit
pattern corresponding to N~pilot~/2 is to be used and symbol repetition shall
be applied.
Figure 11: Slot structures for downlink dedicated physical channel diversity
transmission.\ Structure (a) is used in closed loop mode 1.\ Different shading
of the pilots indicate orthogonality of the patterns
#### 5.3.2.3 Void
#### 5.3.2.4 E-DCH Relative Grant Channel
An E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH) is a fixed rate (SF=128) dedicated
downlink physical channel carrying the uplink E-DCH relative grants for one
uplink E-DCH associated with the E-RGCH by higher layer signalling. Figure 12A
illustrates the structure of the E-RGCH. A relative grant is transmitted using
3, 12 or 15 consecutive slots and in each slot a sequence of 40 ternary values
is transmitted. The 3 and 12 slot duration shall be used on an E-RGCH
transmitted to UEs for which the cell transmitting the E-RGCH is in the E-DCH
serving radio link set and for which the E-DCH TTI is respectively 2 and 10
ms. The 15 slot duration shall be used on an E-RGCH transmitted to UEs for
which the cell transmitting the E-RGCH is not in the E-DCH serving radio link
set.
The sequence b~i,0~, b~i,1~, ..., b~i,39~ transmitted in slot i in Figure 12A
is given by b~i,j~ = a C~ss,40,m(i),j~. In a serving E-DCH radio link set, the
relative grant a is set to +1, 0, or -1 and in a radio link not belonging to
the serving E-DCH radio link set, the relative grant a is set to 0 or -1. The
orthogonal signature sequences C~ss,40,\ m(i)~ is given by Table 16A and the
index m(i) in slot i is given by Table 16B. The E-RGCH signature sequence
index l in Table 16B is given by higher layers.
In case STTD-based open loop transmit diversity is applied for E-RGCH, STTD
encoding according to subclause 5.3.1.1.1 is applied to the sequence b~i,j~.
Figure 12A: E-RGCH and E-HICH structure
Table 16A: E-RGCH and E-HICH signature sequences
* * *
C~ss,40,0~ -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 C~ss,40,1~ -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1
1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1
C~ss,40,2~ -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1
-1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 C~ss,40,3~ 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1
1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1
C~ss,40,4~ 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1
-1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 C~ss,40,5~ -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1
1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 C~ss,40,6~ 1 1 -1
-1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1
1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 C~ss,40,7~ -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 C~ss,40,8~ 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1
1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1
-1 C~ss,40,9~ -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1
-1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 C~ss,40,10~ -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1
-1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1
C~ss,40,11~ -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 C~ss,40,12~ -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1
-1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1
C~ss,40,13~ 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1
1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 C~ss,40,14~ -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1
1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 C~ss,40,15~
-1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1
1 -1 -1 -1 1 C~ss,40,16~ 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1
-1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 C~ss,40,17~ 1 -1 1 -1 1
1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1
-1 C~ss,40,18~ 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1
1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 C~ss,40,19~ 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1
1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 C~ss,40,20~ 1 1 1 -1 1 1
-1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1
-1 -1 -1 C~ss,40,21~ -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1
1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 C~ss,40,22~ -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1
-1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1
C~ss,40,23~ 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1
-1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 C~ss,40,24~ -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1
-1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 C~ss,40,25~
-1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1
-1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 C~ss,40,26~ -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1
1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 C~ss,40,27~ 1 -1 1 -1
-1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1
1 1 1 1 -1 C~ss,40,28~ 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1
1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 C~ss,40,29~ -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1
-1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1
C~ss,40,30~ -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1
1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 C~ss,40,31~ -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1
-1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 C~ss,40,32~
1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1
-1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 C~ss,40,33~ -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1
-1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 C~ss,40,34~ 1 -1 -1 -1
1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1
-1 1 1 -1 1 C~ss,40,35~ -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1
1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 C~ss,40,36~ -1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1
1 C~ss,40,37~ 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1
1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 C~ss,40,38~ -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1
-1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1
C~ss,40,39~ -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1
-1 -1 1 1 -1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1
* * *
The bits are transmitted in order from left to right, i.e., column 2
corresponds to index j=0 and the rightmost column corresponds to index j=39.
Table 16B: E-HICH and E-RGCH signature hopping pattern
* * *
Sequence index _l_ Row index _m(i)_ for slot _i_
0 0 2 13 1 1 18 18 2 2 8 33 3 3 16 32 4 4 13 10 5 5 3 25 6 6 12 16 7 7 6 1 8 8
19 39 9 9 34 14 10 10 4 5 11 11 17 34 12 12 29 30 13 13 11 23 14 14 24 22 15
15 28 21 16 16 35 19 17 17 21 36 18 18 37 2 19 19 23 11 20 20 39 9 21 21 22 3
22 22 9 15 23 23 36 20 24 24 0 26 25 25 5 24 26 26 7 8 27 27 27 17 28 28 32 29
29 29 15 38 30 30 30 12 31 31 26 7 32 32 20 37 33 33 1 35 34 34 14 0 35 35 33
31 36 36 25 28 37 37 10 27 38 38 31 4 39 39 38 6
* * *
#### 5.3.2.5 E-DCH Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel
An E-DCH Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel (E-HICH) is a fixed rate (SF=128)
dedicated downlink physical channel carrying the uplink E-DCH hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator for one uplink E-DCH associated with the E-HICH by
higher layer signalling. Figure 12A illustrates the structure of the E-HICH. A
hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 or 12 consecutive
slots and in each slot a sequence of 40 binary values is transmitted. The 3
and 12 slot duration shall be used for UEs which E-DCH TTI is set to
respectively 2 ms and 10 ms.
The sequence b~i,0~, b~i,1~, ..., b~i,39~ transmitted in slot i in Figure 12A
is given by b~i,j~ = a C~ss,40,\ m(i),j~. In a radio link set containing the
serving E-DCH radio link set, the hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator a is
set to +1 or --1, and in a radio link set not containing the serving E-DCH
radio link set the hybrid ARQ indicator a is set to +1 or 0. The orthogonal
signature sequences C~ss,40,m(i)~ is given by Table 16A and the index m(i) in
slot i is given by Table 16B. The E-HICH signature sequence index l is given
by higher layers.
In case STTD-based open loop transmit diversity is applied for E-HICH, STTD
encoding according to subclause 5.3.1.1.1 is applied to the sequence b~i,j~
#### 5.3.2.6 Fractional Dedicated Physical Channel (F-DPCH)
An F-DPCH carries control information generated at layer 1 (TPC commands) for
one uplink DPCCH associated with the F-DPCH by higher layer signalling. It is
a special case of downlink DPCCH.
Figure 12B shows the frame structure of the F-DPCH. Each frame of length 10ms
is split into 15 slots, each of length T~slot~ = 2560 chips, corresponding to
one power-control period.
Figure 12B: Frame structure for F-DPCH
The exact number of bits of the OFF periods and of the F-DPCH fields (N~TPC~)
is described in table 16C. Each slot format corresponds to a different set of
OFF periods within the F-DPCH slot.
Table 16C: F-DPCH fields
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Slot | Ch | Ch | SF | Bits/ | N~ | N | N~ | | F | annel | annel | | Slot | OFF1~ | ~TPC~ | OFF2~ | | ormat | Bit | S | | | | | | | #i | Rate | ymbol | | | Bits | Bits | Bits | | | ( | Rate | | | /Slot | /Slot | /Slot | | | kbps) | ( | | | | | | | | | ksps) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 | 3 | 1.5 | 256 | 20 | 2 | 2 | 16 | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 3 | 1.5 | 256 | 20 | 4 | 2 | 14 | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | 3 | 1.5 | 256 | 20 | 6 | 2 | 12 | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | 3 | 1.5 | 256 | 20 | 8 | 2 | 10 | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | 3 | 1.5 | 256 | 20 | 10 | 2 | 8 | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | 3 | 1.5 | 256 | 20 | 12 | 2 | 6 | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | 3 | 1.5 | 256 | 20 | 14 | 2 | 4 | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | 3 | 1.5 | 256 | 20 | 16 | 2 | 2 | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | 3 | 1.5 | 256 | 20 | 18 | 2 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | 3 | 1.5 | 256 | 20 | 0 | 2 | 18 | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+
In compressed frames, F-DPCH is not transmitted in downlink transmission gaps
given by transmission gap pattern sequences signalled by higher layers.
The relationship between the TPC symbol and the transmitter power control
command is according to table 13.
### 5.3.3 Common downlink physical channels
#### 5.3.3.1 Common Pilot Channel (CPICH)
The CPICH is a fixed rate (30 kbps, SF=256) downlink physical channel that
carries a pre-defined bit sequence. Figure 13 shows the frame structure of the
CPICH.
Figure 13: Frame structure for Common Pilot Channel
In case transmit diversity is used on P-CCPCH and SCH, the CPICH shall be
transmitted from both antennas using the same channelization and scrambling
code. In this case, the pre-defined bit sequence of the CPICH is different for
Antenna 1 and Antenna 2, see figure 14. In case of no transmit diversity, the
bit sequence of Antenna 1 in figure 14 is used.
Figure 14: Modulation pattern for Common Pilot Channel
There are two types of Common pilot channels, the Primary and Secondary CPICH.
They differ in their use and the limitations placed on their physical
features.
##### 5.3.3.1.1 Primary Common Pilot Channel (P-CPICH)
The Primary Common Pilot Channel (P-CPICH) has the following characteristics:
\- The same channelization code is always used for the P-CPICH, see [4];
\- The P-CPICH is scrambled by the primary scrambling code, see [4];
\- There is one and only one P-CPICH per cell;
\- The P-CPICH is broadcast over the entire cell.
##### 5.3.3.1.2 Secondary Common Pilot Channel (S-CPICH)
A Secondary Common Pilot Channel (S-CPICH) has the following characteristics:
\- An arbitrary channelization code of SF=256 is used for the S-CPICH, see
[4];
\- An S-CPICH is scrambled by either the primary or a secondary scrambling
code, see [4];
\- There may be zero, one, or several S-CPICH per cell;
\- An S-CPICH may be transmitted over the entire cell or only over a part of
the cell;
\- An S-CPICH that is intended to be used as phase reference for the second
transmit antenna by UEs configured in MIMO mode shall be transmitted over the
entire cell using the primary scrambling code and the antenna 1 pattern.
#### 5.3.3.2 Downlink phase reference
Table 17 specifies the channels which the UE may use as a phase reference for
each downlink physical channel type in a cell; it also specifies whether the
channels which the UE may use as a phase reference for a channel of a
particular type shall be assumed to be the same as the ones which the UE may
use as a phase reference for the associated DPCH or F-DPCH in the same cell,
if configured.
For the DPCH or F-DPCH and the associated downlink physical channels the
following always applies:
  * The UE may use the DPCH pilot bits as a phase reference.
  * In addition, the UE may use either the primary CPICH or a secondary CPICH as a phase reference.
    * By default (i.e. without any indication by higher layers) the UE may use the primary CPICH as a phase reference.
    * When a UE is not configured in MIMO mode in a cell: The UE is informed by higher layers when it may use a secondary CPICH as a phase reference. In this case the UE shall not use the primary CPICH as a phase reference. Indication that a secondary CPICH may be a phase reference is also applicable when open loop or closed loop TX diversity is enabled for a downlink physical channel in which case Antenna 1 and Antenna 2 secondary CPICH shall be used as phase references.
    * When the UE is configured in MIMO mode in a cell: The UE is informed by higher layers when it may use a secondary CPICH as a phase reference for a second transmit antenna in addition to the primary CPICH which will be transmitted from the first antenna. In addition, if the UE supports open loop Tx diversity on associated physical channels with the combination of primary CPICH and secondary CPICH , this combination of phase references can also be used as phase references for associated physical channels configured with open loop Tx diversity. If the UE does not support open loop Tx diversity on associated physical channels with the combination of primary CPICH and secondary CPICH and if secondary CPICH is used as a phase reference for second transmit antenna, UE may assume that associated physical channels are not in Tx diversity mode. If no secondary CPICH is signalled as phase reference, the UE may use the Antenna 1 and Antenna 2 primary CPICH as phase references.
Table 17: Phase references for downlink physical channel types in a cell\
\"X\" -- Applicable, \"--\" -- Not applicable
* * *
Physical channel type DPCH Dedicated pilot (never as the sole phase reference)
Primary-CPICH Secondary-CPICH Same as associated DPCH or F‑DPCH P-CCPCH - X -
- SCH - X - - S-CCPCH - X - - DPCH* X X X - F-DPCH* - X X - PICH - X -- - MICH
- X -- - HS-PDSCH* (UE not in MIMO mode and associated DPCH or F-DPCH is
configured) - - - X HS-PDSCH* (UE in MIMO mode) - X X - HS-PDSCH (if no
associated DPCH or F-DPCH is configured) - X - - HS-SCCH* (if associated DPCH
or F-DPCH is configured) - - - X HS-SCCH (if no associated DPCH or F-DPCH is
configured) - X - - E-AGCH* - - - X E-RGCH* - - - X E-HICH* - - - X AICH - X -
-
* * *
Note *: A secondary CPICH should not be configured as a phase reference for
DPCH or F-DPCH when a UE simultaneously receives S-CCPCHs on different radio
links and DPCH or F-DPCH. The UE behavior is undefined if this configuration
is used. The support for simultaneous reception of S-CCPCHs on different radio
links and DPCH or F-DPCH is optional in the UE.
Dedicated pilot bits are never the sole phase reference for any physical
channel, but the UE may always use dedicated pilot bits as a phase reference
for DPCH.
Furthermore, during a DPCH or F-DPCH frame overlapping with any part of an
associated HS-DSCH or HS-SCCH subframe, the phase reference on this DPCH or
F-DPCH shall not change.
#### 5.3.3.3 Primary Common Control Physical Channel (P-CCPCH)
The Primary CCPCH is a fixed rate (30 kbps, SF=256) downlink physical channels
used to carry the BCH transport channel.
Figure 15 shows the frame structure of the Primary CCPCH. The frame structure
differs from the downlink DPCH in that no TPC commands, no TFCI and no pilot
bits are transmitted. The Primary CCPCH is not transmitted during the first
256 chips of each slot. Instead, Primary SCH and Secondary SCH are transmitted
during this period (see subclause 5.3.3.5).
{width="5.127083333333333in" height="2.1868055555555554in"}
Figure 15: Frame structure for Primary Common Control Physical Channel
##### 5.3.3.3.1 Primary CCPCH structure with STTD encoding
In case the diversity antenna is present in UTRAN and the P-CCPCH is to be
transmitted using open loop transmit diversity, the data bits of the P-CCPCH
are STTD encoded as given in subclause 5.3.1.1.1. The last two data bits in
even numbered slots are STTD encoded together with the first two data bits in
the following slot, except for slot #14 where the two last data bits are not
STTD encoded and instead transmitted with equal power from both the antennas,
see figure 16. Higher layers signal whether STTD encoding is used for the
P-CCPCH or not. In addition the presence/absence of STTD encoding on P-CCPCH
is indicated by modulating the SCH, see 5.3.3.4. During power on and hand over
between cells the UE can determine the presence of STTD encoding on the
P-CCPCH, by either receiving the higher layer message, by demodulating the SCH
channel, or by a combination of the above two schemes.
{width="5.875in" height="2.4791666666666665in"}
Figure 16: STTD encoding for the data bits of the P-CCPCH
#### 5.3.3.4 Secondary Common Control Physical Channel (S-CCPCH)
The Secondary CCPCH is used to carry the FACH and PCH. There are two types of
Secondary CCPCH: those that include TFCI and those that do not include TFCI.
It is the UTRAN that determines if a TFCI should be transmitted, hence making
it mandatory for all UEs to support the use of TFCI. The set of possible rates
for the Secondary CCPCH is the same as for the downlink DPCH, see subclause
5.3.2. The frame structure of the Secondary CCPCH is shown in figure 17.
{width="5.063194444444444in" height="1.9368055555555554in"}
Figure 17: Frame structure for Secondary Common Control Physical Channel
The parameter k in figure 17 determines the total number of bits per downlink
Secondary CCPCH slot. It is related to the spreading factor SF of the physical
channel as SF = 256/2^k^. The spreading factor range is from 256 down to 4.
The values for the number of bits per field are given in Table 18. The channel
bit and symbol rates given in Table 18 are the rates immediately before
spreading. The slot formats applicable to QPSK with pilot bits are not
supported in this release. The pilot patterns for the slot formats applicable
to QPSK are given in Table 19. DTX shall be used in the pilot field of the
16QAM slot formats, i.e. no pilot bits are used in this release.
The FACH and PCH can be mapped to the same or to separate Secondary CCPCHs. If
FACH and PCH are mapped to the same Secondary CCPCH, they can be mapped to the
same frame. The main difference between a CCPCH and a downlink dedicated
physical channel is that a CCPCH is not inner-loop power controlled. The main
difference between the Primary and Secondary CCPCH is that the transport
channel mapped to the Primary CCPCH (BCH) can only have a fixed predefined
transport format combination, while the Secondary CCPCH support multiple
transport format combinations using TFCI.
Table 18: Secondary CCPCH fields
* * *
Slot Format #i Channel Bit Rate (kbps) Channel Symbol Rate (ksps) SF Bits/
Frame Bits/ Slot N~data1~ N~pilot~ N~TFCI~ 0 30 15 256 300 20 20 0 0 1 30 15
256 300 20 12 8 0 2 30 15 256 300 20 18 0 2 3 30 15 256 300 20 10 8 2 4 60 30
128 600 40 40 0 0 5 60 30 128 600 40 32 8 0 6 60 30 128 600 40 38 0 2 7 60 30
128 600 40 30 8 2 8 120 60 64 1200 80 72 0 8* 9 120 60 64 1200 80 64 8 8* 10
240 120 32 2400 160 152 0 8* 11 240 120 32 2400 160 144 8 8* 12 480 240 16
4800 320 312 0 8* 13 480 240 16 4800 320 296 16 8* 14 960 480 8 9600 640 632 0
8* 15 960 480 8 9600 640 616 16 8* 16 1920 960 4 19200 1280 1272 0 8* 17 1920
960 4 19200 1280 1256 16 8* 18*** 60 15 256 600 40 36 0 4 19*** 120 30 128
1200 80 76 0 4 20*** 240 60 64 2400 160 144 0 16* 21*** 480 120 32 4800 320
272 32** 16* 22*** 960 240 16 9600 640 560 64** 16* 23*** 1920 480 8 19200
1280 1136 128** 16*
* * *
* If TFCI bits are not used, then DTX shall be used in TFCI field.
> ** If pilot bits are not used, then DTX shall be used in pilot field.
*** Slot formats applicable to 16QAM. See subclause 4.3.5.1.1 in [3] for
mapping TFCI bits on 16QAM slot formats.
NOTE 1: The slot formats 18 to 23 in Table 18 are only applicable for MBSFN
operations with 16QAM.
NOTE 2: The modulation used in MBSFN operations is signalled by higher layers.
The pilot symbol pattern described in Table 19 is not supported in this
release. The shadowed part can be used as frame synchronization words. (The
symbol pattern of pilot symbols other than the frame synchronization word
shall be \"11\"). In Table 19, the transmission order is from left to right.
(Each two-bit pair represents an I/Q pair of QPSK modulation.)
Table 19: Pilot Symbol Pattern
| Npilot = 8 | Npilot = 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Symbol # | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
Slot #0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 11 00 01 00 10 11 11 10 01 11 01 10 10 00 00 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 10 10 01 00 01 10 00 00 10 11 01 11 00 11 11 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 11 00 01 00 10 11 11 10 01 11 01 10 10 00 00 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 10 10 01 00 01 10 00 00 10 11 01 11 00 11 11 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 11 11 10 01 11 01 10 10 00 00 11 00 01 00 10 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 10 00 00 10 11 01 11 00 11 11 10 10 01 00 01  
For slot formats using TFCI, the TFCI value in each radio frame corresponds to
a certain transport format combination of the FACHs and/or PCHs currently in
use. This correspondence is (re-)negotiated at each FACH/PCH addition /
removal. The mapping of the TFCI bits onto slots is described in [3].
##### 5.3.3.4.1 Secondary CCPCH structure with STTD encoding
In case the diversity antenna is present in UTRAN and the S-CCPCH is to be
transmitted using open loop transmit diversity, the data and TFCI bits of the
S-CCPCH are STTD encoded as given in subclause 5.3.1.1.1. The pilot symbol
pattern for antenna 2 for the S-CCPCH given in Table 20 is not supported in
this release.
Table 20: Pilot symbol pattern for antenna 2 when STTD encoding is used on the
S‑CCPCH
| Npilot = 8 | Npilot = 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Symbol # | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
Slot #0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 00 00 11 10 11 00 10 10 00 01 11 01 10 01 01 | 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | 10 01 00 01 11 10 10 11 00 10 00 11 11 01 01 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 00 00 11 10 11 00 10 10 00 01 11 01 10 01 01 | 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | 10 01 00 01 11 10 10 11 00 10 00 11 11 01 01 | 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 | 00 10 10 00 01 11 01 10 01 01 00 00 11 10 11 | 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | 10 10 11 00 10 00 11 11 01 01 10 01 00 01 11  
#### 5.3.3.5 Synchronisation Channel (SCH)
The Synchronisation Channel (SCH) is a downlink signal used for cell search.
The SCH consists of two sub channels, the Primary and Secondary SCH. The 10 ms
radio frames of the Primary and Secondary SCH are divided into 15 slots, each
of length 2560 chips. Figure 18 illustrates the structure of the SCH radio
frame.
{width="6.0777777777777775in" height="2.1972222222222224in"}
Figure 18: Structure of Synchronisation Channel (SCH)
The Primary SCH consists of a modulated code of length 256 chips, the Primary
Synchronisation Code (PSC) denoted c~p~ in figure 18, transmitted once every
slot. The PSC is the same for every cell in the system.
The Secondary SCH consists of repeatedly transmitting a length 15 sequence of
modulated codes of length 256 chips, the Secondary Synchronisation Codes
(SSC), transmitted in parallel with the Primary SCH. The SSC is denoted
c~s~^i,k^ in figure 18, where _i_ = 0, 1, ..., 63 is the number of the
scrambling code group, and _k_ = 0, 1, ..., 14 is the slot number. Each SSC is
chosen from a set of 16 different codes of length 256. This sequence on the
Secondary SCH indicates which of the code groups the cell\'s downlink
scrambling code belongs to.
The primary and secondary synchronization codes are modulated by the symbol
_a_ shown in figure 18, which indicates the presence/ absence of STTD encoding
on the P-CCPCH and is given by the following table:
* * *
P-CCPCH STTD encoded a = +1 P-CCPCH not STTD encoded a = -1
* * *
##### 5.3.3.5.1 SCH transmitted by TSTD
Figure 19 illustrates the structure of the SCH transmitted by the TSTD scheme.
In even numbered slots both PSC and SSC are transmitted on antenna 1, and in
odd numbered slots both PSC and SSC are transmitted on antenna 2.
{width="6.372916666666667in" height="2.2597222222222224in"}
Figure 19: Structure of SCH transmitted by TSTD scheme
#### 5.3.3.6 Void
#### 5.3.3.7 Acquisition Indicator Channel (AICH)
The Acquisition Indicator channel (AICH) is a fixed rate (SF=256) physical
channel used to carry Acquisition Indicators (AI) and Extended Acquisition
Indicators (EAI). Acquisition Indicator AI~s~ corresponds to signature s on
the PRACH. Extended Acquisition Indicators represent a set of values
corresponding to a set of E-DCH resource configurations.
Figure 21 illustrates the structure of the AICH. The AICH consists of a
repeated sequence of 15 consecutive _access slots_ (AS), each of length 5120
chips. Each access slot consists of two parts, an _Acquisition-Indicator_ (AI)
part consisting of 32 real-valued signals a~0~, ..., a~31~ and a part of
duration 1024 chips with no transmission that is not formally part of the
AICH. The part of the slot with no transmission is reserved for possible
future use by other physical channels.
The spreading factor (SF) used for channelisation of the AICH is 256.
The phase reference for the AICH is the Primary CPICH.
Figure 21: Structure of Acquisition Indicator Channel (AICH)
The real-valued signals a~0~, a~1~, ..., a~31~ in figure 21 are given by
$a_{j} = \left( \sum_{s = 0}^{\text{15}}\text{AI}_{s}b_{s,j} \right) +
\gamma\text{EAI}_{s^{'}}c_{s^{'},j}$
where AI~s~, taking the values +1, -1, and 0, is the acquisition indicator
corresponding to signature s and the sequence b~s,0~, ..., b~s,31~ is given by
Table 22, EAI~s'~, taking the values +1, -1, and 0, is the extended
acquisition indicator corresponding to signature s' and the sequence c~s',0~,
..., c~s',31~ is given by Table 22B, and $\gamma$is the relative amplitude
weighting factor corresponding to the square root of the ratio of the relative
transmit power of the EAI and the relative transmit power of the AI, as
signalled by higher layers. If the signature s is not a member of the set of
available signatures for all the Access Service Class (ASC) for the
corresponding PRACH (cf [5]) then AI~s~ shall be set to 0.
The use of acquisition indicators is described in [5]. The meaning of
acquisition indicators depends on whether a UE sends an access preamble
signature corresponding to a PRACH message or corresponding to an E-DCH
transmission. Furthermore, if a UE sends an access preamble signature
corresponding to an E-DCH transmission, the meaning of the acquisition
indicator depends on whether EAI is configured or not. The following rules
apply for one PRACH preamble scrambling code. If multiple PRACH preamble
scrambling codes are defined in a cell, then for each of them the following
rules are used independently.
\- If the UE sends an access preamble signature corresponding to a PRACH
message, then;
> \- if an Acquisition Indicator is set to +1, it represents a positive
> acknowledgement,
>
> \- if an Acquisition Indicator is set to -1, it represents a negative
> acknowledgement.
\- If the UE sends an access preamble signature corresponding to an E-DCH
transmission, then;
> **-** if the corresponding Acquisition Indicator is set to +1, it represents
> a positive acknowledgement and the associated default E-DCH resource
> configuration is allocated to the UE,
>
> \- if the corresponding Acquisition Indicator is set to -1 and EAI is not
> configured, then it represents a negative acknowledgement,
>
> \- if the corresponding Acquisition Indicator is set to -1 and EAI is
> configured, then the UE detects which one of the Extended Acquisition
> Indicator signatures is present.
The association between the AI and the default E-DCH resource index is such
that
X = SigInd **mod** Y,
where X is the Default E-DCH resource index, Y is the total number of E-DCH
resources configured in the cell for Enhanced Uplink in CELL_FACH state and
IDLE mode, and SigInd is the Nth PRACH preamble signature corresponding to the
AI that is configured available in the cell and corresponding to E-DCH
transmission for Enhanced Uplink in CELL_FACH state and IDLE mode, counting
from zero and taking into account only the PRACH preamble signature indices
that are configured available in the cell and corresponding to E-DCH
transmission for Enhanced Uplink in CELL_FACH state and IDLE mode.
The use of Extended Acquisition Indicators is described in [5]. If s'=0 and an
EAI~0~ is set to +1, it represents a negative acknowledgement. The mapping
between the non-zero EAI~s'~ and the E-DCH resource configuration index is
presented in Table 22A where X is the index of the default E-DCH resource as
defined above and Y is the total number of E-DCH resources configured in the
cell.
The real-valued signals, a~j~, are spread and modulated in the same fashion as
bits when represented in {+1, -1 } form.
In case STTD-based open-loop transmit diversity is applied to AICH, STTD
encoding according to subclause 5.3.1.1.1 is applied to each sequence b~s,0~,
b~s,1~, ..., b~s,31~ separately and sequence c~s',0~, c~s',1~, ..., c~s',31~
before the sequences are combined into AICH signals a~0~, ..., a~31~.
Table 22: AI signature patterns
* * *
s b~s,0~, b~s,1~..., b~s,31~  
0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1
1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 2 1 1 1
1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 3 1
1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1
4 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1
-1 5 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1
-1 1 1 6 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1
-1 1 1 1 1 7 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1
1 1 1 1 -1 -1 8 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1
-1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 9 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1
1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 10 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1
1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1
1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 12 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1
-1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 13 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1
-1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 14 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1
1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 15 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 1
1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 1
* * *
Table 22A: EAI and resource configuration mapping
+---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | EAI~s'~ | Signature | E-DCH Resource configuration index | | | | | | | _s'_ | | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 0 | NACK | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 1) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 1 | (X + 2) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 3) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 2 | (X + 4) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 5) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 3 | (X + 6) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 7) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 4 | (X + 8) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 9) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 5 | (X + 10) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 11) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 6 | (X + 12) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 13) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 7 | (X + 14) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 15) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 8 | (X + 16) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 17) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 9 | (X + 18) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 19) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 10 | (X + 20) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 21) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 11 | (X + 22) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 23) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 12 | (X + 24) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 25) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 13 | (X + 26) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 27) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 14 | (X + 28) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 29) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | +1 | 15 | (X + 30) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+ | -1 | | (X + 31) **mod** Y | +---------+-----------+------------------------------------+
Table 22B: EAI signature patterns
* * *
s' c~s',0~, c~s',1~..., c~s',31~  
0 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1
-1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1
-1 -1 1 2 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 3 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 4 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 5 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 6 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 7 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 8 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 9 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 10 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 11 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 12 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 13 1 -1 -1 1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 14 1 -1 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 15 1
-1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1 1 -1 -1 1 1 -1 -1 1 -1 1 1 -1
* * *
#### 5.3.3.8 Void
#### 5.3.3.9 Void
#### 5.3.3.10 Paging Indicator Channel (PICH)
The Paging Indicator Channel (PICH) is a fixed rate (SF=256) physical channel
used to carry the paging indicators. The PICH is associated either with an
S-CCPCH to which a PCH transport channel is mapped, or with a HS-SCCH
associated with the HS-PDSCH(s) to which a HS-DSCH transport channel carrying
paging messages is mapped.
Figure 24 illustrates the frame structure of the PICH. One PICH radio frame of
length 10 ms consists of 300 bits (b~0~, b~1~, ..., b~299~). Of these, 288
bits (b~0~, b~1~, ..., b~287~) are used to carry paging indicators. The
remaining 12 bits are not formally part of the PICH and shall not be
transmitted (DTX). The part of the frame with no transmission is reserved for
possible future use.
{width="5.4375in" height="1.5625in"}
Figure 24: Structure of Paging Indicator Channel (PICH)
In each PICH frame, Np paging indicators {P~0~, ..., P~Np-1~} are transmitted,
where Np=18, 36, 72, or 144.
The PI calculated by higher layers for use for a certain UE, is associated to
the paging indicator P _~q~_ , where _q_ is computed as a function of the PI
computed by higher layers, the SFN of the P-CCPCH radio frame during which the
start of the PICH radio frame occurs, and the number of paging indicators per
frame (Np):
{width="5.819444444444445in" height="0.5in"}
Further, the PI calculated by higher layers is associated with the value of
the paging indicator P _~q~_. If a paging indicator in a certain frame is set
to \"1\" it is an indication that UEs associated with this paging indicator
and PI should read either the corresponding frame of the associated S-CCPCH,
or the corresponding subframes of the associated HS-SCCH
The PI bitmap in the PCH data frames over Iub contains indication values for
all higher layer PI values possible. Each bit in the bitmap indicates if the
paging indicator associated with that particular PI shall be set to 0 or 1.
Hence, the calculation in the formula above is to be performed in Node B to
make the association between PI and P _~q~_.
The mapping from {P~0~, ..., P~Np-1~} to the PICH bits {b~0~, ..., b~287~} are
according to Table 24.
Table 24: Mapping of paging indicators P~q~ to PICH bits
* * *
Number of paging indicators per frame (Np) P~q~ = 1 P~q~ = 0 Np=18 {b~16q~,
..., b~16q+15~} = {1, 1,..., 1} {b~16q~, ..., b~16q+15~} = {0, 0,..., 0} Np=36
{b~8q~, ..., b~8q+7~} = {1, 1,..., 1} {b~8q~, ..., b~8q+7~} = {0, 0,..., 0}
Np=72 {b~4q~, ..., b~4q+3~} = {1, 1,..., 1} {b~4q~, ..., b~4q+3~} = {0, 0,...,
0} Np=144 {b~2q~, b~2q+1~} = {1, 1} {b~2q~, b~2q+1~} = {0, 0}
* * *
When transmit diversity is employed for the PICH, STTD encoding is used on the
PICH bits as described in subclause 5.3.1.1.1.
#### 5.3.3.11 Void
#### 5.3.3.12 Shared Control Channel (HS-SCCH)
The HS-SCCH is a fixed rate (60 kbps, SF=128) downlink physical channel used
to carry downlink signalling related to HS-DSCH transmission. Figure 26A
illustrates the sub-frame structure of the HS-SCCH.
Figure 26A: Subframe structure for the HS-SCCH
#### 5.3.3.13 High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Channel (HS-PDSCH)
The High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Channel (HS- PDSCH) is used to carry
the High Speed Downlink Shared Channel (HS-DSCH).
A HS-PDSCH corresponds to one channelization code of fixed spreading factor
SF=16 from the set of channelization codes reserved for HS-DSCH transmission.
Multi-code transmission is allowed, which translates to UE being assigned
multiple channelisation codes in the same HS-PDSCH subframe, depending on its
UE capability.
The subframe and slot structure of HS-PDSCH are shown in figure 26B.
Figure 26B: Subframe structure for the HS-PDSCH
An HS-PDSCH may use QPSK, 16QAM or 64QAM modulation symbols. In figure 26B, M
is the number of bits per modulation symbols i.e. M=2 for QPSK, M=4 for 16QAM
and M=6 for 64QAM. The slot formats are shown in table 26.
Table 26: HS-DSCH fields
* * *
Slot format #i Channel Bit Rate (kbps) Channel Symbol Rate (ksps) SF Bits/ HS-
DSCH subframe Bits/ Slot Ndata 0(QPSK) 480 240 16 960 320 320 1(16QAM) 960 240
16 1920 640 640 2(64QAM) 1440 240 16 2880 960 960
* * *
All relevant Layer 1 information is transmitted in the associated HS-SCCH i.e.
the HS-PDSCH does not carry any Layer 1 information.
#### 5.3.3.14 E--DCH Absolute Grant Channel (E-AGCH)
An E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel (E-AGCH) is a fixed rate (30 kbps, SF=256)
downlink physical channel carrying uplink E-DCH absolute grants for uplink
E-DCHs associated with the E-AGCH by higher layer signalling. Figure 26C
illustrates the frame and sub-frame structure of the E‑AGCH.
An E-DCH absolute grant shall be transmitted over one E-AGCH sub-frame or one
E-AGCH frame. The transmission over one E-AGCH sub-frame and over one E-AGCH
frame shall be used for UEs for which E-DCH TTI is set to respectively 2 ms
and 10 ms.
Figure 26C: Sub-frame structure for the E-AGCH
#### 5.3.3.15 MBMS Indicator Channel (MICH)
The MBMS Indicator Channel (MICH) is a fixed rate (SF=256) physical channel
used to carry the MBMS notification indicators. The MICH is always associated
with an S-CCPCH to which a FACH transport channel is mapped.
Figure 26D illustrates the frame structure of the MICH. One MICH radio frame
of length 10 ms consists of 300 bits (b~0~, b~1~, ..., b~299~). Of these, 288
bits (b~0~, b~1~, ..., b~287~) are used to carry notification indicators. The
remaining 12 bits are not formally part of the MICH and shall not be
transmitted (DTX).
{width="5.311111111111111in" height="1.4916666666666667in"}
Figure 26D: Structure of MBMS Indicator Channel (MICH)
In each MICH frame, Nn notification indicators {N~0~, ..., N~Nn-1~} are
transmitted, where Nn=18, 36, 72, or 144.
The NI calculated by higher layers is associated to the index q of the
notification indicator N _~q~_ , where _q_ is computed as a function of the NI
computed by higher layers, the SFN of the P-CCPCH radio frame during which the
start of the MICH radio frame occurs, and the number of notification
indicators per frame (Nn):
where G = 2^16^ , C = 25033 and NI is the 16 bit Notification Indicator
calculated by higher layers.
The set of NI signalled over Iub indicates all higher layer NI values for
which the associated notification indicator on MICH shall be set to 1 during
the corresponding modification period. Hence, the calculation in the formula
above shall be performed in the Node B every MICH frame for each NI signalled
over Iub to make the association between NI and q and set the related N _~q~_
to 1. All other notification indicators on MICH shall be set to 0.
The mapping from {N~0~, ..., N~Nn-1~} to the MICH bits {b~0~, ..., b~287~} are
according to table 27.
Table 27: Mapping of notification indicators N~q~ to MICH bits
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of | N~q~ = 1 | N~q~ = 0 | | notification | | | | | | | | indicators per frame | | | | | | | | (Nn) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Nn=18 | {b~16q~, ..., | {b~16q~, ..., | | | b~16q+15~} = {1, | b~16q+15~} = {0, | | | 1,..., 1} | 0,..., 0} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Nn=36 | {b~8q~, ..., | {b~8q~, ..., | | | b~8q+7~} = {1, | b~8q+7~} = {0, | | | 1,..., 1} | 0,..., 0} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Nn=72 | {b~4q~, ..., | {b~4q~, ..., | | | b~4q+3~} = {1, | b~4q+3~} = {0, | | | 1,..., 1} | 0,..., 0} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Nn=144 | {b~2q~, b~2q+1~} = | {b~2q~, b~2q+1~} = | | | {1, 1} | {0, 0} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
When transmit diversity is employed for the MICH, STTD encoding is used on the
MICH bits as described in subclause 5.3.1.1.1.
# 6 Mapping and association of physical channels
## 6.1 Mapping of transport channels onto physical channels
Figure 27 summarises the mapping of transport channels onto physical channels.
Figure 27: Transport-channel to physical-channel mapping
The DCHs are coded and multiplexed as described in [3], and the resulting data
stream is mapped sequentially (first-in-first-mapped) directly to the physical
channel(s). The mapping of BCH and FACH/PCH is equally straightforward, where
the data stream after coding and interleaving is mapped sequentially to the
Primary and Secondary CCPCH respectively. Also for the RACH, the coded and
interleaved bits are sequentially mapped to the physical channel, in this case
the message part of the PRACH. The E-DCH is coded as described in [3], and the
resulting data stream is mapped sequentially (first-in-first-mapped) directly
to the physical channel(s).
## 6.2 Association of physical channels and physical signals
Figure 28 illustrates the association between physical channels and physical
signals.
Figure 28: Physical channel and physical signal association
# 7 Timing relationship between physical channels
## 7.1 General
The P-CCPCH, on which the cell SFN is transmitted, is used as timing reference
for all the physical channels, directly for downlink and indirectly for
uplink.
Figure 29 describes the frame timing of some of the downlink physical
channels; the timing of the remaining downlink physical channels and of the
uplink physical channels is specified in the remaining subclauses. For the
AICH the access slot timing is included. Transmission timing for uplink
physical channels is given by the received timing of downlink physical
channels.
Figure 29: Radio frame timing and access slot timing of downlink physical
channels
The following applies:
\- SCH (primary and secondary), CPICH (primary and secondary) and P-CCPCH have
identical frame timings.
\- The S-CCPCH timing may be different for different S-CCPCHs, but the offset
from the P-CCPCH frame timing is a multiple of 256 chips, i.e. τ~S-CCPCH,k~ =
T~k~__ × 256 chip, T~k~ ∈ {0, 1, ..., 149}. For MBSFN operations using slot
formats 21 to 23 in table 18, the offset shall be set in accordance with
τ~S-CCPCH,k~ = 256 + __ T~k~ _/10_.__ × 2560 chip.
\- If the PICH is associated to the S-CCPCH, the PICH timing is τ~PICH~ = 7680
chips prior to its corresponding S-CCPCH frame timing, i.e. the timing of the
S-CCPCH carrying the PCH transport channel with the corresponding paging
information, see also subclause 7.2. If the PICH is associated to the HS-SCCH,
the PICH frame timing is the same as the HS-SCCH frame timing.
\- AICH access slots #0 starts the same time as P-CCPCH frames with (SFN
modulo 2) = 0. The AICH/PRACH timing is described in subclauses 7.3 and 7.4
respectively.
\- The DPCH timing may be different for different DPCHs, but the offset from
the P-CCPCH frame timing is a multiple of 256 chips, i.e. τ~DPCH,n~ = T~n~__ ×
256 chip, T~n~ ∈ {0, 1, ..., 149}. The DPCH (DPCCH/DPDCH) timing relation with
uplink DPCCH/DPDCHs is described in subclause 7.6.
\- The F-DPCH timing may be different for different F-DPCHs, but the offset
from the P-CCPCH frame timing is a multiple of 256 chips, i.e. τ~F-DPCH,p~ =
T~p~__ × 256 chip, T~p~ ∈ {0, 1, ..., 149}. All F-DPCHs transmitted to a UE
from the same HS-DSCH cell set have the same timing. The F-DPCH timing
relation with uplink DPCCH/DPDCHs is described in subclause 7.6.
\- The start of HS-SCCH subframe #0 is aligned with the start of the P-CCPCH
frames. The relative timing between a HS-PDSCH and the corresponding HS-SCCH
is described in subclause 7.8.
\- The E-HICH, E-RGCH and E-AGCH downlink timing are respectively specified in
subclause 7.10, 7.11 and 7.12. The E‑DPCCH and E‑DPDCH uplink timing are
specified in subclause 7.13.
\- For a secondary serving HS-DSCH cell, the nominal radio frame timing for
CPICH and timing reference are the same as the radio frame timing for CPICH
and timing reference for the serving HS-DSCH cell.
## 7.2 PICH/S-CCPCH timing relation
Figure 30 illustrates the timing between a PICH frame and its associated
single S-CCPCH frame, i.e. the S-CCPCH frame that carries the paging
information related to the paging indicators in the PICH frame. A paging
indicator set in a PICH frame means that the paging message is transmitted on
the PCH in the S-CCPCH frame starting τ~PICH~ chips after the transmitted PICH
frame. τ~PICH~ is defined in subclause 7.1.
{width="6.129861111111111in" height="1.301388888888889in"}
Figure 30: Timing relation between PICH frame and associated S-CCPCH frame
## 7.2A PICH/HS-SCCH timing relation
Figure 30a illustrates the timing between a PICH frame and its set of 5
associated HS-SCCH subframes. The first associated subframe of the associated
HS-SCCH starts one HS-SCCH sub-frame after the transmitted PICH frame and is
the HS-SCCH subframe number 1 as defined in subclause 7.1. A paging indicator
set in a PICH frame means that one or more HS-DSCH subframes may be
transmitted to the UE on the HS-PDSCH(s) associated with the HS-SCCH subframes
associated with the PICH as defined in [5].
Figure 30a: Timing relation between PICH frame and associated HS-SCCH
subframes
## 7.3 PRACH/AICH timing relation
The downlink AICH is divided into downlink access slots, each access slot is
of length 5120 chips. The downlink access slots are time aligned with the
P-CCPCH as described in subclause 7.1.
The uplink PRACH is divided into uplink access slots, each access slot is of
length 5120 chips. Uplink access slot number _n_ is transmitted from the UE
τ~p-a~ chips prior to the reception of downlink access slot number _n_ , _n_ =
0, 1, ..., 14.
Transmission of downlink acquisition indicators may only start at the
beginning of a downlink access slot. Similarly, transmission of uplink RACH
preambles and RACH message parts may only start at the beginning of an uplink
access slot.
The PRACH/AICH timing relation is shown in figure 31.
{width="6.434027777777778in" height="2.2152777777777777in"}
Figure 31: Timing relation between PRACH and AICH as seen at the UE
The preamble-to-preamble distance τ~p-p~ shall be larger than or equal to the
minimum preamble-to-preamble distance\ τ~p-p,min~, i.e. τ~p-p~ ≥ τ~p-p,min~.
In addition to τ~p-p,min~, the preamble-to-AI distance τ~p-a~ and preamble-to-
message distance τ~p-m~ are defined as follows:
\- when AICH_Transmission_Timing is set to 0, then
τ~p-p,min~ = 15360 chips (3 access slots)
τ~p-a~ = 7680 chips
τ~p-m~ = 15360 chips (3 access slots)
\- when AICH_Transmission_Timing is set to 1, then
τ~p-p,min~ = 20480 chips (4 access slots)
τ~p-a~ = 12800 chips
τ~p-m~ = 20480 chips (4 access slots)
The parameter AICH_Transmission_Timing is signalled by higher layers.
## 7.3A UL/DL timing relation for Enhanced Uplink in CELL_FACH state and IDLE
mode
Figure 31A: UL/DL timing relation for Enhanced Uplink in CELL_FACH state and
IDLE mode as seen at the UE
The PRACH preamble and Acquisition indication timings τ~p-p~ and τ~p-a~ are as
defined in section 7.3.
> τ~F-DPCH~ = [(5120 * AICH access slot # with the AI) + 10240 + 256 *
> S~offset~] mod 38400
>
> τ~a-m~ = 10240 + 256 * S~offset~ + τ~0~ chips, where
>
> S~offset~ = a symbol offset, configured by higher layers, {0,...,9}.
>
> τ~0~ = 1024 chips defining the DL to UL frame timing difference.
## 7.4 Void
## 7.5 Void
## 7.6 DPCCH/DPDCH timing relations
### 7.6.1 Uplink
In uplink all the DPCCHs and all the DPDCHs transmitted from one UE have the
same frame timing.
### 7.6.2 Downlink
In downlink, the DPCCH and all the DPDCHs carrying CCTrCHs of dedicated type
to one UE have the same frame timing.
Note: support of multiple CCTrChs of dedicated type is not part of the current
release.
### 7.6.3 Uplink/downlink timing at UE
At the UE, the uplink DPCCH/DPDCH frame transmission takes place approximately
T~0~ chips after the reception of the first detected path (in time) of the
corresponding downlink DPCCH/DPDCH or F-DPCH frame. T~0~ is a constant defined
to be 1024 chips. The first detected path (in time) is defined implicitly by
the relevant tests in [14]. More information about the uplink/downlink timing
relation and meaning of T~0~ can be found in [5].
## 7.7 Uplink DPCCH/HS-DPCCH/HS-PDSCH timing at the UE
Figure 34 shows the timing offset between the uplink DPCH, the HS-PDSCH and
the HS-DPCCH at the UE. An HS-DPCCH sub-frame starts $m \times \text{256}$
chips after the start of an uplink DPCH frame that corresponds to the DL DPCH
or F-DPCH frame from the HS-DSCH serving cell containing the beginning of the
related HS-PDSCH subframe with _m_ calculated as
_m_ = (T~TX_diff~ /256 ) + 101
where T~TX_diff~ is the difference in chips (T~TX_diff~ =0, 256, .....,
38144), between
  * the transmit timing of the start of the related HS-PDSCH subframe (see sub-clauses 7.8 and 7.1)
and
  * the transmit timing of the start of the downlink DPCH or F-DPCH frame from the HS-DSCH serving cell that contains the beginning of the HS-PDSCH subframe (see sub-clause 7.1).
At any one time, _m_ therefore takes one of a set of five possible values
according to the transmission timing of HS-DSCH sub-frame timings relative to
the DPCH or F-DPCH frame boundary. The UE and Node B shall only update the set
of values of _m_ in connection to UTRAN reconfiguration of downlink timing.
More information about uplink timing adjustments can be found in [5].
Figure 34: Timing structure at the UE for HS-DPCCH control signalling
## 7.8 HS-SCCH/HS-PDSCH timing
Figure 35 shows the relative timing between the HS-SCCH and the associated HS-
PDSCH for one HS-DSCH sub-frame. The HS-PDSCH starts τ~HS-PDSCH~ = 2×T~slot~ =
5120 chips after the start of the HS-SCCH.
Figure 35: Timing relation between the HS-SCCH and the associated HS-PDSCH.
## 7.9 MICH/S-CCPCH timing relation
Figure 36 illustrates the timing between the MICH frame boundaries and the
frame boundaries of the associated S‑CCPCH, i.e. the S-CCPCH that carries the
MBMS control information related to the notification indicators in the MICH
frame. The MICH transmission timing shall be such that the end of radio frame
boundary occurs τ~MICH~ chips before the associated S-CCPCH start of radio
frame boundary. τ~MICH~ is equal to 7680 chips.
The MICH frames during which the Node B shall set specific notification
indicators and the S‑CCPCH frames during which the Node B shall transmit the
corresponding MBMS control data is defined by higher layers.
Figure 36: Timing relation between MICH frame and associated S-CCPCH frame
## 7.10 E-HICH/P-CCPCH/DPCH timing relation
The timing of the E-HICH relative to the P-CCPCH is illustrated in figure 37.
When the E-DCH TTI is 10 ms the E-HICH frame offset relative to P‑CCPCH shall
be τ~E-HICH,n~ chips with
When the E-DCH TTI is 2 ms the E-HICH frame offset relative to P‑CCPCH shall
be τ~E-HICH,n~ chips with
When a downlink F-DPCH is configured, $\tau_{\text{DPCH},n} = \tau_{F -
\text{DPCH},n}$.
Figure 37: E-HICH timing
## 7.11 E-RGCH/P-CCPCH/DPCH timing relation
The timing of the E-RGCH relative to the P-CCPCH is illustrated in figure 38.
When transmitted to a UE for which the cell transmitting the E-RGCH is in the
E-DCH serving radio link set, the E-RGCH frame offset shall be as follows:
  * if the E-DCH TTI is 10 ms, the E-RGCH frame offset relative to P‑CCPCH shall be τ~E-RGCH,n~ chips with
  * if the E-DCH TTI is 2 ms the E-RGCH frame offset relative to P‑CCPCH shall be τ~E-RGCH,n~ chips with
When a downlink F-DPCH is configured, $\tau_{\text{DPCH},n} = \tau_{F -
\text{DPCH},n}$.
When transmitted to a UE for which the cell transmitting the E-RGCH is not in
the E-DCH serving radio link set, the E-RGCH frame offset relative to P‑CCPCH
shall be τ~E-RGCH~ = 5120 chips.
Figure 38: E-RGCH timing
## 7.12 E-AGCH/P-CCPCH timing relation
The E-AGCH frame offset relative to P‑CCPCH shall be τ~E-AGCH~ = 5120 chips as
illustrated in figure 39.
Figure 39: E-AGCH timing
## 7.13 E-DPDCH/E-DPCCH/DPCCH timing relation
The frame timing of all the E-DPCCHs and all the E-DPDCHs transmitted from one
UE shall be the same as the uplink DPCCH frame timing.
#