# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the description and definition of the
measurements done at the UE and network in TDD mode in order to support
operation in idle mode and connected mode.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.211: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (FDD)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.212: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.213: \"Spreading and modulation (FDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.215: \"Physical layer measurements (FDD)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.221: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (TDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.222: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (TDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.223: \"Spreading and modulation (TDD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.224: \"Physical layer procedures (TDD)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio Interface Protocol Architecture\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.302: \"Services provided by the Physical layer\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.303: \"UE functions and interlayer procedures in connected
mode\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"UE procedures in idle mode\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"RRC Protocol Specification\".
[15] 3GPP TR 25.922: \"Radio Resource Management Strategies\".
[16] 3GPP TR 25.923: \"Report on Location Services (LCS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 25.102: \"UTRA (UE) TDD; Radio transmission and Reception\"
[18] 3GPP TS 25.105: \"UTRA (BS) TDD; Radio transmission and Reception\"
[19] 3GPP TS 25.123: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resources Management
(TDD)\"
[20] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"E-UTRA; Physical Channels and Modulation\"
[21] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"E-UTRA; Physical layer -- Measurements\"
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BCH Broadcast Channel
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel (GSM)
BER Bit Error Rate
BLER Block Error Rate
CFN Connection Frame Number
CPICH Common Pilot Channel (FDD)
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
DCA Dynamic Channel Allocation
DCH Dedicated Channel
DPCH Dedicated Physical Channel
Ec/No Received energy per chip divided by the power density in the band
E-AGCH E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel
E-HICH E-DCH Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
FACH Forward Access Channel
FCCH Frequency Correction Channel (GSM)
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GSM Global System for Mobile Communication
GPS Global Positioning System
ISCP Interference Signal Code Power
P-CCPCH Primary Common Control Physical Channel
PCH Paging Channel
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
RACH Random Access Channel
RSCP Received Signal Code Power
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator
S-CCPCH Secondary Common Control Physical Channel
SCH Synchronisation Channel
SCTD Space Code Transmit Diversity
SF Spreading Factor
SFN System Frame Number
SIR Signal-to-Interference Ratio
TDD Time Division Duplex
TDMA Time Division Multiple Access
TrCH Transport Channel
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
USCH Uplink Shared Channel
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Control of UE/UTRAN measurements
In this clause the general measurement control concept of the higher layers is
briefly described to provide an understanding on how L1 measurements are
initiated and controlled by higher layers.
## 4.1 General measurement concept
L1 provides with the measurement specifications a toolbox of measurement
abilities for the UE and the UTRAN. These measurements can be differentiated
in different measurement types: intra-frequency, inter-frequency, inter-
system, traffic volume, quality and internal measurements (see [14]).\ In the
L1 measurement specifications the measurements are distinguished between
measurements in the UE (the messages will be described in the RRC Protocol)
and measurements in the UTRAN (the messages will be described in the NBAP and
the Frame Protocol).
To initiate a specific measurement the UTRAN transmits a 'measurement control
message' to the UE including a measurement ID and type, a command (setup,
modify, release), the measurement objects and quantity, the reporting
quantities, criteria (periodical/event-triggered) and mode
(acknowledged/unacknowledged), see [14].\ When the reporting criteria is
fulfilled the UE shall answer with a 'measurement report message' to the UTRAN
including the measurement ID and the results.\ In idle mode the measurement
control message is broadcast in a System Information.
Intra-frequency reporting events, traffic volume reporting events and UE
internal measurement reporting events described in [14] define events which
trigger the UE to send a report to the UTRAN. This defines a toolbox from
which the UTRAN can choose the needed reporting events.
## 4.2 Measurements for cell selection/reselection
Whenever a PLMN has been selected the UE shall start to find a suitable cell
to camp on, this is 'cell selection'.
When camped on cell the UE regularly searches for a better cell depending on
the cell reselection criteria, this is called 'cell reselection'. The
procedures for cell selection and reselection are described in [13] and the
measurements carried out by the UE are explained in this specification.
## 4.3 Measurements for Handover
For the handover preparation the UE receives from the UTRAN a list of cells
(e.g. TDD, FDD or GSM).which the UE shall monitor (see 'monitored set' in
[14]) in its idle timeslots.
At the beginning of the measurement process the UE shall find synchronization
to the cell to measure using the synchronization channel. This is described
under 'cell search' in [9] if the monitored cell is a TDD cell and in [4] if
it is an FDD cell.
For a TDD cell to monitor after this procedure the exact timing of the
midamble of the P-CCPCH is known and the measurements can be performed.
Depending on the UE implementation and if timing information about the cell to
monitor is available, the UE may perform the measurements on the P-CCPCH
directly without prior SCH synchronisation.
## 4.4 Measurements for DCA
DCA is used to optimise the resource allocation by means of a channel quality
criteria or traffic parameters. The DCA measurements are configured by the
UTRAN. The UE reports the measurements to the UTRAN.
For DCA no measurements are performed in idle mode in the serving TDD cell.
When connecting with the initial access the UE immediately starts measuring
the ISCP of time slots which are communicated on the BCH. The measurements and
the preprocessing are done while the UTRAN assigns an UL channel for the UE
for signalling and measurement reporting.
In connected mode the UE performs measurements according to a measurement
control message from the UTRAN.
## 4.5 Measurements for timing advance
To update timing advance of a moving UE the UTRAN measures 'Received Timing
Deviation', i.e. the time difference of the received UL transmission (PRACH,
DPCH, PUSCH) in relation to its timeslot structure that means in relation to
the ideal case where an UL transmission would have zero propagation delay. The
measurements are reported to higher layers, where timing advance values are
calculated and signalled to the UE.
# 5 Measurement abilities for UTRA TDD
In this clause the physical layer measurements reported to higher layers.
(this may also include UE internal measurements not reported over the air-
interface) are defined.
## 5.1 UE measurement abilities
The structure of the table defining a UE measurement quantity is shown below.
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Column field** | Comment | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Contains the definition of the measurement. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | States in which RRC state according to [14] | | | a measurement shall be possible to be | | | performed. For RRC connected mode states | | | information is also given on the possibility | | | to perform the measurement on intra-frequency | | | and/or inter-frequency. | | | | | | The following terms are used in the tables: | | | | | | Idle = Shall be possible to perform in idle | | | mode; | | | | | | URA_PCH = Shall be possible to perform in | | | URA_PCH; | | | | | | CELL_PCH = Shall be possible to perform in | | | CELL_PCH; | | | | | | CELL_FACH = Shall be possible to perform in | | | CELL_FACH; | | | | | | CELL_DCH = Shall be possible to perform in | | | CELL_DCH; | | | | | | For all RRC connected mode states i.e. | | | URA_PCH, CELL_PCH, CELL_FACH and CELL_DCH | | | | | | Intra appended to the RRC state = Shall be | | | possible to perform in the corresponding RRC | | | state on an intra-frequency cell; | | | | | | Inter appended to the RRC state = Shall be | | | possible to perform in the corresponding RRC | | | state on an inter-frequency cell. | | | | | | Inter-RAT appended to the RRC state = Shall be | | | possible to perform in the corresponding RRC | | | state on an inter-RAT cell. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
NOTE 1: Measurements for TDD which are specified on the Primary CCPCH
(P-CCPCH) are carried out on the P-CCPCH or on any other beacon channel, see
[6].
NOTE 2: For the beacon channels [6], the received power measurements shall be
based on the received power for midamble m^(1)^ if no Space Code Transmit
Diversity (SCTD) is applied to the P-CCPCH and on the sum of the received
powers for midambles m^(1)^ and m^(2)^ if SCTD is applied to the P-CCPCH.
NOTE 3: The UTRAN has to take into account the UE capabilities when specifying
the timeslots to be measured in the measurement control message.
NOTE 4: The line 'applicable for' indicates whether the measurement is
applicable for inter-frequency and/or intra-frequency and furthermore for idle
and/or connected mode.
NOTE 5: The Interference part of the SIR measurement will be dependent on the
receiver implementation, and will normally be different from the Timeslot ISCP
measurement.
NOTE 6: The measurement 'Timeslot ISCP' is only a measure of the intercell
interference.
NOTE 7: The term \"antenna connector of the UE\" used in this sub-clause to
define the reference point for the UE measurements is defined in [17].
NOTE 8: Performance and reporting requirements for the UE measurements are
defined in [19].
### 5.1.1 P-CCPCH RSCP
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Received Signal Code Power, the received power | | | on P-CCPCH of own or neighbour cell. The | | | reference point for the RSCP shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. If receiver | | | diversity is in use by the UE, the reported | | | value shall not be lower than the | | | corresponding P-CCPCH RSCP of any of the | | | individual diversity branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH intra, URA_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_PCH intra, CELL_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_FACH intra, CELL_FACH inter, | | | | | | CELL_DCH intra, CELL DCH inter | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.2 CPICH RSCP
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Received Signal Code Power, the received power | | | on one code measured on the Primary CPICH. The | | | reference point for the RSCP shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. (This measurement | | | is used in TDD for monitoring FDD cells while | | | camping on a TDD cell). | | | | | | If Tx diversity is applied on the Primary | | | CPICH the received code power from each | | | antenna shall be separately measured and | | | summed together in [W] to a total received | | | code power on the Primary CPICH. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_FACH inter, | | | | | | CELL_DCH inter | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.3 Timeslot ISCP
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Interference Signal Code Power, the | | | interference on the received signal in a | | | specified timeslot measured on the midamble. | | | The reference point for the ISCP shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | CELL_FACH intra, | | | | | | CELL_DCH intra | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.4 UTRA carrier RSSI
* * *
**Definition** The received wide band power, including thermal noise and noise
generated in the receiver, within the bandwidth defined by the receiver pulse
shaping filter, for TDD within a specified timeslot. The reference point for
the measurement shall be the antenna connector of the UE. If receiver
diversity is in use by the UE, the reported value shall not be lower than the
corresponding UTRA carrier RSSI of any of the individual diversity branches.
**Applicable for** CELL_DCH intra, CELL_DCH inter
* * *
### 5.1.5 GSM carrier RSSI
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Received Signal Strength Indicator, the | | | wide-band received power within the relevant | | | channel bandwidth Measurement shall be | | | performed on a GSM BCCH carrier. The reference | | | point for the RSSI shall be the antenna | | | connector of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH inter-RAT, | | | | | | CELL_PCH inter-RAT, | | | | | | CELL_FACH inter-RAT, | | | | | | CELL_DCH inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.6 SIR
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Signal to Interference Ratio, defined as: | | | (RSCP/Interference)xSF. | | | | | | Where: | | | | | | RSCP = Received Signal Code Power, the | | | received power on the code of a specified DPCH | | | or PDSCH. | | | | | | Interference = The interference on the | | | received signal in the same timeslot which | | | can't be eliminated by the receiver. | | | | | | SF = The used spreading factor. | | | | | | The reference point for the SIR shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. | | | | | | If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the | | | reported SIR value shall not be lower than the | | | corresponding SIR of any of the individual | | | diversity branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | CELL_FACH intra, | | | | | | CELL_DCH intra | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.7 CPICH Ec/No
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The received energy per chip divided by the | | | power density in the band. The CPICH Ec/No is | | | identical to CPICH RSCP/UTRA Carrier RSSI. The | | | measurement shall be performed on the Primary | | | CPICH. The reference point for the CPICH Ec/No | | | shall be the antenna connector of the UE. | | | (This measurement is used in TDD for | | | monitoring FDD cells while camping on a TDD | | | cell) | | | | | | If Tx diversity is applied on the Primary | | | CPICH the received energy per chip (Ec) from | | | each antenna shall be separately measured and | | | summed together in [Ws] to a total received | | | chip energy per chip on the Primary CPICH, | | | before calculating the Ec/No. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_FACH inter, | | | | | | CELL_DCH inter | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.8 Transport channel BLER
* * *
**Definition** Estimation of the transport channel block error rate (BLER).
The BLER estimation shall be based on evaluating the CRC on each transport
block. **Applicable for** CELL_DCH intra
* * *
### 5.1.9 UE transmitted power
* * *
**Definition** The total UE transmitted power on all carriers in a specified
timeslot. The reference point for the UE transmitted power shall be the
antenna connector of the UE. **Applicable for** CELL_FACH intra, CELL_DCH
intra
* * *
### 5.1.10 SFN-SFN observed time difference
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | SFN-SFN observed time difference is the time | | | difference of the reception times of frames | | | from two cells (serving and target) measured | | | in the UE and expressed in chips. It is | | | distinguished by two types. Type 2 applies if | | | the serving and the target cell have the same | | | frame timing. | | | | | | The reference point for the SFN-SFN observed | | | time difference type 1 and 2 shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. | | | | | | **[Type 1:]{.underline}** | | | | | | SFN-SFN observed time difference = | | | | | | where: | | | | | | T~m~ = T~RxSFNi~ - T~RxSFNk~, given in chip | | | units | | | | | | with the range $\left{ \begin{matrix} | | | \lbrack\text{0,\ 1,\ }\ldots\tex | | | t{,\ 12799}\rbrack\ \text{chips}\ \text{for}\ | | | 1\text{.}\text{28}\ \text{Mcps}\ \text{TDD} \ | | | \text{0,\ 1,\ }\ldots\tex | | | t{,\ 38399}\rbrack\text{\ chips}\ \text{for}\ | | | 3\text{.}\text{84}\ \text{Mcps}\ \text{TDD} \ | | | \text{0,\ 1,\ }\ldots\tex | | | t{,\ 76799}\rbrack\text{\ chips}\ \text{for}\ | | | 7\text{.}\text{68}\ \text{Mcps}\ \text{TDD} \ | | | \end{matrix} \right.\ $ | | | | | | T~RxSFNi~ = time of start (defined by the | | | first detected path in time) of the received | | | frame SFN~i~ of the serving TDD cell i. | | | | | | T~RxSFNk~ = time of start (defined by the | | | first detected path in time) of the received | | | frame SFN~k~ of the target UTRA cell k | | | received most recently in time before the time | | | instant T~RxSFNi~ in the UE. If this frame | | | SFN~k~ of the target UTRA cell is received | | | exactly at T~RxSFNi~ then T~RxSFNk~= T~RxSFNi~ | | | (which leads to T~m~=0)~.~ | | | | | | OFF = (SFN~i~- SFN~k~) mod 256, given in | | | number of frames with the range [0, 1, ..., | | | 255] frames | | | | | | SFNi = system frame number for downlink frame | | | from serving TDD cell i in the UE at the time | | | T~RxSFNi~. | | | | | | SFNk = system frame number for downlink frame | | | from target UTRA cell k received in the UE at | | | the time T~RxSFNk~.(for FDD: the P-CCPCH | | | frame) | | | | | | The reference point for the SFN-SFN observed | | | time difference type 1 shall be the antenna | | | connector of the UE. | | | | | | **[Type 2:]{.underline}** | | | | | | SFN-SFN observed time difference = | | | T~Rx_Frame_cell\ k~ - T~Rx_Frame_cell\ i~, | | | in chips, where | | | | | | T~Rx_Frame_cell\ i~: time of start (defined | | | by the first detected path in time) of the | | | frame boundary from the serving TDD cell i. | | | | | | T~Rx_Frame_cell\ k~: time of start (defined | | | by the first detected path in time) of the | | | frame boundary from the target UTRA cell k | | | that is closest in time to the frame boundary | | | of the serving TDD cell i. | | | | | | The reference point for the SFN-SFN observed | | | time difference type 2 shall be the antenna | | | connector of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | **[Type 1:]{.underline}** CELL_FACH intra | | | | | | **[Type 2:]{.underline}** | | | | | | **Idle,** | | | | | | URA_PCH intra, URA_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_PCH intra, CELL_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_FACH intra, CELL_FACH inter, | | | | | | CELL_DCH intra, CELL_DCH inter | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.11 SFN-CFN observed time difference
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The SFN-CFN observed time difference is | | | defined as: | | | | | | T~m~ for an FDD neighbour cell (i.e. the value | | | is reported in chips), | | | | | | OFF for a TDD neighbour cell (i.e the value is | | | reported in frames), | | | | | | where: | | | | | | T~m~ = T~UETx~ - T~RxSFN~, given in chip units | | | with the range [0, 1, ..., 38399] chips. | | | | | | T~UETx~ = the time at the beginning of the | | | frame with the connection frame number CFN~TX~ | | | considering the transmission from the UE in | | | the serving TDD cell. | | | | | | T~RxSFN~ = the time (defined by the first | | | detected path in time) at the beginning of the | | | frame with the system frame number SFN (for | | | FDD neighbour cells: P-CCPCH frame is | | | considered) received at the UE from a | | | neighbour cell. T~RxSFN~ is the time instant | | | most recent in time before the time instant | | | T~UETx~ | | | | | | OFF = (SFN-CFN~TX~) mod 256, given in number | | | of frames with the range [0, 1, ..., 255] | | | frames. | | | | | | CFN~Tx~ = the connection frame number for the | | | UE transmission. | | | | | | SFN = is the system frame number for the | | | neighbouring cell frame (for FDD neighbour | | | cells: P-CCPCH frame) received in the UE at | | | the time instant T~RxSFN~. | | | | | | The reference point for the SFN-CFN observed | | | time difference shall be the antenna connector | | | of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | CELL_DCH intra, CELL_DCH inter | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.12 Observed time difference to GSM cell
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Observed time difference to GSM cell is | | | reported as the time difference T~m~ in ms, | | | where | | | | | | T~m~= T~RxGSMk~ - T~RxSFN0i~ | | | | | | T~RxSFN0i~ : time of start (defined by the | | | first detected path in time) of the received | | | frame SFN=0 of the serving TDD cell i | | | | | | T~RxGSMk.~: time of start of the GSM BCCH | | | 51-multiframe of the considered target GSM | | | frequency k received closest in time after the | | | time T~RxSFN0i.~ If the next GSM BCCH | | | 51-multiframe is received exactly at | | | T~RxSFN0i~ then T~RxGSMk~ = T~RxSFN0i~ (which | | | leads to T~m~=0). The beginning of the GSM | | | BCCH 51-multiframe is defined as the beginning | | | of the first tail bit of the frequency | | | correction burst in the first TDMA-frame of | | | the GSM BCCH 51-multiframe, i.e. the | | | TDMA-frame following the IDLE-frame. | | | | | | The reference point for the Observed time | | | difference to GSM cell shall be the antenna | | | connector of the UE. | | | | | | The reported time difference is calculated | | | from the actual measurement in the UE. The | | | actual measurement shall be based on: | | | | | | T~MeasGSM,j~: The start of the first tail bit | | | of the most recently received GSM SCH on | | | frequency j | | | | | | T~MeasSFN,i~: The start of the last frame | | | received in TDD cell i before receiving the | | | GSM SCH on frequency j | | | | | | For calculating the reported time difference, | | | the frame lengths are always assumed to be 10 | | | ms for UTRA and (60/13) ms for GSM. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, URA PCH inter-RAT, CELL PCH inter-RAT, | | | CELL_DCH Inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.13 UE GPS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning
* * *
**Definition** T~UE-GPSj~ is defined as the time of occurrence of a specified
UTRAN event according to GPS Time Of Week. The specified UTRAN event is the
beginning of a particular frame (identified through its SFN) in the first
detected path (in time) of the cell j P-CCPCH. The reference point for T~UE-
GPSj~ shall be the antenna connector of the UE. **Applicable for** CELL_FACH
intra, CELL_DCH intra
* * *
### 5.1.14 Timing Advance (T~ADV~) for 1.28Mcps TDD
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The 'timing advance (T~ADV~)' is the time | | | difference | | | | | | T~ADV~ = T~RX~ - T~TX~ | | | | | | Where | | | | | | T~RX~: calculated beginning time of the first | | | uplink time slot in the first subframe used by | | | the UE with the UE timing according to the | | | reception of start (defined by the first | | | detected path in time) of a certain downlink | | | time slot (for the timing it is assumed that | | | the time slots within a sub-frame are | | | scheduled like given in the frame structure | | | described in 25.221 chapter5A.1) | | | | | | T~TX~: time of the beginning of the same | | | uplink time slot by the UE (for the timing it | | | is assumed that the time slots within a | | | sub-frame are scheduled like given in the | | | frame structure described in 25.221 | | | chapter5A.1) | | | | | | The reference point for the Timing Advance | | | (T~ADV~) shall be the antenna connector of the | | | UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | CELL FACH intra, CELL DCH intra | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.15 UE GPS code phase
* * *
**Definition** The whole and fractional phase of the spreading code of the
i^th^ GPS satellite signal. The reference point for the GPS code phase shall
be the antenna connector of the UE. **Applicable for** Void (this measurement
is not related to UTRAN/GSM signals; its applicability is therefore
independent of the UE RRC state.)
* * *
### 5.1.16 UE transmission power headroom (1.28Mcps option only)
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | UE transmission power headroom (UPH) in | | | reference to a carrier is the ratio of the | | | maximum UE transmission power and the product | | | of P~e-base~ power of this carrier and serving | | | cell path loss, and shall be calculated as | | | following: | | | | | | where: | | | | | | _P~max,tx~_ = min {_Maximum allowed UL TX | | | Power_ , _P~max~_} is the UE maximum | | | transmission power; | | | | | | _Maximum allowed UL TX Power_ is set by UTRAN | | | and defined in [14]; | | | | | | _P~max~_ is the UE nominal maximum output | | | power according to the UE power class and | | | specified in [17] table 6.2; | | | | | | _P~e-base~_ is a closed-loop quantity of this | | | carrier defined in [9] and _L~Path_loss~_ | | | is the serving cell path loss. | | | | | | The reference point for the UE transmission | | | power headroom shall be the antenna connector | | | of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | CELL_DCH intra | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.17 UE transmission power headroom (3.84Mcps and 7.68Mcps options)
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | UE transmission power headroom (UPH) is the | | | ratio of the maximum UE transmission power and | | | a value P~e,norm~, and shall be calculated as | | | per the following: | | | | | | where: | | | | | | _P~max,tx~_ = min {_Maximum allowed UL TX | | | Power_ , _P~max~_} is the UE maximum | | | transmission power; | | | | | | _Maximum allowed UL TX Power_ is set by UTRAN | | | and defined in [14]; | | | | | | _P~max~_ is the UE nominal maximum output | | | power according to the UE power class and | | | specified in [17] table 6.1; | | | | | | _P~e,norm~ is equal to the calculated E-PUCH | | | transmission power as defined in [9] for the | | | case in which β~e~ = 0._ | | | | | | The reference point for the UE transmission | | | power headroom shall be the antenna connector | | | of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | CELL_DCH intra | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.18 E-UTRA RSRP
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Reference signal received power (RSRP), is | | | defined as the linear average over the power | | | contributions (in [W]) of the resource | | | elements that carry cell-specific reference | | | signals within the considered measurement | | | frequency bandwidth. | | | | | | For RSRP determination the cell-specific | | | reference signals R~0~ according to TS 36.211 | | | [20] shall be used. If the UE can reliably | | | detect that R~1~ is available it may use R~1~ | | | in addition to R~0~ to determine RSRP. | | | | | | The reference point for the RSRP shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. | | | | | | If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the | | | reported value shall not be lower than the | | | corresponding RSRP of any of the individual | | | diversity branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH inter-RAT | | | | | | CELL_PCH inter-RAT | | | | | | CELL_DCH inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
Note 1: The number of resource elements within the considered measurement
frequency bandwidth and within the measurement period that are used by the UE
to determine RSRP is left up to the UE implementation with the limitation that
corresponding measurement accuracy requirements have to be fulfilled.
Note 2: The power per resource element is determined from the energy received
during the useful part of the symbol, excluding the CP.
### 5.1.19 E-UTRA RSRQ
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ) is | | | defined as the ratio _N_ ×RSRP/(E-UTRA carrier | | | RSSI), where _N_ is the number of resource | | | blocks of the E-UTRA carrier RSSI measurement | | | bandwidth. The measurements in the numerator | | | and denominator shall be made over the same | | | set of resource blocks. | | | | | | E-UTRA Carrier Received Signal Strength | | | Indicator (RSSI), comprises the linear average | | | of the total received power (in [W]) | | | observed only in OFDM symbols containing | | | reference symbols for antenna port 0, in the | | | measurement bandwidth, over _N_ number of | | | resource blocks by the UE from all sources, | | | including co-channel serving and non-serving | | | cells, adjacent channel interference, thermal | | | noise etc. | | | | | | The reference point for the RSRQ shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. | | | | | | If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the | | | reported value shall not be lower than the | | | corresponding RSRQ of any of the individual | | | diversity branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH inter-RAT | | | | | | CELL_PCH inter-RAT | | | | | | CELL_DCH inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
## 5.2 UTRAN measurement abilities
NOTE 1: If the UTRAN supports multiple frequency bands then the measurements
apply for each frequency band individually.
NOTE 2: The Interference part of the SIR measurement will be dependent on the
receiver implementation, and will normally be different from the Timeslot ISCP
measurement
NOTE 3: The term \"antenna connector\" used in this sub-clause to define the
reference point for the UTRAN measurements refers to the \"BS antenna
connector\" test port A and test port B as described in [18]. The term
\"antenna connector\" refers to Rx or Tx antenna connector as described in the
respective measurement definitions.
### 5.2.1 RSCP
* * *
**Definition** Received Signal Code Power, the received power on one DPCH,
PRACH, PUSCH, HS-SICH or E-PUCH code. The reference point for the RSCP shall
be the Rx antenna connector. When Cell Portions are defined in the cell, the
RSCP for each Cell Portion can be measured and reported to higher layers.
* * *
### 5.2.2 Timeslot ISCP
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Interference Signal Code Power, the interference | | | on the received signal in a specified timeslot | | | measured on the midamble. The reference point for | | | the ISCP shall be the Rx antenna connector. | | | | | | In the case of RX antenna diversity, the average | | | of the linear values [W] of the ISCP values | | | measured for each antenna branch shall be | | | reported. When Cell Portions are defined in the | | | cell, the Timeslot ISCP for each Cell Portion can | | | be measured and reported to higher layers. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.3 Received total wide band power
* * *
**Definition** The received wide band power in a specified timeslot including
the noise generated in the receiver, within the bandwidth defined by the
receiver pulse shaping filter. The reference point for the measurement shall
be the Rx antenna connector. In case of receiver diversity the reported value
shall be the linear average of the power in [W] in the diversity branches.
When Cell Portions are defined in the cell, the received total wide band power
for each Cell Portion can be measured and reported to higher layers.
* * *
### 5.2.4 SIR
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Signal to Interference Ratio, defined as: | | | (RSCP/Interference)xSF. | | | | | | Where: | | | | | | RSCP = Received Signal Code Power, the received | | | power on the code of a specified DPCH, PRACH, | | | PUSCH, HS-SICH or E-PUCH. | | | | | | Interference = The interference on the received | | | signal in the same timeslot which can't be | | | eliminated by the receiver. | | | | | | SF = The used spreading factor. | | | | | | The reference point for the SIR shall be the Rx | | | antenna connector. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.5 Transport channel BER
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The transport channel BER is an estimation of the | | | average bit error rate (BER) of DCH or USCH data. | | | The transport channel (TrCH) BER is measured from | | | the data considering only non-punctured bits at | | | the input of the channel decoder in Node B. | | | | | | It shall be possible to report an estimate of the | | | transport channel BER for a TrCH after the end of | | | each TTI of the TrCH. The reported TrCH BER shall | | | be an estimate of the BER during the latest TTI | | | for that TrCH. Transport channel BER is only | | | required to be reported for TrCHs that are channel | | | coded. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.6 Transmitted carrier power
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Transmitted carrier power, is the ratio between | | | the total transmitted power and the maximum | | | transmission power. | | | | | | Total transmission power is the power [W] | | | transmitted on one DL carrier in a specific | | | timeslot from one UTRAN access point. | | | | | | Maximum transmission power is the power [W] on | | | the same carrier when transmitting at the | | | configured maximum transmission power for the | | | cell. | | | | | | The measurement shall be possible on any carrier | | | transmitted from the UTRAN access point. The | | | reference point for the transmitted carrier power | | | measurement shall be the Tx antenna connector. | | | | | | In case of Tx diversity the transmitted carrier | | | power is the ratio between the sum of the total | | | transmitted powers of all branches and the maximum | | | transmission power. When Cell Portions are defined | | | in the cell, the transmitted carrier power for | | | each Cell Portion can be measured and reported to | | | higher layers. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.7 Transmitted code power
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Transmitted Code Power, is the transmitted power | | | on one carrier and one channelisation code in one | | | timeslot. The reference point for the transmitted | | | code power measurement shall be the Tx antenna | | | connector. | | | | | | In the case of Tx diversity the transmitted code | | | power for each branch shall be measured and the | | | linear sum of the values shall be reported to | | | higher layers, i.e. only one value will be | | | reported to higher layers. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.8 RX Timing Deviation
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | 'RX Timing Deviation' is the time difference | | | TRXdev = TTS -- TRXpath in chips, with | | | | | | TRXpath: time of the reception in the Node B of | | | the first detected uplink path (in time) to be | | | used in the detection process. The reference point | | | for TRXpath shall be the Rx antenna connector. For | | | 1.28 Mcps TDD only the first UL timeslot in the | | | first subframe used by the UE is used for the | | | calculation of T~RXpath~. | | | | | | TTS: time of the beginning of the respective slot | | | according to the Node B internal timing | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
NOTE: This measurement can be used for timing advance calculation or location
services.
### 5.2.9 UTRAN GPS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning
* * *
**Definition** T~UTRAN-GPS~ is defined as the time of occurrence of a
specified UTRAN event according to GPS Time Of Week. The specified UTRAN event
is the beginning of the transmission of a particular frame (identified through
its SFN) transmitted in the cell. The reference point for T~UTRAN-GPSj~ shall
be the Tx antenna connector.
* * *
### 5.2.10 SFN-SFN observed time difference
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | SFN-SFN observed time difference = | | | T~Rx_Frame_cell\ k~ - T~Rx_Frame_cell\ i~, in | | | chips, where | | | | | | T~Rx_Frame_cell\ i~: time of start (defined by | | | the first detected path in time) of the frame | | | boundary from the TDD cell i. | | | | | | T~Rx_Frame_cell\ k~: time of start (defined by | | | the first detected path in time) of the frame | | | boundary from the cell k that is closest in time | | | to the frame boundary of the TDD cell i. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.11 Cell Sync Burst Timing
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Cell sync burst timing is the time of start | | | (defined by the first detected path in time) of | | | the cell sync burst of a neighbouring cell. This | | | measurement is applicable for 3.84Mcps TDD and | | | 1.28Mcps TDD. For 1.28 Mcps TDD the DwPCH | | | represents the cell sync burst. Type 1 is used for | | | the initial phase of Node B synchronization. Type | | | 2 is used for the steady-state phase of Node B | | | synchronization. Both have different range. | | | | | | The reference point for the cell sync burst timing | | | measurement shall be the Rx antenna connector. | | | | | | **[Type 1:]{.underline}** | | | | | | Cell sync burst timing = T~Rx~ - T~slot~ in | | | chips, where | | | | | | T~slot~ : time of start of the cell sync timeslot | | | in the frame, where the cell sync burst was | | | received. | | | | | | T~RX~ : time of start (defined by the first | | | detected path in time) of a cell sync burst | | | received from the target UTRA cell. | | | | | | **[Type 2:]{.underline}** | | | | | | Cell sync burst timing = T~Rx~ - T~slot~, in | | | chips, where | | | | | | T~slot~ : time of start of the cell sync timeslot | | | in the frame, where the cell sync burst was | | | received. | | | | | | T~RX~ : time of start (defined by the first | | | detected path in time) of a cell sync burst | | | received from the target UTRA cell. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.12 Cell Sync Burst SIR
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Signal to Interference Ratio for the cell sync | | | burst, defined as: RSCP/Interference, where: | | | | | | RSCP = Received Signal Code Power, the received | | | power on the code and code offset of a cell sync | | | burst. | | | | | | Interference = The interference on the received | | | signal in the same timeslot which can't be | | | eliminated by the receiver | | | | | | This measurement is applicable for 3.84Mcps TDD | | | and 1.28Mcps TDD. | | | | | | The reference point for the cell sync burst SIR | | | shall be the Rx antenna connector. For 1.28 Mcps | | | TDD the DwPCH represents the cell sync burst. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.13 Received SYNC-UL Timing Deviation for 1.28Mcps TDD
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | 'Received SYNC-UL Timing Deviation' is the time | | | difference | | | | | | UpPCH~POS~ = UpPCH~Rxpath~ -- UpPCH~TS~ | | | | | | Where | | | | | | UpPCH~Rxpath~: time of the reception in the Node B | | | of the SYNC-UL to be used in the uplink | | | synchronization process | | | | | | UpPCH~TS~: time instance 128 chips prior to the | | | start of the UpPCH according to the Node B | | | internal timing | | | | | | UE can calculate Round Trip Time (RTT) towards the | | | UTRAN after the reception of the FPACH containing | | | UpPCH~POS~ transmitted from the UTRAN. | | | | | | Round Trip Time RTT is defined by | | | | | | RTT = UpPCH~AVD~ + UpPCH~POS~ -- 8*16 T~C~ | | | | | | Where | | | | | | UpPCH~ADV~: the amount of time by which the | | | transmission of UpPCH is advanced in time relative | | | to the end of the guard period according to the UE | | | Rx timing. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.14 Angle of Arrival (AOA) for 1.28Mcps TDD
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | AOA defines the estimated angle of a user with | | | respect to a reference direction. The reference | | | direction for this measurement shall be the North, | | | positive in a counter-clockwise direction. | | | | | | The AOA is determined at the BS antenna for an UL | | | channel corresponding to this UE. When Cell | | | Portions are defined in the cell, the AOA for cell | | | portion can be measured if possible. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.15 HS-SICH reception quality
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The HS-SICH reception quality is defined via the | | | following quantities. Each quantity is measured | | | over the defined reporting period per UE: | | | | | | - the number of expected HS-SICH transmissions | | | from a given UE, and | | | | | | - the number of unsuccessful HS-SICH receptions | | | for this same UE in the Node B. | | | | | | The number of expected HS-SICH transmissions from | | | any given UE shall correspond to the number of | | | scheduled HS-SCCH transmissions to the same UE. | | | | | | Unsuccessful HS-SICH receptions shall be further | | | divided into two categories; | | | | | | - the number of failed HS-SICH receptions, and | | | | | | - the number of missed HS-SICH receptions | | | | | | for a given UE counted during the reporting | | | period. | | | | | | A failed HS-SICH reception is defined as an | | | HS-SICH estimated to have been transmitted by the | | | UE, but deemed not to have been received | | | successfully by the Node B. A missed HS-SICH | | | reception is defined as an HS-SICH estimated not | | | to have been transmitted by the UE, if an HS-SICH | | | transmission occasion was scheduled for the UE. | | | | | | For the HS-SICH reception quality measurement, | | | only HS-SICH transmission occasions for the | | | respective UE during the reporting period shall be | | | taken into account. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.16 Transmitted carrier power of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-
SCCH, E-AGCH, or E-HICH transmission
* * *
**Definition** Transmitted carrier power of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH,
HS-SCCH, E-AGCH or E-HICH transmission is the ratio between the total
transmitted power of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH or
E-HICH transmission in a specified timeslot on one DL carrier from one UTRAN
access point, and the maximum transmission power possible to use on that DL
carrier in the timeslot. Total transmission power of all codes not used for
HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH or E-HICH transmission is the sum of the mean power
levels [W] of each of the codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH or
E-HICH transmission in the specified timeslot on one carrier from one UTRAN
access point. Maximum transmission power is the mean power [W] in the
specified timeslot on one carrier from one UTRAN access point when
transmitting at the configured maximum power for the cell. The measurement
shall be possible on any timeslot and carrier transmitted from the UTRAN
access point. The reference point for the transmitted carrier power
measurement of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH or E-HICH
transmission shall be the Tx antenna connector. In case of Tx diversity the
transmitted carrier power of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH
or E-HICH transmission is the ratio between the sum of the total transmitted
powers of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH or E-HICH
transmission of all branches and the maximum transmission power. When Cell
Portions are defined in the cell, the transmitted carrier power of all codes
not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH or E-HICH transmission for each Cell
Portion can be measured and reported to higher layers.
* * *
### 5.2.17 UpPTS interference (1.28Mcps TDD)
* * *
**Definition** The level of interference in the UpPTS, defined as the
difference between the mean received power in the UpPTS and the sum of the
estimated mean power levels of all detected UpPCH transmissions. In the case
of antenna diversity, the linear average of the UpPTS interference levels
calculated for each antenna branch shall be calculated. The reference point
for the UpPTS interference measurement shall be the Rx antenna connector. When
Cell Portions are defined in the cell, the UpPTS interference for each Cell
Portion can be measured and reported to higher layers.
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): Monitoring GSM from TDD: Calculation Results
## A.1 Low data rate traffic using 1 uplink and 1 downlink slot (for the 3.84
Mcps option)
NOTE: The section evaluates the time to acquire the FCCH if all idle slots are
devoted to the tracking of a FCCH burst, meaning that no power measurements is
done concurrently. The derived figures are better than those for GSM. The
section does not derive though any conclusion. A conclusion may be that the
use of the idle slots is a valid option. An alternative conclusion may be that
this is the only mode to be used, removing hence the use of the slotted frames
for low data traffic or the need for a dual receiver, if we were to
considering the monitoring of GSM cells only, rather than GSM, TDD and FDD.
If a single synthesiser UE uses only one uplink and one downlink slot, e.g.
for speech communication, the UE is not in transmit or receive state during 13
slots in each frame. According to the timeslot numbers allocated to the
traffic, this period can be split into two continuous idle intervals A and B
as shown in the figure below.
Figure A.1: Possible idle periods in a frame with two occupied timeslots
A is defined as the number of idle slots between the Tx and Rx slots and B the
number of idle slots between the Rx and Tx slots. It is clear that A+B=13 time
slots.
In the scope of low cost terminals, a [0.8] ms period is supposed to be
required to perform a frequency jump from UMTS to GSM. This lets possibly two
free periods of A*Ts-1.6 ms and B*Ts-1.6 ms during which the mobile station
can monitor GSM, Ts being the slot period.
Following table evaluates the average synchronisation time and maximum
synchronisation time, where the announced synchronisation time corresponds to
the time needed to find the FCCH. The FCCH is supposed to be perfectly
detected meaning that the FCCH is found if it is entirely present in the
monitoring window. The FCCH being found the SCH location is unambiguously
known from that point. All the 13 idle slots are assumed to be devoted to FCCH
tracking and the UL traffic is supposed to occupy the time slot 0.
Table A.1: example- of average and maximum synchronisation time with two busy
timeslots per frame and with 0.8 ms switching time (*)
* * *
Downlink time slot number Number of free TS in A Number of free TS in B
Average synchronisation time (ms) Maximum synchronisation time (ms) 1 0 13 44
140 2 1 12 50 187 3 2 11 58 188 4 3 10 66 189 5 4 9 70 233 6 5 8 77 234 7 6 7
75 189 8 7 6 75 189 9 8 5 75 235 10 9 4 67 235 11 10 3 63 186 12 11 2 56 186
13 12 1 49 186 14 13 0 43 132
* * *
(*) All simulations have been performed with a random initial delay between
GSM frames and UMTS frames.
Each configuration of TS allocation described above allows a monitoring period
sufficient to acquire synchronisation.
### A.1.1 Higher data rate traffic using more than 1 uplink and/or 1 downlink
TDD timeslot
The minimum idle time to detect a complete FCCH burst for all possible
alignments between the GSM and the TDD frame structure (called 'guaranteed
FCCH detection'), assuming that monitoring happens every TDD frame, can be
calculated as follows (t~FCCH~ = one GSM slot):
{width="3.722916666666667in" height="0.42986111111111114in"}
\- (e.g for t~synth~ =0ms: 3 TDD **consecutive** idle timeslots needed, for
t~synth~ =0,3ms: 3 slots, for t~synth~ =0,5ms: 4 slots, for t~synth~ =0,8ms: 5
slots). Under this conditions the FCCH detection time can never exceed the
time of 660ms.
\- (For a more general consideration t~synth~ may be considered as a sum of
all delays before starting monitoring is possible).
\- For detecting SCH instead of FCCH (for a parallel search) the same equation
applies.
\- In the equation before the dual synthesiser UE is included if the
synthesiser switching time is 0ms.
Table A.2: FCCH detection time for a dual synthesizer UE monitoring GSM from
TDD every TDD frame
+-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | occupied slots= | cases | FCCH detection time in ms | | | | | | | | 15-idle slots | | | | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | | | Average | maximum | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 2 | 105 | 37 | 189 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 3 | 455 | 46 | 327 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 4 | 1365 | 58 | 419 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 5 | 3003 | 72 | 501 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 6 | 5005 | 90 | 646 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 7 | 6435 | 114 | 660 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 8 | 6435 | 144 | 660 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 9 | 5005 | 175 | 660 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 10 | 3003 | 203 | 660 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 11 | 1365 | 228 | 660 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 12 | 455 | 254 | 660 | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 13 | 105 | - | - | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | 14 | 15 | - | - | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+ | | | | | +-----------------+-------+---------------------------+---------+
In the table above for a given number of occupied slots in the TDD mode all
possible cases of distributions of these occupied TDD slots are considered
(see 'cases'). For every case arbitrary alignments of the TDD and the GSM
frame structure are taken into account for calculating the average FCCH
detection time (only these cases are used which guarantee FCCH detection for
all alignments; only the non-parallel FCCH search is reflected by the
detection times in the table 2).
The term 'occupied slots' means that the UE is not able to monitor in these
TDD slots.
For a synthesiser switching time of one or one half TDD timeslot the number of
needed consecutive idle TDD timeslots is summarized in the table below:
Table A.3: Link between the synthesiser performance and the number of free
consecutive TSs for guaranteed FCCH detection, needed for GSM monitoring
* * *
One-way switching time for the synthesiser Number of free consecutive TDD
timeslots needed in the frame for a guaranteed FCCH detection 1 TS (=2560
chips) 5 0.5 TS (=1280 chips) 4 0 (dual synthesiser) 3
* * *
## A.2 Low data rate traffic using 1 uplink and 1 downlink slot (for the 1.28
Mcps option)
NOTE: The section evaluates the time to acquire the FCCH if all idle slots are
devoted to the tracking of a FCCH burst, meaning that no power measurements is
done concurrently. The derived figures are better than those for GSM. The
section does not derive though any conclusion. A conclusion may be that the
use of the idle slots is a valid option. An alternative conclusion may be that
this is the only mode to be used, removing hence the use of the slotted frames
for low data traffic or the need for a dual receiver, if we were to
considering the monitoring of GSM cells only, rather than GSM, TDD and FDD.
If a single synthesiser UE uses only one uplink and one downlink slot, e.g.
for speech communication, the UE is not in transmit or receive state during 5
slots in each frame. According to the timeslot numbers allocated to the
traffic, this period can be split into two continuous idle intervals A and B
as shown in the figure below.
Figure A.2: Possible idle periods in a subframe with two occupied timeslots
A is defined as the number of idle slots between the Tx and Rx slots and B the
number of idle slots between the Rx and Tx slots. It is clear that A+B=5 time
slots and C is equal to the DwPTS+GP+UpPTS.
In the scope of low cost terminals, a [0.5] ms period is supposed to be
required to perform a frequency jump from 1.28Mcps TDD to GSM and vice versa.
This lets possibly two free periods of A*Timeslots-1 ms and B*Timeslots+C-1 ms
during which the mobile station can monitor GSM, Timeslots being the slot
period.
Following table evaluates the average synchronisation time and maximum
synchronisation time, where the announced synchronisation time corresponds to
the time needed to find the FCCH. The FCCH is supposed to be perfectly
detected which means that it is entirely present in the monitoring window. The
FCCH being found the SCH location is unambiguously known from that point. All
the 5 idle slots and the DwPTS+GP+UpPTS are assumed to be devoted to FCCH
tracking and the UL traffic is supposed to occupy the time slot 1.
Table A.4: example- of average and maximum synchronisation time with two busy
timeslots per sub-frame and with 0.5 ms switching time
* * *
Downlink time slot number Number of free Timeslots in A Number of free
Timeslots in B Average synchronisation time (ms) Maximum synchronisation time
(ms) 0 5 0 83 231 2 0 5 75 186 3 1 4 98 232 4 2 3 185 558 5 3 2 288 656 6 4 1
110 371
* * *
(*) All simulations have been performed with a random initial delay between
GSM frames and 1.28Mcps TDD sub-frames.
Each configuration of Timeslots allocation described above allows a monitoring
period sufficient to acquire synchronisation.
NOTE: Considering about the frame structure of 1.28Mcps TDD, there are total 7
timeslots in each sub-frame that can be used as data traffic. If more than 1
uplink and/or 1 downlink TDD timeslot are used for data traffic, that means it
will occupy at least 3 time slots, equal to 0.675*3=2.205ms. And more time
slots for traffic data means more switching point are needed to switch between
the GSM and the 1.28Mcps TDD. As it was mentioned above, each switching will
take 0.5ms. As a result, the idle time left for monitoring the GSM will be
very little. So monitoring GSM from 1.28Mcps TDD under this situation will be
considered in the future. It will need more carefully calculation and
simulation.
### A.2.1 Higher data rate traffic using more than 1 uplink and/or 1 downlink
TDD timeslot (for 1.28Mcps TDD)
The minimum idle time to detect a complete FCCH burst for all possible
alignments between the GSM and the 1.28Mcps TDD frame structure (called
'guaranteed FCCH detection'), assuming that monitoring happens every sub-
frame, can be calculated as follows (t~FCCH~ = one GSM slot):
$t_{\text{min}\text{,\ guaranteed}}\ = \ 2 \times \ t_{\text{synth}}\ + \
t_{\text{FCCH}}\ + \ \frac{5\text{ms}}{\text{13}}\ = \ 2 \times \
t_{\text{synth}}\ + \ \frac{\text{25}\text{ms}}{\text{26}}$
\- (e.g for t~synth~ =0ms: 2 1.28Mcps TDD **consecutive** idle timeslots
needed, for t~synth~ =0.3ms: 3 slots (or 2 slots and the DwPTS+GP+UpPTS), for
t~synth~ =0.5ms: 3 slots, for t~synth~ =0.8ms: 4 slots). Under this conditions
the FCCH detection time can never exceed the time of 660ms.
\- (For a more general consideration t~synth~ may be considered as a sum of
all delays before starting monitoring is possible).
\- For detecting SCH instead of FCCH (for a parallel search) the same equation
applies.
\- In the equation before the dual synthesiser UE is included if the
synthesiser switching time is 0ms.
Table A.5 : FCCH detection time for a single synthesizer UE monitoring GSM
from 1.28Mcps TDD every sub-frame
* * *
Occupied Slots Cases **AVERAGE** FCCH detection time in ms **MAXIMUM** FCCH
detection time in ms 2 21 136.625 660.785 3 35 188.451 660.785 4 35 231.115
660.785 5 21 - - 6 7 - - 7 1 - -
* * *
The result in the above table is based on the following assumption:
\- A single synthesizer is used.
\- A [0.5] ms period is supposed to be required to perform a frequency jump
from 1.28Mcps TDD to GSM and vice versa.
\- For a given number of occupied slots in the TDD mode all possible cases of
distributions of these occupied TDD slots are considered (see 'cases'). For
every case arbitrary alignments of the TDD and the GSM frame structure are
taken into account for calculating the average FCCH detection time (only these
cases are used which guarantee FCCH detection for all alignments; only the
non-parallel FCCH search is reflected by the detection times in the above
table).
The term 'occupied slots' means that the UE is not able to monitor in these
TDD slots.
For a synthesiser switching time of one or one half TDD timeslot the number of
needed consecutive idle TDD timeslots is summarized in the table below:
Table A.6 : Link between the synthesiser performance and the number of free
consecutive Timeslots for guaranteed FCCH detection, needed for GSM monitoring
* * *
One-way switching time for the synthesiser Number of free consecutive 1.28Mcps
TDD timeslots needed in the sub-frame for a guaranteed FCCH detection 1
Timeslot (=864 chips) 4 0.5 Timeslot (=432 chips) 3 0 (dual synthesiser) 2
* * *
#