# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies requirements on UEs supporting a frequency band
that is independent of release.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] to [24] Void.
> [25] 3GPP TS 25.331 (Release 11): \"Radio Resource Control Protocol\".
>
> [26] 3GPP TS 25.101 (Release 11): \"UE Radio Transmission and Reception
> (FDD)\".
>
> [27] 3GPP TS 25.133 (Release 11): \"Requirements for Support of Radio
> Resource Management (FDD)\".
[28] to [29] Void.
[30] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"UE Radio Transmission and Reception (FDD)\".
> [31] 3GPP TS 25.102: \"UE Radio Transmission and Reception (TDD)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
[1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
RRC Radio Resource Control
UE User Equipment
# 3A General
TSG-RAN has agreed that the standardisation of new frequency bands may be
independent of a release. However, in order to implement a UE that conforms to
a particular release but supports a band of operation that is specified in a
later release, it is necessary to specify some extra requirements.
For example, Band III is contained in the Release 5 specifications. In order
to implement a UE conforming to Release 4 but supporting Band III, it is
necessary for the UE to additionally conform to some parts of the Release 5
specifications, such as the radio frequency requirements for the Band III and
some signalling extensions relating to the UE radio access capabilities.
NOTE: See NOTE in clause 4.4 in [30] or [31].
# 4 Void
# 5 Void
# 6 Void
# 7 Void
# 8 Void
# 9 Void
# 10 Void
# 11 Void
# 12 Void
# 13 Void
# 14 Void
# 15 Void
# 16 Void
# 17 Void
# 18 Void
# 19 Void
# 20 Void
# 21 Void
# 22 Void
# 23 Void
# 24 Void
# 25 Band XXVI Independent of Release
Band XXVI is specified in Release 11 but is defined as a release-independent
frequency band. This approach aligns the Band XXVI band with other frequency
bands when considering features that have to be supported in different
releases.
## 25.1 Band XXVI UE
UEs that conform to Release 10 and support band XXVI shall support the
following requirements in Release 11.
### 25.1.1 RF Requirements
The UE shall comply with the RF requirements for band XXVI specified in [26].
These requirements are:
* * *
Section / Clause Description 5 Frequency bands and channel arrangement 6.2.1
UE maximum output power 6.6 Output RF spectrum emissions 7.3 Reference
sensitivity level 7.6 Blocking characteristics 7.8 Intermodulation
characteristics 7.9 Spurious emissions B2.2 Multi-path fading propagation
conditions
* * *
The UE shall comply with the following Radio Resource Management requirements
for band XXVI specified in [27]. These requirements are:
* * *
Section / Clause Description 9.1 Measurement Performances for UE.
* * *
### 25.1.2 Signalling Requirements
The UE shall support the following RRC extensions specified in [25]:
\- The parameter value \"Band XXVI\" for the IE \"FDD frequency band 3\"
contained within the IEs \"UE radio access capability extension\" and
\"Measurement capability extension\". The UE shall use this parameter value in
order to signal its radio access capabilities relating to band XXVI.
\- The IEs \"Frequency band indicator\", \"Frequency band indicator 2\" and
\"Frequency band indicator 3\" contained within the IEs \"System Information
Block type 5\" and \"System Information Block type 6\". The UE shall use these
IEs to determine whether it is compliant with the RF requirement in the
indicated frequency band, in case the UE is in the frequency that belongs to
multiple frequency bands.
The UE shall be able to at least decode any unrelated RRC extensions that can
be included in between the release it supports, and the IE \"Frequency band
indicator\", \"Frequency Band Indicator 2\" and \"Frequency Band Indicator
3\".
###### ## Annex A (normative): Void
###### ## Annex B (normative): Frequency arrangement for overlapping operating
bands
The following information is provided in order to assist a UE to derive the DL
UARFCN and UL UARFCN in a multi-band environment, in which multiple
overlapping operating bands may be indicated in the IE \"Multiple Frequency
Band indicator list\" (System Information Block type 5, System Information
Block type 5bis and System Information Block type 6), or the IE \"Multiple
Frequency Info List FDD\" (System Information Block type 11, System
Information Block type 11bis and System Information Block type 12).
The sets of bands (multi-band environment), independent of release, that may
be indicated in a cell are shown in Table B-1. Subsets of these may also be
indicated. The DL UARFCN and UL UARFCN are derived according to [25.101].
Table B-1: Overlapping bands (multi-band environments) for each UTRA band
* * *
UTRA Operating Band Overlapping UTRA operating bands Duplex Mode 2 25 FDD 3 9
FDD 4 10 FDD 5 18, 19, 26 FDD 9 3 FDD 10 4 FDD 18 5, 26 FDD 19 5, 26 FDD 25 2
FDD 26 5, 18, 19 FDD
* * *
#