# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the overall architecture of the UTRAN,
including internal interfaces and assumptions on the radio and Iu interfaces.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] 3GPP TS 23.110: \"UMTS Access Stratum Services and Functions\".
[3] Void
[4] 3GPP TS 25.442: \"UTRAN Implementation Specific O&M Transport\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.402: \"Synchronisation in UTRAN, Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, Addressing and Identification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.331: \" Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.101: \"General UMTS Architecture\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.414: \" UTRAN Iu Interface Data Transport & Transport
Signalling\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.424: \"UTRAN Iur Interface Data Transport & Transport
Signalling for Common Transport Channel Data Streams\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.434: \"UTRAN Iub Interface Data Transport & Transport
Signalling for Common Transport Channel Data Streams\".
[12] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (Ipv6)
Specification\".
[13] Void
[14] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[15] \"Information technology -- Open Systems Interconnection -- Network
service definition\", X.213, ISO/IEC 8348.
[16] \"Information technology -- Open Systems Interconnection -- Network
service definition Amendment 1: Addition of the Internet protocol address
format identifier\", X.213/Amd.1, ISO/IEC 8348.
[17] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[18] 3GPP TS 25.426: \"UTRAN Iur and Iub Interface Data Transport & Transport
Signalling for DCH Data Streams\".
[19] Void
[20] 3GPP TS 23.236: \"Intra-domain connection of Radio Access Network (RAN)
nodes to multiple Core Network (CN) nodes\".
[21] 3GPP TR 43.930: \"Iur-g interface; Stage 2\".
[22] 3GPP TR 44.901: \"External Network Assisted Cell Change\".
[23] 3GPP TS 48.018: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); BSS GPRS Protocol
(BSSGP)\".
[24] 3GPP TS 25.460: \"UTRAN Iuant Interface: General Aspects and
Principles\".
[25] 3GPP TS 25.461: \"UTRAN Iuant Interface: Layer 1\".
[26] 3GPP TS 25.462: \"UTRAN Iuant Interface: Signalling Transport\".
[27] Void
[28] 3GPP TS 23.251: \"Network sharing - Architecture and functional
description\".
[29] 3GPP TS 25.410: "UTRAN Iu Interface: general aspects and principles".
[30] 3GPP TS 25.346: "Introduction of the Multimedia Broadcast Multicast
Service (MBMS) in the Radio Access Network (RAN); Stage 2".
[31] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu Interface RANAP Signalling\".
[32] 3GPP TS 25.466: \"UTRAN Iuant Interface: Application part\".
[33] 3GPP TS 25.305: \"Stage 2 functional specification of UE positioning in
UTRAN\".
[34] IETF RFC 4548 (2006-05): \"Internet Code Point (ICP) Assignments for NSAP
Addresses\"
[35] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA),
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; stage 2\".
[36] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[37] IETF RFC 3168 (2001-09): \"The Addition of Explicit Congestion
Notification (ECN) to IP\".
[38] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection for
Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**[1.28Mcps TDD - Multi-frequency Cell:** If multiple frequencies are
configured in one cell, the cell is defined as the multi-frequency cell.]
**[1.28Mcps TDD - Primary frequency:** In a multi-frequency cell, the
frequency on which the P-CCPCH is transmitted is defined as primary
frequency.]
**[1.28Mcps TDD - Secondary frequency:** In a multi-frequency cell, any
frequency other than the primary frequency is defined as secondary frequency.]
**ALCAP:** generic name for the transport signalling protocols used to set-up
and tear-down transport bearers
**Cell:** Radio Network object that can be uniquely identified by a User
Equipment from a (cell) identification that is broadcasted over a geographical
area from one _UTRAN Access Point_ \ A Cell is either FDD or TDD mode.
**Iu:** interface between an RNC and an MSC, SGSN or CBC, providing an
interconnection point between the RNS and the Core Network. It is also
considered as a reference point
**Iub:** interface between the RNC and the Node B
**Iur:** logical interface between two RNCs\ Whilst logically representing a
point to point link between RNCs, the physical realisation need not be a point
to point link.
**Iur-g:** logical interface between RNC/BSS and BSS\ Whilst logically
representing a point to point link between RNC/BSS and BSS, the physical
realisation need not be a point to point link.
**Logical Model:** Logical Model defines an abstract view of a network or
network element by means of information objects representing network element,
aggregations of network elements, the topological relationship between the
elements, endpoints of connections (termination points), and transport
entities (such as connections) that transport information between two or more
termination points
The information objects defined in the Logical Model are used, among others,
by connection management functions. In this way, a physical implementation
independent management is achieved.
**Network sharing supporting UE:** as defined in TS 23.251 [28].
**Network sharing non-supporting UE:** as defined in TS 23.251 [28].
**Node B:** logical node in the RNS responsible for radio transmission /
reception in one or more cells to/from the UE\ The logical node terminates the
Iub interface towards the RNC.
**Radio Resources:** resources that constitute the radio interface in UTRAN,
e.g. frequencies, scrambling codes, spreading factors, power for common and
dedicated channels
**Node B Application Part:** Radio Network Signalling over the Iub
**Radio Network Controller:** logical node in the RNS in charge of controlling
the use and the integrity of the radio resources
**Controlling RNC:** role an RNC can take with respect to a specific set of
Node B\'s\ There is only one Controlling RNC for any Node B. The Controlling
RNC has the overall control of the logical resources of its node B\'s.
**MBMS Master RNC** : role an RNC can take with respect to one or more
specific MBSFN cluster(s)
MRNC may be used for Inter-RNC MBSFN operation whenever dynamic
synchronization of radio resources used for MBMS services is centrally
controlled. There is only one MBMS Master RNC for any MBSFN cluster, which may
control one or more MBSFN cluster(s). The MRNC has the overall control of the
logical resources of the RNSs that are used for MBSFN operation within the
MBSFN cluster(s).
**Radio Network Subsystem:** RNS can be either a full UTRAN or only a part of
a UTRAN\ An RNS offers the allocation and release of specific radio resources
to establish means of connection in between an UE and the UTRAN. A Radio
Network Subsystem contains one RNC and is responsible for the resources and
transmission/reception in a set of cells.
**Serving RNS:** role an RNS can take with respect to a specific connection
between an UE and UTRAN\ There is one Serving RNS for each UE that has a
connection to UTRAN. The Serving RNS is in charge of the radio connection
between a UE and the UTRAN. The Serving RNS terminates the Iu for this UE.
**Drift RNS:** role an RNS can take with respect to a specific connection
between an UE and UTRAN\ An RNS that supports the Serving RNS with radio
resources when the connection between the UTRAN and the UE need to use cell(s)
controlled by this RNS is referred to as Drift RNS.
**Radio Access Network Application Part:** Radio Network Signalling over the
Iu
**Radio Network Subsystem Application Part:** Radio Network Signalling over
the Iur
**RRC Connection:** point-to-point bi-directional connection between RRC peer
entities on the UE and the UTRAN sides, respectively\ An UE has either zero or
one RRC connection.
**Stand-Alone SMLC:** as defined in TS 25.305 [33].
**User Equipment:** Mobile Equipment with one or several UMTS Subscriber
Identity Module(s)\ A device allowing a user access to network services via
the Uu interface. The UE is defined in ref. TS 23.101 [8]. If this term is
used in the context of Iur-g, it means MS in case it uses radio resources of a
DBSS.
**Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network:** UTRAN is a conceptual term
identifying that part of the network which consists of RNCs and Node Bs
between Iu an Uu\ The concept of UTRAN instantiation is currently undefined.
**User Datagram Protocol** : as defined in IETF RFC 768 [14].
**UTRAN Access Point:** conceptual point within the UTRAN performing radio
transmission and reception\ A UTRAN access point is associated with one
specific _cell_ , i.e. there exists one UTRAN access point for each cell. It
is the UTRAN-side end point of a _radio link_.
**Radio Link:** \"radio link\" is a logical association between a single User
Equipment and a single UTRAN access point\ Its physical realisation comprises
one or more radio bearer transmissions.
**Radio Link Set:** set of one or more Radio Links that has a common
generation of Transmit Power Control (TPC) commands in the DL
**Uu:** Radio interface between UTRAN and the User Equipment
**RAB sub-flows:** Radio Access Bearer can be realised by UTRAN through
several sub-flows\ These sub-flows correspond to the NAS service data streams
that have QoS characteristics that differ in a predefined manner within a RAB
e.g. different reliability classes.
RAB sub-flows have the following characteristics:
1) The sub-flows of a RAB are established and released at the RAB
establishment and release, respectively.
2) The sub-flows of a RAB are submitted and delivered together at the RAB SAP.
3) The sub-flows of a RAB are carried over the same Iu transport bearer.
4) The sub-flows of a RAB are organised in a predefined manner at the SAP and
over the Iu interface. The organisation is imposed by the NAS as part of its
co-ordination responsibility.
**Set of co-ordinated DCHs: set of c** o-ordinated DCHs is a set of dedicated
transport channels that are always established and released in combination\
Individual DCHs within a set of co-ordinated DCHs cannot be operated on
individually e.g. if the establishment of one DCH fails, the establishment of
all other DCHs in the set of co-ordinated DCHs shall be terminated
unsuccessfully. A set of coordinated DCHs is transferred over one transport
bearer. All DCHs in a set of co-ordinated DCHs shall have the same TTI.
**Shared Network Area (SNA):** Area consisting of one or more LA's to which
access can be controlled.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAL ATM Adaptation Layer
AAL2 ATM Adaptation Layer 2
ALCAP Access Link Control Application Part
APN Access Point Name
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
BM-IWF Broadcast Multicast Interworking Function
BMC Broadcast/Multicast Control
BSS Base Station Subsystem
CBC Cell Broadcast Centre
CBS Cell Broadcast Service
CN Core Network
CRNC Controlling Radio Network Controller
DCH Dedicated Channel
DL Downlink
DRNS Drift RNS
DSP Domain Specific Part
E-DCH Enhanced UL DCH
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution
FACH Forward Access Channel
FFS For Further Study
GERAN GSM EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
GWCN GateWay Core Network
HPLMN Home PLMN
IDP Initial Domain Part
IPv4 Internet Protocol, version 4
IPv6 Internet Protocol, version 6
LA Location Area
MAC Medium Access Control
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MCCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Control Channel
MDT Minimization of Drive-Tests
MOCN Multi Operator Core Network
MRNC MBMS Master Radio Network Controller
MSCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Scheduling Channel
MTCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Traffic Channel
NACC Network Assisted Cell Change
NAS Non Access Stratum
NBAP Node B Application Part
NNSF NAS Node Selection Fuction
NSAP Network Service Access Point
PCH Paging Channel
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PTM Point To Multipoint
PTP Point To Point
QoS Quality of Service
RAB Radio Access Bearer
RACH Random Access Channel
RANAP Radio Access Network Application Part
RET Remote Electrical Tilting
RIM RAN Information Management
RNC Radio Network Controller
RNL Radio Network Layer
RNS Radio Network Subsystem
RNSAP Radio Network Subsystem Application Part
RNTI Radio Network Temporary Identity
SAB Service Area Broadcast
SAS Stand-Alone SMLC
SIPTO Selected IP Traffic Offload
SMLC Serving Mobile Location Centre
SNA Shared Network Area
SRNC Serving Radio Network Controller
SRNS Serving RNS
TMA Tower Mounted Amplifier
TBSS Target BSS
TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
TNL Transport Network Layer
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
URA UTRAN Registration Area
USIM UMTS Subscriber Identity Module
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
## 3.3 Notation
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
[FDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
\"[FDD]\" applies only to FDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the
heading preceding the tag \"[FDD]\" and the section following the heading
applies only to FDD.
[TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
\"[TDD]\" applies only to TDD, including 3.84Mcps TDD, 7.68Mcps TDD and
1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the heading preceding
the tag \"[TDD]\" and the section following the heading applies only to TDD,
including 3.84Mcps TDD, 7.68Mcps TDD and 1.28Mcps TDD.
[3.84Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
tag \"[3.84Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[3.84Mcps TDD]\" and the
section following the heading applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD.
[1.28Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" and the
section following the heading applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD.
[7.68Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" and the
section following the heading applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD.
[FDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the \"[FDD
- \" applies only to FDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying only to FDD
are enclosed separately to enable insertion of TDD specific (or common)
paragraphs between the FDD specific paragraphs.
[TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the \"[TDD
- \" applies only to TDD including 3.84Mcps TDD, 7.68Mcps TDD and 1.28Mcps
TDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying only to TDD are enclosed
separately to enable insertion of FDD specific (or common) paragraphs between
the TDD specific paragraphs.
[3.84Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
the \"[3.84Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
paragraphs applying only to 3.84Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the 3.84Mcps
TDD specific paragraphs.
[1.28Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
the \"[1.28Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
paragraphs applying only to 1.28Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the 1.28Mcps
TDD specific paragraphs.
[7.68Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
the \"[7.68Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
paragraphs applying only to 7.68Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the 7.68Mcps
TDD specific paragraphs.
Message When referring to a message in the specification, the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. RADIO LINK SETUP REQUEST message.
IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification, the
_Information Element Name_ is written with the first letters in each word in
upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the
abbreviation \"IE\", e.g. _Transport Format Set_ IE.
Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in
the specification, the \"Value\" is enclosed by quotation marks, e.g.
\"Abstract Syntax Error (Reject)\".
Frame When referring to a control or data frame in the specification, the
CONTROL/DATA FRAME NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters
followed by the words \"control/data frame\", e.g. FACH FLOW CONTROL control
frame.
# 4 General principles
The general principles guiding the definition of UTRAN Architecture as well as
the UTRAN interfaces are the following:
\- Logical separation of signalling and data transport networks.
\- UTRAN and CN functions are fully separated from transports functions.
Addressing scheme used in UTRAN and CN shall not be tied to the addressing
schemes of transport functions. The fact that some UTRAN or CN function
resides in the same equipment as some transport functions does not make the
transport functions part of the UTRAN or the CN.
\- [FDD - Macro diversity is fully handled in the UTRAN.]
\- Mobility for RRC connection is fully controlled by the UTRAN.
\- When defining the UTRAN interfaces the following principles were followed:
The functional division across the interfaces shall have as few options as
possible.
\- Interfaces should be based on a logical model of the entity controlled
through this interface.
\- One Physical Network Element can implement multiple Logical Nodes.
Transport Network Control Plane is a functional plane in the interfaces
protocol structure that is used for the transport bearer management. The
actual signalling protocol that is in use within the Transport Network Control
Plane depends on the underlying transport layer technology. The intention is
not to specify a new UTRAN specific Application Part for the Transport Network
Control Plane but to use signalling protocols standardised in other groups (if
needed) for the applied transport layer technology.
# 5 UMTS General architecture
## 5.1 Overview
Figure 1 shows a simplified UMTS architecture with the external reference
points and interfaces to the UTRAN.
{width="2.463888888888889in" height="2.8583333333333334in"}
Figure 1: UMTS Architecture
## 5.2 General protocols architecture
The protocols over Uu and Iu interfaces are divided into two structures:
**\- User plane protocols\** These are the protocols implementing the actual
radio access bearer service, i.e. carrying user data through the access
stratum.
**\- Control plane protocols\** These are the protocols for controlling the
radio access bearers and the connection between the UE and the network from
different aspects (including requesting the service, controlling different
transmission resources, handover & streamlining etc.). Also a mechanism for
transparent transfer of NAS messages is included.
### 5.2.1 User plane
The radio access bearer service is offered from SAP to SAP by the Access
Stratum. Figure 2 shows the protocols on the Uu and Iu interfaces that linked
together provide this radio access bearer service.
{width="4.415277777777778in" height="2.3965277777777776in"}
(1) The radio interface protocols are defined in documents TS 25.2xx and TS
25.3xx.
(2) The Iu interface protocols are defined in documents TS 25.41x.
Figure 2: Iu and Uu User plane
### 5.2.2 Control plane
Figure 3 shows the control plane (signalling) protocol stacks on Iu and Uu
interfaces.
{width="4.415277777777778in" height="2.3965277777777776in"}
(1) The radio interface protocols are defined in documents TS 25.2xx and TS
25.3xx.
(2) The protocol is defined in documents TS 25.41x. (Description of Iu
interface).
(3) **CM,MM,GMM,SM:** This exemplifies a set of NAS control protocols between
UE and CN. There may be different NAS protocol stacks in parallel. The
evolution of the protocol architecture for these protocols is outside the
scope of the present document.
Figure 3: Iu and Uu Control plane
NOTE: Both the Radio protocols and the Iu protocols contain a mechanism to
transparently transfer NAS messages.
# 6 UTRAN Architecture
The UTRAN consists of a set of Radio Network Subsystems connected to the Core
Network through the Iu.
A RNS consists of a Radio Network Controller one or more Node Bs and
optionally one SAS. A Node B is connected to the RNC through the Iub
interface.
A Node B can support FDD mode, TDD mode or dual-mode operation.
There are three chip-rate options in the TDD mode: 7.68 Mcps TDD, 3.84 Mcps
TDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD. Each TDD cell supports one of these options.
A Node B which supports TDD cells can support one chip-rate option only, or
more than one option.
A RNC which supports TDD cells can support one chip-rate option only, or more
than one option.
The RNC is responsible for the Handover decisions that require signalling to
the UE.
A RNC may include a combining/splitting function to support
combination/splitting of information streams (see subclause 7.2.4.3).
Inside the UTRAN, the RNCs of the Radio Network Subsystems can be
interconnected together through the Iur. Iu(s) and Iur are logical interfaces.
Iur can be conveyed over direct physical connection between RNCs or virtual
networks using any suitable transport network.
The UTRAN architecture is shown in figure 4.
{width="6.482638888888889in" height="3.5694444444444446in"}
Figure 4: UTRAN Architecture
Regarding the UE positioning method, the RNC may have full internal support
for this function and/or may be connected to one SAS via the Iupc interface.
The following picture illustrates the resulting UTRAN architecture when the
Iupc interface is adopted.
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="2.65625in"}
**Figure 4a: UTRAN Architecture with the Iupc option**
The RNC may be connected to BSS supporting GERAN Iu mode via the Iur-g
interface. The following picture illustrates the UTRAN and GERAN Iu mode
connection when the Iur-g interface is adopted. For 1.28Mcps TDD, the RNC may
be connected to BSS supporting GERAN A/Gb mode via the Iur-g interface. The
figure 4c illustrates the UTRAN and GERAN A/Gb mode connection when the Iur-g
interface is adopted for 1.28Mcps TDD.
Figure 4b: UTRAN and GERAN Iu mode connection with Iur-g
Figure 4c: UTRAN and GERAN A/Gb mode connection with Iur-g for 1.28Mcps TDD
Each RNS is responsible for the resources of its set of cells.
For each connection between User Equipment and the UTRAN, One RNS is the
Serving RNS. When required, Drift RNSs support the Serving RNS by providing
radio resources as shown in figure 5. The role of an RNS (Serving or Drift) is
on a per connection basis between a UE and the UTRAN.
{width="4.897222222222222in" height="1.9548611111111112in"}
Figure 5: Serving and Drift RNS
To support UE mobility between UTRAN and GERAN Iu mode, the Serving RNS may be
connected to the DBSS and vice versa as illustrated in figures 5a and 5b. For
1.28Mcps TDD, to support UE mobility between UTRAN and GERAN A/Gb mode, the
Serving RNS may be connected to the TBSS as illustrated in figure 5c. The role
of an RNS or BSS (Serving or Drift) is on a per connection basis between a UE
and the UTRAN/GERAN Iu mode, or between a UE and the UTRAN /GERAN A/Gb mode
for 1.28Mcp TDD.
Figure 5a: Serving RNS and Drift BSS, GERAN Iu mode
Figure 5b: Serving BSS and Drift RNS, GERAN Iu mode
Figure 5c: Serving RNS and Target BSS, GERAN A/Gb mode
The UTRAN is layered into a Radio Network Layer and a Transport Network Layer.
The UTRAN architecture, i.e. the UTRAN logical nodes and interfaces between
them, are defined as part of the Radio Network Layer.
For each UTRAN interface (Iu, Iur, Iub, Iupc) the related transport network
layer protocol and functionality is specified. The transport network layer
provides services for user plane transport, signalling transport and transport
of implementation specific O&M.
An implementation of equipment compliant with the specifications of a certain
interface shall support the Radio Network Layer protocols specified for that
interface. It shall also as a minimum, for interoperability, support the
transport network layer protocols according to the transport network layer
specifications for that interface.
The network architecture of the transport network layer is not specified by
3GPP and is left as an operator issue.
The equipment compliant to 3GPP standards shall at least be able to act as
endpoints in the transport network layer, and may also act as a switch/router
within the transport network layer.
For implementation specific O&M signalling to the Node B, only the transport
network layer protocols are in the scope of UTRAN specifications.
Figure 6: Protocol layering
Figure 6 illustrates which parts of the transport network layer that may be
(but are not mandated to be) configured by the operator as transport networks,
i.e. the radio network layer provides a destination address, namely:
\- Transport network for implementation specific O&M traffic;
\- Signalling network for Iu, Iur, Iur-g and Iupc;
\- Transport network for Iub, Iur and Iu CS user plane connections;
\- Transport network for Iu PS user plane connections.
The signalling link for Iub signalling as seen by the radio network layer
cannot be configured as a network (no address provided).
A transport network for UTRAN may be configured by the operator to be used
also for other traffic than UTRAN traffic.
## 6.1 UTRAN Identifiers
### 6.1.1 PLMN Identity
A Public Land Mobile Network is uniquely identified as define in TS 23.003 [6]
subclause 12.1.
### 6.1.2 CN Domain Identifier
A CN Domain Edge Node is identified as defined in TS 23.003 [6] sub-clause
12.2.
### 6.1.3 RNC Identifier
An RNC node is uniquely identified by its RNC Identifier among the nodes in
UTRAN and GERAN Iu mode as defined in TS 23.003 [6] sub-clause 12.3. A BSS
node in GERAN Iu mode is uniquely identified by its RNC Identifier among the
nodes in GERAN Iu mode and UTRAN.
### 6.1.4 Service Area Identifier
The Service Area Identifier (SAI) is defined in TS 23.003 [6] sub-clause 12.4.
### 6.1.5 Cell Identifier
The Cell identifier (C-Id) is used to uniquely identify a cell within an
RNS/BSS. The Cell-Id together with the identifier of the controlling RNC/BSS
(CRNC-Id) constitutes the UTRAN/GERAN Cell Identity (UC-Id) and is used to
identify the cell uniquely within UTRAN/GERAN Iu mode. UC-Id or C-Id is used
to identify a cell in UTRAN Iub and Iur interfaces or Iur-g interface.
> \- **UC-Id = RNC-Id + C-Id.**
The C-Id is defined by the operator, and set in the RNC/BSS via O&M. The C-Id
is set in a Node B by its C-RNC or in the GERAN Iu mode cell.
### 6.1.6 Local Cell Identifier
The Local Cell identifier is used to uniquely identify the set of resources
within a Node B required to support a cell (as identified by a C-Id). As a
minimum it shall be unique within the Node B, but it is also capable of
supporting uniqueness within the UTRAN for management system purposes.
The Local Cell Identifier is used for the initial configuration of a Node B
when no C-Id is defined. The Local Cell identifier is defined by the operator,
and set in both the Node B and its C-RNC via O&M. The relationship between the
Local Cell Identifier and C-Id is set in the C-RNC via O&M.
### 6.1.7 UE Identifiers
Radio Network Temporary Identities (RNTI) are used as UE identifiers within
UTRAN/GERAN Iu mode and in signalling messages between UE and UTRAN/GERAN Iu
mode.
Six types of RNTI exist:
1) Serving RNC/BSS RNTI (s-RNTI);
2) Drift RNC/BSS RNTI (d-RNTI);
3) Cell RNTI (c-RNTI);
4) UTRAN/GERAN RNTI (u-RNTI);
5) [TDD -- DSCH RNTI (DSCH-RNTI)];
6) HS-DSCH RNTI (HS-DSCH RNTI);
7) E-DCH RNTI (E-RNTI);
**s-RNTI is used:**
\- by UE to identify itself to the Serving RNC/BSS;
\- by SRNC/SBSS to address the UE/MS;
\- by DRNC/DBSS to identify the UE to Serving RNC.
s-RNTI is allocated for all UEs having a RRC connection, it is allocated by
the Serving RNC/BSS and it is unique within the Serving RNC/BSS. s-RNTI is
reallocated always when the Serving RNC/BSS for the RRC connection is changed.
**d-RNTI is used:**
\- by serving RNC/BSS to identify the UE to Drift RNC/BSS.
NOTE: The d-RNTI is never used on Uu.
d-RNTI is allocated by drift RNC/BSS upon drift UE contexts establishment and
it shall be unique within the drift RNC/BSS. Serving RNC/BSS shall know the
mapping between s-RNTI and the d-RNTIs allocated in Drift RNCs/BSSs for the
same UE. Drift RNC/BSS shall know the s-RNTI and SRNC-ID related to existing
d-RNTI within the drift RNC/BSS.
**c-RNTI is used:**
\- by UE to identify itself to the controlling RNC;
\- by controlling RNC to address the UE.
c-RNTI is allocated by controlling RNC upon UE accessing a new cell. C-RNTI
shall be unique within the accessed cell. Controlling RNC shall know the
d-RNTI associated to the c-RNTI within the same logical RNC (if any).
**u-RNTI**
> The u-RNTI is allocated to an UE having a RRC connection and identifies the
> UE within UTRAN/GERAN Iu mode.
u-RNTI is composed of:
> \- SRNC identity;
>
> \- s-RNTI.
**[TDD -- DSCH-RNTI is used:]**
\- [TDD -- by controlling RNC to address the UE on the DSCH and USCH].
[TDD -- DSCH-RNTI is allocated by controlling RNC upon UE establishing a DSCH
or USCH channel. DSCH-RNTI shall be unique within the cell carrying the DSCH
and/or USCH. DSCH-RNTI is used as UE identifier in RRC messages concerning
DSCH and USCH allocations and is used in both the downlink and uplink.
**HS-DSCH RNTI is used:**
\- for the UE specific CRC in HS-SCCH and HS-PDSCH.
> HS-DSCH RNTI is allocated by controlling RNC upon UE establishing a HS-DSCH
> channel. HS-DSCH RNTI shall be unique within the cell carrying the HS-DSCH.
**E-RNTI is used:**
\- for the UE[FDD - /UE group] specific CRC in E-AGCH.
E-DCH RNTI is allocated by NodeB upon UE establishing an E-DCH channel. E-DCH
RNTI allocated to a UE [FDD -/UE group] shall be unique within the cell
carrying the E-DCH.
Each RNC has a unique identifier within the UTRAN part of the PLMN, denoted by
RNC identifier (RNC-ID). This identifier is used to route UTRAN interface
messages to correct RNC. RNC-ID of the serving RNC together with the s-RNTI is
a unique identifier of the UE in the UTRAN part of the PLMN.
#### 6.1.7.1 Usage of RNTI
u-RNTI is used as a UE identifier for the first cell access (at cell change)
when a RRC connection exists for this UE and for UTRAN originated paging
including associated response messages. RNC-ID is used by Controlling RNC/BSS
to route the received uplink messages towards the Serving RNC/BSS.
NOTE: For the initial access a unique core network UE identifier is used.
c-RNTI is used as a UE identifier in all other DCCH/DTCH common channel
messages on air interface.
### 6.1.7a UE Identifiers in GERAN A/Gb mode (1.28Mcps TDD)
Radio Network Temporary Identity (RNTI) is used as a UE identifier within
UTRAN /GERAN A/Gb mode and in signalling messages between UE and UTRAN /GERAN
A/Gb mode. One type of RNTI exists:
\- Drift RNTI (D-RNTI)
The D-RNTI is allocated by the TBSS and is used to identify the UE during a
handover via the Iur-g interface.
There is one possible scenario in which the D-RNTI is used:
a) The serving RAN node is a UTRAN RNC and the target RAN node is a GERAN BSS
in A/Gb mode.
### 6.1.8 Identifiers for dedicated resources within UTRAN
#### 6.1.8.1 Radio Network Control Plane identifiers
Each addressable object in each reference point has an application part level
identifier. This identifier is allocated autonomously by the entity
responsible for initiation of the setup of the object. This application part
identifier will be used as a reference to the object that is setup. Both ends
of the reference point shall memorise the AP Identifier during the lifetime of
the object. Application part identifier can be related to a specific Transport
Network identifier and that relationship shall also be memorised by both ends.
Table 1 lists the basic AP level identifiers in each reference point.
Table 1: Basic AP level identifiers in each reference point
* * *
Object Identifier Abbreviation Valid for Radio Access Bearer Radio Access
Bearer ID RAB-ID Iu Dedicated Transport channel DCH-ID DCH-ID Iur, Iub [TDD --
Downlink Shared Channel] DSCH-ID DSCH-ID Iur, Iub [TDD -- Uplink Shared
Channel] USCH-ID USCH-ID Iur, Iub
* * *
#### 6.1.8.2 Transport Network Identifiers
Transport Network identifiers are used in the Transport Network Layer (TNL) to
identify the transport bearer and may be used in User Plane in the actual data
transmission using the transport link. The Transport Network identifier
identifies the transport link according to the naming conventions defined for
the transport link type in question. Both ends of the reference point of the
concerned TNL shall memorise the Transport Network identifiers during the
lifetime of the transport link. Each Transport Network identifier can be
binded to an Application Part identifier.
The Transport Network identifiers vary depending on the transport link type.
Table 2 indicates examples of the identifiers used for different transmission
link types.
Table 2: Examples of the identifiers used for different transmission link
types
* * *
Transmission link type Transport Network Identifier AAL2 AAL2 Path ID + CID
GTP over IP IP address + TEID UDP over IP IP address + UDP port
* * *
The communication of Transport Network identifiers is made in two ways:
When an ALCAP is used, the transport layer address communicated via the Radio
Network Layers protocols (NBAP, RNSAP, RANAP...) is a Transport Network
Control Plane address and the Transport Network identifiers are communicated
through this Transport Network Control Plane only.
When no ALCAP is used, the Transport Network identifiers are directly
communicated via the Radio Network Layers protocols (NBAP, RNSAP, RANAP...) on
all interfaces.
In both cases, the transport layer address (e.g. IP address) is encapsulated
by the Transport Network Layer in the NSAP structure as defined in [Annex A of
X.213, ISO/IEC 8348 [15], X.213/Amd. 1, ISO/IEC 8348 [16]] transported
transparently on Iub, Iur and Iu-CS and passed transparently from the Radio
Network Layer to the Transport Network Layer. The NSAP structure
(encapsulation) is only used in order to provide to the TNL explicit
identification of the type of the TNL address that is being conveyed by the
given RNL protocol. It is then the responsibility of the Transport Network
Layer to interpret this structure (e.g. to determine accordingly if the
requested network type is ATM or IP).
On the Iu-PS, the NSAP structure is not used in RANAP but the \'straight IP
addressing' shall be used.
The following scheme depicts the encapsulation of a native IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460
[12]) address in NSAP structure when conveyed in RANAP, RNSAP and NBAP.
> Octet 1 octet 2 octet 3 octet 4
Figure 6A: IPv6 address embedded in NSAP structure in RANAP/RNSAP/NBAP.
Note 1: The last octet of the DSP (the DSP is the remaining octets after the
IDP IETF RFC 4548 [34]) the encapsulation of a native IPv6 address in NSAP
structure is unspecified.
Note 2: The encapsulation of a native IPv4 address in NSAP structure when
conveyed in RANAP, RNSAP and NBAP shall be encoded according to IETF RFC 4548
[34]. The last 13 octets of the DSP are unspecified.
Note 3: The default values for the unspecified octets are zero.
#### 6.1.8.3 Binding identifier
Binding Identifier (Binding ID) is used to initialise the linkage between
ALCAP and Application Part (RANAP, RNSAP, NBAP) identifiers. Binding
identifier can be used both in Radio Network Control plane Application Part
protocols and in Transport Network Control Plane\'s ALCAP protocol. When no
ALCAP is used, Binding ID may also be used to carry the UDP port on Iub, Iur
and Iu-CS interfaces.
Binding ID binds the Radio and Transport Network Control plane identifiers
together. To ensure maximal independence of those two planes, the binding ID
should be used only when necessary: Binding ID shall thus be used only in
Radio Network Control plane Application Part messages in which a new
association between the planes is created and in ALCAP messages creating new
transport bearers.
Binding ID for each transport bearer shall be allocated before the setup of
that transport bearer.
The Binding ID is sent on one direction using the Application Part protocol
and is return in the other direction by the ALCAP protocol.
When an Application Part procedure with an allocated Binding ID is applied for
modifying an existing Radio Network User Plane connection, the decision to use
the Binding ID (and the ALCAP procedures) shall be done by that end of the
reference point that decides whether to use the existing transport bearer or
to set up a new transport bearer.
The Binding ID shall already be assigned and tied to a radio application
procedure when the first ALCAP message is received in a node.
The association between the connection Id in the Application Part protocol
(e.g. identifying a RAB) and the corresponding connection Id in the ALCAP
protocol (e.g. identifying the AAL2 channel for that RAB) that was created
with the help of Binding ID shall be memorised by both peers of each reference
point for the lifetime of the corresponding transport bearer.
The Binding ID may be released and re-used as soon as both the Application
Part procedure and the ALCAP procedure that used it are completed in both
peers of the reference point.
Figure 6a illustrates how application instances of the Radio Network Control
Plane and instances of the Transport Network Plane are linked together through
the Binding Identifier in the set-up phase.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="4.038194444444445in"}
Step 1: Application Part AP-1 assigns the Binding Identifier and sends a Radio
Network Control Plane Set-up (Response) message (which of the two messages
depends on the involved interface - Iu/Iur or Iub). The message contains the
originating node Transport layer address and the Binding Identifier.
Step 2: Among reception of the Radio Network Control Plane Set-up message, the
peer entity AP-2 requests ALCAP-2 to establish a transport bearer. The Binding
Identifier is passed to ALCAP-2.
Step 3: ALCAP-2 sends an ALCAP Establish Request to the peer entity ALCAP-1.
The message contains the Binding Identifier. The Binding Identifier allows
correlating the incoming transport connection with the Application Part
transaction in step 1.
Figure 6a: Usage of Binding ID
Table 3 indicates the binding identifier allocating entity in each interface.
Table 3: Binding identifier allocating entity in each interface
* * *
Reference point Allocating entity Application part message including Binding-
ID Iu CN Request from CN Iur DRNC Response to the request from SRNC Iub Node-B
Response to the request from DRNC
* * *
### 6.1.9 URA Identity
The URA identity is used to uniquely identify an URA, which is a specified set
of UTRAN and/or GERAN cells. The URA identity can be used to indicate to the
UE and the SRNC which URA it shall use in case there are multiple URA
identities broadcast in the cell where the UE is located.
### 6.1.10 Service Identifiers for MBMS
#### 6.1.10.1 IP Multicast Address and APN
The IP Multicast Address and an APN are used to enable the routing of MBMS
registration requests within the CN. These identifiers are transparent to RAN.
#### 6.1.10.2 TMGI
The Temporary Mobile Group Identity (TMGI) is used for group notification
purposes and is unique within HPLMN. TMGI is used at the start of a session
and at UE linking to identify an MBMS Bearer Service.
The structure of TMGI is specified in TS 23.003 [6].
#### 6.1.10.3 Session Identifier
MBMS session Identifier is used to identify one specific session of a MBMS
service and is forwarded transparently to the UE.
#### 6.1.10.4 MBMS Service Area
The MBMS Service Area is defined in TS 25.413 [31].
The mapping between a MBMS Service Area and a list of cells is set in the RNC
via O&M.
#### 6.1.10.5 MBMS Cell Group Identifier
The MBMS Cell Group Identifier is defined in TS 25.346 [30]
#### 6.1.10.6 MBMS UTRAN Cell Group Identifier
Void.
### 6.1.11 Transport Network Identifiers for MBMS
Transport Network identifiers are used in the Transport Network Layer (TNL) to
identify the MBMS transport bearers and may be used in User Plane in the
actual MBMS data transmission using the transport link. Each MBMS Transport
Network identifier can be binded to an Application Part identifier. The
Application Part identifier over the Iu interface is the TMGI corresponding to
one MBMS Bearer Service.
The handling of the MBMS Transport Network identifiers is the same as the
handling of Transport Network identifiers for dedicated resources described in
section 6.1.8.2.
### 6.1.12 Binding Identifiers for MBMS
Binding identifiers can be used for MBMS both in Radio Network Control plane
Application Part protocols and in Transport Network Control Plane\'s ALCAP
protocol. When ALCAP is used, Binding Identifiers (Binding ID) are used to
initialise the linkage between ALCAP and the MBMS Application Part (RNSAP,
NBAP) identifiers. When no ALCAP is used, the Binding ID may also be used to
carry the UDP port on Iub and Iur interfaces.
The handling of the MBMS Binding identifiers is the same as the handling of
Binding identifiers for dedicated resources described in section 6.1.8.3.
## 6.2 Transport Addresses
The transport layer address parameter is transported in the radio network
application signalling procedures that result in establishment of transport
bearer connections.
The transport layer address parameter shall not be interpreted in the radio
network application protocols and reveal the addressing format used in the
transport layer.
The formats of the transport layer addresses are further elaborated in TS
25.414 [9], TS 25.424 [10], TS 25.434 [11], TS 25.426 [18].
## 6.3 Function Distribution Principles
For radio resource management functionality, the following principles apply:
\- The CRNC owns the radio resources of a cell.
\- The SRNC handles the connection to one UE, and may borrow radio resources
of a certain cell from the CRNC.
\- When used, the MRNC controls the logical resources of the RNSs that are
used for MBSFN operation within the MBSFN cluster(s).
Dynamical control of power for dedicated channels, within limits admitted by
CRNC, is done by the SRNC.
\- Dynamic control on smaller time-scale for some radio links of the UE
connection may be done by the Node B. This "inner loop" control is controlled
by an "outer loop", for which the SRNC has overall responsibility.
\- Scheduling of data for dedicated channels is done by the SRNC, while for
common channels it is done by the CRNC.
For management of node-internal resources, the following principle apply:
\- Each UTRAN node is considered a network element on its own. The knowledge
about the equipment of a network element is kept within the network element
itself and its management system. The node itself always manages node-internal
resources.
For transport network resource management, the following principle apply:
\- Management of transport network resources belong to the Transport Layer.
Mechanisms relevant for the selected transport technology are used. No
functional split between UTRAN nodes is specified what regards the Transport
Layer.
As a general guideline, the UTRAN protocols should be designed in such a way
that they minimise the need for a DRNC to interpret the user plane frame
protocol information other than for the combining/splitting purpose.
# 7 UTRAN Functions description
## 7.1 List of functions
\- Transfer of User Data.
\- Functions related to overall system access control:
\- Admission Control;
\- Congestion Control;
\- System information broadcasting.
\- Radio channel ciphering and deciphering.
\- Integrity protection.
\- Functions related to mobility:
\- Handover;
\- SRNS Relocation;
\- Paging support;
\- Positioning;
> \- GERAN System Information Retrieval;
\- Enhanced SRNS Relocation.
\- Functions related to radio resource management and control:
\- Radio resource configuration and operation;
\- Radio environment survey;
\- Combining/splitting control;
\- Connection set-up and release;
\- Allocation and deallocation of Radio Bearers;
\- [TDD - Dynamic Channel Allocation (DCA)];
\- Radio protocols function;
\- RF power control;
\- [3.84 Mcps TDD and 7.68Mcps TDD - Timing Advance];
\- [1.28 Mcps TDD -- Uplink Synchronisation];
\- Radio channel coding;
\- Radio channel decoding;
\- Channel coding control;
\- Initial (random) access detection and handling;
\- CN Distribution function for Non Access Stratum messages.
> \- Synchronisation.
>
> \- Functions related to broadcast and multicast services (see note)
> (broadcast/multicast interworking function BM‑IWF).
NOTE: Only Broadcast is applicable for Release 99.
> \- Broadcast/Multicast Information Distribution.
>
> \- Broadcast/Multicast Flow Control.
>
> \- CBS Status Reporting.
>
> \- Tracing.
>
> \- MDT.
>
> \- Volume reporting.
>
> \- NAS Node Selection.
>
> \- RAN Information Management.
>
> \- MBMS provision.
>
> \- MBMS Notification.
>
> \- MOCN and GWCN configuration support.
>
> \- SIPTO at Iu-PS (optional).
>
> \- Explicit Congestion Notification.
## 7.2 Functions description
### 7.2.0 Transfer of user data
This function provides user data transfer capability across the UTRAN between
the Iu and Uu reference points.
### 7.2.1 Functions related to overall system access control
System access is the means by which a UMTS user is connected to the UTRAN in
order to use UMTS services and/or facilities. User system access may be
initiated from either the mobile side, e.g. a mobile originated call, or the
network side, e.g. a mobile terminated call.
#### 7.2.1.1 Admission Control
The purpose of the admission control is to admit or deny new users, new radio
access bearers or new radio links (for example due to handover). The admission
control should try to avoid overload situations and base its decisions on
interference and resource measurements. The admission control is employed at
for example initial UE access, RAB assignment/reconfiguration and at handover.
These cases may give different answers depending on priority and situation.
The Admission Control function based on UL interference and DL power is
located in the Controlling RNC.
The Serving RNC is performing admission Control towards the Iu interface.
#### 7.2.1.2 Congestion Control
The task of congestion control is to monitor, detect and handle situations
when the system is reaching a near overload or an overload situation with the
already connected users. This means that some part of the network has run out,
or will soon run out of resources. The congestion control should then bring
the system back to a stable state as seamless as possible.
NOTE: This admission Control function is related to Radio Resources.
Congestion control is performed within UTRAN.
#### 7.2.1.3 System information broadcasting
This function provides the mobile station with the Access Stratum and Non
Access Stratum information which are needed by the UE for its operation within
the network.
The basic control and synchronisation of this function is located in UTRAN.
#### 7.2.1.4 MOCN and GWCN configuration support
In the MOCN configuration only the radio access part of the network is shared.
For the MOCN configuration it is required that the rerouting function, as
described in TS 25.410 [29], is supported.
In the GWCN configuration, besides shared radio access network, the core
network operators also share part of the core network, at least MSC and/or
SGSN.
For both the GWCN and MOCN configurations, the RNC carries the selected PLMN-
id between network sharing supporting UEs and the corresponding CN.
The network sharing MOCN and GWCN configurations are described in detail in TS
23.251 [28].
### 7.2.2 Radio channel ciphering and deciphering
This function is a pure computation function whereby the radio transmitted
data can be protected against a non-authorised third-party. Ciphering and
deciphering may be based on the usage of a session-dependent key, derived
through signalling and/or session dependent information.
This function is located in the UE and in the UTRAN.
### 7.2.3 Functions related to Mobility
#### 7.2.3.1 Handover
This function manages the mobility of the radio interface. It is based on
radio measurements and it is used to maintains the Quality of Service
requested by the Core Network.
Handover may be directed to/from another system (e.g. UMTS to GSM handover).
The handover function may be either controlled by the network, or
independently by the UE. Therefore, this function may be located in the SRNC,
the UE, or both.
#### 7.2.3.2 SRNS Relocation
The SRNS Relocation function coordinates the activities when the SRNS role is
to be taken over by another RNS/BSS. The SRNS relocation function manages the
Iu interface connection mobility from an RNS to another RNS/BSS.
{width="6.606944444444444in" height="3.0548611111111112in"}
Figure 7: Serving RNS Relocation
The SRNS Relocation is initiated by the SRNC.
This function is located in the RNC and the CN.
#### 7.2.3.3 Paging support
This function provides the capability to request a UE to contact the
UTRAN/GERAN Iu mode when the UE is in Idle, CELL_PCH or URA_PCH/GRA_PCH states
(TS 25.331 [7], TR 43.930 [21]). This function also encompasses a coordination
function between the different Core Network Domains onto a single RRC
connection.
#### 7.2.3.4 Positioning
This function provides the capability to determine the geographic position and
optionally the velocity of a UE.
#### 7.2.3.5 NAS Node Selection Function
The optional NAS Node Selection Function (NNSF) enables the RNC to initially
assign CN resources to serve a UE and subsequently setup a signalling
connection to the assigned CN resource.
The NNSF is described in detail in TS 23.236 [20].
#### 7.2.3.6 Shared Networks Access Control
The Shared Networks Access Control function allows the CN to request the UTRAN
to apply UE specific access control to LAs of the UTRAN and LAs of
neighbouring networks.
The Shared Networks Access Control function is based on either whole PLMNs or
Shared Network Areas (SNAs). An SNA is an area corresponding to one ore more
LAs within a single PLMN to which UE access can be controlled.
In order to apply Shared Networks Access Control for the UTRAN or for a
neighbouring system, the UTRAN shall be aware of whether the concerned LA
belongs to one (or several) SNA(s) or not.
If access for a specific UE needs to be restricted, the CN shall provide SNA
Access Information for that UE. The SNA Access Information indicates which
PLMNs and/or which SNAs the UE is allowed to access.
Based on whether the LA belongs to the PLMNs or SNAs the UE is allowed to
access, the UTRAN determines if access to a certain LA for a certain UE shall
be allowed.
If access is not allowed, the UTRAN shall request the CN to release existing
resources either by initiating Iu Release Request procedure with cause value
"Access Restricted due to Shared Network" or by requesting a relocation with
the same cause value.
#### 7.2.3.7 GERAN System Information Retrieval
In order to provide the UE with system information related to NACC towards a
GERAN system - to be used as an optimisation - the GERAN System Information
Retrieval function allows:
\- The source RAN to request GERAN (via CN) to provide this system
information.
\- The SRNC to request the DRNC (via Iur interface) to provide this system
information, if available.
The request and subsequent transfer of the GERAN System Information is
performed transparently with the RIM function. The RIM function is further
described in section 7.2.8.
#### 7.2.3.8 Enhanced SRNS Relocation
The Enhanced SRNS Relocation function coordinates the activities when the SRNS
role is to be taken over by another RNS. The Enhanced SRNS Relocation function
manages the Iu interface connection mobility from an RNS to another RNS.
The Enhanced SRNS Relocation is initiated by the SRNC. The relocation of the
SRNS functionality is prepared via RNSAP means. The CN is not informed until
the preparation and execution of the relocation has taken place.
This function is located in the RNC and the CN.
#### 7.2.3.9 Subscriber Profile ID for RAT/Frequency Priority
The RRM strategy in UTRAN may be based on user specific information.
The Subscriber Profile ID for RAT/Frequency Priority (SPID) parameter received
by the RNC via the Iu interface is an index referring to user information
(e.g. mobility profile, service usage profile). The information is UE specific
and applies to all its Radio Bearers.
This index is mapped by the RNC to locally defined configuration in order to
apply specific RRM strategies (e.g. to define RRC_IDLE mode priorities and
control inter-RAT/inter frequency handover in RRC_CONNECTED mode).
### 7.2.4 Functions related to radio resource management and control
_Radio resource management_ is concerned with the allocation and maintenance
of radio communication resources. UMTS radio resources must be shared between
circuit transfer mode services and packet transfer modes services (i.e.
Connection-oriented and/or connectionless-oriented services).
#### 7.2.4.1 Radio resource configuration and operation
This function performs configures the radio network resources, i.e. cells and
common transport channels, and takes the resources into or out of operation.
#### 7.2.4.2 Radio environment survey
This function performs measurements on radio channels (current and surrounding
cells) and translates these measurements into radio channel quality estimates.
Measurements may include:
1) Received signal strengths (current and surrounding cells);
2) Estimated bit error ratios, (current and surrounding cells);
3) Estimation of propagation environments (e.g. high-speed, low-speed,
satellite, etc.);
4) Transmission range (e.g. through timing information);
5) Doppler shift;
6) Synchronisation status;
7) Received interference level;
8) Total DL transmission power per cell.
This function is located in the UE and in the UTRAN.
#### 7.2.4.3 Combining/splitting control
This function controls the combining/splitting of information streams to
receive/ transmit the same information through multiple physical channels
(possibly in different cells) from/ towards a single mobile terminal.
The UL combining of information streams may be performed using any suitable
algorithm, for example:
• [FDD - based on maximum ratio algorithm (maximum ratio combining)];
• [FDD - based on quality information associated to each TBS (selection-
combining)];
• [TDD - based on the presence/absence of the signal (selection)].
[FDD - combining/splitting control should interact with channel coding control
in order to reduce the bit error ratio when combining the different
information streams].
In some cases, depending on physical network configuration, there may be
several entities which combine the different information streams, i.e. there
may be combining/splitting at the SRNC, DRNC or Node B level.
This function is located in the UTRAN.
#### 7.2.4.4 Connection set-up and release
This function is responsible for the control of connection element set-up and
release in the radio access sub network. The purpose of this function is:
1) To participate in the processing of the end-to-end connection set-up and
release;
2) And to manage and maintain the element of the end-to-end connection, which
is located in the radio access sub network.
In the former case, this function will be activated by request from other
functional entities at call set-up/release. In the latter case, i.e. when the
end-to-end connection has already been established, this function may also be
invoked to cater for in-call service modification or at handover execution.
This function is located both in the UE and in the RNC.
#### 7.2.4.5 Allocation and deallocation of Radio Bearers
This function consists of translating the connection element set-up (resp.
release) requests into physical radio channel allocation (resp. deallocation)
accordingly to the QoS of the Radio Access Bearer.
This function may be activated during the call since e.g. the user service
request may vary, or macro diversity may be used.
This function is located in the CRNC and SRNC.
#### 7.2.4.6 [TDD - Dynamic Channel Allocation (DCA)]
DCA is used in the TDD mode. It includes Fast DCA and Slow DCA. Slow DCA is
the process of assigning radio resources, including time slots, to different
TDD cells according to the varying cell load. Fast DCA is the process of
assigning resources to Radio Bearers, and is related to Admission Control.
#### 7.2.4.7 Radio protocols function
This function provides user data and signalling transfer capability across the
UMTS radio interface by adapting the services (according to the QoS of the
Radio Access Bearer) to the Radio transmission. This function includes amongst
other:
\- Multiplexing of services and multiplexing of UEs on Radio bearers;
\- Segmentation and reassembly;
\- Acknowledged/Unacknowledged delivery according to the Radio Access Bearer
QoS.
#### 7.2.4.8 RF power control
This group of functions controls the level of the transmitted power in order
to minimise interference and keep the quality of the connections. It consist
of the following functions: UL Outer Loop Power Control, DL Outer Loop Power
Control, UL Inner Loop Power Control, DL Inner Loop Power Control, UL Open
Loop Power Control and DL Open Loop Power Control.
##### 7.2.4.8.1 UL Outer Loop Power Control
The UL Outer Loop Power Control located in the SRNC [TDD -- except for uplink
shared channels where it is located in the CRNC] sets the target quality value
for the UL Inner Loop Power Control which is located in Node B for FDD and
1.28 Mcps TDD and is located in the UE for 3.84 Mcps and 7.68Mcps TDD. It
receives input from quality estimates of the transport channel. The UL outer
loop power control is mainly used for a long-term quality control of the radio
channel.
In FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD this function is located in the UTRAN, in 3.84 Mcps
and 7.68 Mcps TDD the function is performed in UTRAN and the target quality
value is sent to the UE by the SRNC or the CRNC, respectively.
In FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD, if the connection involves both a SRNS and a DRNS
the function UL Outer Loop Power Control (located in the SRNC [1.28 Mcps TDD
-- or in the CRNC, respectively]) sets the target quality for the UL Inner
Loop Power Control function (located in Node B).
##### 7.2.4.8.2 DL Outer Loop Power Control
The DL Outer Loop Power Control sets the target quality value for the DL inner
loop power control. It receives input from quality estimates of the transport
channel, measured in the UE. The DL outer loop power control is mainly used
for a long-term quality control of the radio channel.
This function is located mainly in the UE, but some control parameters are set
by the UTRAN.
The SRNC, regularly (or under some algorithms), sends the target down link
power range based on the measurement report from UE.
##### 7.2.4.8.3 UL Inner Loop Power Control
The UL Inner Loop Power Control sets the power of the uplink dedicated [TDD --
and shared] physical channels.
In FDD, it is a closed loop process. It receives the quality target from UL
Outer Loop Power Control and quality estimates of the uplink dedicated
physical control channel. The power control commands are sent on the downlink
dedicated physical control channel to the UE. This function is located in both
the UTRAN and the UE.
In 3.84 Mcps and 7.68 Mcps TDD it is a open loop process, it receives the
quality target from the UL Outer Loop Power Control and uses the quality
target and quality estimates of downlink channels to set the transmit power.
This function is located in the UE.
In 1.28 Mcps TDD, it is a closed loop process. It receives the quality target
from UL Outer Loop Power Control, and quality estimates of the uplink
dedicated physical channels as well as physical uplink shared channels, if
any. The power control commands are sent on the downlink dedicated physical
channels and physical downlink shared channels, if any, to the UE. This
function is located in both the UTRAN and the UE.
##### 7.2.4.8.4 DL Inner Loop Power Control
The DL Inner Loop Power Control sets the power of the downlink dedicated [TDD
-- and shared] physical channels. It receives the quality target from DL Outer
Loop Power Control and quality estimates of the [FDD - downlink dedicated
physical control channel] [TDD -- downlink dedicated physical channels and
physical downlink shared channels if any]. The power control commands are sent
on the [FDD - uplink dedicated physical control channel] [TDD -- downlink
dedicated physical channels and physical downlink shared channels if any] to
the UTRAN.
This function is located in both the UTRAN and the UE.
##### 7.2.4.8.5 UL Open Loop Power Control
The UL Open Loop Power Control sets the initial power of the UE, i.e. at
random access. The function uses UE measurements and broadcasted cell/system
parameters as input.
This function is located in both the UTRAN and the UE.
##### 7.2.4.8.6 DL Open Loop Power Control
The DL Open Loop Power Control sets the initial power of downlink channels. It
receives downlink measurement reports from the UE.
This function is located in both the UTRAN and the UE.
#### 7.2.4.9 Radio channel coding
This function introduces redundancy into the source data flow, increasing its
rate by adding information calculated from the source data, in order to allow
the detection or correction of signal errors introduced by the transmission
medium. The channel coding algorithm(s) used and the amount of redundancy
introduced may be different for the different types of logical channels and
different types of data.
This function is located in both the UE and in the UTRAN.
#### 7.2.4.10 Radio channel decoding
This function tries to reconstruct the source information using the redundancy
added by the channel coding function to detect or correct possible errors in
the received data flow. The channel decoding function may also employ a priori
error likelihood information generated by the demodulation function to
increase the efficiency of the decoding operation. The channel decoding
function is the complement function to the channel coding function.
This function is located in both the UE and in the UTRAN.
#### 7.2.4.11 Channel coding control
This function generates control information required by the channel coding/
decoding execution functions. This may include channel coding scheme, code
rate, etc.
This function is located in both the UE and in the UTRAN.
#### 7.2.4.12 Initial (random) access detection and handling
This function will have the ability to detect an initial access attempt from a
mobile station and will respond appropriately. The handling of the initial
access may include procedures for a possible resolution of colliding attempts,
etc. The successful result will be the request for allocation of appropriate
resources for the requesting mobile station.
This function is located in the UTRAN.
#### 7.2.4.13 CN Distribution function for Non Access Stratum messages
In the RRC protocol, messages from the NAS shall be transparently transferred
within the Access Stratum using the Direct Transfer procedure. A distribution
function in the UE and the SRNC shall handle the CN domain indicator being
part of the AS message to direct messages to the appropriate NAS entity i.e.
the appropriate Mobility Management instance in the UE domain and the
appropriate CN domain.
In the downlink direction the UE shall be provided by the SRNC with the
information on the originating CN domain for the individual NAS message.
In the uplink direction, the process performed by the distribution function in
the UE consists in inserting the appropriate values for the CN domain
indicator in the AS message and the process performed by the SRNC consists in
evaluating the CN domain indicator contained in the AS message and distribute
the NAS message to the corresponding RANAP instance for transfer over Iu
interface.
This distribution function is located in both the UE and in the SRNC.
#### 7.2.4.14 [3.84 Mcps and 7.68 Mcps TDD - Timing Advance]
This function is used in uplink to align the uplink radio signals from the UE
to the UTRAN. Timing Advance is based on uplink burst timing measurements
performed by the Node B L1, and on Timing Advance commands sent downlink to
the UE.
#### 7.2.4.15 Service specific function for Non Access Stratum messages
A service specific function in the UE provides a SAP for a particular service
(e.g. a given priority). In the downlink direction, the SRNC may base the
routing on this SAP.
This service specific function is located in both the UE and the SRNC.
#### 7.2.4.16 [1.28 Mcps TDD -- Uplink Synchronisation]
This function is used in uplink to synchronise the uplink radio signals from
the UE to the UTRAN. At the detection of uplink burst, the Node B will
evaluate the received power level and timing, and reply by sending the
adjustment information to UE to modify its timing and power level for next
transmission and for establishment of the Uplink synchronisation procedure.
### 7.2.5 Functions related to broadcast and multicast services
(broadcast/multicast interworking function BM-IWF)
See note.
#### 7.2.5.1 Broadcast/Multicast Information Distribution
The broadcast/multicast information distribution function distributes received
CBS messages towards the BMC entities configured per cell for further
processing. The distribution of broadcast/multicast information relate on the
mapping between service area and cells controlled by the RNC. The provision of
this mapping information is an O&M function.
NOTE: Only Broadcast is applicable for Release 99.
#### 7.2.5.2 Broadcast/Multicast Flow Control
When processing units of the RNC becomes congested, the Broadcast/Multicast
Flow Control function informs the data source about this congestion situation
and takes means to resolve the congestion.
#### 7.2.5.3 CBS Status Reporting
The RNC collects status data per cell (e.g. No-of-Broadcast-Completed-List,
Radio-Resource-Loading-List), and matches these data to Service Areas. The
status data is transmitted to the CBC, if a query has been made by the CBC.
### 7.2.6 Tracing
This function allows tracing of various events related to the UE and its
activities.
### 7.2.7 Volume Reporting
The data volume reporting function is used to report the volume of
unacknowledged data to the CN for accounting purpose.
### 7.2.8 RAN Information Management
The RAN Information Management (RIM) function is a generic mechanism that
allows the request and transfer of information between two RAN nodes e.g.
GERAN System information. The RIM mechanism allows to start, stop and resume
both on demand and on event transfer of information. RIM also provides native
error handling function at RIM level and at RIM application level. The RIM
function is further described in TR 44.901 [22] and TS 48.018 [23].
### 7.2.9 Functions related to MBMS
#### 7.2.9.1 MBMS provision
The MBMS provision enables the RNC to provide a multicast service via an
optimised transmission of the MBMS bearer service in UTRAN via techniques such
as PTM transmission, selective combining, Soft Combining and transmission mode
selection between PTM and PTP bearer.
The MBMS provision enables the RNC to provide a broadcast service via a PTM
transmission bearer.
#### 7.2.9.2 MBMS Notification Coordination
The characteristic of MBMS implies a need for MBMS notification co-ordination
i.e. specific handling of MBMS Notification when UE is in Cell-DCH state. MBMS
notification co-ordination is performed by UTRAN when the session is ongoing.
The TMGI is used for coordination.
The MBMS functions are further described in TS 25.346 [30].
### 7.2.10 SIPTO at Iu-PS
If supported, SIPTO at Iu- PS Function provides the capability to offload
certain PS RABs from the CN at RAB setup. The SIPTO at Iu-PS is implementation
dependent and may be implemented in a separate entity outside of RNS, for
further information see TS 23.060 [36].
### 7.2.11 Explicit Congestion Notification
The RNC and the UE support of the Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) is
specified in Section 5 of IETF RFC 3168 [37] (i.e., the normative part of IETF
RFC 3168 [37] that applies to the end-to-end flow of IP packets), and below.
This enables the RNC to control the initial codec rate selection and/or to
trigger a codec rate reduction. Thereby the RNC can increase capacity (e.g.,
in terms of number of accepted VoIP calls), and improve coverage (e.g. for
high bit rate video sessions).
The RNC should set the Congestion Experienced (CE) codepoint (\'11\') in PDCP
SDUs in the downlink direction to indicate downlink (radio) congestion if
those PDCP SDUs have one of the two ECN-Capable Transport (ECT) codepoints
set.
The RNC should set the Congestion Experienced (CE) codepoint (\'11\') in PDCP
SDUs in the uplink direction to indicate uplink (radio) congestion if those
PDCP SDUs have one of the two ECN-Capable Transport (ECT) codepoints set.
### 7.2.12 MDT
This function allows to activate and handle MDT sessions by trace procedure as
described in TS37.320 [38].
# 8 Mobility Management
## 8.1 Signalling connection
Based on TS 23.110 [2], the UE may either have or not have a signalling
connection:
1) When a signalling connection exists that is established over the Dedicated
Control Service Access Point (DC-SAP) from the Access Stratum.\ Therefore, the
CN can reach the UE by the dedicated connection SAP on the CN side, and the
UTRAN has a context with the UE and CN for this particular connection. This
context is erased when the connection is released. The _dedicated connection_
can be initiated from the UE only.
NOTE: A dedicated connection is currently defined as Signalling Connection in
TS 23.110 [2]. Note that in the radio interface, dedicated or common channels
can be used.
Depending on the activity of a UE, the location of the UE is known either on
cell level (higher activity) or in a larger area consisting of several cells
(lower activity). This will (i) minimise the number of location update
messages for moving UEs with low activity and (ii) remove the need for paging
for UEs known on cell level.
2) When a dedicated connection does not exist, the CN must reach the UE via
the Notification SAP. The message sent to the UE can be a request to the UE to
establish a dedicated connection. The UE is addressed with a user/terminal
identity and a \"geographical area\".
## 8.2 Consequences for Mobility Handling
It is generally agreed to contain radio access specific procedures within
UTRAN. This means that all cell level mobility should be handled within UTRAN.
Also the cell structure of the radio network should not necessarily be known
outside the UTRAN.
When there exists a dedicated connection to the UE, the UTRAN shall handle the
radio interface mobility of the UE. This includes procedures such as soft
handover, and procedures for handling mobility in the CELL_PCH and
URA_PCH/GRA_PCH state TS 25.331 [7].
When a dedicated connection between the UTRAN and the UE does not exist, no UE
information is needed in UTRAN. Therefore, the mobility is handled directly
between UE and CN outside access stratum (e.g. by means of registration
procedures). When paging the UE, the CN indicates a \'geographical area\' that
is translated within UTRAN to the actual cells that shall be paged. A
\'geographical area\' shall be identified in a cell-structure independent way.
One possibility is the use of \'Location Area identities\'.
During the lifetime of the dedicated connection, the registrations to the CN
are suppressed by the UE. When a dedicated connection is released, the UE
performs a new registration to the CN, when needed.
Thus, the UTRAN does not contain any permanent \'location registers\' for the
UE, but only temporary contexts for the duration of the dedicated connection.
This context may typically contain location information (e.g. current cell(s)
of the UE) and information about allocated radio resources and related
connection references.
# 9 Synchronisation
## 9.1 SYNCHRONISATION MODEL
Different synchronisation issues are identified within UTRAN, i.e.:
\- Network Synchronisation;
\- Node Synchronisation;
\- Transport Channel synchronisation;
> \- Radio Interface Synchronisation;
>
> \- Time Alignment handling.
The Nodes involved by the above mentioned synchronisation issues (with
exception of Network and Node Synchronisation) are shown by the
Synchronisation Issues Model of figure 8. Further details of synchronisation
are in TS 25.402 [5].
{width="6.21875in" height="3.2083333333333335in"}
Figure 8: Synchronisation issues model
# 10 UTRAN O&M Requirements
## 10.1 O&M of Node B
The O&M of Node B is separated in two parts: the O&M linked to the actual
implementation of Node B, denoted as Implementation Specific _O &M_, and the
O&M which impacts on the traffic carrying resources in Node B controlled from
the RNC, denoted _logical O &M_. The RNS architecture with the O&M interfaces
is shown in figure 9.
Figure 9: RNS architecture with O&M interfaces
NOTE 1: The concept of an interface from the RNC to the management system is
shown for clarity only. It\'s definition is outside the scope of 3GPP-TSG-RAN-
WG3.
NOTE 2: The presentation of the O&M functions within the management system is
shown for clarity only. Their actual implementation is outside the scope of
3GPP-TSG-RAN-WG3.
NOTE 3: The standardisation of the Implementation Specific O&M is outside the
scope of 3GPP-TSG-RAN-WG3. The 3GPP-TSG-RAN-WG3 should only address the bearer
for the Implementation Specific O&M.
NOTE 4: The figure shows only logical connections and does not intend to
mandate any physical interfaces.
NOTE 5: The Iuant interface to the control unit of the RET antennas or TMAs is
specified in the series of Technical Specifications 25.460 [24], 25.461 [25],
25.462 [26] and 25.466 [32]. An Implementation Specific O&M function is needed
for the RET antennas or TMAs control to translate the control signalling from
the Node B Element Manager into the control commands of the Iuant interface
specified in TS 25.460 [24].
### 10.1.1 Implementation Specific O&M
The Implementation Specific O&M functions are heavily dependent on the
implementation of Node B, both for its hardware components and for the
management of the software components. It needs therefore to be implementation
dependent, and be performed between Node B and the management system.
One solution for the transport of Implementation Specific O&M is to route from
Node B to the management system via the RNC. In this case, the Implementation
Specific O&M interface and Iub interface share the same physical bearer, and
TS 25.442 [4] specifies the routing function and the transport bearer for this
scenario. The deployment of the routing across the RNC in the UTRAN is
optional. Where signalling between co-located equipment and its management
system is required, this may be carried over the same bearer as Implementation
Specific O&M.
### 10.1.2 Logical O&M
Logical O&M is the signalling associated with the control of logical resources
(channels, cells,...) owned by the RNC but physically implemented in the Node
B. The RNC controls these logical resources. A number of O&M procedures
physically implemented in Node B impact on the logical resources and therefore
require an information exchange between RNC and Node B. All messages needed to
support this information exchange are classified as Logical O&M forming an
integral part of NBAP.
# 11 UTRAN Interfaces
## 11.1 General Protocol Model for UTRAN Interfaces
### 11.1.1 General
The general protocol model for UTRAN Interfaces is depicted in figure 10, and
described in detail in the following subclauses. The structure is based on the
principle that the layers and planes are logically independent of each other.
Therefore, as and when required, the standardisation body can easily alter
protocol stacks and planes to fit future requirements.
{width="5.427083333333333in" height="3.3333333333333335in"}
Figure 10: General Protocol Model for UTRAN Interfaces
### 11.1.2 Horizontal Layers
The Protocol Structure consists of two main layers, Radio Network Layer, and
Transport Network Layer. All UTRAN related issues are visible only in the
Radio Network Layer, and the Transport Network Layer represents standard
transport technology that is selected to be used for UTRAN, but without any
UTRAN specific requirements.
### 11.1.3 Vertical Planes
#### 11.1.3.1 Control Plane
The Control Plane Includes the Application Protocol, i.e. RANAP, RNSAP or
NBAP, and the Signalling Bearer for transporting the Application Protocol
messages.
Among other things, the Application Protocol is used for setting up bearers
for (i.e. Radio Access Bearer or Radio Link) in the Radio Network Layer. In
the three plane structure the bearer parameters in the Application Protocol
are not directly tied to the User Plane technology, but are rather general
bearer parameters.
The Signalling Bearer for the Application Protocol may or may not be of the
same type as the Signalling Protocol for the ALCAP. The Signalling Bearer is
always set up by O&M actions.
#### 11.1.3.2 User Plane
The User Plane Includes the Data Stream(s) and the Data Bearer(s) for the Data
Stream(s). The Data Stream(s) is/are characterised by one or more frame
protocols specified for that interface.
#### 11.1.3.3 Transport Network Control Plane
The Transport Network Control Plane does not include any Radio Network Layer
information, and is completely in the Transport Layer. It includes the ALCAP
protocol(s) that is/are needed to set up the transport bearers (Data Bearer)
for the User Plane. It also includes the appropriate Signalling Bearer(s)
needed for the ALCAP protocol(s).
The Transport Network Control Plane is a plane that acts between the Control
Plane and the User Plane. The introduction of Transport Network Control Plane
is performed in a way that the Application Protocol in the Radio Network
Control Plane is kept completely independent of the technology selected for
Data Bearer in the User Plane. Indeed, the decision to actually use an ALCAP
protocol is completely kept within the Transport Network Layer.
It should be noted that ALCAP might not be used for all types Data Bearers. If
there is no ALCAP signalling transaction, the Transport Network Control Plane
is not needed at all. This is the case when pre-configured Data Bearers are
used or when the IP (IETF RFC 791 [17]) UTRAN option is used between two IP
UTRAN nodes or between an IP UTRAN node and an IP CN node.
When Transport Network Control Plane is used, the transport bearers for the
Data Bearer in the User Plane are set up in the following fashion. First there
is a signalling transaction by the Application Protocol in the Control Plane,
which triggers the set up of the Data Bearer by the ALCAP protocol that is
specific for the User Plane technology.
The following interworking alternatives are specified for the IP-ATM
interworking:
1) ATM/IP Dual Stack supported in the IP UTRAN node. When an ATM/IP dual stack
is implemented in the IP UTRAN node, support of an IP ALCAP protocol is not
required.
Annex A of TS 25.414 [9] shows an example of protocols for the case the ATM&IP
UTRAN/CN-node has no ATM connectivity.
2) An Interworking Function (IWF), either internal or external to the UTRAN/CN
node.
Annex A of TS 25.414 [9] shows an example of a protocol stack for the case
when the IWF is an external unit to the UTRAN/CN node. Other protocol stacks
for this case are not precluded.
#### 11.1.3.4 Transport Network User Plane
The Data Bearer(s) in the User Plane, and the Signalling Bearer(s) for
Application Protocol, belong also to Transport Network User Plane. As
described in the previous subclause, the Data Bearers in Transport Network
User Plane are directly controlled by Transport Network Control Plane during
real time operation, but the control actions required for setting up the
Signalling Bearer(s) for Application Protocol are considered O&M actions.
## 11.2 Protocol Model (Informative)
The following subclause is a informative subclause which aim is to provide an
overall picture of how the MAC layer is distributed over Uu, Iub and Iur for
the RACH, FACH, DCH, [TDD -- DSCH, USCH] and HS-DSCH.
### 11.2.1 RACH Transport Channel
Figure 11 shows the protocol stack model for the RACH transport channel when
the Controlling and Serving RNC are co-incident.
For the RACH transport channel, Dedicated MAC (MAC-d) uses the services of
Common MAC (MAC-c/sh).
Figure 11: RACH: Coincident Controlling and Serving RNC
The Common MAC (MAC-c/sh) entity in the UE transfers MAC-c/sh PDU to the peer
MAC-c/sh entity in the RNC using the services of the Physical Layer.
An Interworking Function (IWF) in the Node B interworks the RACH frame
received by the PHY entity into the RACH Frame Protocol (RACH FP) entity.
The RACH Frame Protocol entity adds header information to form a RACH FP PDU
that is transported to the RNC over a transport bearer.
At the RNC, the RACH FP entity delivers the MAC-c/sh PDU to the MAC-c/sh
entity.
Figure 12 shows the protocol model for the RACH transport channel with
separate Controlling and Serving RNC. In this case, Iur RACH Frame Protocol
(RACH FP) is used to interwork the Common MAC (MAC-c/sh) at the Controlling
RNC with the Dedicated MAC (MAC-d) at the Serving RNC.
Figure 12: RACH: Separate Controlling and Serving RNC
### 11.2.2 CPCH [FDD] Transport Channel
Void.
### 11.2.3 FACH Transport Channel
Figure 15 shows the protocol model for the FACH transport channel when the
Controlling and Serving RNC are co-incident.
Figure 15: FACH Co-incident Controlling and Serving RNC
The Common MAC (MAC-c/sh/m) entity in the RNC transfers MAC-c PDU to the peer
MAC-c entity in the UE using the services of the FACH Frame Protocol (FACH FP)
entity.
The FACH Frame Protocol entity adds header information to form a FACH FP PDU
which is transported to the Node B over a transport bearer.
An Interworking Function (IWF) in the Node B interworks the FACH frame
received by FACH Frame Protocol (FACH FP) entity into the PHY entity.
FACH scheduling is performed by MAC-c/sh/m in the CRNC.
Figure 16 shows the protocol model for the FACH transport channel with
separate Controlling and Serving RNC. In this case, Iur FACH Frame Protocol is
used to interwork the Common MAC (MAC-c) at the Controlling RNC with the
Dedicated MAC (MAC-d) at the Serving RNC.
Figure 16: FACH: Separate Controlling and Serving RNC
### 11.2.4 DCH Transport Channel
Figure 17 shows the protocol model for the DCH transport channel when the
Controlling and Serving RNC are co-incident.
Figure 17: DCH: Co-incident Controlling and Serving RNC
The DCH transport channel introduces the concept of distributed PHY layer.
An Interworking Function (IWF) in the Node B interworks between the DCH Frame
Protocol (DCH FP) entity and the PHY entity.
Figure 18: DCH: Separate Controlling and Serving RNC
Figure 18 shows the protocol model for the DCH transport channel with separate
Controlling and Serving RNC. In this case, the Iub DCH FP is terminated in the
CRNC and interworked with the Iur DCH FP through a PHY function. This function
performs optional soft handover or can be a null function.
### 11.2.5 DSCH Transport Channel [TDD]
Figure 19 shows the protocol model for the DSCH transport channel when the
Controlling and Serving RNC are co-incident.
Figure 19: DSCH Co-incident Controlling and Serving RNC
The Shared MAC (MAC-c/sh) entity in the RNC transfers MAC-c/sh PDU to the peer
MAC-c/sh entity in the UE using the services of the DSCH Frame Protocol (DSCH
FP) entity. The DSCH FP entity adds header information to form a DSCH FP PDU
that is transported to the Node B over a transport bearer.
An Interworking Function (IWF) in the Node B interworks the DSCH frame
received by DSCH FP entity into the PHY entity. DSCH scheduling is performed
by MAC-c/sh in the CRNC.
Figure 20 shows the protocol model for the DSCH transport channel with
separate Controlling and Serving RNC. In this case, Iur DSCH Frame Protocol is
used to interwork the MAC-c/sh at the Controlling RNC with the MAC-d at the
Serving RNC.
Figure 20: DSCH: Separate Controlling and Serving RNC
### 11.2.6 USCH Transport Channel [TDD]
Figure 21 shows the protocol model for the USCH transport channel when the
Controlling and Serving RNC are co-incident.
Figure 21: USCH Co-incident Controlling and Serving RNC
The Shared MAC (MAC-c/sh) entity in the RNC _receives_ MAC-c/sh PDU _from_ the
peer MAC-c/sh entity in the UE using the services of the Interworking Function
in the Node B, and the USCH Frame Protocol (USCH FP) entity. The USCH FP
entity _in the Node B_ adds header information to form a USCH FP PDU that is
transported to the _RNC_ over a transport bearer.
An Interworking Function (IWF) in the Node B interworks _the received USCH PHY
entity into an USCH frame to be transmitted by the USCH FP entity over the Iub
interface_. USCH scheduling is performed by MAC-c/sh in UE and by C-RRC in the
CRNC.
Figure 22 shows the protocol model for the USCH transport channel with
separate Controlling and Serving RNC. In this case, Iur USCH Frame Protocol is
used to interwork the MAC-c/sh at the Controlling RNC with the MAC-d at the
Serving RNC.
Figure 22: USCH: Separate Controlling and Serving RNC
### 11.2.7 HS-DSCH Transport Channel
Figure 23 shows the protocol model for the HS-DSCH transport channel when the
Controlling and Serving RNC are co-incident. [FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD -- The
protocol model in Figure 23 is applied for HS-DSCH configured for UEs in
Cell_DCH.]
Figure 23: HS-DSCH Co-incident Controlling and Serving RNC
The High Speed MAC (MAC-hs) or Enhanced High Speed MAC (MAC-ehs) entity in the
Node B transfers MAC-hs (or MAC-ehs) PDU to the peer MAC-hs (or MAC-ehs)
entity in the UE over the Uu interface. The Dedicated MAC (MAC-d) entity in
the RNC transfers MAC-d PDUs to the MAC-hs or MAC-ehs in the Node B using the
services of the HS-DSCH Frame Protocol (HS-DSCH FP) entity. The HS-DSCH FP
entity adds header information to form a HS-DSCH FP PDU that is transported to
the Node B over a transport bearer.
A Relaying Function in the Node B relays the HS-DSCH frame received by HS-DSCH
FP entity to the MAC-hs (or MAC-ehs) entity. HS-DSCH scheduling is performed
by MAC-hs (or MAC-ehs) in the Node B.
Figure 24 shows the protocol model for the HS-DSCH transport channel with
separate Controlling and Serving RNC. [FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD -- The protocol
model in Figure 24 is applied for HS-DSCH configured for UEs in Cell_DCH.] In
this case, Iur HS-DSCH Frame Protocol is used to interwork the Flow Control
function at the Controlling RNC with the MAC-d at the Serving RNC. Also in
this case, Iub HS-DSCH Frame Protocol is used to interwork the MAC-hs (or MAC-
ehs) at the Node B with the Flow Control function at the Controlling RNC.
Figure 24: HS-DSCH: Separate Controlling and Serving RNC (configuration with
CRNC flow control)
Figure 25 shows the protocol model for the HS-DSCH transport channel with the
Controlling RNC user plane RNL being bypassed. [FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD -- The
protocol model in Figure 25 is applied for HS-DSCH configured for UEs in
Cell_DCH.] In this case, the CRNC does not have any user plane RNL function
for the HS-DSCH. MAC-d in SRNC is located directly above MAC-hs (or MC-ehs) in
Node B, i.e. in the HS-DSCH user plane RNL, the SRNC is directly connected to
the Node B, thus bypassing the CRNC user plane RNL. The CRNC performs only
user plane TNL functions.
Figure 25: HS-DSCH: Serving RNC with bypassed Controlling RNC (configuration
without CRNC flow control)
[FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD - Figure 25A shows the protocol model for the HS-DSCH
transport channel configured for UE in Cell_FACH, Cell_PCH and URA_PCH, when
the Controlling and Serving RNC are co-incident.
The Common MAC (MAC-c/sh/m) entity in the RNC transfers MAC-c PDU to the peer
MAC-c entity in the UE using the services of the HS-DSCH Frame Protocol (HS-
DSCH FP) entity.
The HS-DSCH Frame Protocol entity adds header information to form a HS-DSCH FP
PDU which is transported to the Node B over a transport bearer.
The Enhanced High Speed MAC (MAC-ehs) entity in the Node B transfers MAC-ehs
PDU to the peer MAC-ehs entity in the UE over the Uu interface. ]
Figure 25A: HS-DSCH configured for UE in Cell_FACH, Cell_PCH and URA_PCH: Co-
incident Controlling and Serving RNC (FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD only)
[FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD - Figure 25B shows the protocol model for the HS-DSCH
transport channel configured for UE in Cell_FACH, Cell_PCH and URA_PCH, with
separate Controlling and Serving RNC. In this case, Iur HS-DSCH Frame Protocol
is used to interwork the Flow Control function at the MAC-c at Controlling RNC
with the MAC-d at the Serving RNC. Also in this case, Iub HS-DSCH Frame
Protocol is used to interwork the MAC-ehs at the Node B with the Flow Control
function at the MAC-c at the Controlling RNC.]
Figure 25B: HS-DSCH configured for UE in Cell_FACH, Cell_PCH and URA_PCH:
Serving RNC with Separate Controlling and Serving RNC (FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD
only)
### 11.2.8 E-DCH Transport Channel
Figure 26 shows the protocol model for the E-DCH transport channel when the
Controlling and Serving RNC are co-incident. [FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD \-- The
protocol model in Figure 26 is applied for E-DCH configured for UEs in
Cell_DCH.]
Figure 26: E-DCH Co-incident Controlling and Serving RNC
The E-DCH MAC (MAC-e/MAC-es)/Enhanced E-DCH MAC (MAC-i/MAC-is) entity in the
UE transfers MAC-e /MAC-i PDUs to the peer MAC-e/MAC-i entity in the Node B
and MAC-es/MAC-is PDUs to the peer MAC-es /MAC-is entity in the RNC using the
services of the Physical Layer.
The E-DCH FP entity adds header information to form a E-DCH FP PDU that is
transported to the RNC over a transport bearer.
An Interworking Function (IWF) in the Node B interworks the E-DCH frame
received by the MAC-e/MAC-i entity into the E-DCH Frame Protocol (E-DCH FP)
entity. E-DCH scheduling is performed by MAC-e/MAC-i in the Node B and
reordering is performed by MAC-es/MAC-is in the RNC.
Figure 27 shows the protocol model for the E-DCH transport channel with
separate Controlling and Serving RNC. [FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD -- The protocol
model in Figure 27 is applied for E-DCH configured for UEs in Cell_DCH.] In
this case, the CRNC does not have any user plane RNL function for the E-DCH.
MAC-es/MAC-is in SRNC is located directly above MAC-e/MAC-is in Node B, i.e.
in the E-DCH user plane RNL, the SRNC is directly connected to the Node B,
thus bypassing the CRNC user plane RNL. The CRNC performs only user plane TNL
functions.
Figure 27: E-DCH: Separate Controlling and Serving RNC
[FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD - Figure 28 shows the protocol model for the E-DCH
transport channel configured for UE in Cell_FACH for CCCH transmission.
The E-DCH MAC (MAC-i/MAC-is) entity in the UE transfers MAC-i and MAC-is PDUs
to the peer MAC-i in the Node B and and MAC-is entity in the CRNC.
The E-DCH FP entity adds header information to form a E-DCH FP PDU that is
transported to the RNC over a transport bearer.]
Figure 28: E-DCH configured for UE in Cell_FACH(CCCH case)(FDD and 1.28 Mcps
TDD only)
[FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD - Figure 29 shows the protocol model for the E-DCH
transport channel configured for UE in Cell_FACH for DCCH and DTCH
transmission when the Controlling and Serving RNC are co-incident.
The E-DCH MAC (MAC-i/MAC-is) entity in the UE transfers MAC-i PDUs to the peer
MAC-i entity in the Node B and MAC-is PDUs to the peer MAC-is entity in the
RNC using the services of the Physical Layer.
The E-DCH FP entity adds header information to form anE-DCH FP PDU that is
transported to the RNC over a transport bearer.
An Interworking Function (IWF) in the Node B interworks the E-DCH frame
received by the MAC-i entity into the E-DCH Frame Protocol (E-DCH FP) entity.
E-DCH scheduling is performed by MAC-i in the Node B and reordering is
performed by MAC-is in the RNC.]
Figure 29: E-DCH configured for UE in Cell_FACH (DCCH/DTCH case) :Co-incident
Controlling and Serving RNC (FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD only)
[FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD - Figure 30 shows the protocol model for the E-DCH
transport channel configured for UE in Cell_FACH for DCCH and DTCH
transmission, with separate Controlling and Serving RNC.
An Interworking Function (IWF) in the CRNC interworks the E-DCH data frame
received from Node B into the Iur E-DCH Frame Protocol (E-DCH FP) entity.]
Figure 30: E-DCH configured for UE in Cell_FACH (DCCH/DTCH case): Separate
Controlling and Serving RNC (FDD and 1.28 Mcps TDD only)
# 12 UTRAN Performance Requirements
## 12.1 UTRAN delay requirements
Void.
###### ## Annex A (Informative) -- SPID ranges and mapping of SPID values to
cell reselection and inter-RAT/inter frequency handover priorities
Ranges of SPID (Subscriber Profile ID for RAT/Frequency Priority) values,
respectively Operator Specific and Reference values and the mapping at RNS of
Reference SPID values to cell reselection and inter-RAT/inter frequency
handover priorities are defined in TS 36.300 [35].
#