# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the TSG RAN TS 25.43x series of
UMTS Technical Specifications that define the Iub Interface. The Iub interface
is a logical interface for the interconnection of Node B and Radio Network
Controller (RNC) components of the UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(UTRAN) for the UMTS system.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN overall description\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.442: \"UTRAN implementation-specific O&M transport\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.432: \"UTRAN Iub interface: signalling transport\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.302: \"Services provided by the physical layer\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.431: \"UTRAN Iub interface layer 1\".
[6] Void
[7] 3GPP TS 25.433: \"UTRAN Iub interface Node B Application Part (NBAP)
signalling\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.434: \"UTRAN Iub Interface Data Transport and Transport
Signalling for Common Transport Channel Data Streams\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.435: \"UTRAN Iub Interface user plane protocols for Common
Transport Channel data streams\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.426: \"UTRAN Iur and Iub Interface data transport & transport
signalling for DCH data streams\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.427: \"UTRAN Iur/Iub Interface user plane protocol for DCH
data streams\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.402: \"Synchronization in UTRAN Stage 2\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.2 (1999-12): \"AAL type 2 Signalling Protocol
(Capability Set 2)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.319: \"Enhanced Uplink; Overall description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Propagation delay (PD):** it is the round trip propagation delay of the
radio signal from the Node B to the UE and back to the BS in one chip
resolution.
**Timing Advance (TA):** it is the amount of time, expressed in number of
chips, by which the transmission of an uplink burst is anticipated by the UE
in order to be received by the cell inside the corresponding time slot.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAL2 ATM Adaptation Layer type 2
AAL5 ATM Adaptation Layer type 5
AICH Acquisition Indication Channel
ALCAP Access Link Control Application Part
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
BCH Broadcast Channel
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
CCH Control Channel
CPCId Common Physical Channel Identifier
CPICH Common Pilot Channel
CTCId Common Transport Channel Identifier
CRNC Controlling Radio Network Controller
DCH Dedicated Transport Channel
DPCCH Dedicated Physical Control Channel
DPCH Dedicated Physical Channel
DSCH Down-link Shared Channel
E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated Channel
FACH Forward Access Channel
FAUSCH Fast Up-link Signalling Channel
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
F-DPCH Fractional DPCH
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared Channel
IP Internet Protocol
MICH MBMS notification Indicator Channel
NBAP Node B Application Part
O&M Operation and Maintenance
PICH Page Indication Channel
PCCH Paging Control Channel
PCCPCH Primary Common Control Physical Channel
PCPICH Primary Common Pilot Channel
PCH Paging Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PLCCH Physical Layer Common Control Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
RACH Random Access Channel
RNC Radio Network Controller
RNS Radio Network Subsystem
SCH Synchronization Channel
SCCPCH Secondary Common Control Physical Channel
SCPICH Secondary Common Pilot Channel
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SRNC Serving Radio Network Controller
SSCF-UNI Service Specific Co-ordination Function - User Network Interface
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UC-ID UTRAN Cell Identifier
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
USCH Up-link Shared Channel
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
## 3.3 Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
> [FDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
> \"[FDD]\" applies only to FDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the
> heading preceding the tag \"[FDD]\" and the section following the heading
> applies only to FDD.
>
> [TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
> \"[TDD]\" applies only to TDD, including 7.68 Mcps TDD, 3.84Mcps TDD and
> 1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the heading preceding
> the tag \"[TDD]\" and the section following the heading applies only to TDD,
> including 7.68 Mcps TDD, 3.84Mcps TDD and 1.28Mcps TDD.
>
> [7.68Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
> tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. This tagging of a
> heading indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" and
> the section following the heading applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD.
>
> [3.84Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
> tag "[3.84Mcps TDD]" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
> indicates that the heading preceding the tag "[3.84Mcps TDD]" and the
> section following the heading applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD.
>
> [1.28Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
> tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a
> heading indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" and
> the section following the heading applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD.
>
> [FDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the
> \"[FDD - \" applies only to FDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying
> only to FDD are enclosed separately to enable insertion of TDD specific (or
> common) paragraphs between the FDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the
> \"[TDD - \" applies only to TDD, including 7.68 Mcps TDD, 3.84Mcps TDD and
> 1.28Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying only to TDD are
> enclosed separately to enable insertion of FDD specific (or common)
> paragraphs between the TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [7.68Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
> the \"[7.68Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
> paragraphs applying only to 7.68Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
> insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the
> 7.68Mcps TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [3.84Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
> the \"[3.84Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
> paragraphs applying only to 1.28Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
> insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the
> 3.84Mcps TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [1.28Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
> the \"[1.28Mcps TDD -- \" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
> paragraphs applying only to 1.28Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
> insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the
> 1.28Mcps TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> Procedure When referring to a procedure in the specification the Procedure
> Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters
> followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. Radio Network Layer procedures.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. RADIO LINK SETUP REQUEST message.
Frame When referring to a control or data frame in the specification the
CONTROL/DATA FRAME NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters
followed by the words \"control/data frame\", e.g. DCH transport frame.
# 4 General Aspects
## 4.1 Introduction
The logical interface between a RNC and a Node B is called the Iub interface.
## 4.2 Iub Interface General Principles
The general principles for the specification of the Iub interface are as
follows:
\- Transmission sharing between the GSM/GPRS Abis interface and the Iub
interface shall not be precluded.
\- The functional division between RNC and Node B shall have as few options as
possible.
\- Iub should be based on a logical model of Node B.
\- Node B controls a number of cells and can be ordered to add/remove radio
links in those cells.
\- Neither the physical structure nor any internal protocols of the Node B
shall be visible over Iub and are thus not limiting factors, e.g., when
introducing future technology.
\- Only the logical O&M (TS 25.401 [1]) of Node B is supported by the Iub.
\- Complex functionality shall as far as possible be avoided over Iub.
Advanced optimisation solutions may be added in later versions of the
standard.
\- The Iub functional split shall take into account the probability of
frequent switching between different channel types.
## 4.3 Iub Interface Specification Objectives
The I~ub~ interface specifications shall facilitate the following:
\- Inter-connection of RNCs and Node Bs from different manufacturers.
\- Separation of I~ub~ interface Radio Network functionality and Transport
Network functionality to facilitate introduction of future technology.
The Iub parts to be standardised are:
1\. User data transport.
2\. Signalling for handling the user data.
3\. Node B Logical O&M (TS 25.401 [1]).
Note: It should be possible to transport the Implementation Specific O&M (TS
25.401 [1]) interface via the same transport bearer as the Iub interface and,
hence, the lower layer transport mechanisms should be standardised to this
effect. The application level content of the Implementation Specific O&M
interface is out of scope of UTRAN standardization. Where the implementation
specific O&M interface shares the same bearer as the Iub interface, the
transport layers shall be as specified in TS 25.442 [2] and TS 25.432 [3]
respectively.
## 4.4 Iub Interface Capabilities
### 4.4.1 Radio application related signalling
The Iub interface allows the RNC and the Node B to negotiate about radio
resources, for example to add and delete cells controlled by the Node B to
support communication of the dedicated connection between UE and SRNC.
Information used to control the broadcast channel and information to be
transported on the broadcast channel belongs to this category also. In
addition, logical O&M (TS 25.401 [1]) between the Node B and RNC shall also be
included in this category.
### 4.4.2 Iub/Iur DCH data stream
The Iub interface provides the means for transport of uplink and downlink DCH
transport frames between RNC and Node B. An Iub/Iur DCH data stream
corresponds to the data carried on one DCH transport channel.
In the UTRAN, one DCH data stream always corresponds to a bi-directional
transport channel. Although the TFS is configured separately for each DCH
direction and a DCH could be configured with e.g. only a zero-bit transport
format in one direction, the DCH is always treated as a bi-directional
transport channel in the UTRAN. As a result, two uni-directional Uu DCH
transport channels with opposite directions can be mapped to either one or two
DCH transport channels in the UTRAN.
### 4.4.3 Iub RACH data stream
The Iub interface provides the means for transport of uplink RACH transport
frames between Node B and RNC. An Iub RACH data stream corresponds to the data
carried on one RACH transport channel.
### 4.4.4 Iub CPCH data stream [FDD]
Void.
### 4.4.5 Iub FACH data stream
The Iub interface provides the means for transport of downlink FACH transport
frames between RNC and Node B. An Iub FACH data stream corresponds to the data
carried on one FACH transport channel.
### 4.4.6 Iub DSCH data stream [TDD]
The Iub interface provides the means for transport of downlink shared channel,
DSCH, data frames between RNC and Node B. An Iub DSCH data stream corresponds
to the data carried on one DSCH transport channel for one UE. A UE may have
multiple DSCH data streams.
### 4.4.7 Iub USCH data stream [TDD]
The Iub interface provides the means for transport of uplink shared channel,
USCH, data frames between Node B and RNC. An Iub USCH data stream corresponds
to the data carried on one USCH transport channel for one UE. A UE may have
multiple USCH data streams.
### 4.4.8 Iub PCH data stream
The Iub interface provides the means for transport of PCH transport frames
between RNC and Node B. An Iub PCH data stream corresponds to the data carried
on one PCH transport channel.
### 4.4.9 Iub FDD TFCI2 data stream
Void.
### 4.4.10 Iub HS-DSCH data stream
The Iub interface provides the means for transport of high speed downlink
shared channel, HS-DSCH, data frames between RNC and Node B. An Iub HS-DSCH
data stream corresponds to the data carried on one MAC-d flow for one UE. A UE
may have multiple HS-DSCH data streams.
### 4.4.11 Iub E-DCH data stream
The Iub interface provides the means for transport of uplink E-DCH transport
frames between Node B and RNC. An Iub E-DCH data stream corresponds to the
data carried on one MAC-d flow for one UE. A UE may have multiple E-DCH data
streams.
In addition, the interface provides the following:
> \- A means for the Node B to indicate the number of HARQ retransmissions to
> the SRNC (TS 25.427 [11]);
\- A means to indicate to the SRNC, for the purposes of re-ordering, the CFN
and Subframe Number that have been added by the Node B (TS 25.427 [11]).
## 4.5 Iub Interface Characteristics
### 4.5.1 Mapping of Iub data streams
**DCH** One Iub DCH data stream is carried on one transport bearer. For each
DCH data stream a transport bearer must be established over Iub, except in the
case of coordinated DCHs in which case a set of coordinated DCHs are
multiplexed onto the same transport bearer.
**RACH** One Iub RACH data stream is carried on one transport bearer. For each
RACH in a cell, a transport bearer must be established over the Iub interface.
**FACH** One Iub FACH data stream is carried on one transport bearer. For each
FACH in a cell, a transport bearer must be established over the Iub Interface,
except in case of transport bearer sharing for MBMS, where only one transport
bearer is established at the Iub interface for several FACHs belonging to
different cells.
**[TDD** \- **DSCH** One Iub DSCH data stream is carried on one transport
bearer. For each DSCH data stream, a transport bearer must be established over
the Iub interface.]
**HS-DSCH** One Iub HS-DSCH data stream is carried on one transport bearer.
For each HS-DSCH data stream, a transport bearer must be established over the
Iub interface.
**E-DCH** One Iub E-DCH data stream is carried on one transport bearer. For
each E-DCH data stream, a transport bearer must be established over the Iub
interface.]
**[TDD** \- **USCH** One Iub USCH data stream is carried on one transport
bearer. For each USCH data stream, a transport bearer must be established over
the Iub interface.]
**PCH** One Iub PCH data stream is carried on one transport bearer.
## 4.6 Iub Protocols
There shall exist a clear separation between the radio network layer and the
transport layer. Therefore, the radio network signalling and Iub data streams
are separated from the data transport resource and traffic handling as shown
in figure 1. This resource and traffic handling is controlled by the Transport
Signalling. The Transport Signalling is carried by a Signalling Bearer over
the Iub interface.
Figure 1: Separation of Radio Network protocols and transport over Iub
# 5 Functions of the I~ub~ Interface Protocols
## 5.1 Iub Functions
The list of functions on the Iub interface is the following:
1\. Management of Iub Transport Resources;
2\. Logical O&M of Node B:
\- Iub Link Management;
\- Cell Configuration Management;
\- Radio Network Performance Measurements;
\- Resource Event Management;
\- Common Transport Channel Management;
\- Radio Resource Management;
\- Radio Network Configuration Alignment;
3\. Implementation Specific O&M Transport;
4\. System Information Management;
5\. Traffic Management of Common Channels:
\- Admission Control;
\- Power Management;
\- Data Transfer;
6\. Traffic Management of Dedicated Channels:
\- Radio Link Management;
\- Radio Link Supervision;
\- Channel Allocation / De-allocation;
\- Power Management;
\- Measurement Reporting;
\- Dedicated Transport Channel Management;
\- Data Transfer;
7\. Traffic Management of Shared Channels:
\- Channel Allocation / De-allocation;
\- Power Management;
\- Transport Channel Management;
> \- Dynamic Physical Channel Assignment;
\- Radio Link Management;
\- Data Transfer;
8\. Timing and Synchronization Management:
\- Transport Channel Synchronization (Frame synchronization);
\- Node B - RNC node Synchronization;
\- Inter Node B node Synchronization.
## 5.2 Functional split over Iub
### 5.2.1 Management of Iub Transport Resources
The underlying transport resources (AAL2 and UDP/IP transport bearers) shall
be set up and controlled by the RNC. Further information on these functions is
provided in the transport layer specifications (TS 25.432 [3], TS 25.434 [8],
TS 25.426 [10]).
### 5.2.2 Logical O&M of Node B
Logical O&M is the signalling associated with the control of logical resources
(channels, cells,...) owned by the RNC but physically implemented in the Node
B. The RNC controls these logical resources. A number of O&M procedures
physically implemented in Node B impact on the logical resources and therefore
require an information exchange between RNC and Node B. All messages needed to
support this information exchange are classified as Logical O&M forming an
integral part of NBAP over the Iub interface.
#### 5.2.2.1 Handling of Node B Hardware Resources
Mapping of Node B logical resources onto Node B hardware resources, used for
Iub data streams and radio interface transmission/reception, is performed by
Node B.
### 5.2.3 Implementation Specific O&M Transport
The Iub interface may support the transport of Implementation specific O&M
information. Further detail on this can be found in the UMTS technical
specification on Implementation Specific O&M Transport (TS 25.442 [2]).
### 5.2.4 System Information Management
System Information is sent by the CRNC to a Node B. CRNC can also request the
Node B to autonomously create and update certain Node B related system
information. Scheduling of system broadcast information is carried out in the
CRNC. Scheduling information is always sent by the CRNC to the Node B. The
Node B is responsible for transmitting the received system information
according to the scheduling parameters provided. If requested by the CRNC, the
Node B is also responsible for autonomously creating and updating the Node B
related system information according to the scheduling parameters provided.
### 5.2.5 Traffic management of Common Channels
The common channels need to be controlled from the RNC. This is typically the
control of the RACH and FACH channels, the information that is broadcast on
the Broadcast control channel, and the control and request for sending
information on the paging channels.
### 5.2.6 Traffic management of Dedicated Channels
These functions are related to the activation of logical resources (e.g. Radio
Links, Iub ports), and the connection of these various resources together.
[FDD - Some freedom may be left for Node B implementation on some functions
like soft combining within Node B, since soft combining has merits for being
executed as close as possible to the radio (both in terms of transmission cost
and efficiency).]
#### 5.2.6.1 Combining/Splitting and Control
Node B may perform combining/splitting of DCH data streams communicated via
its cells. RNC performs combining/splitting of Iub data streams received
from/sent to several Node B(s).
The UL combining of information streams may be performed using any suitable
algorithm, for example:
> \- [FDD - based on maximum ratio algorithm (maximum ratio combining)];
>
> \- [FDD - based on quality information associated to each TBS (selection-
> combining)];
>
> \- [TDD - based on the presence/absence of the signal (selection)].
When requesting the addition of a new cell for a UE-UTRAN connection, the RNC
can explicitly request to the Node B a new Iub data stream, in which case the
combining and splitting function within the Node B is not used for that cell.
Otherwise, the Node B takes the decision whether combining and splitting
function is used inside the Node B for that cell i.e. whether a new Iub data
stream shall be added or not.
The internal Node B handling of the combining/splitting of radio frames is
controlled by the Node B.
For E-DCH combining of UL streams in the Node B is mandatory as described in
TS 25.319 [14].
#### 5.2.6.2 Handover Decision
To support mobility of the UE to UTRAN connection between cells, UTRAN uses
measurement reports from the UE and detectors at the cells.
The RNC takes the decision to add or delete cells from the connection.
#### 5.2.6.3 Allocation of Physical Channel Resources
In FDD allocation of downlink channelisation codes of cells belonging to Node
B is performed in the CRNC.
In TDD allocation of uplink and downlink physical channel resources of cells
belonging to Node B is performed in the CRNC.
#### 5.2.6.4 UpLink Power Control
This function controls the level of the transmitted power in order to minimise
interference and keep the quality of the connections. The function uplink
Outer Loop Power Control located in the SRNC sets the target quality for the
uplink Inner Loop Power Control function, for E-DCH the Node B reports the
number of HARQ retransmissions to the SRNC as an input to the Outer Loop Power
Control function. In FDD and 1.28Mcps TDD, Inner Loop Power Control Function
is located in Node B, while in 3.84Mcps TDD it is located in the UE.
#### 5.2.6.5 Down-Link Power Control
This function controls the level of the downlink transmitted power. In FDD it
is also used to correct the downlink power drifting between several radio
links. A SRNC regularly (or under some algorithms) shall send the target down
link power range based on the measurement report from UE.
#### 5.2.6.6 Admission Control
The Admission Control function based on uplink interference and downlink power
is located in the CRNC.
Node B shall report uplink interference measurements and downlink power
information over the Iub.
The CRNC controls this reporting function, i.e. if this information needs to
be reported and the period of these reports.
#### 5.2.6.7 Power and Interference Reporting
A threshold for reporting may be given to Node B from the CRNC to prevent
frequent reporting over the Iub. Node B shall have a function to measure
\"uplink interference level and downlink TX Power\" and a function to compare
the averaged \"uplink interference level and downlink TX power\" with the
threshold value. Node B shall also have a function to report when the average
measured value exceeds the threshold value. The CRNC shall have a function to
modify the \"threshold value\" for neighbour cell co-ordination.
An indication of exceeding uplink interference threshold or downlink TX power
may be included as a cause of failure when a Node B is requested to set-up a
radio link or add to an existing radio link. This may be used when a number of
radio links set-up requests or additions are received on the Iub during the
reporting interval.
### 5.2.7 Traffic management of Shared Channels [TDD]
The shared channels shall be controlled from the RNC. This is typically the
control of the TDD DSCH channels and the TDD USCH channels.
### 5.2.7A Traffic management of High Speed Shared Channels
The high speed shared channels shall be controlled from the Node B. This
includes the control of the HS-DSCH channels as well as the required control
channels on the radio interface.
### 5.2.8 Timing and Synchronization Management
The Iub interface shall support timing and synchronization management
functions. Further detail regarding these functions can be found in the UMTS
technical specification on UTRAN synchronization (TS 25.402 [12]).
# 6 Node B logical Model over Iub
## 6.1 Overview
The model described in figure 2 shows the Node B as seen from the controlling
RNC. The model includes:
\- The logical resources provided by Node B to UTRAN (via its Controlling RNC)
- depicted as \"cells\" which include the physical channel resources DPCH,
[FDD -- F-DPCH] [TDD - PDSCH and PUSCH];
\- The dedicated channels which have been established on Node B;
\- The common transport channels that Node B provides to the RNC.
The procedures for controlling the connections between radio links and Iub DCH
data ports are sent from the RNC to the Node B via the Communication Control
Ports.
Figure 2: Logical Model of Node B
## 6.2 Elements of the logical model
### 6.2.1 Node B Communication Contexts for Dedicated and Shared Channels
A Node B Communication Context corresponds to all the dedicated resources that
are necessary for a user in dedicated mode and using dedicated and/or shared
channels as restricted to a given Node B. [TDD \- The Node B Communication
Context also exists for users in Cell_FACH mode (i.e. non-dedicated mode)
provided a USCH and/or DSCH and/or HS-DSCH has been allocated to these users.]
There are a number of Node B Communication Contexts inside a given Node B.
The attributes to a Node B Communication Context shall include the following
(not exhaustive):
\- The list of Cells where dedicated and/or shared physical resources are
used.
\- The list of DCH which are mapped on the dedicated physical resources for
that Node B Communication Context.
\- [TDD - The list of DSCH and USCH which are used by the respective UE.]
\- The list of HS-DSCH MAC-d flows which are used by the respective UE.
\- The list of E-DCH MAC-d flows which are used by the respective UE.]
\- The complete DCH characteristics for each DCH, identified by its DCH-
identifier (TS 25.302 [4]).
\- [TDD - The complete Transport Channel characteristics for each DSCH and
USCH, identified by its Shared Channel identifier (TS 25.302 [4]).]
\- The complete HS-DSCH characteristics for each HS-DSCH MAC-d Flow,
identified by its HS-DSCH MAC-d Flow identifier (TS 25.302 [4]).
\- The complete E-DCH characteristics for each E-DCH MAC-d Flow, identified by
its E-DCH MAC-d Flow identifier (TS 25.302 [4]).]
\- The list of Iub DCH Data Ports.
\- [TDD - The list of Iub DSCH Data ports and Iub USCH data ports.]
\- The list of Iub HS-DSCH Data ports.
\- The list of Iub E-DCH Data ports.]
\- For each Iub DCH Data Port, the corresponding DCH and cells which are
carried on this data port.
\- [TDD - For each Iub DSCH and USCH data port, the corresponding DSCH or USCH
and cell which serves that DSCH or USCH.]
\- For each Iub HS-DSCH data port, the corresponding HS-DSCH data stream and
cell which serves that HS-DSCH data stream.
\- Physical layer parameters (outer loop power control, etc).
### 6.2.2 Common Transport Channels
Common Transport Channels are defined in TS 25.435 [9]. A Common Transport
Channel is configured in the Node B, on request of the CRNC.
The BCH is carried directly on the Node B control port using NBAP procedures.
This Common Channel will not be mapped to an individual data port.
The RACH has an associated Iub RACH Data Port and the FACH has an associated
Iub FACH Data Port.
[TDD - The Iub DSCH data port is associated to one DSCH and to one Node B
Communication Context.]
[TDD - the Iub USCH data port is associated to one USCH and to one Node B
Communication Context.]
The attributes of a Common transport channel shall include (not exhaustive):
\- Type (RACH, FACH, DSCH [TDD], USCH [TDD], PCH).
\- Associated Iub RACH Data Port for a RACH, Iub FACH Data Port for a FACH,
Iub PCH Data Port for the PCH.
\- Physical parameters.
[TDD - The DSCHs used by one UE are multiplexed to one or several CCTrCHs
where each CCTrCH is mapped to a set of PDSCH (\"PDSCH Set\"). These PDSCH
Sets are included in the Common Transport Channel data base. The same applies
for the USCHs and the corresponding PUSCH Sets.]
### 6.2.3 Transport network logical resources
#### 6.2.3.1 Node B Control Port
The Node B Control Port is used to exchange the signalling information for the
logical O&M of Node B, the creation of Node B Communication Contexts, the
configuration of the common transport channels that Node B provides in a given
cell, PCH and BCH control information between the RNC and the Node B. The Node
B Control Port corresponds to one signalling bearer between the controlling
RNC and the Node B. There is one Node B Control Port per Node B.
#### 6.2.3.2 Communication Control Port
A Communication Control Port corresponds to one signalling bearer between the
RNC and Node B for the control of Node B Communication Contexts. One
signalling bearer between RNC and Node B can at most correspond to one
Communication Control Port. Node B may have multiple Communication Control
Ports (one per Traffic Termination Point). The Communication Control Port is
selected at creation of the Node B Communication Context. The Communication
Control Port is re-selected when the signalling bearer for the control of Node
B Communication is rearranged.
#### 6.2.3.3 Traffic Termination Point
Traffic Termination Point represents DCH, DSCH [TDD] , USCH [TDD], HS-DSCH and
E-DCH data streams belonging to one or more Node B Communication Contexts (UE
contexts), which are controlled via one Communication Control Port. The
Traffic Termination Point is thus a descriptive entity which neither is
controlled over Iub nor by O&M.
#### 6.2.3.4 Iub DCH Data Port
One Iub DCH Data port represents one user plane transport bearer. One user
plane transport bearer will carry only one DCH data stream except in the case
of coordinated DCHs, in which case the data streams of all combined DCHs shall
be multiplexed on one and the same user plane transport bearer.
#### 6.2.3.5 Iub RACH Data Port
An Iub RACH Data Port represents a user plane bearer carrying one Iub RACH
Data Stream between the Node B and the RNC. There is one RACH Data Port for
each RACH channel of Node B.
#### 6.2.3.6 Iub CPCH Data Port [FDD]
Void.
#### 6.2.3.7 Iub FACH Data Port
An Iub FACH Data Port represents a user plane bearer carrying one Iub FACH
Data Stream between the Node B and the RNC. There is one FACH Data Port for
each FACH channel of Node B.
#### 6.2.3.8 Iub DSCH Data Port [TDD]
An Iub DSCH Data Port represents a user plane bearer carrying one Iub DSCH
Data Stream between the Node B and the RNC. For each DSCH, that is used by an
individual UE, there is one Iub DSCH Data Port per Node B exclusively assigned
to the communication context of that UE.
#### 6.2.3.8A Iub HS-DSCH Data Port
An Iub HS-DSCH Data Port represents a user plane bearer carrying one Iub HS-
DSCH Data Streams between the Node B and the RNC.
#### 6.2.3.9 Iub USCH Data Port [TDD]
An Iub USCH Data Port represents a user plane bearer carrying one Iub USCH
Data Stream between the Node B and the RNC. For each USCH, that is used by an
individual UE, there is one Iub USCH Data Port with data exclusively assigned
to the Node B communication context of that UE.
#### 6.2.3.10 Iub PCH Data Port
An Iub PCH Data Port represents an Iub PCH Data Stream between the Node B and
the RNC.
#### 6.2.3.11 Iub FDD TFCI2 Data Port
Void.
#### 6.2.3.12 Iub E-DCH Data Port
An Iub E-DCH Data Port represents a user plane bearer carrying one Iub E-DCH
Data Stream between the Node B and the RNC.
### 6.2.4 Radio Network Logical resources
#### 6.2.4.1 Common Resources
The CRNC manages logical radio network resources in Node B and needs to use
both common and dedicated resources in a Node B to run a radio network.
Therefore, it is the CRNC that orders the Node B to configure, reconfigure and
delete these resources. However, if the equipment in Node B cannot fully
support the configuration that the CRNC requests, or the equipment breaks
down, then Node B can indicate the availability of the common resources (i.e.
both downgrade and upgrade).
The common resources are the Cell, the common physical channels and the common
transport channels.
In Node B these common resources have an operational state, that indicates
whether they are operational or not, i.e. whether they can carry traffic or
not.
Figure 3 shows the common resources that a CRNC is managing in a Node B to be
able to run a radio network.
Figure 3: Common resources in a Node B that are managed by the CRNC
#### 6.2.4.2 Cell
A Cell is identified by a UTRAN Cell identifier (UC-id) (TS 25.401 [1]).
The semantics of a Cell include the following:
\- The Cell can be created and removed by administrative procedures. When a
Local Cell, i.e. equipment in a Node B, is made available to the CRNC for
configuration of a cell, the CRNC can configure the cell with configuration
data, common physical channels and common transport channels in Node B. In so
doing a Local cell is added to the RNS.
\- If any Iub transport bearers for common or dedicated transport channels
exist when the cell is deleted, the Node B shall initiate the release of those
transport bearers.
\- Node B may support one or more cells. [1.28Mcps TDD - A cell may support
one or more frequencies. If multiple frequencies are configured in one cell,
the cell is called the multi-frequency cell.]
\- Configuration of a cell over the Iub interface cannot be successful unless
Node B has reported a Local Cell Id (TS 25.401 [1]) as available to the CRNC.
\- Once a Local Cell is configured to support a cell, it cannot be deleted
without the CRNC first deleting the cell.
Figure 4 illustrates the state diagram for a Local Cell in Node B, as seen
over the Iub interface.
Figure 4: States for a Local Cell that are seen over the Iub interface
Cells in Node B have a resource operational state.
Figure 5 illustrates the state diagram for the states of a cell, as seen over
the Iub interface.
Figure 5: States for a cell in Node B, as reported to the CRNC
There are three states seen over the Iub interface:
1\. Not existing, meaning that the cell does not exist in Node B.
2\. Enabled, meaning that the resource can be used by the RNC.
3\. Disabled, meaning that the resource cannot be used by the RNC.
When a cell becomes disabled in Node B, that shall be reported to the CRNC
together with the cause.
#### 6.2.4.3 Common Physical Channels and Common Transport Channels
Common physical channels and common transport channels in Node B have a
resource operational state.
Figure 6 illustrates the state diagram for common physical channels and common
transport channels in Node B, as seen over the Iub interface.
Figure 6: States for a common channel in Node B, as reported to the CRNC
There are three states seen over the Iub interface:
1\. Not existing, meaning that the resource does not exist in Node B;
2\. Enabled, meaning that the resource can be used by the RNC;
3\. Disabled, meaning that the resource cannot be used by the RNC.
When a channel becomes disabled in the Node B, this shall be reported to the
CRNC together with the cause.
#### 6.2.4.4 Physical Shared Channels
Physical Shared Channels includes [TDD - the Physical Downlink Shared Channels
(PDSCH), the Physical Uplink Shared Channels (PUSCH) and] the High Speed
Physical Shared Channels (HS-PDSCH). [TDD - These PDSCH and PUSCH [TDD] are
special cases of the Common Physical Channels].
[FDD - A HS-PDSCH is defined by a channelisation code within a code subtree
that is configured within a specific Communication Context. The HS-PDSCH is
activated dynamically as part of the HS-DSCH scheduling.]
[TDD - A PDSCH is defined by a channelisation code, a time slot and other
Physical Channel parameters. Several PDSCH may be grouped into a PDSCH Set,
which is given a \"PDSCH Set Id\". The PDSCH Sets are configured in the Node B
in the \"Common Transport Channel\" data base by Common NBAP messages. These
PDSCH Sets are available to carry DSCH data. The PDSCH Sets are dynamically
activated to carry DSCH data, as part of the DSCH scheduling.]
[TDD - A HS-PDSCH is defined by a channelisation code, a time slot and other
Physical Channel parameters. The HS-PDSCH is activated dynamically as part of
the HS-DSCH scheduling.]
[TDD - A PUSCH is defined by a channelisation code, a time slot and other
Physical Channel parameters. Several PUSCH may be grouped into a PUSCH Set,
which is given a \"PUSCH Set Id\". The PUSCH Sets are configured in the Node B
in the \"Common Transport Channel\" data base by Common NBAP messages. These
PUSCH Sets are available to carry USCH data. The PUSCH Sets are dynamically
activated to carry USCH data, as part of the USCH scheduling.]
# 7 Iub Interface Protocol Structure
Figure 7: Iub Interface Protocol Structure.
The Iub interface protocol architecture consists of two functional layers:
1\. Radio Network Layer, defines procedures related to the operation of Node
B. The radio network layer consists of a radio network control plane and a
radio network user plane.
2\. Transport Layer, defines procedures for establishing physical connections
between Node B and the RNC with AAL type 2 Signalling Protocol (Capability Set
2) (ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [13]).
There shall be one dedicated AAL2 or UDP/IP transport bearer for each RACH,
and one for each FACH transport channel or for each set of FACH transport
channels in case of transport bearer sharing (see section 4.5.1).
# 8 Other Iub Interface Specifications
## 8.1 UTRAN Iub Interface: Layer 1 (TSG RAN 25.431)
This document (TS 25.431 [5]) specifies the standards allowed for the
implement of Layer 1 (physical layer) on the I~ub~ interface.
## 8.2 UTRAN Iub Interface: Signalling Transport (TSG RAN 25.432)
This document (TS 25.432 [3]) specifies the signalling transport related to
NBAP signalling to be used across the Iub Interface.
## 8.3 NBAP Specification (TSG RAN 25.433)
This document (TS 25.433 [7]) specifies the standards for NBAP specification
to be used over Iub Interface.
## 8.4 UTRAN Iub Interface: Data Transport & Transport Signalling for Common
Transport Channel Data Streams (TSG RAN 25.434)
This document (TS 25.434 [8]) provides a specification of the UTRAN RNC-Node B
(Iub) interface Data Transport and Transport Signalling for Common Transport
Channel data streams.
## 8.5 UTRAN Iub Interface: User Plane Protocols for Common Transport Channel
Data Streams (TSG RAN 25.435
This document (TS 25.435 [9]) provides a specification of the UTRAN RNC-Node B
(Iub) interface user plane protocols for Common Transport Channel data
streams.
## 8.6 UTRAN Iur/Iub Interface: Data Transport & Transport Signalling for DCH
Data Streams (TSG RAN 25.426)
This Technical Specification (TS 25.426 [10]) specifies the transport bearers
for the DCH data streams on UTRAN Iur and Iub interfaces. The corresponding
Transport Network Control plane is also specified.
## 8.7 UTRAN Iur/Iub Interface: User Plane Protocol for DCH Data Streams (TSG
RAN 25.427)
This document (TS 25.427 [11]) provides a specification of the UTRAN Iur and
Iub interfaces user plane protocols for Dedicated Transport Channel data
streams.
## 8.8 Summary of UTRAN Iub Interface Technical Specifications
The relationship between the technical specifications that define the UTRAN
Iub interface is shown in figure 8.
Figure 8: Iub Interface Technical Specifications.
#