# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for user data transport protocols
between the HNB and HNB-GW/CN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] Void
[3] Void
[4] 3GPP TS 25.414: \" UTRAN Iu interface data transport and transport
signalling\".
[5] Void
[6] Void
[7] Void
[8] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[9] IETF RFC 1889 (1996-01): \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
Applications\".
[10] Void
[11] Void
[12] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [12] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[12].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[12] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [12].
CN Core Network
CS Circuit Switched
HNB Home Node B
HNB-GW Home Node B Gateway
IP Internet Protocol
PS Packet Switched
RFC Request For Comment
RTP Real-Time Transport Protocol
UDP User Datagram Protocol
# 4 Data Link Layer
Any data link protocol that fulfils the requirements toward the upper layer
may be used.
# 5 Circuit switched domain
## 5.1 Transport Network User Plane without bandwidth efficiency mechanisms
Defined in Reference TS 25.414 [4], subclause 5.1.3.
Note: The Transport Network Layer as described in ref TS 25.414 [4] subclause
5.1.3, may be directly between HNB and the CN.
## 5.3 Transport Network User Plane with bandwidth efficiency mechanisms
### 5.3.1 General
Bandwidth efficient transport of Uplink CS data payload PDUs may be supported
over bearer transport mechanisms for the Iuh interface, using a bearer
transport multiplexing scheme that allows transporting several RTP PDUs of
different user plane connections within one packet.
### 5.3.2 Transport format
UDP/IP shall be applied on Iuh between HNB and HNB GW as described in TS
25.414 [4] for Iu between RNC and CN, subclause 5.1.3, except as stated below.
#### 5.3.2.1 UDP
The path protocol used shall be UDP (IETF RFC 768 [8]). If multiplexing is
applied the source UDP port number shall indicate the local termination used
to combine the multiplexed packet and the destination UDP port number shall
indicate the remote port number where PDUs are demultiplexed.
#### 5.3.2.2 RTP
RTP (IETF RFC 1889[9]) shall be applied as described in TS 25.414 [4],
subclause 5.1.3.3 and requirements below.
##### 5.3.2.2.1 Transport Format for multiplexing RTP packets
Use of multiplexing shall be negotiated between the HNB and HNB-GW.
Before each multiplexed RTP/codec payload PDU inserted into the UDP/IP packet
a Multiplex Header, which identifies the multiplexed packet, shall be
inserted.
Figure 1: UDP/IP Packet with multiplexed RTP payload PDUs
The Multiplex Header includes :
\- T bit.
The field has two possible values. Value 0 shall be used for an uncompressed
RTP header, as decribed in the present sub-clause. Value 1 is FFS.
\- Mux ID, 15 bits.
For identification of different user plane connections. The value shall be the
UDP destination port of the corresponding non-multiplexed RTP PDU packet
divided by two (only even numbered ports are used for RTP sessions).
\- Length Indicator (LI), 8 bits, unsigned integer.
Gives the length of the multiplexed RTP PDU packet (RTP header + RTP) in bytes
(the last byte of the RTP PDU is padded to the next byte boundary if
necessary). Maximum length is 255 bytes. This LI allows to calculate where the
next Multiplex Header for the next multiplexed RTP PDU packet starts.
\- R bit.
Reserved for future use. Shall be set to 0 by the sending entity and be
ignored by the receiving entity.
\- Source ID, 15 bits.
For identification of the different connections. The value shall be the source
UDP port of the corresponding non-multiplexed RTP/codec PDU packet divided by
two (only even numbered ports are used for RTP sessions).
The multiplexed RTP PDU shall be inserted in the IP/UDP packet directly after
the corresponding Multiplex Header. The multiplexed RTP packet PDU shall
follow the rules defined in IETF RFC 1889 [9] and consists of the full RTP
header and the RTP payload. If the multiplexed RTP packet PDU does not end at
a byte boundary, then the remaining bits of its last byte shall be padded with
zeros.
The multiplexing method does not limit the number of packets being multiplexed
and it is thus the data link layer protocol that defines the maximum frame
size. In order to avoid additional delay in the network the packets should not
be delayed more than 1 ms to 2 ms, which also effectively limits the number of
multiplexed packets and makes the multiplexing-jitter low.
Figure 2: Example of multiplexed packet with two RTP frames
# 6 Packet switched domain
## 6.1 Transport network user plane
Defined in Ref TS 25.414 [4] subclause 6.1.3.
Note: The Transport Network Layer as described in ref TS 25.414 [4] subclause
6.1.3, may be directly between HNB and the CN.
#