# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the _RANAP User Adaption_ (RUA) between the
Home Node B (HNB) and the Home Node B Gateway (HNB-GW). It fulfils the HNB-
HNB-GW communication requirements specified in TS 25.467 [3] and is defined
over the Iuh -- reference point. It provides transparent transport for RANAP
messages.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface Radio Access Network Application Part
(RANAP) signalling\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.467: \"UTRAN architecture for 3G Home NodeB; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TR 25.921: \"Guidelines and principles for protocol description and
error handling\".
[5] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation X.691 (2002-07): \"Information technology - ASN.1
encoding rules: Specification of Packed Encoding Rules (PER)\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (2002-07): \"Information technology - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of basic notation\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.681 (2002-07): \"Information technology - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Information object specification\".
[9] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
below apply. Terms and definitions not defined below can be found in TR 21.905
[5].
**UE-associated Signalling Connection** : UE-associated Signalling Connection
is _a logical connection between HNB and HNB-GW associated to an Iu signalling
connection for a particular UE over the single signalling connection between
the HNB and HNB-GW,_ identified by the identities _Context ID_ and _CN Domain
ID._
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CN Core Network
EP Elementary Procedure
HNB Home Node B
HNB-GW Home Node B Gateway
PDU Protocol Data Unit
RUA RANAP User Adaption
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
# 4 General
The protocol described in the present document is the protocol between HNB-GW
and HNB.
## 4.1 Procedure specification principles
The principle for specifying the procedure logic is to specify the functional
behaviour of the HNB & HNB-GW exactly and completely..
The following specification principles have been applied for the procedure
text in clause 8:
\- The procedure text discriminates between:
1) Functionality which \"shall\" be executed:
\- The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall\" perform a
certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports
procedure X but cannot perform functionality Y requested in the REQUEST
message of a Class 1 EP, the receiving node shall respond with the message
used to report unsuccessful outcome for this procedure, containing an
appropriate cause value.
2) Functionality which \"shall, if supported\" be executed:
\- The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall, if
supported,\" perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the
receiving node supports procedure X, but does not support functionality Y, the
receiving node shall proceed with the execution of the EP, possibly informing
the requesting node about the not supported functionality.
\- Any required inclusion of an optional IE in a response message is
explicitly indicated in the procedure text. If the procedure text does not
explicitly indicate that an optional IE shall be included in a response
message, the optional IE shall not be included.
## 4.2 Forwards and backwards compatibility
The forwards and backwards compatibility of the protocol is assured by
mechanism where all current and future messages, and IEs or groups of related
IEs, include Id and criticality fields that are coded in a standard format
that will not be changed in the future. These parts can always be decoded
regardless of the standard version.
## 4.3 Specification notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
Procedure When referring to an elementary procedure in the specification the
Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case
characters followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. HNB Registration
procedure.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. CONNECT message.
IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification the
_Information Element Name_ is written with the first letters in each word in
upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the
abbreviation \"IE\", e.g. _HNB Identity_ IE.
Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in
the specification the \"Value\" is written as it is specified in subclause 9.2
enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. \"Abstract Syntax Error (Reject)\" or
\"Background \".
# 5 RUA services
RUA provides the signalling service between the HNB and the HNB-GW that is
required to fulfil the RUA functions described in Clause 7.
# 6 Services expected from the transport layer
Following service is expected from the transport layer:
\- reliable and in sequence delivery of Signalling data using SCTP (IETF RFC
4960 [9])
# 7 Functions of RUA
The RUA has the following functions:
\- Transparent transfer of RANAP messages
\- Error Handling. This function allows the reporting of general error
situations, for which function specific error messages have not been defined.
These functions are implemented by one or several RUA elementary procedures
described in the following clauses.
# 8 RUA procedures
## 8.1 Elementary Procedures
Table 1 summarizes the EPs.
Table 1; Elementary procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Message Connect CONNECT Direct Transfer DIRECT TRANSFER
Disconnect DISCONNECT Connectionless Transfer CONNECTIONLESS TRANSFER Error
Indication ERROR INDICATION
* * *
## 8.2 Connect
### 8.2.1 General
The HNB or HNB-GW can initiate this procedure to establish an UE-associated
Signalling Connection and carry a RANAP message.
### 8.2.2 Successful Operation
#### 8.2.2.1 HNB Originated
Figure 1: Connect to HNB-GW procedure
This procedure is used to carry the first RANAP message from the HNB to the
HNB-GW.
Additional information is provided to enable the HNB-GW to handle the RANAP
message without it being necessary to inspect the contents and trigger the
establishment of a new UE-associated Signalling Connection between HNB and
HNB-GW, which is directly mapped to the Iu Signalling Connection the RANAP
message refers to.
If HNB receives the _Intra Domain NAS Node Selector_ IE in the RRC message,
the HNB shall, if supported, include the _Intra Domain NAS Node Selector_ IE
in the CONNECT message.
NOTE: The Context ID is used as the Iu Signalling Connection identifier in the
corresponding RANAP messages.
#### 8.2.2.2 HNB-GW Originated
###
Figure 1A: Connect to HNB procedure
This procedure is used to carry the first RANAP message from the HNB-GW to an
HNB for a particular UE, e.g. RANAP RELOCATION REQUEST. This shall trigger the
establishment of a new UE-associated Signalling Connection between HNB-GW and
HNB, which is directly mapped to the Iu Signalling Connection the RANAP
message refers to.
The HNB-GW allocates the context id.
If the first RANAP message received by the HNB GW is a RELOCATION REQUEST
message and the RELOCATION REQUEST does not contain the CSG ID of the target
cell the RUA CONNECT message may contain the _CSG Membership Status_ IE.
Additional information is provided by the HNB-GW to the HNB to assist the HNB
in handling the RANAP message.
## 8.3 Direct Transfer
### 8.3.1 General
This procedure is initiated by either the HNB or HNB-GW to transport a RANAP
message between the two nodes. The HNB-GW can initiate this procedure to
establish an UE-associated Signalling Connection when carrying the second
RANAP RELOCATION REQUEST message.
### 8.3.2 Successful Operation (HNB-GW Originated)
Figure 2: Direct Transfer to HNB
This procedure is used to carry any DL connection-oriented RANAP message
defined in TS 25.413 [2] from the HNB-GW to the HNB.
This procedure can be used to carry the second RANAP RELOCATION REQUEST
message from the HNB-GW to an HNB for a particular UE. This shall trigger the
establishment of a second UE-associated Signalling Connection between HNB-GW
and HNB, which is directly mapped to the Iu Signalling Connection the RANAP
message refers to.
### 8.3.3 Successful Operation (HNB Originated)
Figure 3: Direct Transfer to HNB-GW
This procedure is used to carry any UL connection-oriented RANAP message
defined in TS 25.413 [2], except those carried in CONNECT or DISCONNECT
messages, from the HNB to the HNB-GW.
### 8.3.4 Abnormal Conditions
-
## 8.4 Disconnect
### 8.4.1 General
This procedure is initiated by either the HNB or the HNB-GW to terminate an
UE-associated Signalling Connection between these nodes.
### 8.4.2 Successful Operation (HNB Originated)
Figure 4: Disconnect to HNB-GW
This procedure is used to carry the last RANAP (TS 25.413 [2]) UL connection-
oriented message of a given Iu Signalling Connection to the HNB-GW over the
Iuh interface. This procedure may also be used to indicate error conditions at
the HNB.
### 8.4.3 Successful Operation (HNB-GW Originated)
Figure 5: Disconnect to HNB
This procedure is initiated by the HNB-GW to close a given Iu Signalling
Connection either in case of error or in case of normal operation when an Iu
Signalling Connection request towards the CN is refused.
### 8.4.4 Abnormal Conditions
-
## 8.5 Connectionless Transfer
### 8.5.1 General
This procedure is initiated by either the HNB or the HNB-GW to transfer
connectionless RANAP messages between the HNB and HNB-GW.
### 8.5.2 Successful Operation (HNB-GW Originated)
Figure 6: Connectionless Transfer to HNB
This procedure is used to carry any DL connectionless RANAP message defined in
TS 25.413 [2] from the HNB-GW to the HNB.
### 8.5.3 Successful Operation (HNB Originated)
Figure 7: Connectionless Transfer to HNB-GW
This procedure is used to carry any UL connectionless RANAP message defined in
TS 25.413 [2] from the HNB to the HNB-GW.
### 8.5.4 Abnormal Conditions
-
## 8.6 Error Indication
### 8.6.1 General
The Error Indication procedure is initiated by either HNB or HNB-GW to report
detected errors in one incoming message.
### 8.6.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8 Error Indication HNB Originated, Successful Operation
Figure 9 Error Indication HNB-GW Originated, Successful Operation
# 9 Elements for RUA communication
## 9.1 Message functional definition and content
### 9.1.1 General
Section 9.1 presents the contents of RUA messages in tabular format. The
corresponding ASN.1 definition is presented in section 9.3. In case there is
contradiction between the tabular format in section 9.1 and the ASN.1
definition, the ASN.1 shall take precedence, except for the definition of
conditions for the presence of conditional IEs, where the tabular format shall
take precedence.
NOTE: The messages have been defined in accordance to the guidelines specified
in TR 25.921 [4].
For each message there is, a table listing the signalling elements in their
order of appearance in the transmitted message.
### 9.1.2 Message contents
#### 9.1.2.1 Presence
All information elements in the message descriptions below are marked
mandatory, optional or conditional according to table 3
Table 2: Meaning of abbreviations used in RUA messages
* * *
Abbreviation Meaning M IE\'s marked as Mandatory (M) will always be included
in the message. O IE\'s marked as Optional (O) may or may not be included in
the message. C IE\'s marked as Conditional (C) will be included in a message
only if the condition is satisfied. Otherwise the IE is not included.
* * *
#### 9.1.2.2 Criticality
Each Information Element or Group of Information Elements may have a
criticality information applied to it.\ Following cases are possible.
Table 3: Meaning of content within \"Criticality\" column
* * *
Abbreviation **Meaning** \-- No criticality information is applied explicitly.
YES Criticality information is applied. This is usable only for non-repeatable
IEs GLOBAL The IE and all its repetitions together have one common criticality
information. This is usable only for repeatable IEs. EACH Each repetition of
the IE has its own criticality information. It is not allowed to assign
different criticality values to the repetitions. This is usable only for
repeatable IEs.
* * *
#### 9.1.2.3 Range
The Range column indicates the allowed number of copies of repetitive IEs/IE
groups.
#### 9.1.2.4 Assigned Criticality
This column provides the actual criticality information as defined in
subclause 10.3.2, if applicable.
### 9.1.3 CONNECT
This message is sent by either the HNB to the HNB-GW or the HNB-GW to the HNB
to establish a signalling connection and carry a RANAP message.
Direction: HNB  HNB-GW and HNB-GW  HNB
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 YES reject CN Domain ID
M 9.2.6 YES reject Context ID M 9.2.2 YES reject Intra Domain NAS Node
Selector O 9.2.4 YES ignore Establishment Cause M 9.2.3 YES reject RANAP
Message M 9.2.5 YES reject CSG Membership Status O 9.2.9 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.4 DIRECT TRANSFER
This message is sent by either the HNB to the HNB-GW or the HNB-GW to the HNB
to transport a connection-oriented RANAP message between the two nodes.
Direction: HNB  HNB-GW and HNB-GW  HNB
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 YES reject CN Domain ID
M 9.2.6 YES reject Context ID M 9.2.2 YES reject RANAP Message M 9.2.5 YES
reject
* * *
### 9.1.5 DISCONNECT
This message is sent by either the HNB to the HNB-GW or the HNB-GW to the HNB
to close the signaling connection between the two nodes.
Direction: HNB  HNB-GW and HNB-GW  HNB
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 YES reject CN Domain ID
M 9.2.6 YES reject Context ID M 9.2.2 YES reject Cause M 9.2.7 YES reject
RANAP Message C - IfNormal 9.2.5 YES reject
* * *
* * *
Condition Explanation IfNormal This IE shall be present if the _Cause_ IE is
set to \"Normal\".
* * *
### 9.1.6 CONNECTIONLESS TRANSFER
This message is sent by either the HNB to the HNB-GW or the HNB-GW to the HNB
to transport a connectionless RANAP message between the two nodes.
Direction: HNB  HNB-GW and HNB-GW  HNB
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 YES reject RANAP Message
M 9.2.5 YES reject
* * *
### 9.1.7 ERROR INDICATION
This message is sent by either the HNB to HNB-GW or the HNB-GW to the HNB and
is used to indicate that some errors have been detected.
Direction: HNB  HNB-GW, HNB-GW  HNB
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 YES ignore Cause M 9.2.7
YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.8 YES ignore
* * *
## 9.2 Information Element Definitions
### 9.2.0 General
Section 9.2 presents the RUA IE definitions in tabular format. The
corresponding ASN.1 definition is presented in section 9.3. In case there is
contradiction between the tabular format in section 9.2 and the ASN.1
definition, the ASN.1 shall take precedence, except for the definition of
conditions for the presence of conditional elements, where the tabular format
shall take precedence.
When specifying information elements which are to be represented by
bitstrings, if not otherwise specifically stated in the semantics description
of the concerned IE or elsewhere, the following principle applies with regards
to the ordering of bits:
\- The first bit (leftmost bit) contains the most significant bit (MSB);
\- The last bit (rightmost bit) contains the least significant bit (LSB);
\- When importing bitstrings from other specifications, the first bit of the
bitstring contains the first bit of the concerned information;
### 9.2.1 Message Type
_Message Type_ IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is mandatory
for all messages.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/GROUP NAME | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Message Type | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >Procedure | M | | ENUMERATED ( | | | Code | | | | | | | | | Connect | | | | | | | | | | | | Direct | | | | | | Transfer, | | | | | | | | | | | | Disconnect, | | | | | | | | | | | | Connectionless | | | | | | Transfer, | | | | | | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | | | | | | | ,...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >Type of | M | | ENUMERATED | | | Message | | | (Initi | | | | | | ating Message, | | | | | | Succe | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | Unsucce | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | Outcome) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 9.2.2 Context ID
_Context ID_ IE uniquely identifies a particular UE in the HNB and HNB-GW.
This unique Context ID is used for both CS and PS domain.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Context ID BIT STRING(24)
* * *
### 9.2.3 Establishment Cause
_Establishment Cause ID_ IE identifies a the priority of call establishment
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/GROUP NAME | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Establishment | | | ENUMERATED | | | Cause | | | | | | | | | (emergency | | | | | | call, | | | | | | | | | | | | Normal, | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | | | | | | ) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 9.2.4 Intra Domain NAS Node Selector
This IE carries information to be used to route the establishment of a
signalling connection to a CN node within a CN domain.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/GROUP NAME | Presence | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | CHOICE | M | | | | | _version_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >R99 | | | | This choice | | | | | | shall also be | | | | | | used by | | | | | | mobiles that | | | | | | are compliant | | | | | | to this | | | | | | version of the | | | | | | protocol | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>CHOICE _CN | M | | | | | type_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>>GSM-MAP | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>>>CHOICE | M | | | | | _Routing | | | | | | basis_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | \ | | | | TMSI allocated | | >>>>>local | | | | in the current | | (P)TMSI | | | | LA or PTMSI | | | | | | allocated in | | | | | | the current RA | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>\ | M | | Bit string | The TMSI/ | | >>>>Routing | | | (10) | PTMSI consists | | parameter | | | | of 4 octets | | | | | | (32bits). This | | | | | | can be | | | | | | represented by | | | | | | a string of | | | | | | bits numbered | | | | | | from b0 to | | | | | | b31, with bit | | | | | | b0 being the | | | | | | least | | | | | | significant | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"Routing | | | | | | parameter\" | | | | | | bit string | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | bits b14 | | | | | | through b23 of | | | | | | the TMSI/ | | | | | | PTMSI. The | | | | | | first | | | | | | /leftmost/most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bit of the bit | | | | | | string | | | | | | contains bit | | | | | | b23 of the | | | | | | TMSI/PTMSI. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >\ | | | | TMSI allocated | | >>>>(P)TMSI | | | | in another LA | | of same PLMN, | | | | of this PLMN | | different | | | | or PTMSI | | (RA)LA | | | | allocated in | | | | | | another RA | | | | | | this PLMN | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>\ | M | | Bit string | The TMSI/ | | >>>>Routing | | | (10) | PTMSI consists | | parameter | | | | of 4 octets | | | | | | (32bits). This | | | | | | can be | | | | | | represented by | | | | | | a string of | | | | | | bits numbered | | | | | | from b0 to | | | | | | b31, with bit | | | | | | b0 being the | | | | | | least | | | | | | significant | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"Routing | | | | | | parameter\" | | | | | | bit string | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | bits b14 | | | | | | through b23 of | | | | | | the TMSI/ | | | | | | PTMSI. The | | | | | | first | | | | | | /leftmost/most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bit of the bit | | | | | | string | | | | | | contains bit | | | | | | b23 of the | | | | | | TMSI/ PTMSI. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >\ | | | | TMSI or a | | >>>>(P)TMSI | | | | PTMSI | | of different | | | | allocated in | | PLMN | | | | another PLMN | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>\ | M | | Bit string | The TMSI/ | | >>>>Routing | | | (10) | PTMSI consists | | parameter | | | | of 4 octets | | | | | | (32bits). This | | | | | | can be | | | | | | represented by | | | | | | a string of | | | | | | bits numbered | | | | | | from b0 to | | | | | | b31, with bit | | | | | | b0 being the | | | | | | least | | | | | | significant. | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"Routing | | | | | | parameter\" | | | | | | bit string | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | bits b14 | | | | | | through b23 of | | | | | | the TMSI/ | | | | | | PTMSI. The | | | | | | first | | | | | | /leftmost/most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bit of the bit | | | | | | string | | | | | | contains bit | | | | | | b23 of the | | | | | | TMSI/ PTMSI. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>>>\ | | | | NAS identity | | >IMSI(response | | | | is IMSI | | to IMSI | | | | | | paging) | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>\ | M | | Bit string | The \"Routing | | >>>>Routing | | | (10) | parameter\" | | parameter | | | | bit string | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | D | | | | | | ecimalToBinary | | | | | | [(IMSI div | | | | | | 10) mod | | | | | | 1000]. The | | | | | | first/leftmost | | | | | | bit of the bit | | | | | | string | | | | | | contains the | | | | | | most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bit of the | | | | | | result. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>> | | | | NAS identity | | >>IMSI(cause | | | | is IMSI | | UE initiated | | | | | | event) | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>\ | M | | Bit string | The \"Routing | | >>>>Routing | | | (10) | parameter\" | | parameter | | | | bit string | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | D | | | | | | ecimalToBinary | | | | | | [(IMSI div | | | | | | 10) mod | | | | | | 1000]. The | | | | | | first/leftmost | | | | | | bit of the bit | | | | | | string | | | | | | contains the | | | | | | most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bit of the | | | | | | result. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>>>>IMEI | | | | NAS parameter | | | | | | is IMEI | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>\ | M | | Bit string | The \"Routing | | >>>>Routing | | | (10) | parameter\" | | parameter | | | | bit string | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | D | | | | | | ecimalToBinary | | | | | | [(IMEI div | | | | | | 10) mod | | | | | | 1000]. The | | | | | | first/leftmost | | | | | | bit of the bit | | | | | | string | | | | | | contains the | | | | | | most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bit of the | | | | | | result. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | \ | | | Bit string | This choice | | >>>>>Spare | | | (10) | shall not be | | 1 | | | | used in this | | | | | | version | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | \ | | | Bit string | This choice | | >>>>>Spare | | | (10) | shall not be | | 2 | | | | used in this | | | | | | version | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >>>ANSI-41 | | | Bit string | All bits shall | | | | | (14) | be set to 0 | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | >Later | | | Bit string(15) | This bit | | | | | | string shall | | | | | | not be sent by | | | | | | mobiles that | | | | | | are compliant | | | | | | to this | | | | | | version of the | | | | | | protocol. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 9.2.5 RANAP Message
_RANAP Message_ IE contains the transferred RANAP message.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description RANAP
Message OCTET STRING
* * *
### 9.2.6 CN Domain Indicator
Indicates the CN domain from which the message originates or to which the
message is sent.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CN
Domain Indicator M ENUMERATED (CS domain, PS domain)
* * *
### 9.2.7 Cause
_Cause_ IE indicates the reason for a particular error event for the RUA
protocol.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | CHOICE _Cause | | | | | | Group_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Radio | | | | | | > Network | | | | | | > Layer_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Radio | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | > Network | | | ( | | | > Layer Cause | | | | | | | | | Normal, | | | | | | | | | | | | Connect | | | | | | failed, | | | | | | | | | | | | Network | | | | | | release, | | | | | | | | | | | | Unspecified, | | | | | | | | | | | | ..., | | | | | | | | | | | | ) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Transport | | | | | | > Layer_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | >>Transport | | | (Transport | | | > Layer Cause | | | Resource | | | | | | Unavailable, | | | | | | | | | | | | Unspecified, | | | | | | | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Protocol_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Protocol | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | > Cause | | | (Transfer | | | | | | Syntax Error,\ | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Reject),\ | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Ignore and | | | | | | Notify),\ | | | | | | Message not | | | | | | Compatible | | | | | | with Receiver | | | | | | State, | | | | | | | | | | | | Semantic | | | | | | Error,\ | | | | | | Unspecified, | | | | | | | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Falsely | | | | | | Constructed | | | | | | Message), | | | | | | | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Misc_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Misc | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | > Cause | | | (Processing | | | | | | Overload,\ | | | | | | Hardware | | | | | | Failure,\ | | | | | | O&M | | | | | | Intervention,\ | | | | | | Unspecified, | | | | | | | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
The meaning of the different cause values is described in the following table.
Cause values for information \'not valid\' indicates that the information is
not valid in the context that it was received.
* * *
Radio Network Layer cause Meaning Normal No error has occurred Connect failed
Connect attempt failed Network release Connection released by network
Unspecified Sent when none of the above cause values applies but still the
cause is Radio Network layer related.
* * *
* * *
**Transport Network Layer cause** **Meaning** Transport resource unavailable
The required transport resources are not available. Unspecified Sent when none
of the above cause values applies but still the cause is Transport Network
layer related.
* * *
* * *
**Protocol cause** **Meaning** Abstract Syntax Error (Reject) The received
message included an abstract syntax error and the concerned criticality
indicated \"reject\". Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore and Notify) The received
message included an abstract syntax error and the concerned criticality
indicated \"ignore and notify\" . Abstract syntax error (falsely constructed
message) The received message contained IEs in wrong order or with too many
occurrences. Message not Compatible with Receiver State The received message
was not compatible with the receiver state. Semantic Error The received
message included a semantic error. Transfer Syntax Error The received message
included a transfer syntax error. Unspecified Sent when none of the above
cause values applies but still the cause is protocol related.
* * *
* * *
**Miscellaneous cause** Meaning Processing Overload Control processing
overload. Hardware Failure HNB hardware failure. O&M Intervention Operation
and Maintenance intervention related to HNB. Unspecified Sent when none of the
above cause values applies and the cause is not related to any of the
categories Radio Network Layer, Transport Network Layer or Protocol.
* * *
### 9.2.8 Criticality Diagnostics
The _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE is sent by the RNC or the CN when parts of a
received message have not been comprehended or were missing, or if the message
contained logical errors. When applicable, it contains information about which
IEs were not comprehended or were missing.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Criticality | | | | | | Diagnostics | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | O | | INTEGER | Procedure | | >Procedure | | | (0..255) | Code is to | | > Code | | | | be used if | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Diagnostics | | | | | | is part of | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure, | | | | | | and not | | | | | | within the | | | | | | response | | | | | | message of | | | | | | the same | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | that caused | | | | | | the error | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > \ | O | | ENUMERATED | The | | >Triggering | | | | Triggering | | > Message | | | (initiating | Message is | | | | | message, | used only | | | | | successful | if the | | | | | outcome, | Criticality | | | | | u | Diagnostics | | | | | nsuccessful | is part of | | | | | outcome) | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | O | | ENUMERA | This | | >Procedure | | | TED(reject, | Procedure | | > | | | ignore, | Criticality | | Criticality | | | notify) | is used for | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Triggering | | | | | | message | | | | | | ( | | | | | | Procedure). | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | | 0 to | | | | Information | | \ | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Di | | | | | | agnostics** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE | M | | ENUMERA | The IE | | > | | | TED(reject, | Criticality | | Criticality | | | ignore, | is used for | | | | | notify) | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | triggering | | | | | | IE. The | | | | | | value | | | | | | \'ignore\' | | | | | | shall not | | | | | | be used. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE ID | M | | INTEGER | The IE Id | | | | | (0..65535) | of the not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | or missing | | | | | | IE | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Type of | M | | ENU | | | > Error | | | MERATED(not | | | | | | understood, | | | | | | missing, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation Maxnooferrors Maximum no. of IE errors allowed to be
reported with a single message. The value for maxnooferrors is 256.
* * *
### 9.2.9 CSG Membership Status
This element indicates the Membership status of the UE to a particular CSG.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description CSG
Membership Status M ENUMERATED (member, non-member,...)
* * *
## 9.3 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax (with ASN.1)
### 9.3.0 General
RUA ASN.1 definition conforms with ITU-T Rec. X.680 [7] and ITU-T Rec. X.681
[8].
The ASN.1 definition specifies the structure and content of RUA messages. RUA
messages can contain any IEs specified in the object set definitions for that
message without the order or number of occurrence being restricted by ASN.1.
However, for this version of the standard, a sending entity shall construct a
RUA message according to the PDU definitions module and with the following
additional rules (Note that in the following IE means an IE in the object set
with an explicit id. If one IE needed to appear more than once in one object
set, then the different occurrences have different IE ids):
\- IEs shall be ordered (in an IE container) in the order they appear in
object set definitions.
\- Object set definitions specify how many times IEs may appear. An IE shall
appear exactly once if the presence field in an object has value
\"mandatory\". An IE may appear at most once if the presence field in an
object has value \"optional\" or \"conditional\". If in a tabular format there
is multiplicity specified for an IE (i.e. an IE list) then in the
corresponding ASN.1 definition the list definition is separated into two
parts. The first part defines an IE container list where the list elements
reside. The second part defines list elements. The IE container list appears
as an IE of its own. For this version of the standard an IE container list may
contain only one kind of list elements.
If a RUA message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this
shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled
as defined for Abstract Syntax error in subclause 10.3.6.
### 9.3.1 Usage of private message mechanism for non-standard use
The private message mechanism for non-standard use may be used:
\- for special operator- (and/or vendor) specific features considered not to
be part of the basic functionality, i.e. the functionality required for a
complete and high-quality specification in order to guarantee multivendor
interoperability;
\- by vendors for research purposes, e.g. to implement and evaluate new
algorithms/features before such features are proposed for standardisation.
The private message mechanism shall not be used for basic functionality. Such
functionality shall be standardised.
### 9.3.2 Elementary Procedure Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedure definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-PDU-Descriptions {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) rua(5) version1 (1) rUA-PDU-Descriptions (0)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
ProcedureCode
FROM RUA-CommonDataTypes
Connect,
DirectTransfer,
Disconnect,
ConnectionlessTransfer,
ErrorIndication,
PrivateMessage
FROM RUA-PDU-Contents
id-Connect,
id-DirectTransfer,
id-Disconnect,
id-ConnectionlessTransfer,
id-ErrorIndication,
id-privateMessage
FROM RUA-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure Class
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= CLASS {
&InitiatingMessage ,
&SuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&UnsuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&procedureCode ProcedureCode UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore
}
WITH SYNTAX {
INITIATING MESSAGE &InitiatingMessage
[SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &SuccessfulOutcome]
[UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &UnsuccessfulOutcome]
PROCEDURE CODE &procedureCode
[CRITICALITY &criticality]
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface PDU definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-PDU ::= CHOICE {
initiatingMessage InitiatingMessage,
successfulOutcome SuccessfulOutcome,
unsuccessfulOutcome UnsuccessfulOutcome,
...
}
InitiatingMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({RUA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({RUA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&InitiatingMessage ({RUA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
SuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({RUA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({RUA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&SuccessfulOutcome ({RUA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
UnsuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({RUA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({RUA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&UnsuccessfulOutcome ({RUA-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure List
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 \|
RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 ,
...
}
RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
...
}
RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
connectionRequest \|
directTransfer \|
disconnectRequest \|
connectionlessTransfer \|
errorIndication \|
privateMessage,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedures
\--
\-- **************************************************************
connectionRequest RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Connect
PROCEDURE CODE id-Connect
CRITICALITY ignore
}
directTransfer RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE DirectTransfer
PROCEDURE CODE id-DirectTransfer
CRITICALITY ignore
}
disconnectRequest RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Disconnect
PROCEDURE CODE id-Disconnect
CRITICALITY ignore
}
connectionlessTransfer RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE ConnectionlessTransfer
PROCEDURE CODE id-ConnectionlessTransfer
CRITICALITY ignore
}
errorIndication RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE ErrorIndication
PROCEDURE CODE id-ErrorIndication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
privateMessage RUA-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE PrivateMessage
PROCEDURE CODE id-privateMessage
CRITICALITY ignore
}
END
### 9.3.3 PDU definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PDU definitions for RUA.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-PDU-Contents {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) rua(5) version1 (1) rUA-PDU-Contents (1) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Cause,
CriticalityDiagnostics,
Context-ID,
CN-DomainIndicator,
CSGMembershipStatus,
IntraDomainNasNodeSelector,
RANAP-Message,
Establishment-Cause
FROM RUA-IEs
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
ProtocolIE-ContainerList{},
ProtocolIE-Container{},
ProtocolIE-Single-Container{},
PrivateIE-Container{},
RUA-PRIVATE-IES,
RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION,
RUA-PROTOCOL-IES
FROM RUA-Containers
id-Cause,
id-CriticalityDiagnostics,
id-Context-ID,
id-CN-DomainIndicator,
id-CSGMembershipStatus,
id-RANAP-Message,
id-IntraDomainNasNodeSelector,
id-Establishment-Cause
FROM RUA-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Connect
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Connect ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {ConnectIEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {ConnectExtensions} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
ConnectIEs RUA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-CN-DomainIndicator CRITICALITY reject TYPE CN-DomainIndicator PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Context-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Context-ID PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-IntraDomainNasNodeSelector CRITICALITY ignore TYPE
IntraDomainNasNodeSelector PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Establishment-Cause CRITICALITY reject TYPE Establishment-Cause
PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-RANAP-Message CRITICALITY reject TYPE RANAP-Message PRESENCE mandatory
},
...
}
ConnectExtensions RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
{ ID id-CSGMembershipStatus CRITICALITY ignore EXTENSION CSGMembershipStatus
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Direct Transfer
\--
\-- **************************************************************
DirectTransfer ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {DirectTransferIEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {DirectTransferExtensions} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
DirectTransferIEs RUA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-CN-DomainIndicator CRITICALITY reject TYPE CN-DomainIndicator PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Context-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Context-ID PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-RANAP-Message CRITICALITY reject TYPE RANAP-Message PRESENCE mandatory
},
...
}
DirectTransferExtensions RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Disconnect
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Disconnect ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {DisconnectIEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {DisconnectExtensions} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
DisconnectIEs RUA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-CN-DomainIndicator CRITICALITY reject TYPE CN-DomainIndicator PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Context-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Context-ID PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY reject TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-RANAP-Message CRITICALITY reject TYPE RANAP-Message PRESENCE
conditional },
\-- RANAP message shall be included if Cause value is \"normal\"
...
}
DisconnectExtensions RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Connectionless Transfer
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ConnectionlessTransfer ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {ConnectionlessTransferIEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {
{ConnectionlessTransferExtensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
ConnectionlessTransferIEs RUA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-RANAP-Message CRITICALITY reject TYPE RANAP-Message PRESENCE mandatory
},
...
}
ConnectionlessTransferExtensions RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- ERROR INDICATION
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ErrorIndication ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {ErrorIndicationIEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {ErrorIndicationExtensions} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
ErrorIndicationIEs RUA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
ErrorIndicationExtensions RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PRIVATE MESSAGE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
PrivateMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
privateIEs PrivateIE-Container {{PrivateMessage-IEs}},
...
}
PrivateMessage-IEs RUA-PRIVATE-IES ::= {
...
}
END
### 9.3.4 Information Element definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Information Element Definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-IEs {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) rua(5) version1 (1) rUA-IEs (2) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
maxNrOfErrors
FROM RUA-Constants
Criticality,
ProcedureCode,
ProtocolIE-ID,
TriggeringMessage
FROM RUA-CommonDataTypes
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION
FROM RUA-Containers;
CN-DomainIndicator ::= ENUMERATED {
cs-domain,
ps-domain
}
CSGMembershipStatus ::= ENUMERATED {
member,
non-member,
...
}
Establishment-Cause ::= ENUMERATED {
emergency-call,
normal-call,
...
}
Context-ID ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(24))
IntraDomainNasNodeSelector ::= SEQUENCE {
version CHOICE {
release99 SEQUENCE {
cn-Type CHOICE {
gsm-Map-IDNNS Gsm-map-IDNNS,
ansi-41-IDNNS Ansi-41-IDNNS
}
},
later SEQUENCE {
futurecoding BIT STRING (SIZE (15))
}
}
}
Gsm-map-IDNNS ::= SEQUENCE {
routingbasis CHOICE {
localPTMSI SEQUENCE {
routingparameter RoutingParameter
},
tMSIofsamePLMN SEQUENCE {
routingparameter RoutingParameter
},
tMSIofdifferentPLMN SEQUENCE {
routingparameter RoutingParameter
},
iMSIresponsetopaging SEQUENCE {
routingparameter RoutingParameter
},
iMSIcauseUEinitiatedEvent SEQUENCE {
routingparameter RoutingParameter
},
iMEI SEQUENCE {
routingparameter RoutingParameter
},
spare2 SEQUENCE {
routingparameter RoutingParameter
},
spare1 SEQUENCE {
routingparameter RoutingParameter
}
},
\-- dummy is not used in this version of the specification and
\-- it should be ignored by the receiver.
dummy BOOLEAN
}
Ansi-41-IDNNS ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (14))
RANAP-Message ::= OCTET STRING
RoutingParameter ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (10))
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Cause IE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Cause ::= CHOICE {
radioNetwork CauseRadioNetwork,
transport CauseTransport,
protocol CauseProtocol,
misc CauseMisc,
...
}
CauseRadioNetwork ::= ENUMERATED {
normal,
connect-failed,
network-release,
unspecified,
...
}
CauseTransport ::= ENUMERATED {
transport-resource-unavailable,
unspecified,
...
}
CauseProtocol ::= ENUMERATED {
transfer-syntax-error,
abstract-syntax-error-reject,
abstract-syntax-error-ignore-and-notify,
message-not-compatible-with-receiver-state,
semantic-error,
unspecified,
abstract-syntax-error-falsely-constructed-message,
...
}
CauseMisc ::= ENUMERATED {
processing-overload,
hardware-failure,
o-and-m-intervention,
unspecified,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- CriticalityDiagnostics
\--
\-- **************************************************************
CriticalityDiagnostics ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode ProcedureCode OPTIONAL,
triggeringMessage TriggeringMessage OPTIONAL,
procedureCriticality Criticality OPTIONAL,
iEsCriticalityDiagnostics CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfErrors)) OF
SEQUENCE {
iECriticality Criticality,
iE-ID ProtocolIE-ID,
typeOfError TypeOfError,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List-ExtIEs RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
TypeOfError ::= ENUMERATED {
not-understood,
missing,
...
}
END
### 9.3.5 Common definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-CommonDataTypes {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) rua(5) version1 (1) rUA-CommonDataTypes (3) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Extension constants
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxPrivateIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolExtensions INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common Data Types
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Criticality ::= ENUMERATED { reject, ignore, notify }
Presence ::= ENUMERATED { optional, conditional, mandatory }
ProcedureCode ::= INTEGER (0..255)
PrivateIE-ID ::= CHOICE {
local INTEGER (0..65535),
global OBJECT IDENTIFIER
}
ProtocolIE-ID ::= INTEGER (0..maxProtocolIEs)
TriggeringMessage ::= ENUMERATED { initiating-message, successful-outcome,
unsuccessful-outcome }
END
### 9.3.6 Constant definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Constant definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-Constants {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) rua(5) version1 (1) rUA-Constants (4) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
ProcedureCode,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM RUA-CommonDataTypes;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedures
\--
id-Connect ProcedureCode ::= 1
id-DirectTransfer ProcedureCode ::= 2
id-Disconnect ProcedureCode ::= 3
id-ConnectionlessTransfer ProcedureCode ::= 4
id-ErrorIndication ProcedureCode ::= 5
id-privateMessage ProcedureCode ::= 6
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Lists
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxNrOfErrors INTEGER ::= 256
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-Cause ProtocolIE-ID ::= 1
id-CriticalityDiagnostics ProtocolIE-ID ::= 2
id-Context-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 3
id-RANAP-Message ProtocolIE-ID ::= 4
id-IntraDomainNasNodeSelector ProtocolIE-ID ::= 5
id-Establishment-Cause ProtocolIE-ID ::= 6
id-CN-DomainIndicator ProtocolIE-ID ::= 7
id-CSGMembershipStatus ProtocolIE-ID ::= 9
END
### 9.3.7 Container definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-Containers {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) rua(5) version1 (1) rUA-Containers (5) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
Presence,
PrivateIE-ID,
ProtocolIE-ID,
maxPrivateIEs,
maxProtocolExtensions,
maxProtocolIEs
FROM RUA-CommonDataTypes;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Private IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-PRIVATE-IES ::= CLASS {
&id PrivateIE-ID,
&criticality Criticality,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-PROTOCOL-IES ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality,
&Extension,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
EXTENSION &Extension
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-Container {RUA-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxProtocolIEs)) OF
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Single-Container {RUA-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Field {RUA-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id RUA-PROTOCOL-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality RUA-PROTOCOL-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value RUA-PROTOCOL-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container Lists for Protocol IE Containers
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-ContainerList {INTEGER : lowerBound, INTEGER : upperBound, RUA-
PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (lowerBound..upperBound)) OF
ProtocolIE-Container {{IEsSetParam}}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolExtensionContainer {RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxProtocolExtensions)) OF
ProtocolExtensionField {{ExtensionSetParam}}
ProtocolExtensionField {RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE {
id RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&id ({ExtensionSetParam}),
criticality RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&criticality ({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id}),
extensionValue RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&Extension ({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Private IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
PrivateIE-Container {RUA-PRIVATE-IES : IEsSetParam } ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxPrivateIEs)) OF
PrivateIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
PrivateIE-Field {RUA-PRIVATE-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id RUA-PRIVATE-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality RUA-PRIVATE-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value RUA-PRIVATE-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
END
## 9.4 Message transfer syntax
RUA shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned
Variant as transfer syntax as specified in ref. ITU-T Rec. X.691 [6].
# 10 Handling of unknown, unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data
## 10.1 General
Protocol Error cases can be divided into three classes:
\- Transfer Syntax Error;
\- Abstract Syntax Error;
\- Logical Error.
Protocol errors can occur in the following functions within a receiving node:
Figure 10: Protocol errors in RUA
The information stated in subclauses 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4, to be included in
the message used when reporting an error, is what at minimum shall be
included. Other optional information elements within the message may also be
included, if available. This is also valid for the case when the reporting is
done with a response message. The latter is an exception to what is stated in
subclause 4.1.
## 10.2 Transfer Syntax Error
A Transfer Syntax Error occurs when the receiver is not able to decode the
received physical message Transfer syntax errors are always detected in the
process of ASN.1 decoding. If a Transfer Syntax Error occurs, the receiver
should initiate Error Indication procedure with appropriate cause value for
the Transfer Syntax protocol error.
## 10.3 Abstract Syntax Error
### 10.3.1 General
An Abstract Syntax Error occurs when the receiving functional RUA entity:
1\. receives IEs or IE groups that cannot be understood (unknown IE id);
2\. receives IEs for which the logical range is violated (e.g.: ASN.1
definition: 0 to 15, the logical range is 0 to 10 (values 11 to 15 are
undefined), and 12 will be received; this case will be handled as an abstract
syntax error using criticality information sent by the originator of the
message);
3\. does not receive IEs or IE groups but according to the specified presence
of the concerning object, the IEs or IE groups should have been present in the
received message;
4\. receives IEs or IE groups that are defined to be part of that message in
wrong order or with too many occurrences of the same IE or IE group;
5\. receives IEs or IE groups but according to the conditional presence of the
concerning object and the specified condition, the IEs or IE groups should not
have been present in the received message.
Cases 1 and 2 (not comprehended IE/IE group) are handled based on received
Criticality information. Case 3 (missing IE/IE group) is handled based on
Criticality information and Presence information for the missing IE/IE group
specified in the version of the specification used by the receiver. Case 4
(IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences) and Case 5
(erroneously present conditional IEs or IE groups) result in rejecting the
procedure.
If an Abstract Syntax Error occurs, the receiver shall read the remaining
message and shall then for each detected Abstract Syntax Error act according
to the Criticality Information and Presence Information for the IE/IE group
due to which Abstract Syntax Error occurred in accordance with subclauses
10.3.4 and 10.3.5. The handling of cases 4 and 5 is specified in subclause
10.3.6.
### 10.3.2 Criticality Information
In the RUA messages there is criticality information set for individual IEs
and/or IE groups. This criticality information instructs the receiver how to
act when receiving an IE or an IE group that is not comprehended i.e. the
entire item (IE or IE group) which is not (fully or partially) comprehended
shall be treated in accordance with its own criticality information as
specified in subclause 10.3.4.
In addition, the criticality information is used in case of the missing IE/IE
group abstract syntax error (see subclause 10.3.5).
The receiving node shall take different actions depending on the value of the
Criticality Information. The three possible values of the Criticality
Information for an IE/IE group are:
\- Reject IE;
\- Ignore IE and Notify Sender;
\- Ignore IE.
The following rules restrict when a receiving entity may consider an IE, an IE
group or an EP not comprehended (not implemented), and when action based on
criticality information is applicable:
1\. IE or IE group: When one new or modified IE or IE group is implemented for
one EP from a standard version, then other new or modified IEs or IE groups
specified for that EP in that standard version shall be considered
comprehended by the receiving entity (some may still remain unsupported).
2\. EP: The comprehension of different EPs within a standard version or
between different standard versions is not mandated. Any EP that is not
supported may be considered not comprehended, even if another EP from that
standard version is comprehended, and action based on criticality shall be
applied.
### 10.3.3 Presence Information
For many IEs/IE groups which are optional according to the ASN.1 transfer
syntax, RUA specifies separately if the presence of these IEs/IE groups is
optional or mandatory with respect to RNS application by means of the presence
field of the concerning object of class RUA-PROTOCOL-IES, RUA-PROTOCOL-IES-
PAIR, RUA-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION or RUA-PRIVATE-IES.
The presence field of the indicated classes supports three values:
1\. Optional;
2\. Conditional;
3\. Mandatory.
If an IE/IE group is not included in a received message and the presence of
the IE/IE group is mandatory or the presence is conditional and the condition
is true according to the version of the specification used by the receiver, an
abstract syntax error occurs due to a missing IE/IE group.
### 10.3.4 Not comprehended IE/IE group
#### 10.3.4.1 Procedure Code
The receiving node shall treat the different types of received criticality
information of the _Procedure Code_ according to the following:
Reject IE:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Reject IE_
\" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall
reject the procedure using the Error Indication procedure.
Ignore IE and Notify Sender:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Ignore IE
and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the
receiving node shall ignore the procedure and initiate the Error Indication
procedure.
Ignore IE:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Ignore IE_
\" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall
ignore the procedure.
When using the Error Indication procedure to reject a procedure or to report
an ignored procedure it shall include the _Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering
Message_ IE, and the _Procedure Criticality_ IE in the _Criticality
Diagnostics_ IE.
#### 10.3.4.1A Type of Message
When the receiving node cannot decode the _Type of Message_ IE, the Error
Indication procedure shall be initiated with an appropriate cause value.
#### 10.3.4.2 IEs other than the Procedure Code and Type of Message
The receiving node shall treat the different types of received criticality
information of an IE/IE group other than the _Procedure Code_ IE and _Type of
Message_ IE according to the following:
**Reject IE:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does not
comprehend; none of the functional requests of the message shall be executed.
The receiving node shall reject the procedure and report the rejection of one
or more IEs/IE groups using the message normally used to report unsuccessful
outcome of the procedure. In case the information received in the initiating
message was insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to
be present in the message used to report the unsuccessful outcome of the
procedure, the receiving node shall instead terminate the procedure and
initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report unsuccessful outcome is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the
receiving node shall terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication
procedure.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs marked with
\"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does no comprehend, the receiving
node shall consider the procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate
local error handling.
**Ignore IE and Notify Sender:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
Ies/IE groups marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the
receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the
content of the not comprehended IEs/IE groups, continue with the procedure as
if the not comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the
reporting) using the understood IEs/IE groups, and report in the response
message of the procedure that one or more IEs/IE groups have been ignored. In
case the information received in the initiating message was insufficient to
determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present in the response
message, the receiving node shall instead terminate the procedure and initiate
the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report the outcome of the procedure is received containing one or more IEs/IE
groups marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node
does not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups, continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the reporting) using
the understood IEs/IE groups, and initiate the Error Indication procedure to
report that one or more IEs/IE groups have been ignored.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node does
not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IE/IE groups, continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the reporting) using
the understood IEs/IE groups and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
**Ignore IE:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Ignore IE_ \" which the receiving node does not
comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups and continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received using only the understood IEs/IE
groups.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Ignore_ _IE_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend,
the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not comprehended IEs/IE
groups and continue with the procedure as if the not comprehended IEs/IE
groups were not received using the understood IEs/IE groups.
When reporting not comprehended IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" or
\"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using a response message defined for the
procedure, the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be
included in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
When reporting not comprehended IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" or
\"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using the Error Indication procedure, the
_Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering Message_ IE, _Procedure Criticality_ IE,
and the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be included in
the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
### 10.3.5 Missing IE or IE group
The receiving node shall treat the missing IE/IE group according to the
criticality information for the missing IE/IE group in the received message
specified in the version of the present document used by the receiver:
**Reject IE:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ \"; none of the
functional requests of the message shall be executed. The receiving node shall
reject the procedure and report the missing IEs/IE groups using the message
normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the procedure. In case the
information received in the initiating message was insufficient to determine a
value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to
report the unsuccessful outcome of the procedure, the receiving node shall
instead terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message
to report unsuccessful outcome is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ \", the receiving node shall terminate the
procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ , the receiving node shall consider the
procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate local error handling.
**Ignore IE and Notify Sender:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \",
the receiving node shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with
the procedure based on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and
report in the response message of the procedure that one or more IEs/IE groups
were missing. In case the information received in the initiating message was
insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present
in the response message, the receiving node shall instead terminate the
procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message
to report the outcome of the procedure is missing one or more IEs/IE groups
with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \", the receiving
node shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure
based on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and initiate the Error
Indication procedure to report that one or more IEs/IE groups were missing.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \", the receiving node
shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure based
on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and initiate the Error
Indication procedure to report that one or more IEs/IE groups were missing.
**Ignore IE:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE_ \", the receiving node
shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure based
on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Ignore_ _IE_ \", the receiving node shall ignore that
those IEs/IE groups are missing and continue with the procedure based on the
other IEs/IE groups present in the message.
When reporting missing IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_
\" or \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using a response message defined for
the procedure, the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be
included in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
When reporting missing IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_
\" or \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using the Error Indication procedure,
the _Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering Message_ IE, _Procedure Criticality_
IE, and the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be included
in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
### 10.3.6 IEs or IE groups received in wrong order or with too many
occurrences or erroneously present
If a message with IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences
is received or if IEs or IE groups with a conditional presence are present
when the condition is not met (i.e. erroneously present), the receiving node
shall behave according to the following:
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing IEs or IE
groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present,
none of the functional requests of the message shall be executed. The
receiving node shall reject the procedure and report the cause value
\"Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message)\" using the message
normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the procedure. In case the
information received in the initiating message was insufficient to determine a
value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to
report the unsuccessful outcome of the procedure, the receiving node shall
instead terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report unsuccessful outcome is received containing IEs or IE groups in wrong
order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present, the receiving node
shall terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure, and
use cause value \"Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message)\".
\- If a _response_ message is received containing IEs or IE groups in wrong
order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present, the receiving node
shall consider the procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate local
error handling.
When determining the correct order only the IEs specified in the specification
version used by the receiver shall be considered.
## 10.4 Logical Error
Logical error situations occur when a message is comprehended correctly, but
the information contained within the message is not valid (i.e. semantic
error), or describes a procedure which is not compatible with the state of the
receiver. In these conditions, the following behaviour shall be performed
(unless otherwise specified) as defined by the class of the elementary
procedure, irrespective of the criticality information of the IE\'s/IE groups
containing the erroneous values.
**Class 1:**
Where the logical error occurs in a request message of a class 1 procedure,
and the procedure has a message to report this unsuccessful outcome, this
message shall be sent with an appropriate cause value. Typical cause values
are:
\- Semantic Error;
\- Message not compatible with receiver state.
Where the logical error is contained in a request message of a class 1
procedure, and the procedure does not have a message to report this
unsuccessful outcome, the procedure shall be terminated and the Error
Indication procedure shall be initiated with an appropriate cause value. The
_Procedure Code_ IE and the _Triggering Message_ IE within the _Criticality
Diagnostics_ IE shall then be included in order to identify the message
containing the logical error.
Where the logical error exists in a response message of a class 1 procedure,
the procedure shall be considered as unsuccessfully terminated and local error
handling shall be initiated.
**Class 2:**
Where the logical error occurs in a message of a class 2 procedure, the
procedure shall be terminated and the Error Indication procedure shall be
initiated with an appropriate cause value. The _Procedure Code_ IE and the
_Triggering Message_ IE within the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall then be
included in order to identify the message containing the logical error.
## 10.5 Exceptions
The error handling for all the cases described hereafter shall take precedence
over any other error handling described in the other subclauses of clause 10.
\- If any type of error (Transfer Syntax Error, Abstract Syntax Error or
Logical Error) is detected in the ERROR INDICATION message, it shall not
trigger the Error Indication procedure in the receiving Node but local error
handling.
\- In case a response message or Error Indication message needs to be
returned, but the information necessary to determine the receiver of that
message is missing, the procedure shall be considered as unsuccessfully
terminated and local error handling shall be initiated.
\- If an error that terminates a procedure occurs, the returned cause value
shall reflect the error that caused the termination of the procedure even if
one or more abstract syntax errors with criticality \"ignore and notify\" have
earlier occurred within the same procedure.
#