# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is intended to capture the output of the study item on
improvements of distributed antenna for 1.28Mcps TDD, which was approved at
TSG RAN#47. The objective of this study item is to study the potential
enhancement techniques for the distributed antenna.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 25.225: "Physical layer Measurements (TDD) \".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.433: \"UTRAN Iub interface NBAP signalling\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"RRC Protocol Specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
(Void)
## 3.2 Symbols
(Void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
AOA Angle of Arrival
FACH Forward Access Channel
ISCP Interference Signal Code Power
RSCP Received Signal Code Power
RTWP Received total wide band power
SIR Signal-to-Interference Ratio
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
# 4 Deployment scenarios for distributed antenna
## 4.1 In-door coverage scenario
Distributed antenna can be deployed in the in-door scenario to overcome the
penetration and shadowing losses.
Figure 1: In-door Coverage
In this scenario, each antenna will be used to coverage a different area
(maybe different rooms or different floors of the building), and the different
areas can provide a natural spatial isolation, which may give some possibility
to reuse the physical resource among different areas.
## 4.2 High-speed coverage scenario
High-Speed Coverage is another typical scenario for the distributed antenna.
In this scenario, the distributed antenna will be used to provide the coverage
for the high-speed railway. Nowadays , the speed of the high-speed railway can
reach up to 400km/h，which is about 111m/s. In this case, if the distributed
antenna is not used, the coverage radius of each cell in the High-Speed
scenario may be less than 1500m, considering the overlap area of the coverage,
the UE have to handover among different cells less than every 10s. The
frequently handover will increase the risk of drop of UE. In order to save the
handover times, the distributed antenna can be used in the High-Speed
scenario; several antennas can be deployed within one cell to extend the
radius of the cell.
Figure 2: High-Speed Coverage
In this scenario, each antenna will cover a different area, UE can move among
these areas without any L3 signalling, which can save the handover times.
Also, by knowing the movement of UE among the antennas, some optimisation to
handover algorithm (e.g. unidirectional handover, pre-handover prepare) can be
taken by RNC to accelerate the handover process and increase the successful
rate of handover procedure.
## 4.3 Blind spot coverage scenario
In 1.28Mcps TDD network, smart antenna is widely used in the macro cell, and
some of them will be placed on the roof of building or on the top of tower
(e.g. antenna A in the figure 3). In this case, the area right down of the
smart antenna, which can be treated as a blind spot, is hard to be covered by
the smart antenna itself. In order to improve the coverage of the blind spot,
a potential solution is to deploy distributed single antenna (antenna B) right
down of the smart antenna to cover the blind spot.
Figure 3: Blind spot coverage
In this scenario, the distributed antenna within the cell may consist of two
types of antennas: the smart antenna and the single antenna. Using the single
antenna as compensation to the smart antenna can improve the blind spot
coverage and reduce the complexity of the network optimisation.
# 5 Physical layer measurements in distributed antenna
## 5.1 Measure and Report mechanism
**_[Issue 1: How to describe the area covered by different distributed
antenna?]{.underline}_**
According to the definition of distributed antenna, different antenna may be
used to cover different area, and these different areas may have different
measurement result, so some mechanism shall be introduced to measure and
report the measurement result from each area. In Rel-9, as an enhancement of
beam-forming, the cell portion has been introduced, and according to the
definition of cell portion in [2], the cell portion means a geographical part
of a cell for which a Node B measurement can be reported to the RNC. A cell
portion is semi-static and identical for both the UL and the DL. Within a
cell, a cell portion is uniquely identified by a cell portion ID. Similar as
beam-forming, the area covered by the distributed antenna can also be treated
as a geographical part of a cell, so we one potential solution is:
_[Solution:]{.underline}_
_Reuse the definition of cell portion in the physical layer measurement to
describe a specific area which is covered by a distributed antenna. Each cell
portion consists of one antenna port including one or more antenna(s)._
## 5.2 Definition of Physical layer measurements
**_[Issue 2: How to define the measurement reference point in the distributed
antenna system?]{.underline}_**
According to the definitions of measurement RSCP/Timeslot ISCP in [2], the
reference point for RSCP/ Timeslot ISCP is the Rx antenna connector. But when
the distributed antennas are deployed, one or more distributed antennas will
be deployed within the cell to cover a specific area; in this case, the
reference point can be the Rx antenna connector of each distributed antenna or
the Rx connector of all the distributed antennas. According to the typical
scenarios for distributed antenna given above, the coverage of each
distributed area may be different (especially in the In-door Coverage
scenario), knowing the RSCP of each distributed antenna will be helpful for
the RNC to make the decision about the access control and load balance. So,
one potential definition for the reference point is:
_[Solution:]{.underline}_
_For the RSCP/ Timeslot ISCP, in case the distributed antennas are deployed
within the cell , if the cell portion is configured, the reference point shall
be the Rx antenna connector of each distributed antenna port, otherwise, the
reference point shall be the Rx antenna connector of all the distributed
antennas._
**_[Issue 3: How to define the Rx/Tx diversity in the distributed antenna
system?]{.underline}_**
According to the definition of Timeslot ISCP and RTWP in [2], in case of Rx
antenna diversity, the average of the linear values [W] of the ISCP and RTWP
values measured for each antenna branch shall be reported. But if the
distributed antennas are deployed, the definition of Rx/Tx diversity is not
clear. Whether the multiple distributed antennas can be treated as Rx/Tx
antenna diversity or the Rx/Tx antenna diversity only means the Rx antenna
diversity within one distributed antenna need to be clarified. Considering the
coverage of each distributed area may be different (especially in the In-door
Coverage scenario), knowing the measurement result of each distributed antenna
will be helpful for the RNC to make the decision about the access control and
load balance. So, one potential definition for Rx/Tx antenna diversity is:
_[Solution:]{.underline}_
_In case the distributed antennas are deployed within the cell, if the cell
portion is configured, the Rx/Tx antenna diversity only means the Rx/Tx
antenna diversity within one cell portion; otherwise, the Rx/Tx antenna
diversity means the Rx/Tx antenna diversity within the whole CELL._
**_[Issue 4: How to define the SIR in the distributed antenna
system?]{.underline}_**
The definition of SIR can be found as follows:
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | > *** Definition** | > * Signal to Interference Ratio, defined | | | > as: (RSCP/Interference) xSF. | | | > | | | > * Where: | | | | | | * RSCP = Received Signal Code Power, the | | | received power on the code of a specified | | | DPCH, PRACH, PUSCH, HS-SICH or E-PUCH. | | | | | | * Interference = The interference on the | | | received signal in the same timeslot which | | | can't be eliminated by the receiver. | | | | | | * SF = The used spreading factor. | | | | | | > * | | | > | | | > * The reference point for the SIR shall be | | | > the Rx antenna connector. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
According to the definition of the SIR, the SIR can be calculated by the RSCP
and Interference. In the in-door coverage scenario, the RSCP may be different
in each cell portion (different cell portion is covered by different
distributed antenna), and the interference from one cell portion is isolated
with the interference from the others. In this case, the RSCP and interference
in the formula of SIR can be the RSCP and interference value from a specific
cell portion (i.e. best cell portion). But in the blind-spot coverage scenario
and high-speed scenario, the signal from multiple cell portion s can be
combined by NodeB (e.g. join-detection), and in this case, the RSCP will be
the linear sum of all the cell portion s and the interference will a value
calculated based on the interference values measured from all the cell portion
s (e.g. the join-detection may be used to eliminated the interference).
Considering different scenario may have different requirement on the SIR
definition, two different potential definitions for SIR are:
_[Solution 1:]{.underline}_
_When cell portions are configured in the cell, the SIR will be calculated
according to the RSCP and interference from a specific cell portion (i.e. best
cell portion)._
_[Solution 2:]{.underline}_
_When cell portions are configured in the cell, the SIR will be calculated
according to the RSCP and interference from all the cell portions._
**_[Issue 5: How to define the AOA measurement in the distributed antenna
system?]{.underline}_**
AOA defines the estimated angle of a user with respect to a reference
direction and is determined at the BS antenna for an UL channel corresponding
to this UE. In distributed antenna scenario, the AOA measurements value may be
different in each portion. In some scenario (e.g. the blind-spot coverage
scenario), the AOA measurement can be used for some location related function
(e.g. use the AOA + Cell id to locate the UE). So, one potential solution for
AOA is:
_[Solution:]{.underline}_
_When cell portions are configured in the cell, the AOA can be measured for a
specific cell portion or for each cell portion._
**_[Issue 6: How to define the Timing related measurement in the distributed
antenna system?]{.underline}_**
The timing related measurement includes RX timing Deviation , SFN-SFN observed
time difference, Cell Sync Burst Timing, Received SYNC-UL Timing Deviation for
1.28Mcps TDD. The definitions in 25.225 are listed below:
RX timing Deviation
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | 'RX Timing Deviation' is the time difference | | | TRXdev = TTS -- TRXpath in chips, with | | | | | | TRXpath: time of the reception in the Node B of | | | the first detected uplink path (in time) to be | | | used in the detection process. The reference point | | | for TRXpath shall be the Rx antenna connector. For | | | 1.28 Mcps TDD only the first UL timeslot in the | | | first subframe used by the UE is used for the | | | calculation of T~RXpath~. | | | | | | TTS: time of the beginning of the respective slot | | | according to the Node B internal timing | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
SFN-SFN observed time difference
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | SFN-SFN observed time difference = | | | T~Rx_Frame_cell\ k~ - T~Rx_Frame_cell\ i~, in | | | chips, where | | | | | | T~Rx_Frame_cell\ i~: time of start (defined by | | | the first detected path in time) of the frame | | | boundary from the TDD cell i. | | | | | | T~Rx_Frame_cell\ k~: time of start (defined by | | | the first detected path in time) of the frame | | | boundary from the cell k that is closest in time | | | to the frame boundary of the TDD cell i. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
Cell Sync Burst Timing
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Cell sync burst timing is the time of start | | | (defined by the first detected path in time) of | | | the cell sync burst of a neighbouring cell. This | | | measurement is applicable for 3.84Mcps TDD and | | | 1.28Mcps TDD. For 1.28 Mcps TDD the DwPCH | | | represents the cell sync burst. Type 1 is used for | | | the initial phase of Node B synchronization. Type | | | 2 is used for the steady-state phase of Node B | | | synchronization. Both have different range. | | | | | | The reference point for the cell sync burst timing | | | measurement shall be the Rx antenna connector. | | | | | | **[Type 1:]{.underline}** | | | | | | Cell sync burst timing = T~Rx~ - T~slot~ in | | | chips, where | | | | | | T~slot~ : time of start of the cell sync timeslot | | | in the frame, where the cell sync burst was | | | received. | | | | | | T~RX~ : time of start (defined by the first | | | detected path in time) of a cell sync burst | | | received from the target UTRA cell. | | | | | | **[Type 2:]{.underline}** | | | | | | Cell sync burst timing = T~Rx~ - T~slot~, in | | | chips, where | | | | | | T~slot~ : time of start of the cell sync timeslot | | | in the frame, where the cell sync burst was | | | received. | | | | | | T~RX~ : time of start (defined by the first | | | detected path in time) of a cell sync burst | | | received from the target UTRA cell. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
According to the definition of the physical layer measurements, the
measurement value of the following measurements will be related to the
location of the reference antenna. According to the definition of distributed
antenna, different distributed antennas will be located in different place,
which means different cell portion may have different measurement for these
measurements. So, one potential solution for these measurements is:
_[Solution:]{.underline}_
_When cell portions are configured in the cell, the RX timing Deviation, SFN-
SFN observed time difference and Cell Sync Burst Timing can be measured for a
specific cell portion._
# 6 Further enhancement for distributed antenna
## 6.1 Initial downlink transmission
In the in-door coverage scenario, as shown in figure 4, three areas (area a, b
and c) are covered by three different distributed antennas, the physical
resource may be reused in these areas. According to the current
specifications, the NodeB can not get the cell portion information for the UE
in IDLE or legacy CELL_FACH/PCH state (without enhanced cell fach). In this
case, if UE send the RRC Connection Request message in area a, the NW side
will send the RRC Connection Setup message to UE, but due to the lack of
information about the cell portion, the NodeB have to send the RRC Connection
Setup message in all cell portions, and this will cause some waste of physical
resource (both the power resource and the channel code will be occupied in all
cell portions).
Figure 4. Initial downlink transmission in in-door coverage scenario
According to the analysis above, if NodeB can have the cell portion
information for the UE before the initial downlink transmission, the NodeB can
send the RRC Connection Setup message in the specific area (e.g. area a in the
figure 4). In order to save the power and channel code resource of the other
cell portion, one potential solution is:
_[Solution:]{.underline}_
_The cell portion information can be introduced in the FACH FP frame in the
Iub interface. When cell portions are configured in the cell, the cell portion
information can be send from RNC to NodeB by FACH FP frame._
## 6.2 RTWP control
In HSUPA, a target RTWP will be configured to NodeB and in the scheduling of
E-PUCH transmission, NodeB will take this value into account in the resource
allocation, and try to keep the current RTWP value lower than the target RTWP.
In the cell portion WI in Rel-9, the cell portion has been introduced in the
RTWP measurement. When cell portions are defined in the cell, the received
total wide band power for each cell portion can be measured and reported to
higher layers. In the distributed antenna scenarios, the RTWP can be measured
and report per area. In this case, how to understand the target RTWP is not
clear. An example of in-door coverage is given as follows in figure 5:
Figure 5. The in-door coverage of distributed antennas
In the example above, 6 distributed antennas are deployed in the CELL A to
cover 6 different areas (a, b, c, d, e, and f). The CELL B and CELL C are
macro cells, the CELL B has some overlap area with the area c within CELL A,
and the CELL C has some overlap area with the area f within CELL A. According
to the definition of RTWP, the RTWP measurement value in different areas
within CELL A may be different, and in the example, the area a and d have no
overlap areas with other cells, so it may be not necessary to limit the RTWP
within this area; but for the area c and f, these areas have some overlap
areas with the neighbour cells. In order to control the interference to the
neighbour, the RTWP target in area c and f may be lower than the RTWP target
in areas a and d, but in the current specification , only one RTWP target can
be configured for one cell. In order to control the RTWP for each cell
portion, one potential solution is:
_[Solution:]{.underline}_
_When cell portions are defined in the cell, the RTWP can be controlled in
each cell portion separately and different Target RTWP can be configured to
each cell portion._
## 6.3 Antenna Gain report
In UMTS, RNC should be responsible for the calculation and configuration of
uplink and downlink initial power. The Initial DL Transmission Power will be
configured to NodeB through NBAP specification [3] and the UL Desired Received
Power will be configured to UE though RRC specification [4]. In case the
distributed antenna is not configured, the antenna gain is a constant value.
However, in the distributed antenna system, each cell portion may consist of
one or more antennas, and the antenna type of distributed antenna within
different cell portion may be different. For example, in Blind spot coverage
scenario, smart antenna and distributed single antenna may be used in
different cell portions, considering the gain of beam-forming, the antenna
gain of smart antenna will be much higher than the single antenna. In order to
consider the antenna gain in the uplink and downlink initial power
calculation, one potential solution is:
_[Solution:]{.underline}_
_When Cell Portions are configured in the cell, the antenna gain of
distributed antenna for each CELL PORTION can be informed to RNC._
#