# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is intended to maintain the list of 4C-HSDPA downlink
configurations in the context of the work item "For carrier HSDPA" [2]. Each
downlink configuration is composed of the frequency band(s) and the number of
downlink adjacent carriers in each band.
In addition, the present document also captured the framework to specify the
Rx core requirements for 4C-HSDPA.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TD RP-091438: \"Four carrier HSDPA\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
4C-HSDPA Four Carrier HSDPA. HSDPA operation comprising of 3 or 4 carriers in
a single or dual bands.
# 4 4C-HSDPA Downlink Configurations per Release Time Frame
## 4.1 Release 10 Time Frame
The list of 4C-HSDPA downlink configurations for release 10 time frame is
given in Table 4.1-1.
Table 4.1-1: 4C-HSDPA downlink configurations for release 10 time frame
* * *
                  Band A        Band B
Configuration Band number Number of DL adjacent carriers Band number Number of
DL adjacent carriers 10-1 I 3 N/A N/A 10-2 I 3 VIII 1 10-3 I 2 VIII 1 10-4 I 2
V 2 10-5 I 2 V 1 10-6 II 2 IV 2 10-7 II 2 IV 1 10-8 II 1 IV 2
* * *
Note: Following the finalization of the core requirements on the
configurations in the Table 4.1-1, TSG RAN will schedule the specification
work to complete the core requirements of the priority #1 configurations in
Table 5-1. TSG RAN currently expects the target completion date for the
configurations in Table 4.1-1 to be December 2010.
## 4.2 Release X Time Frame
Provide the list of 4C-HSDPA downlink configurations that will be specified in
RAN WG4 during Release X time frame. New subsections can be created under
Section 4 as new 4C-HSDPA downlink configurations are agreed for new release
time frame.
# 5 4C-HSDPA Downlink Configurations for Future Release Time Frame
The list of 4C-HSDPA downlink configurations for the future release time frame
is given in Table 5-1.
Table 5-1: 4C-HSDPA downlink configurations for future release time frame
* * *
Priority Order Configuration Band A Band B  
Band number Number of DL adjacent carriers Band number Number of DL adjacent
carriers # 1 F-1 I 4 N/A N/A F-2 I 2 VIII 2 F-3 I 3 III 1 F-4 I 2 III 1 F-5 V
3 N/A N/A # 2 F-6 I 2 III 2 F-7 I 2 XI 2 F-8 II 3 IV 1 F-9 IX 4 N/A N/A F-10
IX 3 N/A N/A
* * *
# 6 Framework of Rx Core Requirements for 4C-HSDPA
The principles to specify the Rx core requirements for 4C-HSDPA are summarized
as follows:
\- In the case of a single uplink, the Rx core requirements for single band
4C-HSDPA are specified with the farthest and closest UL carrier frequencies to
the DL band. If the difference in the requirements due to the farthest and
closest UL carrier frequencies is less than [1] dB, the requirements are
specified only with the closest UL carrier frequency.
\- In the case of a single uplink, the Rx core requirements for dual band
4C-HSDPA are specified with the farthest and closest UL carrier frequencies
(if different) to the corresponding DL band for each band. If the difference
in the requirements due to the farthest and closest UL carrier frequencies is
less than [1] dB in each DL band, the requirements are specified only with the
closest UL carrier frequency for that band.
\- In the case of dual uplinks, the Rx core requirements for the single band
4C-HSDPA are specified with the farthest and closest dual UL carrier
frequencies to the DL band. The UE transmit power for the requirements with
the closest dual UL carrier frequencies is adjusted (reduced) to meet the
requirements with the farthest dual UL carrier frequencies within [1] dB. If
the UE transmit power for both cases are the same, the requirements are
specified only with the closest dual UL carrier frequencies.
\- In the case of dual uplinks, the Rx core requirements for dual band
4C-HSDPA are specified with the farthest and closest dual UL carrier
frequencies (if different) to the corresponding DL band for each band (where
dual uplinks are available). The UE transmit power for the requirements with
the closest dual UL carrier frequencies is adjusted (reduced) to meet the
requirements with the farthest dual UL carrier frequencies within [1] dB. If
the UE transmit power for both cases are the same, and the requirements in
each DL band are within [1] dB with both cases, the requirements are specified
only with the closest dual UL carrier frequencies for that band.
\- The 4C-HSDPA Rx core requirements with dual uplinks are specified for in-
band blocking, narrow-band blocking, intermodulation and narrow-band
intermodulation.
\- The UEs supporting specific dual-band configurations, defined in Table
5.0aA and Table 5.0aC in TS 25.101, have an additional front-end complexity
compared to UEs supporting only single band operation. This additional
complexity affects the performance even when the dual-band capable UE operates
in a single band mode (for these particular bands). In particular, for the
single band receiver core requirements with dual uplinks (expressed with
absolute input levels), the \ and \ are allowed to be
increased by the same amount as the assumed insertion loss increase used to
derive the dual-band requirements. This is captured in Table 7.12 and Table
7.13 in TS 25.101.
#