# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objectives of this study are:
a) RAN4 to identify whether there are situations in which individual UE
receiver performance reduction has no, or minimal impact to the overall UTRAN
system level performance or user experience. RAN4 should also identify
scenarios in which UE receiver performance reduction cannot safely be
performed.
b) RAN4 to investigate scenarios for the identified situations where the UE
could reduce its performance. The purpose of these scenarios is to ensure that
UE performance is not degraded when conditions are not suitable.
c) RAN2 to investigate additional signalling which may be beneficial to
support Ues in the decision making process for reducing their performance, for
example quality thresholds which assist the UE in determining that conditions
are suitable to reduce receiver performance.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.214: "Physical layer procedures (FDD)".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.101: "UE Radio transmission and reception (FDD)".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.331: "RRC Protocol Specification".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
(no further terms defined)
## Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
(no further abbreviations defined)
# 4 Techniques considered for dynamically reconfiguring a FDD UE receiver to
reduce power consumption when desired Quality of Service is met
## 4.1 Scenarios in which individual UE receiver performance reduction has no,
or minimal impact to the overall UTRAN system level performance or user
experience
### 4.1.1 MBMS transmission
It is considered acceptable from the system perspective to reduce or switch
off UE receiver enhancements in good radio conditions when receiving point to
multi-point MBMS data (mapped on S-CCPCH). This is because such transmission
takes place with fixed transmission power level and so does not provide any
opportunity to reduce transmission power when UE is operating in good
conditions. When the same UE moves into relatively worse radio conditions the
enhanced receiver should be fully enabled, to provide the better MBMS service
reception. From a user experience perspective, the important aspect is that UE
attempts to maintain a certain downlink quality target corresponding to
enhanced receiver performance requirements. This means that generally a UE in
good radio conditions has the opportunity to reduce its receiver power
consumption by reducing or turning off its receiver enhancements. However, in
order to ensure correct UE behaviour, the initial assessment indicates that
network should provide the desired quality target, which the UE should then
autonomously attempt to meet or exceed when enhanced receiver is off.
Determining 'good radio condition' based on the network signalled quality
target should be dependent on UE implementation, but additional requirements
scenarios may need to be developed by RAN4 to ensure that Ues are able to meet
or exceed the desired quality target in different radio conditions and there
is consistent behaviour between different UE implementations.
Unlike dedicated channels, where the quality target is signalled to the UE for
the purpose of outer loop power control, no quality targets are currently
signalled for MBMS channels. Based on the analysis in RAN4 the transport
channel level BLER or SDU error rate is found to be a good measure to
determine MBMS quality (e.g. MTCH BLER or SDU error rate) and the feasibility
of additional signalling to create targets for such measures could be further
investigated by RAN2. It should also be noted that the UE may either exceed
the MTCH quality target, or be unable to meet the MTCH quality target
regardless of whether receiver enhancements are enabled, so the definition of
quality target is rather different from the currently defined outer loop power
control concept of a quality target.
Due to the lack of signalling of quality target for p-t-m MBMS channels, some
level of standardization is needed to assist UE to do receiver reconfiguration
in p-t-m MBMS scenario. This could include specifying the signalling of
quality target and some test cases to ensure that the UE attempts to follow
the network signalled quality target.
## 4.2 Scenarios in which individual UE receiver performance reduction may
impact to the overall UTRAN system level performance or user experience
### 4.2.1 HSDPA transmission
One main benefit of HSDPA is the ability to transmitted high data rate in a
very short period of time by exploiting the good radio conditions. This
enhances the user bit rate as well as the system throughput. Secondly, the
power control on HSDPA channels (HS-DSCH and HS-SCCH) is implementation
dependent. There is also an advantage to be gained in terms of downlink
transmit power reduction by using an enhanced receiver. Thus it is generally
beneficial for the network that UE fully uses its enhanced receiver to measure
CQI and for the demodulation of HSDPA downlink channels
Furthermore, no procedure is required to be standardized to support any
possible receiver reconfiguration in HSDPA scenario. The standard specifies
the CQI reporting range, which UE should be capable of reporting [2]. The
standard also specifies the enhanced receiver requirements, which are required
to be fulfilled by the UE supporting enhanced receiver [3]. While fulfilling
these requirements any possible receiver reconfiguration could be performed
autonomously by the UE without specifying any procedure in 3GPP specification.
Potential HSDPA reception scenarios where it might be desirable to utilize UE
dynamic receiver reconfiguration are explored in section 7.2.
### Transmission on dedicated channels
This refers to scenario, where dedicated channels such as DCH and F-DPCH are
in operation. In these scenarios the closed loop power control automatically
adjusts the downlink transmitted power in response to the variation in the
downlink measured quality at the UE. Thus, a continuously active enhanced
receiver on dedicated channels will enable the power control to reduce the
downlink transmitted power compared to the scenario where enhanced receiver is
dynamically switched on and switched off. The saved downlink power can be used
to accommodate more users in the cell, extend the cell coverage or to increase
the data rate transmission of the on going cells if needed.
Furthermore, no procedure is required to be standardized to support any
possible receiver reconfiguration in DCH scenarios. The network already
signals the quality target (BLER for DCH and TPC command error rate for
F-DPCH) [4]. The UE is required to fulfil these quality targets as specified
in TS 25.101 [3]. The UE supporting enhanced receiver should also fulfil the
relevant enhanced requirements according to TS 25.101 [3]. Thus, the
specification provides sufficient information that can be used by UE for
implementing any autonomous receiver reconfiguration algorithm.
Potential dedicated channels reception scenarios where it might be desirable
to utilize UE dynamic receiver reconfiguration is explored in section 7.1.
### E-DCH related downlink transmissions
In this scenario E-RGCH, A-RGCH and E-HICH channels, which are used for
scheduling and ACK/NACK transmission in the downlink to support enhanced
uplink operation are transmitted. The network can increase the coverage of
these channels by adjusting the downlink transmit power according to the
received downlink quality. This implies more enhanced uplink users can be
accommodated in the system if the downlink power is used more efficiently.
However, it should be noted that as HSUPA downlink channels utilize high
spreading factors and repetition, it may be possible for users in certain
favourable conditions to perform dynamic receiver reconfiguration without
impacting the overall number of enhanced uplink users that can be accommodated
in the system. Reconfiguration of receiver related to E-DPCH downlink physical
channels has not been simulated.
It is expected that no procedure is required to be standardized to support any
possible receiver reconfiguration in E-DCH downlink channel reception
scenario. While fulfilling the enhanced requirements specified in 25.101 [3]
the UE could autonomously perform receiver reconfiguration without the need
for any standardized procedure.
# 5 MBMS Link level simulation scenarios, assumptions and results
Based on the analysis in section 4, it was decided to simulate MBMS based
scenarios. Initially, link level simulations were considered, but later in the
study it was agreed also to consider system simulation scenarios.
## Link level scenarios based on adaptive thresholds
Based on the conclusion of section 4.1 link level simulation scenario to
investigate the feasibility of dynamic receiver reconfiguration were agreed to
be MTCH performance for point to multipoint MBMS transmission. For the
purposes of simulation, it was necessary to agree reference switching
algorithms, which provide a basis for determining whether the UE receiver
should be dynamically reconfigured to use a single receiver, or configured to
use dual receiver diversity. Since the choice of switching algorithm may have
an impact to the overall conclusion on whether the techniques are feasible or
not, two different algorithms were proposed. Both switching methods assume
that some quality target is signalled from UTRAN in line with the discussion
in section 4.1.1. Method 1 is a rather basic method, where the UE makes an
estimation of BLER, and compares it directly with the BLER target. Switching
method 2 was also considered, because it may offer the possibility for a more
rapid response when conditions change (e.g. due to short term fading) and
therefore the possibility for greater power savings.
It should be emphasised that both reference switching algorithms are defined
to facilitate simulation within RAN4, but while these algorithms are used as
basis for the work, they do not preclude more sophisticated implementations.
### Switching algorithm method 1
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | If crc failure occurs then | | | | { | | | | BLER_Estimate = α * BLER_Estimate + (1-α) | | | | } | | | | Else | | | | { | | | | BLER_Estimate = α * BLER_Estimate | | | | } | | | | If (BLER_Estimate\K2 and in single receiver mode) switch to dual | | receiver mode | | | | K1 and K2 are related to the signalled quality target and may | | include some hystersis/safety margin. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Table 5.1.1.1: Parameters for switching method 1
* * *
Parameter Unit  
α BLER filtering coefficient 0.999 K~1~ 5% K ~2~ 5% Target BLER quality \% 5%
Delay in starting a receiver path ms 10
* * *
### Switching algorithm method 2
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | If crc failure occurs then | | | | { | | | | BLER_Estimate = α * BLER_Estimate + (1-α) | | | | } | | | | Else | | | | { | | | | BLER_Estimate = α * BLER_Estimate | | | | } | | | | If (BLER_Estimate\BLER_Target and only one receiver is enabled) | | increase Q by some amount δ~2~ (Note : This corresponds to the case | | where actual receive quality is worse than target, so increasing Q | | means that the UE can start to switch to dual receiver mode at a | | higher quality threshold) | | | | When Filtered SIR > Q switch to single receiver with the "best" | | performing receiver | | | | When Filtered SIR \ Required CQI+Threshold1) and both receivers are | | enabled) switch to single receiver. | | | | If ((Average CQI \ 10000 for speech | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | #PC steps per snapshot | > 150 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Step size PC | Perfect PC | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | PC error | 0 % | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Margin in respect with target | 0 dB | | C/I | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Initial TX power | Random initial | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Outage condition | Eb/N0 target not reached due to | | | lack of TX power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Satisfied user | Measured Eb/N0 higher than Eb/N0 | | | target -- 0,5 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Handover threshold for candidate | 3 dB | | set | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum number in active set | 3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Choice of cells in the active | Random | | step | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Combining | Maximum ratio combining | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Noise figure | 9 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Receiving bandwidth | 3,84 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Noise power | -99 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum BTS power | 43 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Common Channel power | CPICH_Ec/Ior = -10 dB | | | | | | PCCPCH_Ec/Ior = -12 dB | | | | | | SCH_Ec/Ior = -12 dB | | | | | | PICH_Ec/Ior = -15 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power control dynamic range | 25 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Data Rates | 12,2 (voice), | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Activity factor | 100% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum TX power for 12,2 kbps | 30 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Eb/No target for 12,2 kbps | 9 dB @ 1% FER | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## Network simulation results
Figure 9 presents network simulation results that illustrate what percentage
of users would be expected to be in the low-windup state in a typical macro-
cell scenario.
{width="4.249305555555556in" height="3.207638888888889in"}
Figure 9: Macro-cell network simulation results showing UE code power CDF
Considering that the maximum base power was 43 dBm, and that the 3GPP standard
mandates minimum code transmit power no greater than -28 dB relative to
maximum base power, low-windup would typically occur at 10-15 dBm transmit
power. From the figure we see that in fractionally loaded cells this results
in approximately 10-40% of the Ues being in the low-windup state in this
typical macro-cell scenario. We expect these numbers to be even higher for in-
building pico-cell and Home Node B scenarios, where there may be typically
fewer users, many of whom have excellent reception conditions, with at least
some insulation from outside cells.
# Conclusions
Scenarios where dynamic receiver configuration provides minimal risk to the
user experience or UTRAN system level performance have been identified and
simulated at both the system and link level within this study. Generally, it
has been shown to be feasible for a UE receiving MTCH to dynamically
reconfigure from dual receiver to single receiver, based on a signalled
quality target.
In addition, analysis has been performed, which has indicated that HSDPA
reception, dedicated channel reception and E-DCH downlink feedback channel
reception are less suitable for dynamic receiver reconfiguration, since there
would be expected to be some system level impacts or performance compromise
and the full system level impact of the reconfiguration may not be apparent to
the UE making the reconfiguration. There were also some analysis and
simulation results presented that indicated that under certain reception
conditions benefits could be achieved with negligible impact on system level
performance for these non-MBMS scenarios. However, it was concluded that
procedures related to receiver reconfiguration for non-MBMS channels should
not be specified in the 3GPP specifications.
#