# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is part of the RAN WI \"**Introduction of the Multimedia
Broadcast Multicast Service (MBMS) in RAN** " and it is linked to 3GPP TS
22.146 \"Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service; Stage-1\" [2] and the SA2 WI
\"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service Architecture\", the work of which is
reflected in 3GPP TS 23.246 [3].
The purpose of the present document is to address the UTRAN and GERAN MBMS
requirements in order to help the TSG RAN and TSG GERAN working groups address
the changes needed to existing specifications and also identify new
specifications, that are required for the introduction of the WI
\"**Introduction of the Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service (MBMS) in RAN**
\".
## 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service; Stage-1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service; Architecture and
Functional Description\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in [1] and the following apply..
**Broadcast mode** : The part of MBMS that supports broadcast services.
**Counting:** This is the function that UTRAN performs when it wishes to
identify the number of multicast subscribers (all joined subscribers, or just
above a \"threshold\") in a particular cell, that wish to receive a multicast
session for a particular service.
**MBMS (Broadcast/Multicast) Session** : A continuous and time-bounded
reception of a broadcast/multicast service by the UE. A single
broadcast/multicast service can only have one broadcast/multicast session at
any time. A broadcast/multicast service may consist of multiple successive
broadcast/multicast sessions.
**Multicast mode** : The part of MBMS that supports multicast services.
**MBMS broadcast activation** : The process which enables the data reception
from a specific broadcast mode MBMS on a UE. Thereby the user enables the
reception locally on the UE.
**MBMS multicast activation (Joining)** :. The explicit point-to-point UE to
network signalling, which enables a UE to become a member of a multicast group
and thus start receiving data from a specific MBMS multicast service (when
data become available).
**MBMS Notification** : The mechanism, which informs the UEs about the
availability or coming availability of a specific MBMS RAB data in one given
cell.
**Service Announcements/Discovery** : The mechanisms should allow users to
request or be informed about the range of MBMS services available
Operators/service providers may consider several service discovery mechanisms.
This could include standard mechanisms such as SMS, or depending on the
capability of the terminal, applications that encourage user interrogation.
Users who have not already subscribed to a MBMS service should also be able to
discover MBMS services.
NOTE: Some of the above definitions have been taken from TS 22.146 [2].
**Tracking:** This is a function that allows UTRAN to follow the mobility of
multicast subscribers. Inherently it can be used as a means of counting
multicast subscribers.
**UE** : Unless otherwise stated, \'UE\' is used to refer to both the UE and
the MS.
## 3.2 Symbols
(void)
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
21.905 [1] and the following apply:
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
p-t-p Point-to-point
p-t-m Point-to-multipoint
# 4 Background and introduction
Following TSG RAN/SA#15, it was concluded that the service requirements [2] of
MBMS are considered stable enough and the work on the architectural aspects
have progressed to the extent that the work in the RAN groups could be
initiated.
# 5 RAN MBMS requirements
Following the clarifications provided during the 3GPP MBMS workshop on stage 1
[2] and stage 2 [3], the following RAN requirements have been identified and
are currently agreed within RAN WG2:
  1. MBMS data transfer shall be downlink only.
  2. QoS attributes shall be the same for MBMS Multicast and Broadcast > modes.
```{=html}
``` 3\. During MBMS data transmission it shall be possible to receive paging
messages, which also should contain some additional information, such as CLI.
  1. Simultaneous reception of MBMS and non-MBMS services shall depend upon UE capabilities.
  2. Simultaneous reception of more than one MBMS services shall depend upon UE capabilities.
  3. A notification procedure shall be used to indicate the start of MBMS data transmission. This procedure shall contain MBMS RB information. The MBMS notification requirements are listed in subclause 5.1.
  4. A mechanism to enable the Network to move MBMS subscribers between cells is required.
  5. MBMS UE multicast activation (Joining) shall be transparent to UTRAN.
  6. A mechanism is required that enables the non-transmission of MBMS multicast mode in a cell which does not contain any MBMS UEs joined to the multicast group.
> 10 Reception of MBMS shall not be guaranteed at RAN level. MBMS does not
> support individual retransmissions at the radio link layer, nor does it
> support retransmissions based on feedback from individual subscribers at the
> radio level. This does not preclude the periodic repetitions of the MBMS
> content based on operator or content provider scheduling or retransmissions
> based on feedback at the application level.
  1. MBMS shall not prevent the capability for SRNS/SBSS relocation.
> 12 A mechanism to provide UTRAN the received QoS per UE is not required as
> part of MBMS.
>
> 13 UE controlled "service based" cell selection/reselection shall not be
> permitted.
>
> 14 Handover and SGSN relocation shall not be affected by an active MBMS
> session.
>
> 15 In the case of UTRAN only, guaranteed 'QoS' linked to a certain initial
> downlink power setting is not required; however, the purpose and possibility
> of some reporting mechanism could be identified to measure the delivered
> QoS.
NOTE: The above requirement is not applicable in GERAN, as a p-t-m type
connection will use a similar power control mechanism to a broadcast channel.
> 16 MBMS Multicast mode transmissions should use dedicated resources (p-t-p)
> or common resources (p-t-m). The selection of the connection type (p-t-p or
> p-t-m) is operator dependent, typically based on downlink radio resource
> environment such as radio resource efficiency. A \"threshold\" related to
> the number of users may be utilised, resulting in the need for a mechanism
> to identify the number of subscribers in a given \"area\".
>
> 17 MBMS solutions to be adopted should minimise the impact on the RAN
> physical layer and maximise reuse of existing physical layer and other RAN
> functionality.
>
> 18 MBMS charging should be transparent to the RAN.
>
> 19 MBMS should allow for low UE power consumption.
>
> 20 Header compression should be used.
>
> 21 MBMS should not prevent support for SGSN in pool.
>
> 22 Data loss during cell change should be minimal.
## 5.1 MBMS Notification Requirements
The following requirements for MBMS notification mechanism(s) have been
identified and currently agreed:
1 MBMS notification shall be transmitted within the MBMS service area.
NOTE: If MBMS notification is transmitted in all cells of a corresponding MBMS
service area or only in those cells where MBMS subscribers are actually
located, is FFS.
2 MBMS notification shall be sent so it could be received by all UEs with an
activated MBMS service, regardless of their RRC state or the lack of an RRC
connection.
3 MBMS notification should maximise the reuse of existing channels.
4 MBMS notification should allow terminals to minimise their power
consumption, meaning that UEs with an activated MBMS service should not listen
permanently, but at regular intervals to MBMS notification.
5 Reception of MBMS notification cannot be guaranteed.
6 UEs may receive MBMS notification and simultaneously monitor other
occasions, e.g. UE dedicated paging and CBS messages. The avoidance of
collisions cannot be guaranteed. If collisions occur, the UE dedicated Paging
has higher priority (UE requirement).
# 6 RAN MBMS functions
## 6.1 Functions list
The RAN functions identified for MBMS are:
1 Functions relating to service establishment and radio resource management
and control for MBMS services:
> 1.1 Admission control for MBMS services (see subclause 6.2.1).
>
> 1.2 Identification of the number of UEs (counting) with activated MBMS
> service(s) within a cell (see subclause 6.2.2).
1.3 Selection between the use of p-t-p and p-t-m radio bearers (see subclause
6.2.3).
1.4 Assignment of resources and the selection of parameters for MBMS radio
bearers (see subclause 6.2.3).
1.5 Establishment and release of radio bearers for MBMS services (see
subclause 6.2.3).
> 1.6 Identifying to UEs the physical, transport and logical channel
> parameters with which particular MBMS services are transmitted in each cell
> (see subclause 6.2.4).
>
> 1.7 Alerting UEs that MBMS data is to be transmitted (see subclause 6.2.5).
1.8 Power Control (see subclause 6.2.6).
2 Functions relating to mobility:
2.1 Support of cell change and minimisation of data loss (see subclause
6.2.7).
2.2 Maintenance of the MBMS context (see subclause 6.2.8).
3 Functions relating to transmission of MBMS data:
3.1 Replication of MBMS data streams to the cells of a multicast or broadcast
area (see subclause 6.2.9).
3.2 Transfer of MBMS data (see subclause 6.2.10).
## 6.2 Function descriptions
This subclause contains a brief description of the RAN MBMS function
identified in subclause 6.1.
### 6.2.1 Admission control
The RAN shall contain functionality that enables it to determine how to
respond to requests to provide radio bearers for individual MBMS services
(data streams) made by the SGSN. This admission procedure may take into
account the capacity required, quality of service and priority of the
requested service and the resources that are available for MBMS services
within the cell.
### 6.2.2 Identification of the number of UEs with activated MBMS service(s)
in a cell
Some architectural solutions for MBMS require that the RAN can identify the
number of UEs (or at least whether a minimum number of UES) that have
activated particular MBMS services are present in a cell. This function may be
used, in conjunction with discontinuous MBMS services, to identify whether the
service should be established in the cell and whether p-t-p or p-t-m radio
access bearers should be used.
### 6.2.3 Selection, assignment and establishment and release of radio bearers
The RAN shall assign radio resources to bearers for MBMS services within the
cells of broadcast and multicast areas. RAN decides on the radio bearer
configuration, it may be p-t-p or p-t-m.
### 6.2.4 Identification of MBMS parameters to UEs
The RAN shall provide mechanisms whereby the RAN indicates to the UE the
physical, transport and logical channel parameters that are associated with
radio bearers that carry specific MBMS data streams within specific cells.
### 6.2.5 Alerting UEs that MBMS data is to be transmitted
For discontinuous MBMS services radio bearers may be established only during
those periods when there is data to be transferred. The RAN shall be required
to alert the UE that the service is about to be re-established.
### 6.2.6 Power control
The power level shall be set for p-t-p and p-t-m bearers.
Editor\'s note: It is an open issue whether feedback control for p-t-m radio
bearers is practical.
### 6.2.7 Support of cell dhange and minimization of data loss
Whilst it is accepted that MBMS data loss may occur following cell reselection
or handover, procedures shall be introduced to support resynchronisation after
cell change and to reduce the potential for loss in these circumstances.
### 6.2.8 Maintenance of MBMS context
The RAN shall maintain internal records of the MBMS services that are active
in each cell. These contexts shall be dependent upon the mobility of the UEs.
### 6.2.9 Replication of MBMS data streams
The content of an MBMS data stream may be transmitted in several cells by RAN.
The RAN replicates the data to these cells.
Editor\'s note: This is a working assumption and this is to be decided by TSG
SA WG2.
### 6.2.10 Transfer of MBMS data
The RAN shall provide the layer 1 and layer 2 processes necessary for the
preparation and transfer of MBMS data on the Uu and Um interfaces. This
encompasses the functions of
\- header compression:
\- segmentation/concatenation:
\- multiplexing: and
\- coding.
Depending on the service characteristics and the reception capability of the
UE, it has to be evaluated how several data streams are multiplexed.
## 6.3 Functional separation
Editor\'s note: This clause will introduce the functional separation between
the different protocol layers.
#