# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
\"The User Data Convergence concept supports a layered architecture,
separating the data from the application logic in the 3GPP system, so that
user data is stored in a logically unique repository allowing access from core
and service layer entities, named application front-ends. Network elements and
functionalities should be designed to access profile data remotely and without
storing them permanently locally, i.e. the front-ends shall work in a user
dataless configuration.\"
TR 22.985 and TS 22.101 provide the requirements for User data convergence so
that user data can be moved from where it originated, to a facility called
User Data Repository (UDR) where it can be accessed, stored and managed in a
common way.
Convergence of user data unifies the user data access interface and its
protocol. In addition, the logical centralization of user data implies the
support of user data provisioning, that is, user data manipulation like
creation, deletion, reading, modification and other operations.
In order to accommodate multiple applications and services, existing and new
ones, a framework for model handling and management of the UDC has been
developed including:
\- UDC information model infrastructure
\- UDC information model handling
\- Application management
\- Consolidated data model management.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the framework for overall management of the
User Data Convergence.
In order to accommodate multiple applications and services, existing and new
ones, the framework for model handling and management of the UDC as identified
by TS 22.101 includes the following items:
\- UDC information models:
\- UDC information model infrastructure containing the common baseline
information model (CBIM), application information models (AIM), and the
specialised information model (SIM). The CBIM is standardised in TS 32.cde
[4].
\- UDC information model handling:
\- provide a template and guidelines explaining the design of application
information models to be used together with the common baseline information
model to create the specialized information model
\- describe the process to combine the common baseline information model with
application information models in order to produce an operator-specific
specialised information model
\- Application management data:
\- access control data for an application to UDC: identification and
authentication
\- assignment to an application data model, including linkage to the
consolidated data model
\- subscription rights for specific events on specific data of specific users
\- Consolidated data model management
\- lifecycle management of the consolidated data model in the UDR and in the
provisioning entity.
\- activation/deactivation of application adaptation
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.985: \"Service requirement for the User Data Convergence
(UDC)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.182: \"User Data Convergence; Common Baseline Information Model
\".
[5] 3GPP TR 32.808: \"Study of Common Profile Storage (CPS) Framework of User
Data for network services and management\"
[6] 3GPP TS 33.102: "3G Security; Security architecture"
[7] 3GPP TS 33.203: "3G security; Access security for IP-based services"
[8] 3GPP TS 23.335: "User Data Convergence; Technical Realization and
Information Flows;Stage 2"
[9] 3GPP TS 29.335: "User Data Convergence (UDC); User Data Repository Access
Protocol over the Ud interface; Stage 3"
[10] 3GPP TS 32.172: "Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Application Data Model :** specific data model used by an application
accessing the UDR. It is defined according to the UDC access protocol. It is
related to an application information model.
**Application Data View:** a function of the UDR that enables and limits
applications access to data within the UDR.
**Application Information Model :** specific information model used by an
application accessing the UDR. It is defined with the same method as the
common baseline information model. It is related to an application data model.
**Common Baseline Information Model:** basic structure of UDC IOCs, see also
definition in 3GPP TS 32.182 [4]
**Consolidated Data Model** : Data model containing all data of the User Data
Repository. It is the result of the implementation of the entire Specialized
Information Model in the UDR for all applications.
**Information Model:** Information Model denotes an abstract, formal
representation of entity types, including their properties and relationships,
the operations (e.g. read, write...) that can be performed on them, and
related rules and constrains. In the information model, entities might have
network topology relationship with each other.
**Specialized Information Model:** Information model containing all
information to be stored in the UDR. It is the result of operator specific
specialisation of CBIM with addition of imported AIM.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ADM Application Data Model
AIM Application Information Model
AKA Authentication and Key Agreement
AMF Authentication Management Field
CBIM Common baseline Information Model
CDM Consolidated Data Model
ISIM IMS Subscriber Identity Module
SpIM Specialised Information Model
UDC User Data Convergence
UDR User Data Repository
UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
# 4 UDC Framework overview
## 4.1 General overview
TR 22.985 [2] and TS 22.101[3] request the baseline information model to be
future proof and extensible, i.e. new applications and/or new service profiles
can be added by the operator, if necessary. The flexibility shall also permit
new data for existing applications to be introduced, or modified. For the
actual information model of an operator Specialized Information Model is
described in TR 22.985 [2].
For the above purpose this specification defines and describes the
infrastructure of UDC Information Models in Clause 5.
The correlation and handling of the UDC Information Models is described in
Clause 6.
## 4.2 Requirements coming from other Specifications
TR 22.985 [2] and TS 22.101[3] provide requirements for CBIM and SpIM . These
documents also mention the Application Data Models for the Access Interface to
the UDC.
Specification 23.335 [8] in Clause 5.2 defines the requirements for
application access to the UDR including authentication and authorisation.
Specification 29.335 [9]: defines as Access Protocol over the Ud interface
LDAP (Clause 4) and as Data Model on the interface LDAP Directory Schema
(Clause 7).
## 4.3 Overview of UDC Data and Information Models
Figures Fig.4.3-1 and Fig.4.3-2 below show the data and information models
contained in the UDC framework including the UDR and the Application Front
Ends. Boxes outlined in black. connecting Information and Data Models
represent the process steps needed to produce the output model (pointed to by
an outgoing arrow) from an input model (shown by the source of an incoming
arrow).As shown in these figures, the Specialized Information Model can be
both an input and output model, i.e. its current version is used as an input
model to a process that generates an enhanced version when an Application
Information Model new to the UDR is integrated and consolidated.
Fig.4.3-1 below shows the case of internal integration model handling, where
implementation of the Application is under responsibility of the operator . In
this situation operator specification of the AIM leads to the Application Data
Model (ADM), that gets implemented in the application FE and in the
Application Data Model View in the UDR.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="4.288888888888889in"}
Figure 4.3-1 UDC Data and Information Models Overview with Operator
integration model handling
Figure 4.3-2 below shows the case of generation of the Application Data Model
(ADM) for an Application/Front-End when the development of the application is
not the responsibility of the operator. In this situation, both the CBIM and
the AIM of the application are used to generate the ADM being implemented in
the Application/Front-End.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="4.604166666666667in"}
Figure 4.3-2 UDC Data and Information Models Overview with separate ADM
generation for the Application/Front-End
# 5 UDC information model infrastructure
## 5.1 Common Baseline Information Model (CBIM)
CBIM provides the basic structure of UDC IOCs. It shall enable an operator to
integrate the user data to be stored in the UDR.
## 5.2 Application Information Models (AIM)
NOTE: The present clause introduces AIM. AIM may be imported from existing
applications or may be generated from information elements already existing in
the UDR.
An AIM should contain IOCs for
\- the Service Profile(s) of the particular application,
\- Identifier(s) used by the application
and additionally, if needed, any other IOC defined in CBIM. E.g. related End
Device, if such is to be connected to one or more identifiers within the
application.
## 5.3 Specialised Information Model (SpIM)
NOTE: The present clause describes building the SpIM from CBIM and AIMs with
consolidation of semantically identical data.
SpIM is the Information model containing all information to be stored in the
UDR. A Specialized Information Model is operator specific. An implementation
of the entire Specialized Information Model in the User Data Repository for
all the applications leads to the Consolidated Data Model.
# 6 UDC information model handling
## 6.1 General
The relations of the UDC information models are depicted in Figure 6.1-1
below.
Fig. 6.1-1 UDC Information Models
Figure 6.1-2 below shows the process that leads to integrating and
consolidating data for a given operator from the UDR perspective.
Initially the Common Baseline Information Model (CBIM) is specialised
according to the service and user structure of the given operator resulting in
the initial version of the operator's the Specialized Information Model
(SpIM).
The actual version of the operator's Specialized Information Model (SpIM)) is
combined together with one or more Application Information Models (AIMs) to
form a new version of the Specialized Information Model (SpIM) of the
operator. The SpIM represents and considers all the data of all converged
services offered by the operator.
It is the decision of the operator, when a new actual version of the SpIM is
implemented into the UDR. An implementation of the actual version of the SpIM
into the UDR leads to the Consolidated Data Model (CDM), which is representing
the actual implementation of the UDR.
Figure 6.1-2: UDC Information and Data Models in the UDR
Consider now integration for a given application. An Application Data Model
(ADM) has to be developed both for the UDR and for the Application/Front-End
to be used on the Ud interface.
In the integrated model handling environment under responsibility of the
operator implementation of the SpIM and the AIM of the application leads to
the Application Data Model (ADM), this is depicted in Figure 6.1-3. The ADM
gets implemented in the application FE and in the Application Data Model View
in the UDR.
Figure 6.1-3: UDC Information and Data Model handling for an Application Type
in an integrated Operator environment
In the case of separate development of the Application Data Model (ADM) for an
application on the Application/Front-End side, implementation of the CBIM and
the AIM of the application leads to the ADM being implemented there. This is
depicted in Figure 6.1-4.
Figure 6.1-4: Separate Information and Data Model handling for an Application
Type for Application Front-End
## 6.2 Initial SpIM Creation from CBIM
The Specialized Information Model is initially generated through operator
specific specialisation of CBIM e.g. through definition of the operator-
specific End-User groupings.
## 6.3 AIM Integration into SpIM
After the initial SpIM has been created, AIMs are imported and consolidated
into it. The SpIM takes into account the specific applications, the
functionality included and the relevant business information.
## 6.4 Consolidation of User Data in the SpIM
### 6.5.1 Example of consolidation of data in the SpIM using aggregation
The Figure 6.5.1-1 below provides an example of building the SpIM by
aggregating semantically identical data. Attributes that are common to at
least two different service profiles are defined in IOCs that are then
aggregated to these service profiles. For example, the Roaming1 IOC contains
roaming data that is common to GPRS, EPS and CS service profiles, ODB3
contains operator determined barring data that is common to both GPRS and EPS
service profiles and Trace contains data that is about subscriber and
equipment trace common to all GPRS, CS, EPS and IMS profiles. Using
aggregation means that the attribute value will be always same in each of the
service profile that has aggregated the IOC where the attribute is defined.
Note also that this example only shows how a portion of the data can be
consolidated using aggregation.
{width="6.6402777777777775in" height="5.027083333333334in"}
Figure 6.5.1-1: Consolidation of data in the SpIM using aggregation.
### 6.5.2 Example of specialization for authentication methods
Figure 6.5.2-1 shows an example of how the CBIM can be further specialized for
the purpose of considering different authenticatio-n methods.
{width="6.767361111111111in" height="5.354166666666667in"}
Figure 6.5.2-1: Authentication methods
#### 6.5.3.1 AkaUsim
##### 6.5.3.1.1 Definition
This object class represents data that is required to perform Authentication
and Key Agreement (AKA) when the UE is equipped with a USIM. For details of
AKA see subclause 6.3 in 3GPP TS 33.102 [6]. For example, an encrypted
subscriber key and the AMF can be attributes of this object class.
#### 6.5.3.2 CsAka
##### 6.5.3.2.1 Definition
This object class represents data that is required to perform AKA when
accessing Circuit-Switched services, such as the sequence number used for AKA
authentication to access CS services. For details of AKA see subclause 6.3 in
3GPP TS 33.102 [6].
#### 6.5.3.3 GPRSAka
##### 6.5.3 3.1 Definition
This object class represents data that is required to perform AKA when
accessing GRPS services such as the sequence number used for AKA
authentication to access GPRS services. For details of AKA see subclause 6.3
in 3GPP TS 33.102 [6].
#### 6.5.3.4 EpsAka
##### 6.5.3.4.1 Definition
This object class represents data that is required to perform AKA when
accessing Evolved Packet-Switched services, such as the sequence number used
for AKA authentication to access EPS services. For details of AKA see
subclause 6.3 in 3GPP TS 33.102 [6].
#### 6.5.3.5 ImsAkaIsim
##### 6.5.3.5.1 Definition
This object class represents data that is required to perform IMS AKA for
accessing IMS services when the UE is equipped with a UICC that contains an
ISIM, for example, the encrypted subscriber key and AMF that is used for
accessing IMS services. For details of IMS AKA see subclause 6.1 in 3GPP TS
33.203 [7].
#### 6.5.3.6 ImsAka
##### 6.5.3.6.1 Definition
This object class represents data that is required to perform IMS AKA when
accessing IMS services, such as the sequence number used for AKA
authentication to access IMS services. For details of IMS AKA see subclause
6.1 in 3GPP TS 33.203 [7].
#### 6.5.3.7 ImsAkaUsimIsim
##### 6.5.3.7.1 Definition
This object class represents the data that is required to perform IMS AKA for
accessing IMS services when the UE is equipped with either a USIM or an ISIM,
for example, the realm. It aggregates one of the AkaUsim or ImsAkaIsim object
classes, depending on whether the UE is equipped with a USIM or an ISIM,
respectively. For details of IMS AKA see subclause 6.1 in 3GPP TS 33.203 [7].
#### 6.5.3.8 GPRSImsBundled
##### 6.5.3.8.1 Definition
This abstract object class represents the data that is required to perform
GPRS-IMS bundled authentication. For details of the GPRS-IMS bundled
authentication see 3GPP TS 33.203 [6] Annex T.
NOTE: This object class is set to be abstract because it does not need any new
particular data. The GPRS-IMS bundled authentication requires the IPv4 address
or Ipv6 prefix allocated by GPRS to the UE, therefore, data that is stored
elsewhere. This object class is merely here for completeness, but need not be
implemented.
#### 6.5.3.9 NassImsBundled
##### 6.5.3.9.1 Definition
This object class represents the data that is required to perform NASS-IMS
bundled authentication, such as the line identifier. For details of the NASS-
IMS bundled authentication see 3GPP TS 33.203 [6] Annex R.
#### 6.5.3.10 SipDigest
##### 6.5.3.10.1 Definition
This object class represents the data that is required to perform SIP Digest
authentication for accessing IMS services. For example, it includes the H(A1)
parameter of HTTP Digest, the realm, QoP, and Algorithm directives in HTTP
Digest authentication. For details of the SIP Digest authentication see 3GPP
TS 33.203 [6] Annex N.
## 6.5 Construction of AIM
An AIM comprises all the information required by an application. In the
construction of an AIM, the following possibilities exist with respect to the
current version of the SpIM:
\- AIMs may be constructed from new information not yet present in the current
version of the SpIM.
\- AIMs may be constructed by using information that already exists in the
current version of the SpIM.
\- AIMs may be constructed requiring both new information and information that
already exists in the current version of the SpIM.
# 7 Application management
## 7.1 Application Access Control Data
Specification 23.335 [8] in Chapter 5.2 defines the requirements for
application access to the UDR including authentication and authorisation.
To be able to authenticate an application and to provide it access data in the
UDR the following have to be stored:
\- identity of the application including additional access protocol dependent
authentication information (e.g. password)
\- type of the application with associated Data Model
To be able to authorise an application for access to data in the UDR the
following have to be stored:
\- allowed PLMN-Id(s)
\- allowed operations with the associated Data Model
\- restrictions on operations possibly at information element level.
## 7.2 Application Data Model and Mapping to Consolidated Data Model
### 7.2.1 Application Data Views
Different applications have different needs when accessing the data. Consider
a piece of data: some applications may need to read and write that data; other
applications will only need to read the same data; and a third group of
applications should not be able to access that data at all. Since the UDR
implements the CDM, there must exist a mechanism to control the access of data
per application, so that only the authorised subset of the CDM is exposed to
that application with the correct access permissions, details on primary
access control are to be found in Chapter 7.1 of this specification.
Access only to the authorised subset of the CDM is achieved by implementing
Application Data Views in the UDR connected to the different application
types. The concept is illustrated in Figure 7.2.1-1 in a simplified way. A
detailed figure is given in Figure 7.2.1-2, and a more developed concept
(considering different vendors) is provided in Figure 7.2.1-3.
According to Figure 7.2.1-1 , the UDR implements the CDM. Application Data
Views are implemented for each application type accessing its specific user
data within CDM in the UDR. The Application Data View is responsible for
enabling and limiting applications access to data within the UDR.
{width="4.688888888888889in" height="3.682638888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.1-1: Application Data Views in the UDR (simplified)
Figure 7.2.1-2: Correlation of IM and Application Data View for a single
Application type in the UDR
In a multi-vendor scenario, for a given application type, each Front End
vendor and application version may implement their own data model. Therefore,
data models for the same application need not be equal across different
vendors or release of the software. This scenario conceptually requires a
different application data model mapping for each application and vendor. The
concept is illustrated in Figure 7.2.1-3. For each application type, there can
be a number of Application Data Views, each one handling the mapping to the
particular data model of the vendor of the Front End. For example, for
Application type #1, there can be three Front End vendors, named FE1~1~,
FE1~2~, FE1~3~, respectively. Each of these front ends implements its own data
model. A different Application Data View handles the correct mapping to each
data model. In Figure 7.2.1-3, Application Data View 1~1~ manages FE1~1~,
Application Data View 1~2~ manages FE1~2~, Application Data View 1~3~ manages
FE1~3,~ and so on~.~
Figure 7.2.1-3: Application Data Views in the UDR
## 7.3 Subscription and Notification Related Data
Specification 23.335 [8] in Chapter 5.7 and 5.8 defines the procedure of
subscription and notification. Specification 29.335[9] in Chapter 6.6, 6.7 and
Annex A defines the content and format of the subscription and notification
messages.
Subscription can be done by subscription message (dynamic) or configuration of
the UDR (permanent). To support both kinds of subscription and to allow
authorised unsubscribe operations, the following information should be stored
in the UDR:
\- type of subscription, dynamic or permanent
\- user identifier, e.g. IMSI, MSISDN, IMS public user identity or IMS private
user identity, if not specified the subscription is applicable to all users'
data of the application in the UDR.
\- information on the data requested to be observed
\- identity of the original (originating) subscribing entity identity, this
item indicates the original entity which sent the subscription request message
to the FE in order to subscribe to the notification of the specific events of
the data requested to be observed
\- notification condition(s), this item indicates the specific events on which
the notification shall be triggered. The triggering events shall consist of
one or more of the following: the addition of the observed data, the deletion
of the observed data or the changes of the observed data.
\- type of notification, this item indicates whether this subscription request
should lead to a notification to any FE of the application type or cluster
identifier, or to a notification to the FE requesting the notification.to
originating entity or to an FE/application based on actual selection
To support dynamic subscriptions the following information has to be stored in
the UDR:
\- the subscription expiry time
\- the identifier of the FE or the FE Cluster which sent the subscription
message (conditional, if the notification type indicates that the notification
is to be sent to the FE requesting the subscription, this item is needed.)
To support the notification of data modification, the following information
should be stored in the UDR:
\- additional data to be sent to the application in the notification when the
notification condition is met
\- the FE selection algorithm (conditional, if the notification type indicates
that the notification is to be sent to any FE of the application type or
cluster identifier, this item is needed. This is only the identifier of the
selection algorithm, not the algorithm itself.)
If the Notification Type indicates that the notification is to be sent to any
FE, when the notification condition is met, the UDR should use the FE select
algorithm to select a proper FE to notify. For example, the UDR may select to
notify the application actually serving the user.
# 8 Consolidated data model management
## 8.1 Lifecycle Management of the Consolidated Data Model in the UDR
Figure 8.1-1 below shows the operational environment of UDC according to
Figure 4.3-1. The Provisioning Gateway is an additional aspect which is
essential for the operation of the UDR. The Provisioning Gateway provides a
single logical point for consistent provisioning of user data for all services
in the UDR. The mechanism used by the Provisioning Gateway to access UDR data
using the CDM is outside the scope of the present document. The Application
boxes denote Application Front Ends including Provisioning Front Ends
according to 23.335 [8]. The Provisioning Front Ends access UDR data via the
Ud reference point and are restricted by their Application Data Model.
Chapter 4.3 describes how AIM(s) may be added and consolidated into the SpIM
and the generation of the Application Data Model and its mapping to the CDM.
It is the decision of the operator when the newly added AIM(s) may become
operational.
It is the decision of the operator, when a new actual version of the SpIM with
the newly added AIM(s) is implemented into the UDR as actual version of the
CDM.
The Provisioning Gateway provides a view of the actual version of the CDM to
enable provisioning of all data stored by different applications in the UDR.
The CDM implementation into the UDR is an atomic operation.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="5.342361111111111in"}
Figure 8.1-1: Evolution of the CDM in a UDR
## 8.2 Activation and Deactivation of Application Adaptation
As described above the operator shall be capable of
\- adding new AIM to SpIM, described in Chapter 4.3
\- adding ADM to UDR together with adaptation to CDM as described in Chapter
4.3 and 8.1.
\- generate and activate new actual CDM based on the current SpIM as described
in Chapter 8.1 above
\- activate the access of the application to its data in the UDR which can
only be done after the implementation of the CDM containing that data and is
done by associating the proper Application Data View to the application.
\- deactivate the access of the application to its data in the UDR which is
needed when, for example, the data of the application have changed
Deactivation is done by deleting the current association of Application Data
View to the application.
# 9 Relation to other Information Models
## 9.1 Relation to SuM Network Resource Model
> The 3GPP SuM NRM as defined in the TS 32.172 [10] contains the information
> model related to the provisioning of the data of 3GPP services stored in the
> UDR.
#