# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of a series of Technical Specifications (TSs)
that specify charging functionality and charging management in 3GPP
networks(GSM/UMTS/EPS). The 3GPP core network charging architecture and
principles are specified in TS 32.240 [1], which provides an umbrella for
other charging management TSs that specify:
\- the content of the CDRs per domain / subsystem / service (offline
charging);
\- the content of real-time charging messages per domain / subsystem / service
(online charging);
\- the functionality of online and offline charging for those domains /
subsystems / services;
\- the interfaces that are used in the charging framework to transfer the
charging information (i.e. CDRs or charging events)
The complete document structure for these TSs is defined in TS 32.240 [1].
The present document specifies the transaction based mechanism for the near
real time transfer of CDRs\ within the network.
The present document is related to other 3GPP charging TSs as follows:
\- The common 3GPP charging architecture is specified in TS 32.240 [1];
\- The parameters, abstract syntax and encoding rules for the CDRs are
specified in TS 32.298 [51];
\- The file based mechanism used to transfer the CDRs from the network to the
operator\'s billing domain (e.g. the post-processing system or a mediation
device) is specified in TS 32.297 [52];
The 3GPP Diameter application that is used for offline and online charging is
specified in TS 32.299 [50].
All terms, definitions and abbreviations used in the present document, that
are common across 3GPP TSs, are defined in the 3GPP Vocabulary, TR 21.905
[100]. Those that are common across charging management in 3GPP domains
services, or subsystems are provided in the umbrella document TS 32.240 [1]
and are copied into clause 3 of the present document for ease of reading.
Finally, those items that are specific to the present document are defined
exclusively in the present document.
Furthermore, requirements that govern the charging work are specified in TS
22.115 [101].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[2] - [9] Void.
[10] 3GPP TS 32.250: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Circuit Switched (CS) domain charging\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\".
[12] Void.
[13] 3GPP TS 32.253: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Control Plane (CP) data transfer domain charging\".
[14] - [19] Void
[20] 3GPP TS 32.260: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) charging\".
[21] - [29] Void.
[30] 3GPP TS 32.270: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) charging\".
[31] 3GPP TS 32.271: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Location Services (LCS) charging\".
[32] 3GPP TS 32.272: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Push-to-talk over Cellular (PoC) charging\".
[33] 3GPP TS 32.273: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service (MBMS) charging\".
[34] 3GPP TS 32.274: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Short Message Service (SMS) charging\".
[35] 3GPP TS 32.275: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Multimedia Telephony (MMTel) charging\".
[36] Void.
[37] 3GPP TS 32.277: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Proximity-based Services (ProSe) Charging\".
[38] 3GPP TS 32.278: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Monitoring Event charging\".
[39] - [49] Void.
[50] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging application\".
[51] 3GPP TS 32.298: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) encoding rules description\".
[52] Void.
[53] 3GPP TS 32.296: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Online Charging System (OCS) applications and interfaces\".
[54] 3GPP TS 32.295: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) transfer\".
[55] - [99] Void.
[100] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[101] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[102] - [199] Void.
[200] 3GPP TS 23.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL); Stage 2\".
[201] 3GPP TS 32.341: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
[202] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[203] 3GPP TS 32.343: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[204] 3GPP TS 32.344: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common Management Information Protocol
(CMIP) Solution Set (SS)\".
[205] - [399] Void
[400] IETF RFC 959 (1985): \"File Transfer Protocol\".
[401] ATIS-PP-0300075.1.200X \"Usage Data Management for Packet-Based Services
- Service Neutral Protocol Specification for Billing Applications\"
[402] IPDR \"IPDR/File Transfer Protocol\".
[403] IPDR \"IPDR/SP Protocol Specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [100], TS 32.240 [1] and the following apply:
**Billing Domain:** part of the operator network, which is outside the
telecommunication network that receives and processes charging information
from the core network charging functions. It includes functions that can
provide billing mediation and billing or other (e.g. statistical) end
applications. It is only applicable to offline charging (see \"Online Charging
System\" for equivalent functionality in online charging).
**charging:** function within the telecommunications network and the
associated OCS/BD components whereby information related to a chargeable event
is collected, formatted, transferred and evaluated in order to make it
possible to determine usage for which the charged party may be billed (offline
charging) or the subscriber\'s account balance may be debited / credited
(online charging).
**Charging Data Record (CDR):** formatted collection of information about one
or more chargeable event(s) (e.g. time of call set-up, duration of the call,
amount of data transferred, etc) for use in billing and accounting. For each
party to be charged for parts of or all charges of the chargeable event(s) a
separate CDR is generated, i.e. more than one CDR may be generated for a
single chargeable event, e.g. because of its long duration, or because more
than one charged party is to be charged.
**charging function:** entity inside the core network domain, subsystem or
service that is involved in charging for that domain, subsystem or service.
**circuit switched domain:** domain within GSM / UMTS in which information is
transferred in circuit switched mode.
**domain:** part of the 3GPP telecommunication network that provides network
resources using a certain bearer technology.
**GPRS:** packet switched bearer and radio services for GSM and UMTS systems.
**middle tier TS:** term used for the 3GPP charging TSs that specify the
domain / subsystem / service specific, online and offline, charging
functionality. These are all the TSs in the numbering range from TS 32.250
[10] to TS 32.27x [3x]; e.g. TS 32.250 [10] for the CS domain, or TS 32.270
[30] for the MMS service. Currently, there is only one \"tier 1\" charging TS
in 3GPP, which is TS 32.240 [1] that specifies the charging architecture and
principles. Finally, there are a number of top tier charging TSs in the 32.29x
[5x] numbering range that specify common charging aspects such as parameter
definitions, encoding rules, the common billing domain interface or common
charging applications.
**near real-time:** near real-time charging and billing information is to be
generated, processed, and transported to a desired conclusion in less than one
(1) minute.
**offline charging:** charging mechanism where charging information **does
not** affect, in real-time, the service rendered.
**online charging:** charging mechanism where charging information **can**
affect, in real-time, the service rendered and therefore a direct interaction
of the charging mechanism with session/service control is required.
**packet switched domain:** domain in which data is transferred between core
network elements.
**real-time:** real-time charging and billing information is to be generated,
processed, and transported to a desired conclusion in less than 1 second.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Bc Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the Circuit Switched CGF to
the BD.
Bcp Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the CP data transfer CGF to
the BD.
Bi Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the IMS CGF to the BD.
Bl Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the GMLC CGF to the BD.
Bm Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the MMS CGF to the BD.
Bmb Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the MBMS CGF to the BD.
Bo Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the OCF CGF to the BD.
Bp Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the Packet Switched CGF to
the BD.
Bpr Reference point for CDR file transfer between ProSe CGF and the BD.
Bs Reference point for the CDR file transfer for CAMEL services to the BD,
i.e. from the SCF CGF to the BD.
Bsm Reference point for the CDR file transfer from SMS CGF to the BD
Bt Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the PoC CGF to the BD.
Bw Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the WLAN CGF to the BD
(discontinued in Release 12).
Bx Reference point for CDR file transfer between any (generic) 3G domain,
subsystem or service CGF and the BD.
Ga Reference point for CDR transfer between a CDF and the CGF.
Rf Offline Charging Reference Point between the CTF within a 3G network entity
and the CDF.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
bcd binary coded decimal
BD Billing Domain
CAMEL Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
CDF Charging Data Function
CDR Charging Data Record
CGF Charging Gateway Function
CP Control Plane
CS Circuit Switched
CTF Charging Trigger Function
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FTP File Transfer Protocol
GMLC Gateway MLC
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
IPDR Internet Protocol Detail Record
I-WLAN Interworking WLAN
LAN Local Area Network
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MLC Mobile Location Center
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
OAM&P Operation, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning
OCF Online Charging Function
OCS Online Charging System
PoC Push-to-talk over Cellular
ProSe Proximity-based Services
PS Packet Switched
SCF Service Control Function
SMS Short Message Service
UTC Universal Time Coordinated
WLAN Wireless LAN
# 4 Architecture considerations
\"Bx\" is a common designator for the reference points from the network to the
Billing Domain (BD) that are intended for the transport of CDR files. The
letter \"x\" indicates the different 3GPP network domain, subsystem or
service, where
c represents Circuit Switched (CS) in TS 32.250 [10],
cp represents Control Plane data transfer (CP) in TS 32.253 [13],
i represents IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) in TS 32.260 [20],
l represents Location Service (LCS) in TS 32.271 [31],
m represents Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) in TS 32.270 [30],
mb represents Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) in TS 32.273 [33],
o represents the Online Charging System (OCS) in TS 32.296 [53],
p represents Packet Switched (PS) in TS 32.251 [11],
pr represents Proximity-based Services (ProSe) in TS 32.277 [37],
s represents the CAMEL SCF in TS 23.078 [200],
sm represents Short MessageService (SMS) in TS 32.274 [34],
t represents the PoC service (PoC) in TS 32.272 [32],
w represents interworking Wireless LAN (discontinued in Release 12), and
mn represents Monitoring Event in TS 32.278 [38]. .
By definition, dealing with CDR files only implies that Bx is solely related
to offline charging.\ Figure 4.1 depicts the position of the Bx reference
point within the overall 3GPP offline charging architecture.
> **CTF:** **C** harging **T** rigger **F** unction
>
> **CDF:** **C** harging **D** ata **F** unction
>
> **CGF:** **C** harging **G** ateway **F** unction
>
> **BD:** **B** illing **D** omain. This may also be a billing system/ billing
> mediation device.
Figure 4.1: Logical ubiquitous offline charging architecture
As illustrated in figure 4.1, the CGF in each network domain, service or
subsystem is relevant for the network side of the Bx reference point and is
connected with the BD that forms the receiving end of the Bx reference point.\
Further details of the Billing Domain, i.e. beyond terminating Bx, are outside
the scope of 3GPP standardization. Refer to TS 32.240 [1] for the complete
description of the 3GPP charging architecture.
Note that the OCS can also generate CDRs and transfer them to the BD across
the Bo reference point (not depicted in figure 4.1). Refer to TS 32.296 [53]
for further information on the OCS.
Furthermore the GSM SCF, defined in CAMEL, can also generate CDRs and transfer
them to the BD across the Bs reference point (not depicted in figure 4.1).
Refer to TS 23.078 [200] for further information on CAMEL.
# 5 CDR file transfer principles and scenarios
## 5.0 General
This clause contains specifications for the principles and scenarios covering
the CDR file transfer interface from the network to the Billing Domain. These
specifications apply to all domains, subsystems and services that are listed
in clause 4, including the OCS Bo and the GSM SCF\'s Bs interface.
Alternatively, in the CS domain (i.e. for Bc), the file transfer mechanism
specified in TS 32.250 [10] may be used. Consequently, for Bc it is up to
implementation choice to provide either the legacy interface, the interface
specified in the present document, or both.
The scenarios in this clause are divided into the following categories:
\- Local CDR and CDR file handling;
\- File format principles;
\- File transport and protocol;
\- File transfer modes and session management.
Other interface principles such as security and performance are dependent on
vendor implementation and operator\'s network design and are not covered by
the present document.
## 5.1 Local CDR and CDR file handling
### 5.1.1 CDR processing
As depicted in figure 4.1, the CGF collects CDRs from the CDF. If the CDF and
the CGF are separate entities, then the standard Ga interface as specified in
TS 32.295 [54] is used to transfer the CDRs from the CDF to the CGF.\ If CDF
and CGF are integrated, then a proprietary, internal mechanism is used. The
possibilities of separate or integrated CDF and CGF are specified per domain,
subsystem and service in the respective \"middle tier\" charging TSs, i.e.
those in the [10] through [49] reference number range, and in TS 32.296 [53]
for the OCS.
In any case, CDRs are transferred, in near real-time, from the CDF to the CGF
as soon as they have been closed by the CDF. Refer to TS 32.295 [54] for
further details. Once received by the CGF, the CDRs may undergo semantical
and/or syntactical sanity checks, however, these checks are not specified
further within the present document.
If the CGF determines that a CDR is not well formatted, or otherwise
incorrect, then the defective CDR parameter(s) shall be filled with an
appropriate \"replacement\" indicator within the limits of the syntax allowed
for the parameter.\ If the error renders the complete CDR unusable (i.e. the
above replacement of erroneous parameters is not possible), then no further
action of the CGF can be performed regarding this CDR. An example of a case
where the erroneous parameter cannot be replaced is when the \"CDR type\"
attribute of a CDR received by the CGF is corrupted.\ Details of this function
are implementation specific.
CDRs that have been processed by the CGF without error, or where errors have
been corrected by the CGF as described above, are considered \"acceptable\" by
the CGF. CDRs that have non-recoverable errors are not considered
\"acceptable\" by the CGF. The \"acceptable\" CDRs are immediately placed into
a CDR file by the CGF.\ The CDRs that are not \"acceptable\" should be
properly reflected in an error log and appropriate alarms should be generated,
after which they may be destroyed. Furthermore, to the extent possible, the
number of lost CDRs and the fact that CDRs were lost, shall be indicated in
the CDR file.
It is acknowledged that the processing of a CDR between being received until
it is placed on the CDR file, takes a small amount of time. Hence, where the
present document mandates the \"immediate\" treatment of CDRs received by the
CGF, it is to be interpreted such that it is not allowed to postpone the
processing of any received CDRs for any reason. In technical terms,
\"immediate\" shall be interpreted as:
\- The system shall be capable of complying with near real-time requirements
as specified in clause 3.1.
\- The system should be capable of complying, as closely as possible, with
real-time requirements as specified in clause 3.1.
Once a CDR has been stored on the appropriate file, the CGF may destroy any
other reference to that CDR.
### 5.1.2 CDR routeing
In the default mode of operation, the CGF manages a single (\"default\") file
for the storage of all \"acceptable\" CDRs. However, the CGF may also route
CDRs to different files that are kept open concurrently, i.e. additional files
may be configured by OAM&P commands together with associated CDR routeing
filters. While the CGF stores only those CDRs matching the associated routeing
filter on each of the additional files, the default file is used to store all
CDRs that do not match any of the routeing filters configured for the
additional files.
The CDR routeing function shall apply CDR parameters and CDR origin to decide
into which file to place the CDR. The file name shall, within the limits of
the file naming conventions, contain an indication of the CDR routeing filter
applied.
As a minimum, each CGF implementation shall support the CDR type and the
sending CDF as selection criteria for CDR routeing. It shall then be possible
to include in a file only the following CDRs:
\- CDRs of a single type;
\- CDRs of a set of specified types (e.g. only IMS CDR types);
\- CDRs originated by a single CDF;
\- CDRs originated by a set of CDFs;
\- Any combination of the above.
Further details of the CDR routeing function, such as:
\- the maximum number of simultaneously open CDR files;
\- the order in which the routeing filters are evaluated;
\- the way CDR filters can be configured by OAM&P
are implementation specific. In order to avoid arbitrary routeing of CDRs,
operators should assure that the routeing filters assigned per file, do not
overlap with each other.
The term \"matching CDR\" is used in the present document to denote a CDR that
matches the routeing filter of a given CDR file.
### 5.1.3 Local CDR file management
For the default case, plus each of the additional CDR routeing filters that
may be set up on the CGF (see clause 5.1.2), the CGF provides a non-
interrupted chain of CDR files. As described above, each CDR is immediately
stored in the appropriate file after being received and determined
\"acceptable\" by the CGF.
Several conditions may govern the closure of a CDR file by the CGF:
\- A configurable file size limit;
\- A configurable file closure time;
\- A configurable file lifetime (\"interval\");
\- A configurable number of CDRs within the file;
\- CDR release, version or encoding change;
\- Manual OAM&P actions;
\- System defined reasons (e.g. file system full).
When a CDR file is closed, the next matching CDR shall be placed in the next
file in the chain.\ The exact time when this next CDR file is physically
generated, i.e.:
\- immediately after the previous file has been closed (i.e. the earliest
possible time),
\- when the next matching CDR arrives (i.e. the latest possible time),
\- anytime in between,
is implementation specific. However, each CDR file shall contain all
\"acceptable\" matching CDRs received and processed by the CGF between the
closure of the previous file and the configured file closure trigger of the
current file, as specified above. In any case, a file shall be generated and
closed upon the occurrence of the file closure trigger, i.e. an empty file
(containing no CDRs) if no matching CDRs arrived since the closure of the last
file in the chain.\ Upon file closure, the CDR file is immediately available
for transfer to the BD.
CDR files may be removed from the CGF in one of the following ways:
\- By the BD issuing corresponding commands provided by the file transfer
protocol;
\- By the CGF application once the file has been transferred;
\- Due to CGF file system storage limitation or configurable file age limits;
\- OAM&P action.
In order to avoid loss of CDRs, operators should manage the system in a way
that the \"system defined\" file closure triggers mentioned above do not
occur.
## 5.2 File format principles
The CDR file format is depicted in figure 5.2.1.
Figure 5.2.1: CDR file format
The CDR files contain a variable length header section followed by a variable
sized CDR data section.\ The CDR data section contains zero or more
concatenated CDRs. Each CDR in a file includes a header indicating the CDR
length, data record format, release, version and encoding scheme.
The BD should use a decoder with a version number which is equal or greater of
this version to be able to decode all the CDRs in the file.
Clause 6 specifies the file format applying the above principles at bit level
detail.
## 5.3 File transport and protocol
### 5.3.0 General
Two mechanisms are defined for the transport of CDR files from the CGF to the
BD:
\- A basic transport mechanism is defined in clause 5.3.1 and shall be
supported by all CGF implementations;
\- The use of the File Transfer IRP as described in clause 5.3.2 may
additionally be supported by the CGF as an implementation option.
The use of IPDR as described in clause 5.3.3 may optionally be supported on
the Bx reference point.
### 5.3.1 Basic file transport mechanism
The following stipulations govern the choice and usage of file transport
protocol for this transport mechanism.
a) The default protocol for CDR file transport is FTP (RFC 959 [400]).
b) The use of other protocols is optional, however FTP shall always be
supported.
c) The CDR files may be transferred in either push or pull mode on the Bx
interface. Further specifications of these transfer modes are provided in
clause 5.4.1 and clause 5.4.2, respectively.
d) All standard FTP commands specified in RFC 959 [400] shall be supported by
the CGF.
All further requirements specified within the present document with reference
to the operation of the file transfer protocol in this mechanism (see clause
6), are solely related to FTP as the transfer protocol, as no assumptions can
be made as to the ways of working of optional other protocols. However,
additional protocols shall be implemented such that, to the extent possible,
the same logic is applied as described in the present document for FTP.
### 5.3.2 Use of File Transfer IRP
The File Transfer IRP is specified in TS 32.341 [201], TS 32.342 [202], TS
32.343 [203] and TS 32.344 [204].\ The support of the solution sets (CORBA,
CMIP or both) is left to implementation choice. Otherwise, the CGF
implementation of the IRP shall comply with the above TSs; i.e. there are no
further additions or limitations with regard to the use of the IRP in
charging.
### 5.3.3 Use of IPDR
As depicted in ATIS-PP-0300075.1.200X [401] IPDR file transfer or streaming
protocol can be used for the Bx reference point.
The IPDR file transfer is specified in IPDR/File Transfer Protocol [402].\ The
IPDR streaming protocol is specified in IPDR/SP [403].
## 5.4 File transfer modes and session management
### 5.4.1 Basic file transfer mechanism
#### 5.4.1.0 Introduction
Files can be transferred to the BD in one, or both, of the following modes.\
Detailed FTP file transfer and session management procedures are specified in
clause 6.
#### 5.4.1.1 Push mode
In this transfer mode the CDR files are written from the CGF to the BD
filestore at a time and/or frequency controlled by the CGF. I.e. the CGF
_pushes_ the files to the BD. This implies that the CGF operates in client
mode and the BD in server mode. If the CGF generates concurrent CDR files
based on the CDR routeing function specified in clause 5.1.2, then it shall be
able to send the different files to different BD systems; i.e. the BD address
is part of the CDR file routeing filter.
As a minimum, the following events shall be capable of triggering a file push
in the CGF:
\- A (configured number of) new CDR file(s) has become available for
transmission;
\- The CDR file / files has / have exceeded a configurable (total) size limit;
\- A configurable, regular time interval has elapsed;
\- The CGF filestore utilization has exceeded a configurable level.
If the file transfer fails, the CGF should properly reflect this in an error
log and generate appropriate alarms.\ Possible measures to handle file
transfer failures are discussed in clause 6.
Security measures, e.g. the mutual identification / verification of the peer
systems, are outside the scope of the present document.
#### 5.4.1.2 Pull mode
In this transfer mode the BD reads the CDR files that are available in the
appropriate CGF directories.\ The time and/or frequency of the file transfer
is controlled by the BD. I.e. the BD _pulls_ the files from the CGF.\ This
implies that the CGF operates in server mode and the BD in client mode.
In this mode, the BD may request the files from the CGF at any point in time
at the discretion of the BD, i.e. the CGF cannot make any assumptions of the
time or frequency of the file pull to occur. If the file transfer fails, any
further action is up to the BD, however, the CGF should properly reflect this
in an error log and generate appropriate alarms. Possible measures to handle
file transfer failures are covered in clause 6.
Security measures, e.g. the mutual identification / verification of the peer
systems, are outside the scope of the present document.
### 5.4.2 Use of File Transfer IRP
File transfer modes and session management using the optional File Transfer
IRP are governed by TS 32.341 [201], TS 32.342 [202], TS 32.343 [203] and TS
32.344 [204].
### 5.4.3 Use of IPDR
File transfer mode and session management using the optional IPDR protocols
are governed by IPDR File Transfer [402] or streaming protocol [403].
# 6 CDR file format specification
## 6.0 General
This clause provides detail specifications for the CDR file format. These
specifications apply to all domains, subsystems and services listed in clause
4. Alternatively, in the CS domain (i.e. for Bc), the file transfer mechanism
specified in TS 32.250 [10] may be used. Consequently, for Bc it is up to
implementation choice to provide either the legacy interface, the interface
specified in the present document, or both.
The file format specification in this clause is divided into the following
categories:
\- File format conventions;
\- File naming and directory conventions;
\- Detailed file transfer and session management procedures;
\- Error handling.
Only the basic file transfer mechanism is covered in the present document.
Refer to TS 32.341 [201], TS 32.342 [202], TS 32.343 [203] and TS 32.344 [204]
for the corresponding details when using the optional File Transfer IRP and
[402], [403] when using the optional IPDR protocols.
## 6.1 File format conventions
The file format shall apply the following conventions.
a) The CDR files contain a variable length file header immediately followed by
a variable number (zero or more) of concatenated CDRs which are structured
according to the CDR format specified in the middle tier charging TSs.
b) The syntax and encoding rules for the CDRs are specified in TS 32.298 [51].
c) Each CDR is immediately preceded by a fixed length plain text header.
d) The file header fields and CDR header fields are in Network byte order (Big
Endian).
e) The file header contains fields specified in clause 6.1.1.
f) The CDR header contains fields specified in clause 6.1.2.
g) File header fields that are not known at the time the file is opened are
populated after all the CDRs are included and the file is ready to be closed.
The CDR file is named based on the naming convention specified in clause 6.2.
### 6.1.1 CDR file header format
#### 6.1.1.0 General
The exact format of the CDR file header is given in table 6.1.1.1.
Table 6.1.1.0.1: Format of CDR file header
* * *
Bits  
Octets 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1..4 File length  
5..8 Header length  
9 High Release Identifier High Version Identifier  
10 Low Release Identifier Low Version Identifier  
11..14 File opening timestamp  
15..18 Timestamp when last CDR was appended to file  
19..22 Number of CDRs in file  
23..26 File sequence number  
27 File Closure Trigger Reason  
28..47 IP Address of Node that generated file  
48 Lost CDR indicator  
49..50 Length of CDR routeing filter  
51..xy CDR routeing filter  
xy+1..xy+2 Length of Private Extension  
xy+3..n Private Extension  
n+1 High Release Identifier extension  
n+2 Low Release Identifier extension
* * *
The following subclauses specify the contents and encoding of the CDR file
header fields. Unless otherwise specified in the subclauses below, all
parameters are mandatory and shall always be included in a CDR file header.
#### 6.1.1.1 File length
The \"file length\" parameter contains a binary value that identifies the
total length of the CDR file in octets, including the file header and the
total CDR payload length.
The value with all bits set to \"1\" is reserved for future extensions (e.g.
for CDR files longer than that value) and shall therefore not be used.
#### 6.1.1.2 Header length
The \"header length\" parameter contains a binary value that identifies the
total length of the CDR file header in octets.
The value with all bits set to \"1\" is reserved for future extensions (e.g.
for CDR file headers longer than that value) and shall therefore not be used.
#### 6.1.1.3 High release / version identifier
This field is a copy of octet 3 of the CDR header. It is copied from the CDR
where the equation:
Release Identifier * 100 + Version Identifier
For Rel-10 and higher this equation shall be used:
(Release Identifier + Release Identifier Extension +1) * 100 + Version
Identifier
yields the highest result of all CDRs in the file. The representation of
Release Identifier and Version Identifier in this field is the same as in
octet 3 of the CDR header.\ For Rel-10 and higher, i.e with High Release
Identifier field set to value \"7\", the release identifier is included in
\"High Release Identifier extension\" field.
#### 6.1.1.4 Low release / version identifier
This field is a copy of octet 3 of the CDR header. It is copied from the CDR
where the equation:
Release Identifier * 100 + Version Identifier
For Rel-10 and higher this equation shall be used:
(Release Identifier + Release Identifier Extension +1) * 100 + Version
Identifier
yields the lowest result of all CDRs in the file. The representation of
Release Identifier and Version Identifier in this field is the same as in
octet 3 of the CDR header.\ For Rel-10 and higher, i.e with Low Release
Identifier field set to value \"7\", the release identifier is included in
\"Low Release Identifier extension\" field.
#### 6.1.1.5 File opening timestamp
These parameters indicate the time when the file was opened, according to the
following binary format:
\- The first four binary bits indicate the month (1 .. 12), according to the
CGF\'s local time zone;
\- The next five binary bits contain the date (1 :: 31), according to the
CGF\'s local time zone;
\- The next five binary bits contain the hour (0 .. 23), according to the
CGF\'s local time zone;
\- The next six binary bits contain the minute (0 .. 59), according to the
CGF\'s local time zone;
\- The next bit indicates the sign of the local time differential from UTC
(bit set to \"1\" expresses \"+\" or bit set to \"0\" expresses \"-\" time
deviation), in case the time differential to UTC is 0 then the sign may be
arbitrarily set to \"+\" or \"-\";
\- The next five binary bits contain the hour (0 .. 23) deviation of the local
time towards UTC, according to the CGF\'s local time zone;
\- The next six binary bits contain the minute (0 .. 59) deviation of the
local time towards UTC, according to the CGF\'s local time zone;
Note that the CDR file name contains detailed date and time information
related to file closure (see clause 6.2)
#### 6.1.1.6 Last CDR append timestamp
This parameter is formatted the same as in clause 6.1.1.5, and indicates the
time when the last CDR was appended to the file in UTC format. In case of an
empty file (i.e. no CDRs included), the value of the parameter is \"0\".
#### 6.1.1.7 Number of CDRs in file
This parameter contains a binary value that specifies the total number of CDRs
that are included in the file.
The value with all bits set to \"1\" is reserved for future extensions (e.g.
for CDR files containing more CDRs than represented by that value) and shall
therefore not be used.
#### 6.1.1.8 File sequence number
This parameter is a value in binary that contains a running number of the CDR
file generated by the same CGF.\ The first file of a CGF is indicated by the
value \"0\". When the maximum number of file is reached (all bits set to
\"1\"), the sequence shall be restarted with \"0\".
#### 6.1.1.9 File closure trigger reason
The file closure reason provides a means to determine the reason that the file
was closed by the CGF.\ It is encoded as a single octet as follows:
Normal closure reasons (Binary values 0 to 127):
0 = Normal closure (Undefined normal closure reason).
1 = File size limit reached (OAM&P configured).
2 = File open-time limit reached (OAM&P configured).
3 = Maximum number of CDRs in file reached (OAM&P configured).
4 = File closed by manual intervention.
5 = CDR release, version or encoding change.
6 to 127 are reserved for future use.
Abnormal closure reasons (Binary values 128 to 255):
128 = Abnormal file closure (Undefined error closure reason).
129 = File system error.
130 = File system storage exhausted.
131 = File integrity error.
132 to 255 are reserved for future use.
#### 6.1.1.10 Node IP address
This parameter indicates the IP address of the CGF generating the file. For
both IPv4 and IPv6 CGF addresses, the parameter is encoded in IPv6
representation. The first four bytes of the parameter, which are preceeding
this IPv6 address, are insignifant, e.g. filled with \'FF\'.
#### 6.1.1.11 Lost CDR indicator
This parameter indicates if and how many CDRs were lost during their
processing in the CGF (see clause 5.1.1).\ The term \"lost\" implies that the
CDR(s) could not be placed into the destination file due to irrecoverable
errors.
Due to the possibility that the irrecoverable CDR errors may have impacted CDR
parameters that are relevant for CDR routeing, it is possible that the CGF
cannot determine for a particular file whether CDRs have been lost.
Appropriate indication shall be given according to the following encoding of
the \"lost CDR indicator\".
\- MSB bit \"0\", all other bits \"0\": no CDRs have been lost;
\- MSB bit \"0\", all other bits set to a value corresponding to decimal 1 to
decimal 126: CGF has identified that a number of CDRs corresponding to the
value of the lower 7 bits were lost, while it is unknown whether more CDRs
were lost;
\- MSB bit \"0\", all other bits set to \"1\": CGF has identified that 127 or
more CDRs were lost, while it is unknown whether more CDRs were lost;
\- MSB bit \"1\", all other bits \"0\": CDRs have been lost but CGF cannot
determine the number of lost CDRs;
\- MSB bit \"1\", all other bits set to a value corresponding to decimal 1 to
decimal 126: CGF has calculated the number of lost CDRs as indicated in the
value of the lower 7 bits;
\- MSB bit \"1\", all other bits set to \"1\": CGF has calculated the number
of lost CDRs to be 127 or more.
#### 6.1.1.12 Length of CDR routeing filter
This parameter contains a binary value that specifies the length of the
subsequent CDR routeing filter in octets.\ The value excludes the two octets
of the \"length\" parameter itself.
The value of \"65535\" (all bits set to \"1\") is reserved for future
extensions (e.g. for CDR routeing filters longer than 65534 octets) and shall
therefore not be used.
#### 6.1.1.13 CDR routeing filter
This parameter indicates the filter that determined the routeing of CDRs into
this file. Its encoding is vendor specific.
#### 6.1.1.14 Length of private extension
This parameter contains a binary value that specifies the length of the
subsequent \"private extension\" field in octets.\ It is present only if a
private extension field is included in the CDR file header. Its value excludes
the two octets of the \"length\" parameter itself.
The value of \"65535\" (all bits set to \"1\") is reserved for future
extensions (e.g. for private extensions longer than 65534 octets) and shall
therefore not be used.
#### 6.1.1.15 Private extension
_This optional field contains a vendor specific private extension to the CDR
file header, if any. Its encoding, if present, is vendor specific._
#### 6.1.1.16 \"High Release Identifer\" extension
This eight bit field contains a binary value that identifies the 3GPP Release
of TS 32.298 [51].\ For \"High Release Identifer\" beyond Rel-9, the
representation of \"High Release Identifer\" in this field is the same as in
octet 5 of CDR header.
This field shall be present only when \"High Release Identifer\" field is set
with value \"7\" (all bits set to \"1\").
#### 6.1.1.17 \"Low Release Identifer\" extension
This eight bit field contains a binary value that identifies the 3GPP Release
of the TS 32.298 [51].\ For \"Low Release Identifer\" beyond Rel-9, the
representation of \"Low Release Identifer\" in this field is the same as in
octet 5 of CDR header.
This field shall be present only when \"Low Release Identifer\" field is set
with value \"7\" (all bits set to \"1\").
### 6.1.2 CDR header format
#### 6.1.2.0 General
The exact format of the CDR header is given in table 6.1.2.0.1.
Table 6.1.2.0.1: Format of CDR header
* * *
Bits  
Octets 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1..2 CDR length  
3 Release Identifier Version Identifier  
4 Data Record Format TS number  
5 Release Identifier extension
* * *
The following subclauses specify the contents and encoding of the CDR header
fields.
The CDR header is 4 octets or 5 octets length: presence the \"Release
Identifier extension\" octet depends on Release Identifier value.
#### 6.1.2.1 CDR length
This two octet field contains a binary value that specifies the length of the
subsequent CDR, excluding the header octets. The value of \"65535\" (all bits
set to \"1\") in the CDR length field implies that it is reserved for future
extensions and shall therefore not be used.
#### 6.1.2.2 Release Identifier
This three bit field contains a binary value that identifies the 3GPP Release
of the Technical Specification (TS) indicated in \"TS number\" (see clause
6.1.2.5). Its value is set / used according to the following rules:
Table 6.1.2.2.1: Release Identifier
+------------+--------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Release | 3GPP Release | Indicates 3GPP | Comment | | | | \"TS number\" for | | | Identifier | | the release | | | | | | | | (3 bits) | | | | +------------+--------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | \"0\" | Rel-99 | 32.005 or 32.015 | this parameter | | | | | shall be ignored | +------------+--------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | \"1\" | Rel-4 | 32.205, 32.215 or | | | | | 32.235 | | +------------+--------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | \"2\" | Rel-5 | 32.205, 32.215, | | | | | 32.225 or 32.235 | | +------------+--------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | \"3\" | Rel-6 | 32.250, 32.251, | | | | | 32.252, 32.260, | | | | | 32.270, 32.271, | | | | | 32.272 or 32.273 | | +------------+--------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | \"4\" | Rel-7 | 32.250, 32.251, | | | | | 32.252, 32.260, | | | | | 32.270, 32.271, | | | | | 32.272 or 32.273 | | +------------+--------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | \"5\" | Rel-8 | 32.250, 32.251, | | | | | 32.252, 32.260, | | | | | 32.270, 32.271, | | | | | 32.272 , 32.273 | | | | | or 32.275 | | +------------+--------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | \"6\" | Rel-9 | 32.250, 32.251, | | | | | 32.252, 32.260, | | | | | 32.270, 32.271, | | | | | 32.272 , 32.273, | | | | | 32.274 or 32.275 | | +------------+--------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | \"7\" | Beyond Rel-9 | The 3GPP Release | this parameter is | | | | for \"TS number\" | used as an | | | | is included in | indicator | | | | \"Release | | | | | Identifier | | | | | extension\" field | | +------------+--------------+-------------------+-------------------+
When \"TS number\" is \"32.296\" the Release Identifier contains proprietary
values.
#### 6.1.2.3 Version Identifier
This five bit field contains a binary value that identifies the version of the
TS 32.298 [51].\ Its value corresponds to the middle digit of the version
number of that TS, as indicated on the TS cover sheet.
When \"TS number\" is \"32.296\" the Version Identifier contains proprietary
values.
#### 6.1.2.4 Data record format
This three bit field contains a binary value that identifies the CDR encoding
according to:
\- \"1\" signifies the use of Basic Encoding Rules (BER);
\- \"2\" signifies the use of unaligned basic Packed Encoding Rules (PER);
\- \"3\" signifies the use of aligned basic Packed Encoding Rules (PER);
\- \"4\" signifies the use of XML Encoding Rules (XER).
#### 6.1.2.5 TS number
This five bit field contains a binary value that identifies the number of the
TS associated to the domain CDRs encoding according to table 6.1.2.5.1:
Table 6.1.2.5.1: \"TS number\" identifier
+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | \"TS number\" identifier | TS number | | | | | (5 bits) | | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 | 32.005 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 1 | 32.015 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 2 | 32.205 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 3 | 32.215 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 4 | 32.225 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 5 | 32.235 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 6 | 32.250 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 7 | 32.251 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 9 | 32.260 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 10 | 32.270 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 11 | 32.271 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 12 | 32.272 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 13 | 32.273 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 14 | 32.275 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 15 | 32.274 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 16 | 32.277 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 17 | 32.296 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 18 | 32.278 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 19 | 32.253 | +------------------------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: 20-31 are for future use. | | | | | | NOTE 2: 8 is discontinued in Release 12. | | +------------------------------------------+-----------+
#### 6.1.2.6 \"Release Identifier extension\"
This eight bit field contains a binary value that identifies the 3GPP Release
of the TS 32.298 [51].\ For Releases beyond Rel-9, its value is set / used
according to the following rules:
Table 6.1.2.6.1: \"Release Identifier extension\"
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+---------+ | Release Identifier | 3GPP Release | Comment | | | | | | (8 bits) | | | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+---------+ | \"0\" | Rel-10 | | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+---------+ | \"1\" | Rel-11 | | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+---------+ | \"2\" | Rel-12 | | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+---------+ | \"3\" | Rel-13 | | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+---------+ | \"4\" | Rel-14 | | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+---------+ | NOTE: Additional \"Release Identifier | | | | extension\" value incremented by \"1\" | | | | indicates subsequent releases | | | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+---------+
This field shall be present only when \"Release Identifer\" field is set with
value \"7\" (all bits set to \"1\").
## 6.2 CDR file naming convention
The file naming convention ensures that CDR file names are unique among a
large number of CGF nodes over an extended period of time (at least several
months). In order to accomplish this requirement, the file name includes the
following information:
\_-_\.\_-_\[.\][.\]
1) NodeID. This is the name of the CGF that generated the file. When the CGF
is integrated in another node\ (see TS 32.240 [1]), then this parameter
contains the NodeID of the node that the CGF is integrated in.
2) The RC parameter is a running count, starting with the value of \"1\". Note
that the delimiter preceding this field is made up of an underscore character
(_), followed by a minus character (-), followed by another underscore
character (-).
3) The \"date\" field indicates in ASCII, the date when the CDR file was
closed. It is of the form YYYYMMDD, where:
> \- YYYY is the year in four-digit notation;
>
> \- MM is the month in two digit notation (01 - 12);
>
> \- DD is the day in two-digit notation (01 - 31).
Note that this field is preceded by a point (.) character as delimiter.
4) The \"time\" field indicates in ASCII, the time when the CDR file was
closed. It is of the form HHMMshhmm, where:
\- HH is the two-digit hour of the day (local time), based on 24-hour clock
(00 - 23);
\- MM is the two digit minute of the hour (local time);
\- s is in ASCII, the sign of the local time differential from UTC (+ or -),
in case the time differential to UTC is 0 then the sign may be arbitrarily set
to \"+\" or \"-\";
\- hh is the two-digit number of hours of the local time differential from UTC
(00-23);
\- mm is the two digit number of minutes of the local time differential from
UTC (00-59).
> Note that the delimiter preceding this field is made up of an underscore
> character (_), followed by a minus character (-), followed by another
> underscore character (-).
5) Optional private information: The content of this field is implementation
specific. This field, if present, is preceded by a point (.) character
delimiter.
6) Optional file extension: The content of this field is implementation
specific. This field, if present, is preceded by a point (.) character
delimiter.
Some examples describing file-naming convention (note that the quotation marks
do not form part of the file name):
1) file name: \"CGFNodeId_-_1234.20050401_-_2315+0200\",\ meaning: file #1234
produced by CGF \ on April 1, 2005 at 23:15 local time, with a time
differential of +2 hours against UTC.
2) file name:
\"CGFNodeId_-_44.20051224_-_1700-1130.thankgoditschristmas.abc\",\ meaning:
file #44 produced by CGF \ on December 24, 2005 at 17:00 local
time, with a time differential of --11:30 hours against UTC, private
information \"thankgoditschristmas\" and extension \"abc\".
3) file name: \"CGFNodeId_-_44.20051224_-_1700-1130..abc\",\ meaning: same
file as 2) above but this time without private extension. Note that there are
two point characters (.) preceding the file extension due to the missing
(=empty) private extension.
There shall be a configurable base directory on the CGF which contains one or
more subdirectories that contain all CDR files that are ready for transfer to
the BD. Further details of the directory structure on the CGF for the storage
of CDR files are implementation specific.
## 6.3 Detailed FTP transfer and session management procedures
The detailed FTP transfer and session management procedures are out of scope
of the current 3GPP release.\ However, the following items should be
considered in actual implementations.
\- FTP client behaviour;
\- FTP server role;
\- File transfer triggers;
\- Each of the above in relation to push and pull modes.
## 6.4 Error handling
The detailed error handling on the CGF is out of scope of the current 3GPP
Release.\ However, the following items should be considered in actual
implementations.
\- Replacement of invalid CDR parameters;
\- Handling of irrecoverable CDRs;
\- System dependent failures (file system full, etc.);
\- File transfer failure in relation to:
\- Pull mode;
\- Push mode.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Bibliography
This Annex is a placeholder for documents which are not explicitly cited in
this specification.
#