# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.311: Generic Integration Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements
**32.312: Generic Integration Reference Point (IRP) management; Information
Service (IS)**
32.316: Generic Integration Reference Point (IRP) management; Solution Set
(SS) Definitions
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of IRPs and a related Name
Convention, which realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The
basic structure of the IRPs is defined in TS 32.101 [1] and TS 32.102 [2].
All IRPs support a set of generic features. Those features allow to retrieve
IRP profile and IRP supported versions.\ The present document contains the
specification of those generic features.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of the present document is to define a common service supported by
all IRPs such as AlarmIRP. The present document is the \"Information Service\"
part. It defines, for the purpose of supporting the common service, the
information observable and controllable by management system\'s client (i.e.
IRPManager) via the Itf-N.\ It also specifies the semantics of and the
interactions used to carry this information.
With this common service supported by all IRPs, an IRPManager can retrieve the
profile of operations and notifications supported by a given IRP name-
contained by an IRPAgent. An IRPManager can also retrieve the IRPVersions
supported by a given IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.301: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Generic network resources Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Network Resource Model (NRM)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2], TS 32.301 [3] and the following apply:
**IRP:** see TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPAgent:** see TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPManager:** see TS 32.102 [2].
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** see TS 32.311 [5].
**Itf-N:** see TS 32.102 [2].
**SupportIOC:** see TS 32.150 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
DN Distinguished Name
EM Element Manager
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union Telecommunication standardisation
sector
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
RDN Relative Distinguished Name
SS Solution Set
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
# 4 System Overview
## System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
TS 32.150 [6] clause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 4.1: System Context A
Figure 4.2: System Context B
# 5 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 5.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [7], notification, notifyNewAlarm
notifyNewAlarm 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [7], notification, notifyChangedAlarm
notifyChangedAlarm 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [7], notification, notifyClearedAlarm
notifyClearedAlarm 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [7], notification, notifyAckStateChanged
notifyAckStateChanged 3GPP TS 32.622 [8], information object class, Top Top
* * *
## 5.2 Class Diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the
information relevant for this IRP. This clause provides an overview of the
relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
{width="1.5930555555555554in" height="0.6729166666666667in"}
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between
SupportIOCs.
{width="2.109027777777778in" height="1.6243055555555554in"}
## 5.3 Information object class definitions
### 5.3.1 ManagedGenericIRP
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents a generic IRP which supports generic management
capabilities associated with each IRPAgent. This SupportIOC cannot be
instantiated. It is defined for sub-classing purposes.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier iRPId M M -
iRPVersions M M - operationNameProfile O M - operationParameterProfile O M -
notificationNameProfile O M - notificationParameterProfile O M -
* * *
#### 5.3.1.3 Notification
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyNewAlarm O See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [7] )
notifyChangedAlarm O See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [7] ) notifyClearedAlarm
O See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [7] ) notifyComments O See Alarm IRP (3GPP
TS 32.111-2 [7] ) notifyAckStateChanged O See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [7]
)
* * *
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
None
## 5.5 Information attribute definitions
This clause defines the semantics of the attributes used in SupportIOCs.
### 5.5.1 Definitions and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iRPId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iRPVersions | This attribute | See definition \"IRP | | | contains a set of | document version | | | IRPVersions. The set | number string\" in | | | contains at least | clause 3.1. | | | one element. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | operationNameProfile | This attribute | | | | contains a set of | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | The n-th element of | | | | this set contains | | | | the set of operation | | | | names supported for | | | | the IRPVersion | | | | identified in the | | | | n-th element of | | | | iRPVersions | | | | attribute. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | not | This attribute | | | ificationNameProfile | contains a set of | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | The n-th element of | | | | this set contains | | | | the set of | | | | notification names | | | | supported for the | | | | IRPVersion | | | | identified in the | | | | n-th element of | | | | iRPVersions | | | | attribute. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | opera | This attribute | | | tionParameterProfile | contains a set of | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | The n-th element of | | | | this set contains | | | | the set of set of | | | | notification | | | | parameters supported | | | | by the operations | | | | identified in the | | | | n-th element of | | | | operationNameProfile | | | | attribute. | | | | | | | | The set of operation | | | | parameters are | | | | placed in the set in | | | | the same order as | | | | the order followed | | | | by the operation | | | | names in their set. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | notifica | This attribute | | | tionParameterProfile | contains a set of | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | The n-th element of | | | | this set contains | | | | the set of set of | | | | notification | | | | parameters supported | | | | by the notifications | | | | identified in the | | | | n-th element of | | | | not | | | | ificationNameProfile | | | | attribute. | | | | | | | | The set of | | | | notification | | | | parameters are | | | | placed in the set in | | | | the same order as | | | | the order followed | | | | by the notification | | | | names in their set. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 6 Interface Definition
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
{width="5.986805555555556in" height="2.3569444444444443in"}
## 6.2 Generic rules
**\- Rule 1:** each operation with at least one input parameter supports a
pre-condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**\- Rule 2:** Each operation with at least one optional input parameter
supports a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where
\"xxx\" is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition
indicates that the operation supports the named optional input parameter.
Additionally, each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**\- Rule 3:** each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 6.3 genericIRPVersionOperations Interface (M)
### 6.3.1 Operation getIRPVersion (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
IRPManager wishes to find out the IRP SS versions supported by an IRP. The IRP
shall respond with a set of supported IRP SS version(s). The list of returned
IRPVersions is such that the IRPManager can use any of these versions without
having to specify an IRPVersion to the IRPAgent.
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
None
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment versionNumberSet M
ManagedGenericIRP.iRPVersions. It indicates one or more SS version numbers
(IRPVersion, as defined by \"IRP document version number string\" in clause
3.1) supported by the IRP. status M ENUM (Operation succeeded, Operation
failed) If operation_failed_internal_problem status = OperationFailed.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.4 Pre-condition
None specific
#### 6.3.1.5 Post-condition
None specific
#### 6.3.1.6 Exceptions
None specific
## 6.4 genericIRPProfileOperations Interface (O)
### 6.4.1 Operation getOperationProfile (O)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to query the detailed profile of an IRP
(supported operations and supported parameters) for a specific supported
version. The notification profile will provide details about notifications
that are specifically defined by this IRP.
#### 6.4.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment iRPVersion M Element of
ManagedGenericIRP.iRPVersions. It contains a version number.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment operationNameProfile M
Elements of ManagedGenericIRP.operationNameProfile corresponding to the
iRPVersion parameter. If this parameter contains no information, it implies
that the IRP does not support any operation. operationParameterProfile M
Elements of ManagedGenericIRP.operationParameterProfile corresponding to the
iRPVersion parameter.  
status M ENUM (Operation succeeded, Operation failed) If
operation_failed_invalid_version status = OperationFailed.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.4 Pre-condition
validIRPVersion.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validIRPVersion The iRPVersion input parameter
identifies a supported version contained in attribute iRPVersions of the
ManagedGenericIRP SupportIOC.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.5 Post-condition
None specific
#### 6.4.1.6 Exceptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Ope | **Condition:** validIRPVersion | | ration_failed_invalid_version | is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 6.4.2 Operation getNotificationProfile (O)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to query the detailed notification profile
of an IRP (supported notifications and supported parameters) for a specific
supported version. The notification profile will provide details about
notifications that are specifically defined by this IRP. For example, if this
IRP is notification IRP R4, then getNotificationProfile will not return any
information since no notification is defined in notification IRP R4.
#### 6.4.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment iRPVersion M Element of
ManagedGenericIRP.iRPVersion It contains a version number.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment notificationNameProfile
M Element of ManagedGenericIRP.notificationNameProfile corresponding to the
iRPVersion parameter. If this parameter contains no information, it implies
that the IRP does not support any notification. notificationParameterProfile M
Element of ManagedGenericIRP.notificationParameterProfile corresponding to the
iRPVersion parameter.  
status M ENUM (Operation succeeded, Operation failed) If
operation_failed_invalid_version status = OperationFailed.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.4 Pre-condition
validIRPVersion.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validIRPVersion The iRPVersion input parameter
identifies a supported version contained in attribute iRPVersions of the
ManagedGenericIRP SupportIOC.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.5 Post-condition
None specific
#### 6.4.2.6 Exceptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Ope | **Condition:** validIRPVersion | | ration_failed_invalid_version | is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#