# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part the 32.34x-series covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.341: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\"
32.342: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"
32.346: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions\"
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of Integration Reference Points
(IRP\'s) and a related Name Convention, which realize the functional
capabilities over this interface. The basic structure of the IRP\'s is defined
in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
Network Elements (NEs) under management, element managers as well as network
managers generate various management information stored in file format. This
IRP is addressing how these file are exchanged through Itf-N as well as
certain aspects of file management and maintenance. It is anticipated that all
management functions (e.g. PM, Call Trace, CM) as well as associated IRP\'s
making reuse of capabilities provided by this File Transfer IRP.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the overall requirements for the File Transfer
Integration Reference Point (FT IRP) as it applies to the Itf-N.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-series: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management;
Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.30x-series: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration
Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.33x-series: \"Telecommunication management; Notification log
Integration Reference Point (IRP)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.32x-series: \"Telecommunication management; Test management
Integration Reference Point (IRP)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.41x-series: \"Telecommunication management; Performance
Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.421: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace: Trace concepts and requirements\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.61x-series: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration
Management (CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
EM Element Manager
FT File Transfer
FTP File Transfer Protocol
IRP Integration Reference Point
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
> PM Performance Management
SFTP Secure File Transfer Protocol
# 4 File Transfer IRP concept
Network Elements (NEs) under management, element managers as well as network
managers generate various management information that is stored in files. This
IRP is addressing how these file are exchanged through Itf-N as well as
certain aspects of file management and maintenance. It is anticipated that all
management functions (e.g. PM, Call Trace, CM) as well as associated IRP\'s
making reuse of capabilities provided by this File Transfer IRP.
It should be noted that this File Transfer IRP is not defining a file transfer
protocol (applicable file transfer protocols are defined by 3GPP TS 32.101
[1]) but will make reuse of generic concepts defined by these file transfer
protocol.
# 5 File Transfer IRP requirements
## 5.1 General requirements for File Transfer IRP
The FT IRP shall ensure preservation of file content:
\- The used file transfer protocol implementation shall preserve the
formatting of the file during exchange.
\- The used file transfer protocol implementation shall preserve the encoding
of the file during exchange.
NOTE 1: Above requirement(s) are considered as being satisfied by FTP.
The FT IRP shall support the following file transfer protocols:
\- FTP.
\- SFTP
NOTE 2: SFTP providing initial security capabilities, which may be
complemented by additional security features that might be added in future
versions of the present document.
The FT IRP shall specify all necessary descriptive file information and
parameters, to enable exchange of files between IRPManager and IRPAgent and to
ensure respective file management capabilities (such as listing).
File Name conventions:
\- In the context of this File Transfer IRP an overall applicable file name
convention should be specified, ensuring the use of meaningful and uniform
names of files generated by various IRP\'s. This convention should reuse the
current PM File Naming Conventions to the greatest extent possible [7].
\- This file name convention should address issues with potential Operating
System based changes in file names during or after file exchange (e.g. upper
case / lower case).
\- The file name shall contain the file expiration date
## 5.2 File type requirements
The FT IRP shall support the exchange and management/maintenance of the
following file types:
\- Performance measurement results as defined in [7] and [8].
\- Test results as defined in [6].
\- Bulk CM files as defined in [10].
\- Call trace records as defined in [9].
\- Notification log as defined in [5].
\- Charging files as defined in [11].
\- Vendor-specific files containing management information.
Subsequently this File Transfer IRP shall consider requirements from
management applications listed above.
Future 3GPP management information file types shall be supported as well (e.g.
inventory information).
## 5.3 File exchange requirements
The IRP Manager shall be able to:
\- Upload (read) one or more files from the IRP Agent using FTP or SFTP;
\- Download (write) one or more files to the IRP Agent using FTP or SFTP, and
indicate to the IRP Agent that files have been downloaded.
Subsequently: the IRP Manager will always act as the initiator (client) of
file transfer actions, while the IRP Agent shall provide the corresponding
server capabilities.
This IRP Agent should provide the following notifications to the IRP Manager:
\- \"File Ready\", indicating that a file is ready for upload;
\- \"File Preparation Error\", indicating that an error occurred during or
before file preparation and that no file is being made available related to a
specific request;
\- "File Deleted", indicating that a file has been made unavailable for access
though Itf-N.
## 5.4 File management/maintenance/security requirements
The IRP Manager should be able to request the IRP Agent to:
\- Provide a list of available files, based on file name and file creation
date/time filter criteria.
In addition the following requirements should be considered:
\- Security mechanisms supported by applicable file transfer protocols defined
in [1] should be supported (e.g. username, password, encryption).
\- File system overload mechanism on IRP Agent side (e.g. automatic deletion
of transmitted files, automatic deletion of outdated files, emission of
notifications in case of automatic deletion).
\- File deletion is determined by a file expiration date, which is part of the
file name.
# 6 Overview of IRP\'s related to File Transfer (FT)
Itf-N is built up by a number of IRP\'s. The basic structure of the IRP\'s is
defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
For the purpose of the File Transfer IRP the following IRP\'s are needed:
\- Notification IRP [4].
The following IRP/specifications shall consider using this FT IRP for file
transfer purposes (future IRP or IRP capabilities not listed here shall also
consider reuse of this FT IRP for file transfer purposes):
\- Performance measurement results as defined in [7] and [8].
\- Test results as defined in [6].
\- Bulk CM files as defined in [10].
\- Call trace records as defined in [9].
\- Notification log exports as defined in [5].
Specification changes needed by those IRP\'s to make reuse of the FT IRP are
outside the scope of the present document.
#