# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction {#introduction .TT}
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.401 Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements
52.402 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -- GSM
32.404 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements - Definitions and
template
32.405 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)
32.406 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Packet Switched (PS) domain
32.407 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Circuit Switched (CS) domain
32.408 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Teleservice
32.409 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS)
**32.425 Performance Management (PM); Evolved Performance measurements
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)**
32.426 Performance Management (PM); Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor E-UTRAN and EPC
system.
During the lifetime of an E-UTRAN, its logical and physical configuration will
undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise the
utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed through
network configuration management activities and/or network engineering, see TS
32.600 [3].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of an E-UTRAN require data on which to base decisions. This data
refers to the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In
order to produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs,
which comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external
system, e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further
evaluation. The purpose of the present document is to describe the mechanisms
involved in the collection of the data and the definition of the data itself.
Annex B of TS 32.404 helps in the definition of new performance measurements
that can be submitted to 3GPP for potential adoption and inclusion in the
present document. Annex B of TS 32.404 discusses a top-down performance
measurement definition methodology that focuses on how the end-user of
performance measurements can use the measurements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the measurements for E-UTRAN.
TS 32.401 [5] describes Performance Management concepts and requirements.
The present document is valid for all measurement types provided by an
implementation of an E-UTRAN.
Only measurement types that are specific to E-UTRAN are defined within the
present documents. Vendor specific measurement types used in E-UTRAN are not
covered. Instead, these could be applied according to manufacturer\'s
documentation.
Measurements related to \"external\" technologies (such as ATM or IP) as
described by \"external\" standards bodies (e.g. ITU-T or IETF) shall only be
referenced within this specification, wherever there is a need identified for
the existence of such a reference.
The definition of the standard measurements is intended to result in
comparability of measurement data produced in a multi-vendor network, for
those measurement types that can be standardised across all vendors\'
implementations.
The structure of the present document is as follows:
\- Header 1: Network Element (e.g. measurements related to eNodeB);
\- Header 2: Measurement function (e.g. RRC connection setup related
measurements);
\- Header 3: Measurements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication and/or
edition number or version number) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -
Definitions and template\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.762: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 application protocol (X2AP)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.314: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Layer 2 -- Measurements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.450: \"Telecommunication management; Key Performance
Indicators (KPI) for E-UTRAN: Definitions\".
[14] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.522: \"Technical Specification Group Services and
SystemAspects; Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks (SON)
Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.272, \"Circuit Switched (CS) fallback in Evolved Packet System
(EPS); Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[20] ES 203 228 V1.0.0: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Assessment of mobile
network energy efficiency\".
[21] ES 203 228 V1.0.0: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Assessment of mobile
network energy efficiency\".
[22] 3GPP TS 32.130: \"Network sharing; Concepts and requirements\".
# 3 Measurement family and abbreviations
## 3.1 Measurement family
The measurement names defined in the present document are all beginning with a
prefix containing the measurement family name (e.g. RRC.AttConnEstab._Cause_).
This family name identifies all measurements which relate to a given
functionality and it may be used for measurement administration (see TS 32.401
[5]).
The list of families currently used in the present document is as follows:
\- DRB (measurements related to Data Radio Bearer)
\- RRC (measurements related to Radio Resource Control)
\- RRU (measurements related to Radio Resource Utilization)
\- ERAB (measurements related to E-RAB)
\- HO (measurements related to Handover)
\- S1SIG (measurements related to S1 Signalling)
\- SRB (measurements related to Signalling Radio Bearer)
\- PAG (measurements related to Paging)
\- EQPT(measurements related to Equipment)
\- UECNTX(measurements related to UE CONTEXT)
\- TB(measurements related to Transport Block)
\- MR (measurements related to Measurement Report)
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3G 3^rd^ Generation
3GPP 3G Partnership Project
BLER Block Error Rate
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
EPS Evolved Packet System
EQPT Equipment
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
HO Handover
kbit kilobit (1000 bits)
MOP Master Operator
PCell Primary Cell
QoS Quality of Service
RN Relay Node
SCell Secondary Cell
TB Transport Block
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
You can find below a list of abbreviations used within the measurement types
for field E of the measurement template (see 3GPP TS 32.404 [6]).
Alloc Allocation
AOA Angle of Arrival
Att Attempt(s,ed)
Conn Connection
Ded Dedicated
DL Downlink
EE Energy Efficiency
ENB eNodeB
Err Error
Estab Establish (ed,ment)
Fail Fail(ed, ure)
Freq Frequency
Inc Incoming
Out Outgoing
Pkt Packet(s)
Prep Prepare(/Preparation)
Late Latency
Mod Modify(/Modification)
Nbr Number
Rel Release(s,d)
Res Resource
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
Succ Success(es,ful)
Tot Total
UL Uplink
# 4 Measurements related to eNodeB, Donor eNodeB and Relay Node
## 4.0 Applicability of measurements
Without particular constraint, the measurements apply to following scenarios
1) eNodeB serving one or more Relay Nodes.
2) eNodeB not serving any Relay Node
3) eNodeB or Relay Node supporting Carrier Aggregation
4) eNodeB or Relay Node not supporting Carrier Aggregation
If the specific constraint is present, which one of above scenarios the
subject measurement applies to,\ is following the constraint.
## 4.1 RRC connection related measurements
### 4.1.1 RRC connection establishment
The three measurement types defined in the subclauses 4.1.1.1, 4.1.1.2 and
4.1.1.3 are subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.1.1.1 Attempted RRC connection establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of RRC connection establishment
attempts for each establishment cause.
b) CC
c) Receipt of an RRCConnectionRequest message by the eNodeB/RN from the UE.
Each RRCConnectionRequest message received is added to the relevant per
establishment cause measurement. The possible causes are included in TS 36.331
[8]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total
number of RRCConnectionRequest. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnEstabAtt._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the establishment cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) One usage of this measurement is to support the coverage ratio (CR)
calculation for EE coverage area determination in [21].
#### 4.1.1.2 Successful RRC connection establishments
1) This measurement provides the number of successful RRC establishments for
each establishment cause.
2) CC
3) Receipt by the eNodeB/RN of an RRCConnectionSetupComplete message following
a RRC connection establishment request. Each RRCConnectionSetupComplete
message received is added to the relevant per establishment cause measurement.
The possible causes are included in TS 36.331 [8]. The sum of all supported
per cause measurements shall equal the total number of successful RRC
Connection Establishments. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
4) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
5) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnEstabSucc._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the establishment cause.
6) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
7) Valid for packet switched traffic
8) EPS
#### 4.1.1.3 Failed RRC connection establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of RRC establishment failures for each
establishment cause.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an RRCConnectionReject message by the eNodeB/RN to the UE
or an expected RRCConnectionSetupComplete message not received by the
eNodeB/RN. Each failed RRC connection establishment is added to the relevant
per establishment cause measurement. The possible causes are included in TS
36.331 [8].\ The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the
total number of RRC connection establishment failures. In case only a subset
of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided
first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnEstabFail._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the establishment cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) One usage of this measurement is to support the coverage ratio (CR)
calculation for EE coverage area determination in [21].
#### 4.1.1.4 Failed RRC connection establishment per failure cause
a) This measurement provides the number of failed RRC establishment per
failure cause. This measurement is to support LBO target setting and
evaluation, see [15]
b) CC
c) Transmission of an RRCConnectionReject message by the eNodeB to the UE.\
Each transmitted RRCConnectionReject message caused by "congestion" is added
to the measurement cause '_Congestion_ ', when eNB receives an
RRCConnectionRequest message and the RRC connection is not established because
the eNB is going to Energy Saving mode is added to the measurement cause
'EnergySaving' and each transmitted RRCConnectionReject message caused by the
other reasons is added to measurement cause '_Unspecified'_.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) RRC.ConnEstabFaileNBCause._Congestion\_
RRC.ConnEstabFaileNBCause._Unspecified\_
RRC.ConnEstabFaileNBCause._EnergySaving_
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) The measurement is use to count 'Failed RRC connection establishment
related to load' for LBO target setting and evaluation, see [15].
### 4.1.2 RRC connection re-establishment
The three measurement types defined in the subclause 4.1.2.n are subject to
the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.1.2.1 Attempted RRC connection re-establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of RRC connection re-establishment
attempts for each re-establishment cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of an RRCConnectionReestablishmentRequest message by the eNodeB/RN
from the UE. Each RRCConnectionReestablishmentRequest received is added to the
relevant per reestablishment cause measurement. The possible causes are
included in TS 36.331 [8]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements
shall equal the total number of RRC connection re-stablishment attempts. In
case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnReEstabAtt._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the reestablishment cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.1.2.2 Successful RRC connection re-establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of successful RRC connection re-
establishments for each re-establishment cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt by the eNodeB/RN of an RRCConnectionReestablishmentComplete message
following a RRC connection reestablishment request. Each
RRCConnectionReestablishmentComplete message received is added to the relevant
per reestablishment cause measurement. The possible causes are included in TS
36.331 [8]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the
total number of successful RRC connection re-establishments. In case only a
subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnReEstabSucc._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the establishment cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.1.2.3 Failed RRC connection re-establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of RRC re-establishment failures for
each re-establishment cause.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of an RRCConnectionReestablishmentReject message by the
eNodeB/RN to the UE or an expected RRCConnectionReestablishmentComplete
message not received by the eNodeB/RN.\ Each failed RRC connection re-
establishment is added to the relevant per re-establishment.cause measurement.
The possible causes are included in TS 36.331 [8].\ The sum of all supported
per cause measurements shall equal the total number of RRC connection re-
establishment failures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnReEstabFail._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the re-establishment.cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
### 4.1.3 RRC connection number
#### 4.1.3.1 Mean number of RRC Connections
a) This measurement provides the mean number of RRC Connections during each
granularity period.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval, the
number of RRC connections for each E-UTRAN Cell and then taking the arithmetic
mean
d) A single integer value.
e) RRC.ConnMean
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.1.3.2 Maximum number of RRC Connections
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of RRC Connections during each
granularity period.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval, the
number of RRC connections for each E-UTRAN cell and then taking the maximum.
d) A single integer value.
e) RRC.ConnMax
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
### 4.1.4 RRC connection setup time
#### 4.1.4.1 Mean RRC connection setup time
a) This measurement provides the mean time per establishment cause it > takes
to establish an RRC connection.
b) DER (n=1).
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the time intervals for > every
successful RRC connection establishment between the receipt > of a
RRCConnectionRequest and the corresponding > RRCConnectionSetupComplete
message by the eNodeB/RN over the > granularity period. The end value of this
time will then be > divided by the number of successful RRC connections
observed in > the granularity period to give the arithmetic mean. The >
accumulator shall be reinitialised at the beginning of each > granularity
period. The measurement is split into subcounters per > establishment cause,
and the possible causes are included in > TS 36.331 [8].
d) Each measurement is an integer value (in milliseconds).
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnEstabTimeMean._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the establishment cause
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.1.4.2 Maximum RRC connection setup time
a) This measurement provides the maximum time per establishment cause it takes
to establish an RRC connection.
b) GAUGE.
c) This measurement is obtained by monitoring the time intervals for > each
successful RRC connection establishment between the receipt > of a
RRCConnectionRequest and the corresponding > RRCConnectionSetupComplete
message by the eNodeB/RN over the > granularity period. The high tide mark of
this time will be stored > in a gauge, the gauge shall be reinitialised at the
beginning of > each granularity period. The measurement is split into
subcounters > per establishment cause, and the possible causes are included in
> TS 36.331 [8].
d) Each measurement is an integer value (in milliseconds).
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnEstabTimeMax._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the establishment cause
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
### 4.1.5 UE CONTEXT Release
#### 4.1.5.1 Number of UE CONTEXT Release Request initiated by eNodeB/RN
a) This measurement provides the number of UE CONTEXT Release initiated by
eNB/RN for each release cause.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of an UE CONTEXT RELEASE REQUEST message initiated by
eNodeB/RN. Each release request is to be added to the relevant cause
measurement. The possible causes are defined in 36.413 [9]. The sum of all
supported per causes measurements shall equal the total number of UE CONTEXT
Release initiated by eNodeB/RN. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UECNTX.RelReq._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the release cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
i) By differenciate the causes, this measurement is used to count "The number
of abnormal RRC connection release related to load", which can be used for LBO
target calculation..
#### 4.1.5.2 Successful UE CONTEXT Release
a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE Context Release.
b) CC.
c) Sending of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMPLETE from eNB/RN to MME/DeNB
d) A single integer value.
e) UEContext.RelSuccNbr.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
i) This measurement can be used to count "the total number of RRC connection
release", which can be used for LBO target calculation.
### 4.1.6 Inactivity timer
#### 4.1.6.1 Number of successful RRC connection setups in relation to the
time between successful RRC connection setup and last RRC connection release
a) This measurement provides the histogram as function of the number of
successful RRC Connection setups and the time between the successful RRC
Connection setup attempt and last RRC Connection release for the UE with the
same S-TMSI and long inactivity timer configured.\ It is not counted to the
histogram in case last RRC Connection release of the UE with the same S-TMSI
is caused by call drops or handover.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the eNodeB of an RRCConnectionSetupComplete message from the
UE. Each RRCConnectionSetupComplete message received is added to the relevant
measurement per time bin for the time between the successful RRC connection
setup and last RRC Connection release for the UE with the same S-TMSI.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form RRCConn.Setup._TimeBin_ \ where _TimeBin_
identifies the given bin from the histogram
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
## 4.2 E-RAB related measurements
### 4.2.0 General
In case of carrier aggregation, f or the measurements defined in this
subclause, the E-RABs are only measured on the PCell.
### 4.2.1 E-RAB setup
#### 4.2.1.1 Number of initial E-RABs attempted to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of initial E-RABs attempted to setup.
The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNodeB/RN of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message,
each requested E-RAB in the message is added to the relevant measurement per
QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs attempted to
setup. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabInitAttNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) One usage of this measurement is to support the coverage ratio (CR)
calculation for EE coverage area determination in [21].
#### 4.2.1.2 Number of initial E-RABs successfully established
a) This measurement provides the number of initial E-RABs successfully
established. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE
message, each E-RAB successfully established is added to the relevant
measurement per QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum
of all supported per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs
successfully setup. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabInitSuccNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.1.3 Number of initial E-RABs failed to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of initial E-RABs failed to setup. The
measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE, or
INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP FAILURE message, each E-RAB failed to establish is added
to the relevant measurement per cause, the possible causes are included in TS
36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the
total number of E-RABs failed to setup. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabInitFailNbr._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the cause resulting in the initial E-RAB setup failure.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) One usage of this measurement is to support the coverage ratio (CR)
calculation for EE coverage area determination in [21].
#### 4.2.1.4 Number of additional E-RABs attempted to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of additional E-RABs attempted to
setup. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB SETUP REQUEST message, each
requested E-RAB in the message is added to the relevant measurement per QCI,
the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per
QCI measurements shall equal the total number of additional E-RABs attempted
to setup. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB. EstabAddAttNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS.
i) This measurement is to support the Accessibility KPI "E-RAB Accessibility"
defined in [13].\ Another usage of this measurement is to support the coverage
ratio (CR) calculation for EE coverage area determination in [21].
#### 4.2.1.5 Number of additional E-RABs successfully established
a) This measurement provides the number of additional E-RABs > successfully
established. The measurement is split into > subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE message, > each
E-RAB successfully established is added to the relevant > measurement per QCI,
the possible QCIs are included in > TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements > shall equal the total number of additional E-RABs
successfully > setup. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is
supported, > a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabAddSuccNbr._QCI_ \ > where
_QCI_ identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Accessibility KPI "E-RAB >
Accessibility" defined [13].
#### 4.2.1.6 Number of additional E-RABs failed to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of additional E-RABs failed to setup.
The measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE message, each
E-RAB failed to establish is added to the relevant measurement per cause, the
possible causes are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per
cause measurements shall equal the total number of additional E-RABs failed to
setup. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB. EstabAddFailNbr._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the cause resulting in the additional E-RAB setup failure.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS.
i) One usage of this measurement is to support the coverage ratio (CR)
calculation for EE coverage area determination in [21].
#### 4.2.1.7 Mean E-RAB Setup time
a) This measurement provides the mean time per QCI it takes to establish an
E-RAB.
b) DER (n=1)
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the time intervals for every
successfully established E-RAB between the receipt of an E-RAB SETUP REQUEST
or INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message and the transmission of the
corresponding E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE or INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE message
by the eNodeB over the granularity period. The end value of this time will
then be divided by the number of successfully established E-RABs in the
granularity period to give the arithmetic mean. The accumulator shall be
reinitialised at the beginning of each granularity period. The measurement is
split into subcounters per QCI, and the possible QCIs are included in TS
36.413 [9].
d) Each measurement is an integer value (in milliseconds).
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabTimeMean._QCI\_ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.2.1.8 Maximum E-RAB Setup time
a) This measurement provides the maximum time per QCI it takes to establish an
E-RAB.
b) GAUGE
c) This measurement is obtained by monitoring the time intervals for every
successfully established E-RAB between the receipt of an E-RAB SETUP REQUEST
or INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message and the transmission of the
corresponding E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE or INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE message
by the eNodeB over the granularity period. The high tide mark of this time
will be stored in a gauge, the gauge shall be reinitialised at the beginning
of each granularity period..\ The measurement is split into subcounters per
QCI, and the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9].
d) Each measurement is an integer value (in milliseconds).
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabTimeMax._QCI\_ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.2.1.9 Number of E-RABs attempted to establish for incoming HOs
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs attempted to establish for
incoming HOs. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNB of a X2AP HANDOVER REQUEST or S1AP HANDOVER REQUEST
message; or on transmission by the eNB of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_
message to the UE triggering the intra-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]), all
E-RABs of this UE (but not only the E-RABs in the message) are counted for
this measurement to the target E-UTRAN cell. Each E-RAB attempted to establish
is added to the relevant measurement per QCI, the possible QCIs are included
in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per QCI measurements shall equal
the total number of E-RABs attempted to setup. In case only a subset of per
QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabIncHoAttNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.1.10 Number of E-RABs successfully established for incoming HOs
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs successfully established for
incoming HOs. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNB of a X2AP HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE or S1AP
HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message, or on transmission by the eNB of the
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to the UE triggering the intra-eNB
handover (see TS 36.331 [8]) after the E-RABs in this message are successfully
established in the target E-UTRAN cell. Each E-RAB successfully established is
added to the relevant measurement per QCI, the possible QCIs are included in
TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per QCI measurements shall equal the
total number of E-RABs successfully setup. In case only a subset of per QCI
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabIncHoSuccNbr._QCI_ \ where
_QCI_ identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.2.2 E-RAB release
#### 4.2.2.1 Number of E-RABs requested to release initiated by eNodeB/RN per
QCI
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs requested to release
initiated by eNodeB/RN. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB
QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB RELEASE INDICATION, or an UE
CONTEXT RELEASE REQUEST, or a RESET message to MME or DeNB( in case of RN),
each corresponding E-RAB requested to release is added to the relevant
measurement per QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum
of all supported per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs
requested to release initiated by eNodeB/RN. In case only a subset of per QCI
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelEnbNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
    4.2.2.2 Number of E-RABs requested to release initiated by eNodeB/RN
    per cause
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs requested to release
initiated by eNodeB/RN. The measurement is split into subcounters per cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB RELEASE INDICATION, or an UE
CONTEXT RELEASE REQUEST, or a RESET message to MME or DeNB( in case of RN),
each corresponding E-RAB requested to release is added to the relevant
measurement per cause. Possible causes are included in TS 36.413 [9].
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of supported causes.
e) The measurement names have the form ERAB.RelEnbNbr._cause_ \ where _cause_
identifies the reason for the E-RABs release request initiated by eNodeB/RN.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.2.3 Number of E-RABs attempted to release
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs attempted to release. The
measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB RELEASE COMMAND or UE CONTEXT
RELEASE COMMAND or RESET message from MME/DeNB; or receipt by the eNodeB/RN of
an UE CONTEXT RELEASE message from another eNodeB/DeNB or transmission by the
eNodeB/RN of a an E-RAB Release Indication or RESET message to MME/DeNB; or on
receipt by the eNB/RN of a PATH SWITCH REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE or PATH SWITCH
REQUEST FAILED message by which some or all E-RABs in the corresponding PATH
SWITCH REQUEST need to be released; or on receipt by the eNB/RN of a
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message from the UE, indicating a
successful intra-eNB/RN handover (see TS 36.331 [8]), i.e., the E-RABs in the
cooresponding _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message can be be released by the
source EUtran cell. Each corresponding E-RAB to release is added to the
relevant measurement per QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9].
, the same E-RAB shall not be counted repeatly but only one in case it appears
more than one time in the same or different messages triggering this
measurement The sum of all supported per QCI measurements shall equal the
total number of E-RABs attempted to release. In case only a subset of per QCI
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelAttNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) One usage of this measurement is to support the coverage ratio (CR)
calculation for EE coverage area determination in [21].
#### 4.2.2.4 Number of E-RAB successfully released
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs successfully released. The
measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB RELEASE RESPONSE or UE CONTEXT
RELEASE COMPLETE, or E-RAB Release Indication or a RESET ACKNOWLEDGE to
MME/DeNB; or E-RAB is released successfully by the eNB/RN after receiving PATH
SWITCH REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE or PATH SWITCH REQUEST FAILED messageby which some
or all E-RABs in the corresponding PATH SWITCH REQUEST are to be released; or
the E-RAB is released successfully at the source EUtran cell by the eNB/RN
after receiving _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message from the UE,
indicating a successful intra-eNB/RN handover (see TS 36.331 [8]); or the
E-RAB released successfully by source eNB/RN after receiving UE CONTEXT
RELEASE from another eNB/DeNB; or on receipt by the eNB/RN of a RESET
ACKNOWLEDGE message from MME/DeNB . E ach corresponding E-RAB successfully
released is added to the relevant measurenment per QCI, the possible QCIs are
included in TS 36.413 [9] , the same E-RAB shall not be counted repeatly but
only one in case it appears more than one time in the same or different
messages triggering this measurement. The sum of all supported per QCI
measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs fully released. In case
only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelSuccNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.2.5 Number of E-RAB failed to release
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RAB failed to release. The
measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB RELEASE RESPONSE message, each
E-RAB failed to release is added to the relevant measurement per cause, the
possible causes are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per
cause measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs failed to release.
In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelFailNbr._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the cause resulting in the E-RAB release failure.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) One usage of this measurement is to support the coverage ratio (CR)
calculation for EE coverage area determination in [21].
#### 4.2.2.6 Number of released active E-RABs
a) This measurement provides the number of released E-RABs that were active at
the time of release. E-RABs with bursty flow are seen as being active when
there is user data in the queue in any of the directions. E-RABs with
continuous flow are always seen as active E-RABs in the context of this
measurement.\ The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB RELEASE INDICATION message; or
on transmission by the eNB/RN of an E-RAB RELEASE RESPONSE message for the
E-RAB release initiated by the MME/DeNB with the exception of corresponding
E-RAB RELEASE COMMAND message with "Cause" equal to "Normal Release" or on
transmission by the eNodeB/RN of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMPLETE for the UE
context release initiated by the eNB/RN with the exception of the
corresponding UE CONTEXT RELEASE REQUEST message with cause "User inactivity",
"CSG Subscription Expiry", or any "cause" indicating a successful CS fallback
(e.g., cause "CS Fallback triggered", "UE Not Available for PS Service", or
"Redirection towards 1xRTT") or a succesful mobility activity (e.g., cause
"Inter-RAT Redirection"); or on transmission by the eNodeB/RN of UE CONTEXT
RELEASE COMPLETE message for the UE context release initiated by the MME/DeNB
with the exception of the corresponding UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND message
with \"Cause\" equal to "Normal Release" \", "detach", "Handover Cancelled" or
any "cause" indicating a successful CS fallback (e.g., cause "Redirection
towards 1xRTT") or a succesful mobility activity (e.g., cause "Successful
Handover", "Inter-RAT Redirection" or "S1 Intra system Handover triggered") or
on receipt by the eNB of a PATH SWITCH REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE or PATH SWITCH
REQUEST FAILED message by which some or all E-RABs in the corresponding PATH
SWITCH REQUEST need to be released , or on transmission of a RESET ACKNOWLEDGE
message to MME/DeNB; or on receipt of a RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message from
MME/DeNB, if any of the UL or DL are considered active according to the
definition used for \"Number of active UEs\" in TS 36.314.\ E-RABs with bursty
flow are considered active when there is still data in the DL or UL buffer.
E-RABs with continuous flow are always seen as active E-RABs in the context of
this measurement.Each corresponding E-RAB to release is added to the relevant
measurement per QCI.\ \ The possible QCIs are described in TS 36.413 [9]. The
sum of all supported per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of
E-RABs attempted to release when the E-RAB is active according to the
definition of bursty flow/continuous flow. In case only a subset of per QCI
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.\ \ How to
define for a particular QCI if the E-RAB is of type bursty flow or continuous
flow is outside the scope of this document.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelActNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Retainability KPI "E-RAB Retainability"
defined in [13]
### 4.2.3 E-RAB modification
#### 4.2.3.1 Number of E-RABs attempted to modify the QoS parameter
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs attempted to modify the QoS
parameter. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB MODIFY REQUEST message, each E-RAB
attempted to modify the QoS parameter is added to the relevant measurement per
QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs attempted to
modify the QoS parameter. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.ModQoSAttNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the target E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.3.2 Number of E-RABs successfully modified the QoS parameter
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs successfully modified the
QoS parameter. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB MODIFY RESPONSE message, each
E-RAB successfully modified the QoS parameter is added to the relevant
measurement per QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum
of all supported per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs
successfully modified the QoS parameter. In case only a subset of per QCI
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.ModQoSSuccNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the target E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.3.3 Number of E-RABs failed to modify the QoS parameter
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs failed to be modified the
QoS parameter. The measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RN of an E-RAB MODIFY RESPONSE message, each
E-RAB failed to modify the QoS parameter is added to the relevant measurement
per cause, the possible causes are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all
supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs failed
to modify the QoS parameter. In case only a subset of per cause measurements
is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.ModQoSFailNbr._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the cause resulting in the E-RAB Modify failure.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.2.4 E-RAB activity
#### 4.2.4.1 In-session activity time for UE
a) This measurement provides the aggregated active session time for UEs in a
cell.
b) CC
c) Number of session seconds aggregated for UEs in a cell.\ For E-RABs with
bursty flow, a UE is said to be "in session" if any E-RAB data on a Data Radio
Bearer (UL or DL) has been transferred during the last 100 ms.\ For E-RABs
with continuous flow, the E-RAB (and the UE) is always seen as being "in
session" in the context of this measurement, and the session time is increased
from the first data transmission on the E-RAB until 100 ms after the last data
transmission on the E-RAB.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) ERAB.SessionTimeUE
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Retainability KPI "E-RAB Retainability"
defined in [13].
#### 4.2.4.2 In-session activity time for E-RABs
a) This measurement provides the aggregated active session time for E-RABs in
a cell. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) Number of s"in ession "seconds aggregated for E-RABs with a certain QCI. ,
where "in session" has the following definitions:\ \ \ \- E-RABs with bursty
flow is said to be "in session" for a UE if any E-RAB data on any Data Radio
Bearer (UL or DL) has been transferred during the last 100 ms for that QCI\ \
\- E-RABs with continuous flow are always seen as being "in session" in the
context of this measurement, and the session time is increased from the first
data transmission on the E-RAB until 100 ms after the last data transmission
on the E-RAB.\ \ The possible QCIs are described in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of
all supported per QCI measurements shall equal the total session seconds. In
case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will
be provided first.\ \ How to decide for a particular QCI if the E-RAB is of
type continuous flow is outside the scope of this document.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.SessionTimeQCI._QCI_
f) where _QCI_ identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
g) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
h) Valid for packet switched traffic
i) EPS
j) This measurement is to support the Retainability KPI "E-RAB Retainability"
defined in [13].
### 4.2.5 E-RAB number
#### 4.2.5.1 Average Number of simultaneous E-RABs.
a) This measurement provides the average number of simultaneous E-RABs. The
measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval, the
number of simultaneous E-RABs and then taking the arithmetic mean. The
measurement is split into subcounters per QCI, and the possible QCIs are
included in TS 36.413 [9]. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.UsageNbrMean._QCI\_ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.2.5.2 Maximum Number of simultaneous E-RABs.
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of simultaneous E-RABs. The
measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval, the
number of simultaneous E-RABs and then taking the maximum. The measurement is
split into subcounters per QCI, and the possible QCIs are included in TS
36.413 [9]. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.UsageNbrMax._QCI\_ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
## 4.3 Handover related measurements
### 4.3.1 Intra-RAT Handovers
#### 4.3.1.1 Intra-eNB/RN Handover related measurements
##### 4.3.1.1.1 Attempted outgoing intra-eNB/RN handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing intra-eNB/RN
handovers per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message by the eNB/RN to
the UE triggering the intra-eNB/RN handover (see TS 36.331 [8]). Each
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message transimtted is added to the relevant
per handover cause measurement, the possible causes are included in TS 36.413
[9].\ The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total
number of outgoing intra-eNB/RN handover events. In case only a subset of per
cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.IntraEnbOutAtt._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for
handover.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.1.2 Successful outgoing intra-eNB/RN handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing intra-eNB/RN
handovers per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a RRC message _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ sent from
the UE to the target (=source) eNB/RN, indicating a successful outgoing intra-
eNB/RN handover (see TS 36.331 [8]). Each
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message transimtted is added to the
relevant per handover cause measurement, the possible causes are included in
TS 36.413 [9].\ The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal
the total number of outgoing intra-eNB/RN handover events. In case only a
subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix
e) HO.IntraEnbOutSucc._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for
handover.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.1.3 Attempted outgoing intra-DeNB handover preparations from DeNB
cell to RN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing intra-DeNB
handover preparations from DeNB cell to RN per handover cause; this
measurement is only applicable to DeNB.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the X2AP message HANDOVER REQUEST from the DeNB to RN (see
TS 36.423[10]), indicating the attempt of an outgoing intra-DeNB handover
preparation from DeNB cell to RN, the forwarded X2AP message HANDOVER REQUEST
for the handover from another RN, eNB or DeNB to the RN is exclusive, the
measurement is only incemented by one for one handover in case the X2AP
message HANDOVER REQUEST are sent to multiple RNs. Each attempted outgoing
intra-DeNB handover preparation from DeNB cell to RN is added to the relevant
per handover cause measurement, the possible causes are included in TS 36.413
[9]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total
number of attempted outgoing intra-DeNB handover preparations from DeNB cell
to RN. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.IntraDenbOutPrepToRnAtt._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for
handover
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.1.4 Attempted outgoing intra-DeNB handover executions from DeNB
cell to RN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing intra-eNB
handovers from DeNB cell to RN per handover cause; this measurement is only
applicable to DeNB.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRC ConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE
triggering the handover from the DeNB to the RN, indicatingthe attempt of an
outgoing intra-eNB handover from DeNB cell to RN (see TS 36.331 [8]). Each
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message transimtted is added to the relevant
per handover cause measurement, the possible causes are included in TS 36.413
[9]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total
number of attempted outgoing intra-eNB handovers from DeNB cell to RN. In case
only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.IntraDenbOutToRnAtt._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for
handover
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.1.5 Successful outgoing intra-DeNB handover executions from DeNB
cell to RN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing intra-DeNB
handovers from DeNB cell to RN per handover cause; this measurement is only
applicable to DeNB.
b) CC.
c) Receipt by the source DeNB of X2AP message UE CONTEXT RELEASE from the RN
following a successful handover (see TS 36.423[10]), the forwarded X2AP
message UE CONTEXT RELEASE for the handover from another RN, eNB or DeNB to
the RN is exclusive. Each outgoing intra-DeNB handover from DeNB cell to RN is
added to the relevant per handover cause measurement, the possible causes are
included in TS 36.413 [9].\ The sum of all supported per cause measurements
shall equal the total number of succesful outgoing intra-eNB handovers from
DeNB cell to RN. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported,
a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.IntraDenbOutToRnSucc._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for
handover.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.3.1.2 Inter-eNB Handover related measurements
##### 4.3.1.2.1 Attempted outgoing inter-eNB handover preparations
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing inter-eNB
handover preparations, the forwarded handovers for RN in DeNB are exclusive.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the X2AP message HANDOVER REQUEST from the source eNB to
the target eNB (see TS 36.423[10]), indicating the attempt of an outgoing
inter-eNB handover preparation or on transmission of S1AP message HANDOVER
REQUIRED to the MME (see TS 36.413 [9]), the forwarded X2AP message HANDOVER
REQUEST and S1AP message HANDOVER REQUIRED for RN in DeNB are exclusive.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.InterEnbOutPrepAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.2.2 Attempted outgoing inter-eNB handover executions per handover
cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing inter-eNB
handovers per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRC ConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE
triggering the handover from the source eNB to the target eNB, indicatingthe
attempt of an outgoing inter-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]).\ The sum of all
supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing
inter-eNB handover event Each _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message
transimtted is added to the relevant per handover cause measurement, the
possible causes are included in TS 36.413 [9]. In case only a subset of per
cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.InterEnbOutAtt._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.2.3 Successful outgoing inter-eNB handover executions per handover
cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing inter-eNB
handovers per handover cause, the forwarded handovers for RN in DeNB are
exclusive.
b) CC.
c) Receipt at the source eNB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the
target eNB following a successful handover, or if handover is performed via
S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND [9] at the source eNB following a
successful handover, the forwarded X2AP UE CONTEXT RELEASE message and S1AP UE
CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND message for RN in DeNB are exclusive. Each X2AP UE
CONTEXT RELEASE message or S1AP UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND message received
and counted is added to the relevant per handover cause measurement, the
possible causes are included in TS 36.413 [9].\ The sum of all supported per
cause measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing inter-eNB handover
events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.InterEnbOutSucc._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for
handover.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.3.1.3 Handover measurements on neighbour cell basis
##### 4.3.1.3.1 Attempted outgoing handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing handovers per
handover cause and LTE target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnection reconfiguration_ message to UE
triggering the intra-RAT handover (see TS 36.331 [8]). Each
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message transimtted is added to the relevant
per handover cause measurement, the possible causes are included in TS 36.413
[9] . In case of CA, this attempted handover is only added to the neighbour
cell relation from the source EUTRAN cell, through which the
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message is sent to the UE, to the target EUTRAN
cell appointed in the "MobilityControlInfo" IE of the
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration message_.\ The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing handover events. In case
only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.OutAttTarget._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover
f) EUtranRelation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.3.2 Successful outgoing handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing handovers per
handover cause and LTE target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a RRC message _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ sent from
the UE to the target (=source) eNB, indicating a successful outgoing intra-eNB
handover (see TS 36.331 [8]), or receipt at the source eNB of UE CONTEXT
RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the target eNB following a successful inter-eNB
handover, or if handover is performed via S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE
COMMAND[9] at the source eNB following a successful inter-eNB handover. Each
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ , X2AP UE CONTEXT RELEASE message or
S1AP UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND message received is added to the relevant per
handover cause measurement, the possible causes are included in TS 36.413 [9]
. In case of CA, this succesful handover is only added to same the neighbour
cell relation that the corresponding attempted handover is counted at (i.e.,
the same neighbour cell relation that the measurement defined in subcluse
4.3.1.3.1 is counted at). The sum of all supported per cause measurements
shall equal the total number of outgoing intra-RAT handover events. In case
only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.OutSuccTarget._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover.
f) EUtranRelation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.3.3 Number of handover failures related with MRO
a) This measurement provides the number of outgoing handover related events
that fail related with MRO. Handover related events include normal successful
handovers and all failure events by which a UE in RRC connected state changes
its serving cell without following a normal handover. Different MRO failure
cases are found in [12]. The measurement includes separate counters for the
number of handover failures classified as "too early", "too late" and "to
wrong cell". The measurement for the too late handover is split to subcounters
indicating the threshold of the serving cell itself was not crossed and the
threshold of the neighbour cell was not crossed in UE measurements before
handover in case the handover is triggered by more than one threshold of the
measurement report triggering events, the subcounters are only needed if more
than one threshold of the measurement report triggering events is used and
using single or multiple thresholds is vendor specific.
b) CC
c) The measurements of too early handovers, too late handovers and to wrong
cell handovers are obtained respectively by accumulating the number of
_failure events related to handover which_ are identified by the eNB according
to the definitions in TS 36.300 [12].\ \ Besides being added to the
measurement of total too late handovers, each too late handover (identified by
the eNB according to the definitions in TS 36.300 [12]) is also added to the
relevant subcounter indicating the threshold of the serving cell itself
configured in the measurement report triggering events (see 36.331 [18]) was
not crossed or the threshold of the neighbour cell configured in the
measurement report triggering events was not crossed if more than one
threshold triggering a measurement report is configured to the UEs for the
involved neighbour relation and the following UE measurement results are
available for both cells involved in the too late handover\ \- rsrpResult of
"measResultLastServCell" and\ \- rsrpResult of the subject neighbour cell in
"measResultNeighCells"\ in\ a) the "RLF report" IE in the received RRC message
"UEInformationResponse" (see 36.331 [18]), in case both cells involved in the
too late handover belong to the same eNB,\ or\ b) the "UE RLF Report
Container" IE in the received X2 message "RLF Indication", in case the cells
involved in the too late handover belong to different eNBs.\ The uncrossed
threshold (of the serving itself and the neighbour) is identified by comparing
the UE measurement results above with the configured thresholds (adding the
corresponding hysteresis, see 36.331 [18]) of the measurement report
triggering events,\ \- if the threshold of the serving cell itself was not
crossed, the observed too late handover is then added to the subcounter
(HO.OutFail.TooLateOwnNotCrossed) indicating the threshold of the serving cell
was not crossed\ \- if the threshold of the neighbor cell itself was not
crossed, the observed too late handover is then added to the subcounter
(HO.OutFail.TooLateNeighborNotCrossed) indicating the threshold of the
neighbour cell was not crossed\ \- if the thresholds of both the serving cell
itself and the neighbour cell were not crossed, then this too late handover is
added to both subcounters (HO.OutFail.TooLateOwnNotCrossed and
HO.OutFail.TooLateNeighborNotCrossed) indicating the threshold of serving cell
itself was not crossed and the threshold of the neighbour cell was not
crossed\ \- if no threshold was not crossed, then this handover is only added
to the measurement of total too late handovers but not to the subcounter
indicating the threshold of the serving cell itself was not crossed or the
threshold of the neighbour cell was not crossed.\ If only one threshold
triggring the measurement report is configured to the UEs for the involved
neighbour relation or the UE measurements above are not available, the
observed too late handover is only added to the measurement of total too late
handovers but not to the subcounter indicating the threshold of the serving
cell itself was not crossed or the threshold of the neighbour cell was not
crossed.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) The measurements are named
HO.OutFail.TooEarly
HO.OutFail.TooLate\ Which indicates the total number of too late handovers
identified by the eNB according to the definitions in TS 36.300 [12].
HO.OutFail.TooLateOwnNotCrossed\ Which indicates the number of too late
handovers for which the threshold of the serving cell itself was not crossed.
HO.OutFail.TooLateNeighborNotCrossed _\_ Which indicates the number of too
late handovers for which the threshold of the neighbor cell was not crossed.
HO.OutFail.ToWrongCell\ Which indicates the number of "handover to wrong cell"
cases on the NR (NR AB in Annex A.13) towards the target cell (see 36.300
[12]). It is up to the eNodeB to decide whether or not the HO parameters of
this NR are problematic in the "handover to wrong cell" case.
HO.OutFail.HwcReestablish\ Which indicates the number of "handover to wrong
cell" cases on the NR (NR AC in Annex A.13) towards the cell with which the
UE attempts to re-establish the radio link connection (see 36.300 [12]). It is
up to the eNodeB to decide whether or not the HO parameters of this NR are
problematic in the "handover to wrong cell" case.
f) EUtranRelation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.3.1.4 Intra- / Inter-frequency Handover related measurements
##### 4.3.1.4.1 Attempted outgoing intra-frequency handovers
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing intra-frequency
handovers.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message by the eNB/RN to
UE triggering the handover, indicating the attempt of an outgoing intra-
frequency handover (see TS 36.331 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.IntraFreqOutAtt.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.4.2 Successful outgoing intra-frequency handovers
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing intra-frequency
handovers.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a RRC message _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ sent from
the UE to the target (=source) eNB/RN, indicating a successful outgoing intra-
eNB/RN intra-frequency handover (see TS 36.331 [8]), orreceipt at the source
eNB/RN of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the target eNB or DeNB
following a successful inter-eNB intra-frequency handover, or if handover is
performed via S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the source eNB
following a successful inter-eNB intra-frequency handover.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.IntraFreqOutSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.4.3 Attempted outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- gap-assisted
measurement
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing inter-frequency
handovers, when measurement gaps are used [12].
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message by the eNB/RN to
UE triggering the handover, indicating the attempt of an outgoing inter-
frequency handover when measurement gaps are used (see TS 36.331 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.InterFreqMeasGapOutAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.4.4 Successful outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- gap-assisted
measurement
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing inter-frequency
handovers, when measurement gaps are used [12].
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a RRC message _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ sent from
the UE to the target (=source) eNB/RN, indicating a successful outgoing intra-
eNB/RN inter-frequency handover when measurement gaps are used (see TS 36.331
[8]), or receipt at the source eNB/RN of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2
from the target eNB or DeNB following a successful inter-frequency handover
when measurement gaps are used, or if handover is performed via S1, receipt of
UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the source eNB following a successful inter-
frequency handover when measurement gaps are used.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.InterFreqMeasGapOutSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.4.5 Attempted outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- non gap-
assisted measurement
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing inter-frequency
handovers, when measurement gaps are not used [12].
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message by the eNB/RN to
UE triggering the handover, indicating the attempt of an outgoing inter-
frequency handover when measurement gaps are not used (see TS 36.331 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.InterFreqNoMeasGapOutAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.4.6 Successful outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- non gap-
assisted measurement
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing inter-frequency
handovers, when measurement gaps are not used [12].
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a RRC message _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ sent from
the UE to the target (=source) eNB/RN, indicating a successful outgoing intra-
eNB/RN inter-frequency handover when measurement gaps are not used (see TS
36.331 [8]), or receipt at the source eNB/RN of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over
the X2 from the target eNB or from DeNB following a successful inter-frequency
handover when measurement gaps are not used, or if handover is performed via
S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the source eNB following a
successful inter-frequency handover when measurement gaps are not used.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.InterFreqNoMeasGapOutSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.3.1.5 Handover related measurements for DRX / non-DRX
##### 4.3.1.5.1 Attempted outgoing handovers with DRX
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing handovers, when
DRX is used (for DRX see [12]).
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE triggering
the handover, indicating the attempt of an outgoing handover when DRX is used
(see TS 36.331 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.DrxOutAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.5.2 Successful outgoing handovers with DRX
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing handovers, when
DRX is used (for DRX see [12]).
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a RRC message _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ sent from
the UE to the target (=source) eNB, indicating a successful outgoing intra-eNB
handover when DRX is used (see TS 36.331 [8]), or receipt at the source eNB of
UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the target eNB following a successful
handover when DRX is used, or if handover is performed via S1, receipt of UE
CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the source eNB following a successful handover
when DRX is used.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.DrxOutSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.5.3 Attempted outgoing handovers non-DRX
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing handovers, when
DRX is not used (for DRX see [12]).
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE triggering
the handover, indicating the attempt of an outgoing handover when DRX is not
used (see TS 36.331 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.NoDrxOutAtt.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.5.4 Successful outgoing handovers non-DRX
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing handovers, when
DRX is not used (for DRX see [12]).
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a RRC message _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ sent from
the UE to the target (=source) eNB, indicating a successful outgoing intra-eNB
handover when DRX is not used (see TS 36.331 [8]) when DRX is not used, or
receipt at the source eNB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the
target eNB following a successful handover when DRX is not used, or if
handover is performed via S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the
source eNB following a successful handoverwhen DRX is not used.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.NoDrxOutSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.3.1.6 Handover to cells outside the RN related measurements
##### 4.3.1.6.1 Attempted preparations of outgoing handovers to the cells
outside the RN
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted preparations of outgoing
handovers to the cells outside the RN.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the X2AP message HANDOVER REQUEST by the RN to the DeNB
(see TS 36.423[10]), indicating the attempt of an outgoing handover
preparation to the cells outside the RN.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.OutRNOutPrepAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.6.2 Attempted executions of outgoing handover to the cells outside
the RN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted executions of outgoing
handovers to the cells outside the RN per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRC ConnectionReconfiguration_ message by the RN to UE
triggering the handover from the RN to the cell outside the RN, indicatingthe
attempt of an outgoing handover to the cell outside the RN(see TS 36.331
[8]).\ The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total
number of attempted executions of outgoing handovers to the cell outside the
RN. Each _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message transimtted is added to the
relevant per handover cause measurement, the possible causes are included in
TS 36.413 [9]. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a
sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.OutRNOutAtt._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.6.3 Successful executions of outgoing handover to the cells
outside the RN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful executions of outgoing
handovers to the cells outside the RN per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt at the RN of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the DeNB
following a successful handover. Each X2AP UE CONTEXT RELEASE message received
is added to the relevant per handover cause measurement, the possible causes
are included in TS 36.413 [9].\ The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of executions of outgoing handovers
to the cells outside the RN. In case only a subset of per cause measurements
is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.InterRNOutSucc._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for
handover.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.3.1.7 Handover triggering measurements
##### 4.3.1.7.1 Average quality of the serving cell when HO is triggered
a) This measurement provides the average quality of the serving cell reported
in the UE measurement reports that triggered HO. The average is computed over
all measurement reports that triggered HO received during the measurement
granularity period. Separate measurement is produced for each measurement
quantity {RSRP, RSRQ}.
b) DER (n=1)
c) For each UtranRelation, this measurement is obtained by accumulating the
value (linear value converted from dbm unit) of the quality of the serving
(source) cell (RSRP and RSRQ) in the UE measurement report causing HO on the
UtranRelation, and dividing the accumulated value by the number of HO
occurrence on the UtranRelation at the end of granularity period, and
converting the value back to dbm unit from linear value. Separate measurement
is provided for RSRP and for RSRQ.
d) Each measurement is asingle integer value in dBm (RSRP) or dB (RSRQ)
e) HO.SrcCellQual.RSRP\ HO.SrcCellQual.RSRQ
f) EUtranRelation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.7.2 Average quality of the neighboring cell when HO is triggered
a) This measurement provides the average quality of the neigbor cell that
triggered HO (target HO cell) reported in the UE measurement reports. The
average is computed over all measurement reports that triggered HO during the
measurement granularity period. Separate measurement is produced for each
measurement quantity {RSRP, RSRQ}.
b) DER (n=1)
c) For each UtranRelation, this measurement is obtained by accumulating the
value (linear value converted from dbm unit) of the quality of neighbor
(target) cell (RSRP, RSRQ) in the UE measurement report causing HO to the
subject neighbor (target) cell on the UtranRelation, and dividing the
accumulated value by the number of HO occurrence on the UtranRelation at the
end of granularity period, and converting the value back to dbm unit from
linear value. Separate measurement is provided for RSRP and for RSRQ.
d) Each measurement is a single integer value in dBm (RSRP) or dB (RSRQ)
e) HO.TrgtCellQual.RSRP\ HO.TrgtCellQual.RSRQ
f) EUtranRelation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.3.2 Inter-RAT Handovers
#### 4.3.2.1 Measurements related to inter-RAT Handovers -- target cell of
3GPP and non-3GPP network technology
##### 4.3.2.1.1 Attempted outgoing inter-RAT handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing inter-RAT
handovers per cause and target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _MobilityFromEUTRACommand_ message or the
_HandoverFromEUTRAPreparationRequest_ message from the serving eNB/RN to the
UE indicating the attempt of an outgoing handover from EUTRAN to UTRAN or to
GERAN or to CDMA2000 (see TS 36.331 [8]). Each _MobilityFromEUTRACommand_
message or _HandoverFromEUTRAPreparationRequest_ message transmitted is added
to the relevant per handover cause measurement, the possible causes are
included in TS 36.413 [9].\ The sum of all supported per cause measurements
shall equal the total number of outgoing inter-RAT handover events. In case
only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.\ All IRAT handovers to the neighbouring cells in non-eUTRAN
networks are measured.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) HO.IartOutAtt._Cause_ \ _w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD\ GSMRelation\ UTRANRelation\ CDMA2000Relation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.2.1.2 Successful outgoing inter-RAT handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing inter-RAT
handovers per cause target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a S1AP message UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND sent from the MME/DeNB
to the source eNB, indicating a successful IRAT handover (see TS 36.413 [9]).
Each UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND message received is added to the relevant per
handover cause measurement, the possible causes are included in TS 36.413
[9].\ The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total
number of outgoing inter-RAT handover events. In case only a subset of per
cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.\ All
IRAT handovers to the neighbouring cells in non-eUTRAN are measured.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) HO.IartOutSucc._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ indicating the cause for handover.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD\ GSMRelation\ UTRANRelation\ CDMA2000Relation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.2.1.3 Number of outgoing unnecessary handovers related with inter-
RAT MRO
a) This measurement provides the number of outgoing unnecessary handovers to
another RAT from E-UTRAN related with inter-RAT MRO.
b) CC
c) The measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of _outgoing
unnecessary handovers to anther RAT from E-UTRAN_ according to the definitions
in TS 36.300 [12] and TS 36.413[9].
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.IratOutUnnecessaryFromEutran
f) GSMRelation\ UTRANRelation\ CDMA2000Relation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the PM for inter-RAT MRO defined in TS
32.522[15].
## 4.4 Cell level radio bearer QoS related measurements
### 4.4.1 Cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
#### 4.4.1.1 Average DL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the average cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs on the
downlink. This represents the ingress rate of user plane traffic to the
eNodeB/RN (via X2 or S1). The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB
QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of bits entering
the eNodeB/RN, and then dividing the sum by the measurement period . The
measurement is performed at the PDCP SDU level. PDCP SDUs that are forwarded
over the X2/S1 to another eNodeB during handover shall be deducted from the
bit count -- if this results in a negative bit count the bit count shall be
set to zero. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. The sum of all
supported per QCI measurements shall equal the total DL cell PDCP SDU bit-
rate. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the bit-rate measured in
kbit/s. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduBitrateDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) One usage of this measurement is to support the performance indicator
DV~MN~ for EE evaluation in [20].
#### 4.4.1.2 Average UL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the average cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs on the
uplink. This represents successful transmissions of user plane traffic;
control signalling and retransmissions are excluded from this measure. The
measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of bits leaving the
eNodeB/RN on the X2 or S1 interface, and then dividing the sum by the
measurement period. The measurement is performed at the PDCP SDU level. PDCP
SDUs that were not received over the air interface in the cell (but were
forwarded from another eNodeB during handover) are excluded from the count.
Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. The sum of all supported per
QCI measurements shall equal the total UL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate. In case only
a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the bit-rate measured in
kbit/s. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB. PdcpSduBitrateUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) One usage of this measurement is to support the performance indicator
DV~MN~ for EE evaluation in [20].
#### 4.4.1.3 Maximum DL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the maximum cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs on the
downlink. This represents the maximum ingress rate of user plane traffic to
the eNodeB/RN (via X2 or S1). This is a sum counter measured across all QCIs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at pre-defined intervals the DL
cell PDCP SDU bit-rate summed across all QCIs (see clause 4.4.1.1), and then
taking the arithmetic maximum of these samples.
d) A single integer value representing the maximum bit-rate measured in
kbit/s.
e) DRB.PdcpSduBitrateDlMax
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.1.4 Maximum UL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the maximum cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs measured
on the uplink. This represents successful transmissions of user plane traffic;
control signalling and retransmissions are excluded from this measure. This is
a sum counter measured across all QCIs.
b) SI
c) The measurement is obtained by sampling at pre-defined intervals the UL
cell PDCP SDU bit-rate summed across all QCIs (see clause 4.4.1.2), and then
taking the arithmetic maximum of these samples.
d) A single integer value representing the maximum bit-rate measured in
kbit/s.
e) DRB.PdcpSduBitrateUlMax
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.1.5 Average DL cell control plane PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the average cell bit-rate of control plane PDCP
SDUs on the downlink.
b) CC.
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of received control
plane PDCP SDU bits by the eNodeB/RN, including the control plane PDCP SDU
bits received from S1 and RRC SAP, and then dividing the sum by the
measurement period.
d) An single integer value in kbit/s.
e) SRB.PdcpSduBitrateDl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.4.1.6 Average UL cell control plane PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the average cell bit-rate of control plane PDCP
SDUs on the uplink.\ This represents successful transmissions of control plane
traffic;
b) CC.
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of transmitted
uplink control plane PDCP SDU bits by the eNodeB/RN, and then dividing the sum
by the measurement period.
d) A single integer value in kbit/s.
e) SRB.PdcpSduBitrateUl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
### 4.4.2 Active UEs
#### 4.4.2.1 Average number of active UEs on the DL
a) This measurement provides the average number of UEs that have DTCH data
queued on the downlink. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB
QoS level (QCI). For an eNodeB serving one or more RNs, the measurement refers
to the number of active UEs connected directly to the eNodeB, excluding RNs.
The measurement is also applicable to RNs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form\ DRB.UEActiveDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.2.2 Average number of active UEs on the UL
a) This measurement provides the average number of UEs that have DTCH data
queued on the uplink. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS
level (QCI). For an eNodeB serving one or more RNs, the measurement refers to
the number of active UEs connected directly to the eNodeB, excluding RNs. The
measurement is also applicable to RNs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form\ DRB.UEActiveUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.4.3 Packet Delay and Drop Rate
#### 4.4.3.1 Average DL PDCP SDU delay
a) This measurement provides the average (arithmetic mean) PDCP SDU delay on
the downlink. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI). If there is one or more RNs served in a cell, for that cell the eNodeB
performs each measurement separately for packets transmitted between the
eNodeB and UEs and for packets transmitted between the E-UTRAN and RNs. The
measurement is also applicable to RNs.
b) DER (n=1)
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11].
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the mean delay in ms. The
number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form\ DRB.PdcpSduDelayDl._QCI, which indicates
the PDCP SDU delay between the eNodeB (or RN) and UE\_ DRB.PdcpSduDelayDlRN
_.QCI, which indicates the PDCP SDU delay between the E-UTRAN and RN._ \ where
_QCI_ identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.3.2 DL PDCP SDU drop rate
a) This measurement provides the fraction of IP packets (PDCP SDUs) which are
dropped on the downlink. Only user-plane traffic (DTCH) is considered. **A
dropped packet is one whose context is removed from the eNodeB/RN without any
part of it having been transmitted on the air interface. Packets discarded
during handover are excluded from the count.** The measurement is split into
subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. In case only a subset of
per QCI measurements is supported, a drop rate subcounter calculated across
all QCIs will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the drop rate multiplied
by 1E6. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduDropRateDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the target E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.4.4 Packet loss rate
#### 4.4.4.1 DL PDCP SDU air interface loss rate
a) This measurement provides the fraction of IP packets (PDCP SDUs) which are
lost (not successfully transmitted) on the downlink air interface. Only user-
plane traffic (DTCH) is considered. **A lost packet is one whose context is
removed from the eNodeB/RN after an attempt has been made to transmit part or
all of the packet on the air interface but the whole packet has not been
successfully transmitted.** The measurement is split into subcounters per
E-RAB QoS level (QCI). The packets transmitted between the eNodeB (or RN) and
UEs and the packets transmitted between E-UTRAN and RN are counted seperately.
The measurement is also applicable to RNs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. In case only a subset of
per QCI measurements is supported, a loss rate subcounter calculated across
all QCIs will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the air interface loss
rate multiplied by 1E6. The number of measurements is equal to the number of
QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form\ DRB. PdcpSduAirLossRateDl._QCI, which
indicates the DL PDCP SDU air interface loss rate between the eNodeB (or RN)
and UE_
    DRB. PdcpSduAirLossRateDlRN.*QCI, which indicates the DL PDCP SDU
    air interface loss rate between the E-UTRAN and RN.*\
    where *QCI* identifies the target E-RAB level quality of service
    class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.4.2 UL PDCP SDU loss rate
a) This measurement provides the fraction of IP packets (PDCP SDUs) which are
lost (not successfully received) on the uplink. Only user-plane traffic (DTCH)
and only PDCP SDUs that have entered PDCP (and given a PDCP sequence number)
are considered. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI). The packets transmitted between the eNodeB and UEs and the packets
transmitted between E-UTRAN and RN are counted seperately. The measurement is
also applicable to RNs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. In case only a subset of
per QCI measurements is supported, a loss rate subcounter calculated across
all QCIs will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the loss rate multiplied
by 1E6. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduLossRateUl._QCII, which
indicates the UL PDCP SDU loss rate between the eNodeB (or RN) and UE_ \
DRB.PdcpSduLossRateUlRN._QCI, which indicates the UL PDCP SDU loss rate
between the E-UTRAN and RN.\_ where _QCI_ identifies the target E-RAB level
quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.4.5 IP Latency measurements
#### 4.4.5.1 IP Latency in DL, E-RAB level
a) This measurement provides IP Latency in DL on E-RAB level.
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by the following formula for E-RABs
    LatTime is obtained by accumulating the time T for E-RABs
    The sample of "T" is made for the new arrived IP data block (PDCP
    SDU) when there is no other prior data to be transmitted to the same
    UE in the eNodeB/RN .
    LatSample is obtained by accumulating the number of Latency samples
    taken on the E-RAB level
    The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the time in ms. The
number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.IpLateDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Integrity KPI "E-UTRAN IP Latency"
defined in [13]
### 4.4.6 IP Throughput measurements
#### 4.4.6.1 IP Throughput in DL
a) This measurement provides IP throughput in downlink. For an eNodeB serving
one or more RNs, packets transmitted between the E-UTRAN and RNs are excluded,
i.e., only packets transmitted between the eNodeB (or RN) and UEs are counted.
The measurement is also applicable to RN.
b) DER(N=1)
c) This measurement is obtained according to the following formula based on
the "ThpVolDl" and "ThpTimeDl" defined for the "Scheduled IP Throughput in DL"
in 3GPP TS 36.314 [11] for each QCI.\ $\begin{matrix}
\text{If}\sum_{\text{UEs}}^{}\sum_{}^{}\text{ThpTimeDl} > \text{0,\ \ \
}\frac{\sum_{\text{UEs}}^{}\sum_{}^{}\text{ThpVolDl}}{\sum_{\text{UEs}}^{}\sum_{}^{}\text{ThpTimeDl}}\text{x1000\
}\lbrack\frac{\text{kbits}}{s}\rbrack \ \text{If\
}\sum_{\text{UEs}}^{}\sum_{}^{}\text{ThpTimeDl} = \text{0,\ \ \ 0\ \
}\lbrack\frac{\text{kbits}}{s}\rbrack \ \end{matrix}$
d) Each measurement is a real value representing the throughput in kbit/s. The
number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs.
e) The measurement name has the form\ DRB.IPThpDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Integrity KPI "E-UTRAN IP Throughput"
defined in [13].
#### 4.4.6.2 IP Throughput in UL
a) This measurement provides IP throughput in uplink. For an eNodeB serving
one or more RNs, packets transmitted between the E-UTRAN and RNs are excluded,
i.e., only packets transmitted between the eNodeB (or RN) and UEs are counted.
The measurement is also applicable to RN
b) DER(N=1)
c) This measurement is obtained according to the following formula based on
the "ThpVolUl" and "ThpTimeUl" defined for the "Scheduled IP Throughput inUL"
in 3GPP TS 36.314 [11] for each QCI.\ $\begin{matrix}
\text{If}\sum_{\text{UEs}}^{}\sum_{}^{}\text{ThpTimeUl} > \text{0,\ \ \
}\frac{\sum_{\text{UEs}}^{}\sum_{}^{}\text{ThpVolUl}}{\sum_{\text{UEs}}^{}\sum_{}^{}\text{ThpTimeUl}}\text{x1000\
}\lbrack\frac{\text{kbits}}{s}\rbrack \ \text{If\
}\sum_{\text{UEs}}^{}\sum_{}^{}\text{ThpTimeUl} = \text{0,\ \ \ 0\ \
}\lbrack\frac{\text{kbits}}{s}\rbrack \ \end{matrix}$
d) Each measurement is a real value representing the volume in kbit. The
number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs.
e) The measurement name has the form\ DRB.IPThpUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Integrity KPI "E-UTRAN IP Throughput"
defined in [13].
#### 4.4.6.3 Scheduled IP Throughput in DL
a) This measurement provides the volume of a data burst during IP throughput
measurement, excluding the data transmitted in the TTI when the buffer is
emptied in downlink. For an eNodeB serving one or more RNs, packets
transmitted between the E-UTRAN and RNs are excluded, i.e., only packets
transmitted between the eNodeB (or RN) and UEs are counted. The measurement is
also applicable to RN.
b) DER(n=1)
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11] clause 4.1.6 as sum of ThpVolDl. Separate counters are maintained for
each QCI.
d) Each measurement is a real value representing volume of a data burst in
kbit. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs.
e) The measurement name has the form\ DRB.IPVolDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Integrity KPI \"E-UTRAN IP Throughput\"
defined in [13].
#### 4.4.6.4 Scheduled IP Throughput in UL
a) This measurement provides the volume of a data burst during IP throughput
measurement, excluding the data transmitted in the TTI when the buffer is
emptied in uplink. For an eNodeB serving one or more RNs, packets transmitted
between the E-UTRAN and RNs are excluded, i.e., only packets transmitted
between the eNodeB (or RN) and UEs are counted. The measurement is also
applicable to RN.
b) DER(n=1).
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11] clause 4.1.6 as sum of ThpVolUl. Separate counters are maintained for
each QCI.
d) Each measurement is a real value representing volume of a data burst in
kbit. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs.
e) The measurement name has the form\ DRB.IPVolUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS.
i) This measurement is to support the Integrity KPI \"E-UTRAN IP Throughput\"
defined in [13].
#### 4.4.6.5 Time duration of Scheduled IP Throughput in DL
a) This measurement provides the time duration to transmit a data burst
excluding the last piece of data transmitted in the TTI when the buffer is
emptied in downlink. For an eNodeB serving one or more RNs, packets
transmitted between the E-UTRAN and RNs are excluded, i.e., only packets
transmitted between the eNodeB (or RN) and UEs are counted. The measurement is
also applicable to RN.
b) DER(n=1).
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11] clause 4.1.6 as sum of ThpTimeDl. Separate counters are maintained for
each QCI.
d) Each measurement is a real value representing active transmission time of a
data burst in ms. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs.
e) The measurement name has the form\ DRB.IPTimeDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS.
> i) This measurement is to support the Integrity KPI \"E-UTRAN IP
> Throughput\" defined in [13].
#### 4.4.6.6 Time duration of Scheduled IP Throughput in UL
a) This measurement provides the time duration to transmit a data burst
excluding the last piece of data transmitted in the TTI when the buffer is
emptied in uplink. For an eNodeB serving one or more RNs, packets transmitted
between the E-UTRAN and RNs are excluded, i.e., only packets transmitted
between the eNodeB (or RN) and UEs are counted. The measurement is also
applicable to RN.
b) DER(n=1)
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11] clause 4.1.6 as sum of ThpTimeUl. Separate counters are maintained for
each QCI.
d) Each measurement is a real value representing active transmission time of a
data burst in ms. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs.
e) The measurement name has the form\ DRB.IPTimeUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS.
i) This measurement is to support the Integrity KPI \"E-UTRAN IP Throughput\"
defined in [13].
### 4.4.7 PDCP data volume measurements
#### 4.4.7.1 DL cell PDCP SDU Data Volume
a) This measurement provides the Data Volume (amount of PDCP SDU bits) in the
downlink delivered from PDCP layer to RLC layer. The measurement is calculated
per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR).\ The unit is Mbit.
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by counting the number of bits entering the
eNodeB/RN. The measurement is performed at the PDCP SDU level. The measurement
is performed per configured PLMN ID per configured DL QoS profile criteria.
(See 3GPP TS 36.314, clause 4.1.9).
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the number of bits
measured in Mbits. The number of measurements is equal to the number of PLMNs
multiplied by the number of QoS profiles.\ [Total no. of measurement
instances] x [no. of filter values for all measurements] (DL and UL) ≤ 200.
> e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduVolumeDl_Filter.\ Filter =
> _PLMNID (1-6), QCImax (1-255), QCImin (1-255), ARPmax (1-15), ARPmin (1-15),
> GBR (n)_ ,\ where n ( ≥ 1) corresponds to an operator defined bitrate range.
Example: A measurement with filter PLMN=2, QCImax=4, QCImin=2, ARPmax=10,
ARPmin=1 and GBR=3 results in the measurement name:
DRB.PdcpSduVolumeDl_Plmn2Qci2-4Arp1-10Gbr3.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) Can be used by MOP (see TS 32.130 [22]) for cross-operator accounting in
shared networks.
#### 4.4.7.2 UL cell PDCP SDU Data Volume
a) This measurement provides the Data Volume (amount of PDCP SDU bits) in the
uplink delivered from PDCP layer to RLC layer. The measurement is calculated
per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR).\ The unit is Mbit.
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by counting the number of bits entering the
eNodeB/RN. The measurement is performed at the PDCP SDU level. The measurement
is performed per configured PLMN ID per configured UL QoS profile criteria.
(See 3GPP TS 36.314, clause 4.1.9).
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the number of bits
measured in Mbits. The number of measurements is equal to the number of PLMNs
multiplied by the number of QoS profiles.\ [Total no. of measurement
instances] x [no. of filter values for all measurements] (DL and UL) ≤ 200.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduVolumeUl_Filter.\ Filter =
_PLMNID (1-6), QCImax (1-255), QCImin (1-255), ARPmax (1-15), ARPmin (1-15),
GBR (n)_ ,\ where n ( ≥ 1) corresponds to an operator defined bitrate range.\
\ Example: A measurement with filter PLMN=2, QCImax=4, QCImin=2, ARPmax=10,
ARPmin=1 and GBR=3 results in the measurement name:
DRB.PdcpSduVolumeUl_Plmn2Qci2-4Arp1-10Gbr3.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) Can be used by MOP (see TS 32.130 [22]) for cross-operator accounting in
shared networks.
## 4.5 Radio resource utilization related measurements
### 4.5.1 DL PRB Usage for traffic
a) This measurement provides the usage (in percentage) of physical resource
blocks (PRBs) on the downlink for DTCH traffic. The measurement is split into
subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI). If there is one or more RNs served in a
cell, for that cell the eNodeB performs PRB usage measurements separately for
all traffic (including transmissions to/from RNs and UEs directly connected to
the eNodeB) and for RN traffic. The measurement is also applicable to RNs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements shall equal the total PRB usage for DTCH. In case only a
subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided
first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value from 0 to 100. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value
identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form\ RRU.PrbDl._QCI, which indicats the DL
PRB Usage for all traffic_ _\_ RRU.PrbDlRN._QCI, which indicates the DL PRB
Usage for the RN traffic_ \ where _QCI_ identifies the E-RAB level quality of
service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.2 UL PRB Usage for traffic
a) This measurement provides the usage (in percentage) of physical resource
blocks (PRBs) on the uplink for DTCH traffic. The measurement is split into
subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI). If there is one or more RNs served in a
cell, for that cell the eNodeB performs PRB usage measurements separately for
all traffic (including transmissions to/from RNs and UEs directly connected to
the eNodeB) and for RN traffic. The measurement is also applicable to RNs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements shall equal the total PRB usage for DTCH. In case only a
subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided
first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value from 0 to 100. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value
identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form\ RRU.PrbUl._QCI, which indicats the UL
PRB Usage for all traffic_ \ RRU.PrbUlRN._QCI, which indicates the UL PRB
Usage for the RN traffic_ \ where _QCI_ identifies the E-RAB level quality of
service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.3 DL Total PRB Usage
a) This measurement provides the total usage (in percentage) of physical
resource blocks (PRBs) on the downlink for any purpose. If there is one or
more RNs served in a cell, for that cell the eNodeB performs PRB usage
measurements separately for all traffic(including transmissions to/from RNs
and UEs directly connected to the eNodeB) and for RN traffic. The measurement
is also applicable to RNs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11].
d) A single integer value from 0 to 100.
e) RRU.PrbTotDl, _which indicats the DL PRB Usage for all traffic_ \
RRU.PrbTotDlRN, _which indicates the DL PRB Usage for the RN traffic_
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.4 UL Total PRB Usage
a) This measurement provides the total usage (in percentage) of physical
resource blocks (PRBs) on the uplink for any purpose. If there is one or more
RNs served in a cell, for that cell the eNodeB performs PRB usage measurements
separately for all traffic (including transmissions to/from RNs and UEs
directly connected to the eNodeB) and for RN traffic. The measurement is also
applicable to RNs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11].
d) A single integer value from 0 to 100.
e) RRU.PrbTotUl, _which indicats the UL PRB Usage for all traffic_ \
RRU.PrbTotUlRN, _which indicates the UL PRB Usage for the RN traffic_
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.5 RACH Usage
#### 4.5.5.1 Mean number of RACH preambles received
a) This measurement provides the mean number of RACH preambles received in a
cell in one second. Separate counts are provided for dedicated preambles,
randomly chosen preambles in group A (aka "low range") and randomly chosen
preambles in group B (aka "high range").
b) Gauge
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 36.314 [11].
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) RRU.RachPreambleDedMean
    RRU.RachPreambleAMean
    RRU.RachPreambleBMean
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.5.5.2 Distribution of RACH preambles sent
a) This measurement provides the distribution of number of RACH preambles sent
by the UE as reported by the UEs inside the _UEInformationResponse_ message
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by incrementing the measurement bin
corresponding to the value of IE _numberOfPreamblesSent-r9_ ([8] clause 6.2.2)
reported by UE inside _UEInformationResponse_ message. The measurement is
incremented each time a _UEInformationResponse_ message containing _rach-
Report-r9_ IE is received.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) RRU.RachPreambleDist.BinX
    where BinX represents the bin.\
    Note: Number of bins and the range for each bin is left to
    implementation.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.5.5.3 Distribution of RACH access delay
a) This measurement provides the distribution of number of the time before UEs
in a cell achieve a successful attach. The RACH access delay is the time from
when a UE sends its first Random Access Preamble until the UE receives the
Random Access Response.
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by incrementing the measurement bin
corresponding to the access delay experienced by the UE. The access delay is
calculated based upon the value of IE _numberOfPreamblesSent_ and IE
_contentionDetected_ reported by UE inside _UEInformationResponse_ message
([8] clause 6.2.2). The measurement is incremented each time a
_UEInformationResponse_ message containing _rach-Report-r9_ IE is received.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) RRU.RachAccessDelayDist.BinX
    where BinX represents the bin.\
    Note: Number of bins and the range for each bin is left to
    implementation.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.5.5.4 Percentage of contentious RACH attempts
a) This measurement provides the percentage of _UEInformationResponse_
messages received within the measurement granularity interval with
_contentionDetected_ IE set to TRUE.
b) SI
c) When _UEInformationResponse_ message ([8] clause 6.2.1) continaing
_rachReport-r9_ IE is received the measurement is updated.
d) Percentage
e) RRU.RachContentionReported
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.5.5.5 Number of UE RACH reports received
a) This measurement provides the number of _UEInformationResponse_ messages
received within the measurement granularity interval continaing
_rachReport-r9_ IE.
b) CC
c) When _UEInformationResponse_ message ([8] clause 6.2.1) continaing
_rachReport-r9_ IE is received the measurement is incremented by one.
d) Single integer value
e) RRU.RachReportCount
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.5.5.6 Percentage of time when all dedicated RACH preambles are used
a) This measurement provides the percentage of time when all dedicated RACH
preambles are assigned to UEs.
b) SI
c) During each measurement granularity interval the percentage of time during
which all dedicated RACH preambles were assigned to UEs is computed.
d) Percentage
e) RRU.RachDedicatedPreamblesAssigned
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.6 Cell Unavailable Time
a) This measurement provides the length of time the cell has been unavailable
for each cause.
b) DER (n=1)
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the time periods when the cell
is unavailable per cause. The possible cause could be "manual intervention",
"fault" and "energy saving". The sum of all supported per cause measurements
shall equal the total time periods of cell unavailability. In case only a
subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value (in seconds). The number of
measurements is equal to the number of supported causes plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRU.CellUnavailableTime.cause.
    Where *cause* identifies the cause resuling in cell unavailable.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support KPI "E-UTRAN Cell Availability" > defined in
[13].
### 4.5.7 TB related measurements
##### 4.5.7.1 Total Number of DL TBs
a) This measurement provides the total number of TBs transmitted on the
downlink in a cell. HARQ retransmissions are excluded from this measurement.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB/RNof TB to UE during the period of
measurement. (see 36.321 [16])
d) A single integer value.
e) TB.TotNbrDl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.5.7.2 Error Number of DL TBs
a) This measurement provides the number of faulty TBs transmitted on the
downlink in a cell. HARQ retransmissions are excluded from this measurement.
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNodeB/RN of a NACK from UE which indicates a faulty
receiption of TB by UE during the period of measurement. (see 36.321 [16])
d) A single integer value.
e) TB.ErrNbrDl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.5.7.3 Total Number of UL TBs
a) This measurement provides the total number of TBs on the uplink in a cell.
HARQ retransmissions are excluded from this measurement.
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNodeB/RN of TB from UE during the period of measurement.
(see 36.321 [16])
d) A single integer value.
e) TB.TotNbrUl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.5.7.4 Error Number of UL TBs
a) This measurement provides the number of faulty TBs on the uplink in a cell.
HARQ retransmissions are excluded from this measurement.
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNodeB/RN of a TB on which CRC fails from UE during the
period of measurement. (see 36.321 [16])
d) A single integer value.
e) TB.ErrNbrUl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.8 Power utilization measurements
#### 4.5.8.1 Maximum carrier transmit power
a) This measurement provides the maximum carrier transmit power in the
measurement granularity interval.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained by retaining the maximum value of the total
carrier power transmitted in the cell within the measurement granularity
period. The power includes all radio power transmitted, included common
channels, traffic channels, control channels. The value is expressed in dBm.
d) Float in dBm.
e) CARR.MaxTxPwr
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.5.8.2 Mean carrier transmit power
a) This measurement provides the mean carrier transmit power in the
measurement granularity interval.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained by computing the mean value of the total
carrier power transmitted in the cell within the measurement granularity
period. The power includes all radio power transmitted, included common
channels, traffic channels, control channels. The value is expressed in dBm.
d) Float in dBm.
e) CARR.AvgTxPwr
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
### 4.5.9 PRB Full Utilisation
#### 4.5.9.1 DL PRB full utilisation
a) This measurement provides the percentage of time during which all available
PRBs for traffic on the downlink have been assigned.
b) SI
c) This measurement represents the percentage of time during the measurement
granularity interval during which all available PRBs for downlink traffic have
been assigned to UEs.
d) A single integer value from 0 to 100.
e) RRU.PrbCongestionDl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.5.9.2 UL PRB full utilisation
a) This measurement provides the percentage of time during which all available
PRBs for traffic on the uplink have been assigned.
b) SI
c) This measurement represents the percentage of time during the measurement
granularity interval during which all available PRBs for uplink traffic have
been assigned to UEs.
d) A single integer value from 0 to 100.
e) RRU.PrbCongestionUl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
## 4.6 UE-associated logical S1-connection related measurements
### 4.6.1 UE-associated logical S1-connection establishment
#### 4.6.1.1 Attempted UE-associated logical S1-connection establishment from
eNB to MME
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted UE-associated logical
S1-connection establishments from eNB to MME.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an INITIAL UE MESSAGE by the eNodeB to the MME (See 36.413
[9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) S1SIG.ConnEstabAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Accessibility KPI "E-RAB Accessibility"
defined in [13].
#### 4.6.1.2 Succesful UE-associated logical S1-connection establishment from
eNB to MME
a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE-associated logical
S1-connection establishments from eNB to MME.
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNB of first message from MME which succeeds INITIAL UE
MESSAGE message on an UE-associated logical S1-connection (See 36.413 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) S1SIG.ConnEstabSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Accessibility KPI "E-RAB Accessibility"
defined in [13]
## 4.7 Paging related measurements
### 4.7.1 Paging Performance
#### 4.7.1.1 Number of paging records discarded at the eNodeB/RN
a) This measurement provides the number of paging records that are discarded
at the eNB/RN for paging occasions in each cell.
b) CC
c) Reception of a S1AP PAGING message from MME/DeNB, see TS 36.413[9], with UE
identity which satisfies the following formulae from TS 36.304 [14].
X = (T div N)*(UE_ID mod N)
Y = floor(UE_ID/N) mod Ns
> AND the maximum number of paging records that can be queued for each paging
> occasion has been reached.
d) A single integer value.
e) PAG. DiscardedNbr
f) EUtranCellFDD
    EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS
#### 4.7.1.2 Number of paging records received by the eNodeB/RN
a) This measurement provides the number of paging records that are received by
the eNB/RN for paging occasions in each cell.
b) CC
c) Reception of a S1AP PAGING message from MME/DeNB, see TS 36.413[9].
d) A single integer value.
e) PAG.ReceivedNbr
f) EUtranCellFDD
    EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS
## 4.8 Measurements related to equipment resources
### 4.8.1 eNodeB/RN processor usage
#### 4.8.1.1 Mean processor usage
a) This measurement provides the mean usage of each key processor during the
granularity period. Each equipment may have more than one key processor, how
to indentify key processor is vendor specific.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
usage of the processor and then taking the arithmetic mean for each key
processor.
d) Each measurement is an integer value (Unit: %).
e) EQPT.MeanProcessorUsage._ProcessorID\_ where _ProcessorID_ identifies the
key processor of this equipment, the format of _ProcessorID_ is vendor
specific.
f) ManagedElement.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS.
#### 4.8.1.2 Peak processor usage
a) This measurement provides the peak usage of each key processor during the
granularity period. Each equipment may have more than one key processor, how
to indentify key processor is vendor specific.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
usage of the processor and then taking the maximum for each key processor.
d) Each measurement is an integer value (Unit: %).
e) EQPT.PeakProcessorUsage._ProcessorID\_ where _ProcessorID_ identifies the
key processor of this equipment, the format of _ProcessorID_ is vendor
specific.
f) ManagedElement.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS.
## 4.9 Common LAs of overlapping RAT's coverage
### 4.9.1 Number of incoming IRAT mobility events per LA
a) This measurement provides the number of incoming IRAT mobility events per
E-UTRAN cell. This measurement is split into subcounters per LA.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the eNB from UE of an RRCConnectionSetupComplete message in
which the most significant bit of the "mmegi" in "RegisteredMME" IE is "0"
(see TS 36.331 [8]). Each RRCConnectionSetupComplete message received is added
to the relevant per LAI measurement. This definition is only applicable to the
EUTRAN cells of which the adjacent (including overlaid) RAT is set the most
significant bit of the \ with zero.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) RRC.IratIncMobility._LAI_ \ where _LAI_ identifies the LAI of the RAT's
coverage the UE comes from.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
## 4.10 RF Measurements
### 4.10.1 CQI Distribution
#### 4.10.1.0 General
In CA, in case the CQI of SCell is reported to PCell via PUCCH, the CQI is
counted to the reported SCell (but not to the PCell).
#### 4.10.1.1 Wideband CQI distribution
a) This measurement provides the distribution of the Wideband CQI (Channel
Quality Indicator) reported by UEs in the cell.
b) CC.
c) This measurement is obtained by incrementing the appropriate measurement
bin when a wideband CQI value is reported by a UE in the cell. When spatial
multiplexing is used, CQI for both code words should be considered.
d) A single integer value.
e) CARR.WBCQIDist.BinX\ where X represents the CQI value (0 to 15).
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.10.1.2 Average sub-band CQI
a) This measurement provides the average value of the sub-band CQI (Channel
Quality Indicator) reported by UEs in the cell.
> A subband is a set of k contiguous PRBs where k is a function of system
> bandwidth. Note the last subband in set S may have fewer than k contiguous
> PRBs depending on{width="0.3020833333333333in"
> height="0.23958333333333334in"} . The number of subbands for system
> bandwidth given by{width="0.3020833333333333in"
> height="0.23958333333333334in"} is defined by{width="0.8645833333333334in"
> height="0.3020833333333333in"}. The subbands shall be indexed in the order
> of increasing frequency and non-increasing sizes starting at the lowest
> frequency.
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by computing the average value of the sub-band
CQI reported by UEs in the cell within the measurement granularity period. One
value is produced for each sub-band. The number of sub-bands depends on the
bandwidth used, as specified in [18]. When spatial multiplexing is used, CQI
for both code words should be considered.
d) Float value.
e) CARR.AvgSubCQI.SubbandX\ where SubbandX represents the sub-band index, as
specified in [18].
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
### 4.10.2 Timing Advance Distribution
a) This measurement provides the distribution of the Timing Advance (_T~A~_)
values transmitted by the eNB to UEs in the cell.
b) CC.
c) This measurement is obtained by incrementing the appropriate measurement
bin when a Timing Advance Command is sent to a UE in the cell. For Timing
Advance Commend see [16] clause 6.1.3.5.
d) A single integer value.
e) CARR. TADist.BinX\ where X represents the _T~A~_ value (0 to 63).
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
## 4.11 SCell scheduling related measurements in CA
### 4.11.0 Introduction
The three measurement types defined in the subclauses 4.11.1, 4.11.2 and
4.11.3 are subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
### 4.11.1 Attempted PUCCH allocations for SCell scheduling in Carrier
Aggregation
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted PUCCH allocations in the
PCell for SCell scheduling in Carrier Aggregation. This measurement is split
into subcounters for the PUCCH format 3 and PUCCH format 1bwcs.
b) CC
c) On allocation of PUCCH resources in the Pcell for Scell scheduling in
Carrier Aggregation.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) DRB.PucchAllocNbrAtt._PUCCHFormat_ \ where _PUCCHFormat_ identifies the
PUCCH format, which is either "format3" or "format1bwcs".
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.11.2 Successful PUCCH allocations for SCell scheduling in Carrier
Aggregation
a) This measurement provides the number of successful PUCCH allocations in the
PCell for SCell scheduling in Carrier Aggregation. This measurement is split
into subcounters for the PUCCH format 3 and PUCCH format 1bwcs.
b) CC
c) On the success of a Scell scheduling in Carrier Aggregation.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) DRB.PucchAllocNbrSucc._PUCCHFormat_ \ where _PUCCHFormat_ identifies the
PUCCH format, which is either "format3" or "format1bwcs".
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.11.3 Failed PUCCH allocations for SCell scheduling in Carrier
Aggregation
a) This measurement provides the number of failed PUCCH allocations in the
PCell for SCell scheduling in Carrier Aggregation. This measurement is split
into subcounters for the PUCCH format 3 and PUCCH format 1bwcs.
b) CC
c) On the failure of a Scell scheduling due to lack of PUCCH resources in the
PCell for Carrier Aggregation.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) DRB.PucchAllocNbrFail._PUCCHFormat_ \ where _PUCCHFormat_ identifies the
PUCCH format, which is either "format3" or "format1bwcs".
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
# 5 Measurements related to Relay Node
## 5.1 DeNB Reconfiguration related measurements
### 5.1.1 RN Reconfiguration
#### 5.1.1.1 Number of RNReconfiguration attempts
a) This measurement provides the number of RNReconfiguration attempts sent by
DeNB.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the DeNB of a RNReconfiguration message to RN. Each
RNReconfiguration message received is added to the relevant measurement. The
message is included in 3GPP TS 36.331 [8].
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.RNReconAttNbr.
f) DeNBCapability
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 5.1.1.2 Number of RNReconfiguration Completed
a) This measurement provides the number of RNReconfiguration completed
received by DeNB
b) CC
c) On receipt by the DeNB of a RNReconfigurationComplete message from RN. Each
RNReconfigurationComplete message received is added to the relevant
measurement. The message is included in 3GPP TS 36.331 [8].
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.RNReconCmptNbr
f) DeNBCapability
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
# 6 Measurements related to Measurement Report
## 6.1 RSRP related measurements
a) This measurement provides a bin distribution (histogram) of the periodical
E-UTRAN RSRP measurements received from all of UEs in the measured E-UTRAN
cell. To collect this measurement, the eNodeB needs to trigger the periodical
UE measurement reports towards all of the UEs in the measured E-UTRAN cell.
b) CC
c) Receipt by the eNodeB from the UE of _MeasurementReport_ message indicating
a periodical UE measurement report where IE _MeasResults field_ includes
_rsrpResult_. The event triggered _MeasurementReport_ messages are
excluded.This measurement shall be increased for each reported value RSRP_LEV
(See in 3GPP TS 36.331 [18]). For every one or two or 17 or 20 RSRP_LEV(s) a
separate measurement is defined. (See in 3GPP TS 36.133 [19])
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) MR.Rsrp._y_ . _y_ is an integer from 00 to 47.\ Note:\ 00 of y indicates
from RSRP _LEV _00 to RSRP _LEV _LEV _20, namely RSRP \ \- Initial access from RRC_IDLE;
>
> \- Initial access after radio link failure;
>
> \- Handover requiring random access procedure;
>
> \- DL data arrival during RRC_CONNECTED requiring random access procedure;
>
> \- UL data arrival during RRC_CONNECTED requiring random access procedure;
Furthermore, the random access procedure takes two distinct forms:
> \- Contention based using a randomly selected preamble (applicable to all
> five events);
>
> \- Non-contention based using a dedicated preamble (applicable to only
> handover and DL data arrival).
In the use-case of RACH configuration optimization, received Random Access
Preambles and a contention indicator are signalled across an OAM interface.
Monitoring of the preamble usage in a cell allows the operator to determine if
the resources allocated to the RACH by the eNodeB are appropriate for the
number of random access attempts. If the resources are underutilised then the
operator may reconfigure the eNodeB (via CM) to allocate less resource to RACH
thereby freeing up resource for other uplink transmissions. Alternatively, if
the resources are heavily utilised then this is indicative of RACH congestion
leading to increased latency for the procedures listed above. To this effect,
measurements directly reflecting RACH congestion experienced by the eNodeB and
by the UEs are useful.
The eNodeB can partition the RACH resource between dedicated preambles,
randomly selected preambles in group A and randomly selected preambles in
group B. This partitioning can be evaluated when usage measurements are made
on each set separately.
To further monitor and analyze the latency of the procedures listed above
created at the RACH level, the measurement of the number of RACH preambles
sent per RACH attempt is useful.
RACH optimisation function optimises RACH related configurations to achieve
minimizing of access delays and random access collision probability for all
the UEs. eNB may request the UEs to report the number of attempts to access
the network (numberOfPreamblesSent in TS 36.331 [8]). Based on the attempting
number of random access of all the UEs, the eNB can know the distribution of
RACH preambles sent by UEs and calculate the access probability (AP) of a cell
accurately. The eNB may also request the UEs to report contention detected
while attempting to access the network (contentionDetected in TS 36.331 [8]).
Based on the estimated time per random access and the estimated contention
level in the network, the eNB can estimate the access delay probability (ADP)
of a cell.
# A.6 Monitor of the number of connected users
The number of the connected users in each cell is valuable information for
operators to know how many uses are connecting to E-UTRAN per cell basis. This
kind of information can help operator to tune the admission control parameters
for the cell and to do load balancing between cells to ensure that the target
percentage or number the of users admitted achieve the target QoS.
# A.7 Monitoring of interference situation
In the LTE radio technology interference has to be coordinated on the basis
uplink and downlink i.e. in a coordinated usage of the UL resources (Physical
Resource Blocks, PRBs) and DL Transmitted Power, which lead to improve SIR and
corresponding throughput. These are achieved by means of mechanisms employing
channel quality indicators in support of scheduling/radio resource allocation
functions.
These RRM functions in the eNB require the setting of frequency / power
restrictions and preferences for the resource usage in the different cells.
Setting and updating these parameters is the task of a network optimisation
(done by operator or automatically by SON).
Use cases for the related interference measurements are e.g. optimisation of
ICIC related RRM functionality, the detection of long distance interferer and
the interference due to spurious emissions of neighbour cells. The later case
is assumed only in high load scenarios or unsufficent ICIC functionality due
to the the fact that ICIC functionality would minimise interference
autonomously if sufficient bandwidth is available.
The necessary measurements to identify and anylse the interference situation
as input for optimisation tasks has to be defined.
# A.8 Monitor of ARQ and HARQ performance
Reliable Packet Delivery is one of the important Performance factor for a
better User experience. HARQ retransmissions at the MAC layer ensure reliable
packet delivery
In addition, RLC can be configured to operate in acknowledged mode for those
applications that need very low packet drops and can tolerate a slightly
higher delay from RLC retransmissions.
If a MAC PDU is not delivered, HARQ takes care of retransmitting (upto a
maximum configurable number). If all the retransmissions fail at MAC layer,
and if RLC is configured to operate in acknowledged mode, RLC's ARQ mechanism
will take care of any residual packet errors.
It is important to\ a) maintain the block error rate or packet error rate
within tolerable limits
b) ensure that HARQ retransmissions take care of most packet errors, instead
of relying on RLC layer retransmissions (which would increase the delay).
So, it is important to monitor the performance of these schemes.\ ARQ
Performance if viewed at QCI level can help in monitoring the distribution for
each of the services.
HARQ Performance if viewed at MCS (Modulation Coded Scheme) can help in
monitoring the MCS Performance also.
# A.9 Monitoring of RF performance
RF Performance reflects the cell loading levels and abnormal conditions.
In the Downlink, Power Resources are managed by the EUTRAN Cell(RAN).\ More
Power Resources may help in increasing the Capacity of the System. Hence,
there the power resources could be effectively used to optimize the Capacity
of the System.
Hence there is a need to keep monitoring the Power Resource Utilization in %
and also in absolute terms.
Monitoring of the quality of RF signal in the cell is useful for the purpose
of NW planning and overall service quality assessment. Measurements of Channel
Quality Indicator (CQI) reported by UEs is a useful metric reflecting RF
signal quality and service quality.
Timing advance measurements reflect the distance of the UE from the cell
antenna. This information reflects the optimality of the cell antenna location
with respect to the cell traffic and is useful in the NW planning process.
Monitoring interference, both uplink and downlink, is an important aspect of
monitoring RF performance. For this purpose, monitoring of UL interference
power is useful.
Interference signals in a number of different ways, including frequency,
frequency band, direction of interfering signals, etc. can also be classified
by System internal interference and External interference. By efficient
frequency planning and careful
Selection of base station locations, the impact of interference signal can be
effectively controlled within an acceptable scope.uplink interference disturbs
the base station receiver. Once the base station receiver is compromised, it
leads to receiving code errors for the whole base station and the site's
entire service area is degraded including its network and service. Of course,
customer satisfaction is negatively impacted. So it is very useful to monitor
uplink interference of communication system to do network optimization.
# A.10 Monitor of paging performance
In EUTRAN, Paging is under the control of the MME. When the MME wants to page
a UE it has to page it in all cells that belong to the TA(s) to which the UE
is registered.
The paging load per cell is an important measure for the operator as it allows
the operator to properly dimension the resources for paging in the E-UTRAN
Cell .
At an E-UTRAN Cell it makes sense to measure the number of discarded paging
messages if this is due to some problem in the eNodeB, such as paging occasion
overflow. In that scenario the periodicity of paging occasions can be
reconfigured in order to ensure that all paging messages are transmitted by
the eNodeB in the first available paging occasion, thereby avoiding paging
delays and extended call setup delay.
Operators need to know when such an event occurs, in order to identify if the
problem is at the E-UTRAN cell level or not.
In addition to discarded paging records measurement, it is important to know
total paging records received so that discarded paging records ratio can be
derived.
Total number of paging records received is important in the sense that, it may
be fine if the discarded paging records are high if discarded paging records
ratio is small. On the other hand, it may be problematic if discarded paging
records are low, if discarded paging records ratio turn out to be high.
# A.11 Use case of eNodeB processor usage
When network is very busy, for example on important holiday or emergency
events happened, the traffic of one eNodeB is very heavy. So eNodeB processor
usage measurements are very important to indicate eNodeB processor load
capability. If eNodeB processor usage is too high, operator must take action
to avoid network paralysis.
# A.12 Monitor of simultaneous E-RABs
E-RAB is one of the EUTRAN Cell resources which are limited in number.
Hence along with the E-RAB Setup Success Rate, there is a need to keep
monitoring the simultaneous E-RABs and having them at QCI level can help in
learning the service distribution in time periods.
Average / Maximum simultaneous E-RABs, can help to know the average / maximum
utilization of the resources in time periods, thereby helping to do necessary
resource capacity engineering.
# A.13 Monitoring of Mobility Robustness Optimization (MRO)
The following measurement is defined specifically to monitor the performance
of handover optimisation:
\- Number of handover failures for MRO.
The measurement examines "handover related events" in which the serving cell
of a RRC connected UE is changed. Handover related events are either normal
successful handovers, or they are failures. Different failure modes are
possible and the measurement provides counts for the occurrences of the
failure modes related with MRO, "too early", "too late" and "to wrong cell".
The detailed definitions of these modes are captured in [12]. The counters
provide visibility of the mix of failure problems that the handover
optimistion function is tackling.
In "handover to wrong cell" case, an RLF occurs shortly after a successful
handover from a source cell (cell A in Figure A.13-1) to a target cell (cell B
in Figure A.13-1) or a HOF occurs during the handover procedure; the UE
attempts to re-establish the radio link connection in a cell (Cell C in Figure
A.13-1) other than the source cell and the target cell. (See 36.300 [12]).
Figure A.13-1 Handover to wrong cell case
For the "handover to wrong cell" case (ABC) above-mentioned, the handover
parameters on Neighbour Relation AB, Neighbour Relation AC or both may be
problematic and need to be corrected. So the performance measurements for both
Neighbour Relation AB and Neighbour Relation AC are needed for problem
detection.
In addition to event-based (i.e. reactive) optimization of handover
performance, a pro-active optimization is possible by monitoring the dynamics
of handover triggering from UE measurement reports.
# A.14 Monitor of BLER performance
The TB Error Rate in UL/DL can directly reflect the BLER, and has an influence
on MCS selection and user throughput. It can be helpful to estimate the
performance of radio resource management like radio resource schedulein
transport layer and be helpful in trouble shooting. Furthermore, they should
be taken into account to optimize the system performance. To obtain TB Error
Rate by calculating, the number of total and error TBs transmitted in a cell
should be monitored.
# A.15 Monitoring of common LAs of overlapping target RAT's coverage
For CS fallback in EPS, as defined in section 5.1A of 3GPP TS 23.272 [17], the
fallback procedure is likely to be faster if the network can allocate a
Location Area to the UE that is the LA of the overlapping target RAT\'s
coverage. For this situation, the MME should avoid allocating TAI lists that
span multiple Location Areas of the target RAT, this can be achieved by:
\- configuring the E-UTRAN cell\'s TAI to align the LA boundary of the target
RAT;
\- the MME being configured to know which TAIs are within which LA; and
\- the MME using the TAI of the current E-UTRAN cell to derive the LAI.
Also as specified in section 4.3.4 of 3GPP TS 23.272 [17], to facilitate the
alignment of TA boundaries with LA boundaries, the E-UTRAN can gather
statistics (from the inbound inter-RAT mobility events of all UEs) of the most
common LAs indicated in the RRC signalling.
From such measurements per E-UTRAN cell basis, operators 1) can know the
common LA(s) of the overlapping target RAT's coverage for each TA, which is
useful to configure the TAI list within which LA boundary to MME, operators
can also 2) detect the case that TA spans multiple LAs if different most
common LA(s) is/are reported from the E-UTRAN cells in the same TA, operators
may take actions to rectify it if needed.
# A.16 Monitoring of Energy Saving
Beside monitoring of the energy consumption it is also important to
differentiate if the cell unavailability or the failure of the RRC connection
establishment happens because of Energy Saving as Energy Saving Management
feature is by the Operator on purpose. Therefore such failures should be
distinguishable from other network failures, therefore should be counted
separately. With the separate cell unavailability counter due to Energy Saving
makes it possible to deduct the cell downtime due to Energy Savings from the
total cell outage.
# A.17 Monitoring of RNReconfiguration
The purpose of RNReconfiguration related procedure is to configure/reconfigure
the RN subframe configuration and/or to update the system information relevant
for the RN in RRC_CONNECTED.
The system information and subframe configuration is very important for RN,
but the RN does not need to apply the system information acquisition and
change monitoring procedures, if configured with an RN subframe configuration.
Upon change of any system information relevant to an RN, E-UTRAN provides the
system information blocks containing the relevant system information to RNs
with an RN subframe configuration via dedicated signalling using the
_RNReconfiguration_ message. This dedicated signalling replaces any stored
system information acquired through the system information acquisition
procedure.
Because the RN is semi-duplex, to avoid the transmission conflict between
access link (between UE and RN) and backhaul link (between RN and DeNB), the
subframe of RN is semi-statically assigned (see TR 36.814) and the
configuration information is included in the RNReconfiguration message.
During the RN operation, failures of backhaul link will cause unsuccessful RN
reconfiguration. In that case, RN will not get any response from DeNB. The
defined performance counter will help to compute how many respose messages are
missing. Depending on this result, operators could easily make network
planning to consider fix or optimize the backhaul link quality.
# A.18 Monitoring of E-RAB setup for incoming HOs
The E-RAB needs to be established in the target cell during HO, the success or
failure of E-RAB establishment in the target cell during HO results in if the
services beared on the E-RABs can continue or not after HO, thus whether or
not the E-RAB can be successfully established for incoming HO impacts the user
experience.
The unsuccessful setup of E-RABs with different QCIs could lead to different
user experience, thus the E-RAB setup for incoming HOs needs to be monitored
per QCI.
# A.19 Use case of RSRP
E-UTRAN RSRP measurement is important for analyzing coverage probability and
coverage balance of downlink. From the distribution of this measurement, the
general coverage information can be learned. So that coverage hole can be
found more easily by driving test. Much more measurment values with small
granularity are necessary to analyze coverage probability for specific area,
such as from ratio of the number of RSRP that is larger than or equal to
threshld to the total number of it, So it is necessary to define RSRP
measurement.
According to optimization experience and the transmission bandwidth
requirement reduced, several granularity of this measurement is proposed. For
-120 dBm ≤ RSRP \< -115dBm, the granularity is 5dB, for -115 dBm ≤ RSRP \<
-80dBm, the granularity is 1dB, and for -80 dBm ≤ RSRP \< -60dBm, the
granularity is 2dB.
The measurement period should be preconfigured by EMS.
# A.20 Use case of RSRQ
E-UTRAN RSRQ measurement can be used to calculate signal quality distribution.
According to signal quality dstribution and other measurements like AOA, UE
Rx-Tx time diffrence, the general signal quality information of cells can be
learned, so that interference heavy area can be found more easily by driving
test. Also it can be used to evaluate user satisfaction to some extent. So it
is necessary to define the RSRQ measurements.
In order to reduce the transmission bandwidth requirement, according to
network optimization experience, 1dB granularity of measurement is enough.
# A.21 Use case of UE power headroom
E-UTRAN UE power headroom measurement is important for analyzing UE power
distribution, to learn whether the uplink signal strength can be increased or
not. So it is very useful to do trouble shooting of coverage hole and coverage
balance for uplink. It is also used to evaluate the power control performance
and increase UE power headroom as possible with QoS is guaranteed for the
purpose of energy saving. These questions are determined by the ratio of the
number of larger or less than threshold to the total number of it and the
threshold is configurable.
According to network optimization experience, the granularity of measurement
1dB is enough to do trouble shooting of coverage hole and evaluation of power
control.
# A.22 Use case of UE Rx--Tx time difference related measurements
UE Rx -- Tx time difference measurement can be used to calculate distance
distribution between UE and serving eNodeB. It is useful to analyze traffic
distribution in geographic area and to do trouble shooting of extending
coverage and blind coverage spot. The probability of extending coverage and
blind coverage should be analyzed by the ratio of the number of UE Rx -- Tx
time difference that is larger than or equal to threshold to the total number
of it. Threshold is configurable according to the cases to be analyzed, Cases
includes dense urban area macro cell, suburban area macro cell and rural area
cell.So it is necessary to define the UE Rx--Tx time difference related
measurements.
For TDD mode, propagation distance of 1Ts is nearly 9.77m. According to
optimization experience, several granularity of this measurement is proposed.
Minimize granularity of 10Ts is enough to analyze distance distribution for
near base station, namely UE Rx--Tx time difference is less than 200Ts. For UE
Rx--Tx time difference is larger than 200Ts and less than 1000Ts, the
corresponding propagation distance is from 1953m to 9766m, the granularity of
40Ts is enough to do trouble shooting of extending coverage. For UE Rx--Tx
time difference is larger than 1000Ts and less than 2000Ts. the granularity is
200Ts. And for UE Rx--Tx time difference is larger than 2000Ts and less than
4096Ts, the granularity is 1048Ts.
# A.23 Use case of AOA
E-UTRAN AOA value measurement can be used to calculate UE's direction
distribution of coverage to optimize network coverage together with other
measurements like RSRP, UE Rx-Tx time diffrence etc. So it is necessary to
define E-UTRAN AOA value measurement.
According to network optimization experience, 5 degrees granularity of
measurement is enough.
# A.24 Monitoring of SCell scheduling on PUCCH in Carrier Aggregation
In the deployment scenarios for carrier aggregation as depicted in 3GPP 36.300
[12], the number of possible SCell per PCell can be multiple and not fixed. So
the PUCCH resource for the Scell scheduling needs to be properly allocated,
because:
\- Over-dimensioned PUCCH causes high overhead and results in reduced UL
throughput is (in general UL is not used efficiently);
\- Under-dimensioned PUCCH will result in reduced DL throughput (if no PUCCH
format 1bCS or format 3 ACK/NACK resource is available, PDSCH cannot be
allocated by the PDCCH for the SCell(s) and the UE cannot be allocated
resources on its SCell(s)).
Thus, the SCell scheduling success/blocking rate on PUCCH needs to be
monitored for evaluation of control channel usage in CA. When needed OAM can
also provide the guidance or take action to the eNB to optimize the PUCCH
dimension for CA.
# A.25 Evaluation of long inactivity timer
The services from the point of view the time between the newly successful RRC
connection setup and the last RRC Connection Release can be divided into the
two groups. First group is build from the services the time is quite long
(tens of minutes or hours) while for the second group it is tens of seconds.
Typical example of the service from the first group can be VoLTE call with a
common characteristic that data transmission is accumulated into the time
period the call is active without any long interruptions and sufficiently long
period between the two consequent calls from the same UE. A second type of
service can be web browsing with a common characteristic that data
transmission is accumulated into the smaller time periods the service is
active i.e. with long interruptions between data transmissions.
In the past operators had only option to set the inactivity timer commonly for
all kind of services. This may lead to the situation that for the services
from the first group UE had to spend ineffectively longer time in RRC
Connected state which had negative impact on UE's battery live. On the other
hand for the services from the second group the inactivity timer setting can
be insufficient which then may lead to significant increase of the UE
movements from RRC Idle to RRC Connected state.
Operators shall therefore accurately tune the inactivity timers to avoid some
bottlenecks in the RRC Connection setup on one side and prolongation of the
UE's battery life on the second side. Especially regarding the services where
long inactivity timer applies operator needs to have an option to estimate how
intended prolongation of the long inactivity timer is going to decrease the
number of RRC Connection Setups on one side and prolong the UEs' state in RRC
Connected state on second side, using the \"Number of successful RRC
connection setups in relation to the time between successful RRC connection
setup and last RRC connection release\".
#