# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.441 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
**32.442 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\".**
32.443 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
32.445 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup
Language (XML) file format definition\".
The present document is part of a TS-family which describes the information
service necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of 3G systems. The
TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP
TS 32.102 [2].
Trace provides very detailed information on call level for a specific
subscriber or MS. This data is an additional information source to Performance
Measurements and allows deeper investigations in problems solving or in case
of optimization.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the mechanism used for control and
configuration of the Trace, Minimization of Drive Test (MDT) and Radio Link
Failure (RLF) reporting functionality through Itf-N. This specification is
applicable to UMTS networks and EPS networks. GSM Trace is outside of the
scope of this specification.
The conditions for supporting Network Sharing are stated in 3GPP TS 32.441
[13].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.342: \" Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\"
[12] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.441: \"Trace **Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):**
Requirements\".
**[** 14**]** 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN);
Overall description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following
apply:
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**MBSFN Area** : See 3GPP TS 36.300 [14]
**MBSFN Area Reserved Cell** : See 3GPP TS 36.300 [14]
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following apply:
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
MBMS **Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Services**
MBSFN MBMS over a Single Frequency Network
MDT Minimization of Drive Tests
OMG Object Management Group
RCEF RRC Connection Establisment Failure
RLF Radio Link Failure
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
# 4 System Overview
## 4.1 System context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [3] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 4.1.1: System Context A
**Figure 4.1.2: System Context B**
## 4.2 Compliance rules
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for _operations_ , _notifications_ _and_
_parameters_ (of operations and notifications) please refer to 3GPP TS 32.150
[3].
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], information object class, Top
Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], information object class, IRPAgent IRPAgent 3GPP TS
32.622 [5], information object class, GenericIRP GenericIRP 3GPP TS 32.302
[6], information object class, NotificationIRP NotificationIRP 3GPP TS 32.342
[7], information object class, FileTransferIRP FileTransferIRP 3GPP TS 32.602
[10], information object class, ManagedEntity ManagedEntity
* * *
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause introduces the set of Information Object Classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate information within the IRPAgent. The intent is to identify the
information required for the TraceIRP implementation of its operations and
notification emission. This clause provides the overview of all support object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these support object classes.
{width="5.839583333333334in" height="4.325in"}
Figure 5.2.1: Information Object Class (IOC) UML diagram
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
{width="4.157638888888889in" height="6.288888888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.2: Information Object Class Inheritance UML Diagram
## 5.3 Information object class definitions
### 5.3.1 TraceJob
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
It represents a task that controls the Trace Sessions and collects the trace
data (i.e. collects the TraceRecord of multiple ManagedEntity instances). The
TraceReference is a unique ID, which identifies the Trace Session that has
been created by the TraceJob and activated to one or multiple ManagedEntity
instance(s).
It represents also the task that controls the UE based network performance
measurements.
When a TraceJob is created the following attributes cannot be modified via the
Itf-N:
\- TraceReference
\- ListOfInterfaces
\- ListofNeTypes
\- TraceDepth
\- TraceTarget
\- TriggeringEvent
\- JobType
\- areaScope
\- ListOfMeasurements
\- ReportingTrigger
\- ReportInterval
\- ReportAmount
\- EventThreshold
\- LoggingInterval
\- LoggingDuration
\- IPAddressOfTCE
\- AnonymizationofMDTData
\- MeasurementPeriodLTE
\- MeasurementPeriodUMTS
\- CollectionPeriodRrmUmts
\- CollectionPeriodRrmLte
\- PositioningMethod
\- MeasurementQuantity
\- PLMNTarget
\- MBSFNAreaList
If for any reason the TraceIRP determines that a Trace Session has been
activated in its ManagedEntity(ies) the TraceIRP shall emit the
\"noitfyTraceSessionLocalActivation\" notification to the subscribed
IRPManagers to inform the active Trace Sessions. The IRPManagers can decide
whether they deactivate the Trace Session or keep the Trace Session active.
(E.g. if the TraceReference is colliding with an existing TraceJob's
TraceReference, the IRPManager may decide to immediately deactivate the Trace
Session in that ManagedEntity.)
The TraceJob shall use its information to activate and configure Trace
Session(s) in the requested ManagedEntity instance(s). When the TraceIRP
determines that there are available TraceRecord files, it shall emit a
notification to all subscribed IRPManagers informing the availability of the
files. The method and the notification of the available files is described in
the File Transfer IRP (3GPP TS 32.342 [7]).
If a TraceJob receives an indication from one of its ManagedEntity that
starting a Trace Recording Session is failed for any reason, the
\"notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure\" notification may be emitted to inform
all subscribed IRPManagers that there was a Trace Recording Session that was
not started in the ManagedEntity.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier traceReference M listOfInterfaces O
listOfNeTypes CM traceDepth CM traceTarget M triggeringEvent CM
traceCollectionEntityAddress M jobType M listOfMeasurements CM
reportingTrigger CM reportInterval CM reportAmount CM eventThreshold CM
loggingInterval CM loggingDuration CM areaScope CM anonymizationOfMDTData CM
measurementPeriodLTE CM measurementPeriodUMTS CM collectionPeriodRrmUmts CM
collectionPeriodRrmLte CM positioningMethod CM measurementQuantity CM
pLMNTarget CM []{#__RefHeading___Toc343523949 .anchor}mBSFNAreaList CM
* * *
#### 5.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
The listOfNeTypes attributes shall be present only for Signalling Based
Activation.
The traceTarget shall be public ID in case of a Management Based Activation is
done to an ScscfFunction. The TraceTarget shall be cell only in case of the
UTRAN cell traffic trace function.\ The TraceTarget shall be E-UtranCell only
in case of E-UTRAN cell traffic trace function.The traceTarget shall be either
IMSI or IMEI(SV) if the Trace Session is activated to any of the following
ManagedEntity(ies):
\- HssFunction
\- MscServerFunction
\- SgsnFunction
\- GgsnFunction
\- BmscFunction
\- RncFunction
\- MmeFunction
> The traceTarget shall be IMSI if the Trace Session is activated to a
> ManagedEntity playing a role of ServinGWFunction.
>
> In case of subscription based MDT, the traceTarget attribute shall be able
> to carry (IMSI or IMEI(SV)), the areaScope attribute shall be able to carry
> a list of (cell or EUtranCell or TA/LA/RA).
>
> In case of area based Immediate MDT, the traceTarget attribute shall be null
> value, the areaScope attribute shall carry a list of (Utrancell or
> E-UtranCell).
>
> In case of area based Logged MDT, the traceTarget attribute shall carry an
> eNodeBs or a RNC. The Logged MDT should be initiated on the specified
> eNodeB/RNC in TraceTarget. The areaScope attribute shall carry a list of
> (Utrancell or E-UtranCell or TA/LA/RA)..
>
> In case of RLF reporting, or RCEF reporting, the traceTarget attribute shall
> be null value, the areaScope attribute shall carry one or list of eNBs.
\- traceTarget: This attribute shall be present if Trace or MDT RLF or RCEF
reporting is supported.
\- areaScope: This attribute shall be present if MDT is supported.
\- triggeringEvent: This attribute shall be present only if Trace is
supported.
\- listOfMeasurements: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is
supported and the JobType attribute is set to ImmediateMDT.
\- reportingTrigger: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported
and the JobType attribute is set to ImmediateMDT and the ListOfMeasurements
attribute is configured for M1 (for both UMTS and LTE) or M2 (only for UMTS).
\- reportInterval: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported
and the JobType attribute is set to ImmediateMDT and the ReportingTrigger is
configured for PeriodicMeasurements
\- reportAmount: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported and
the JobType attribute is set to ImmediateMDT and the ReportingTrigger
attribute is configured for PeriodicMeasurements.
\- eventThreshold: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported
and the JobType attribute is set to ImmediateMDT and the ReportTrigger
attribute is configured for A2EventReporting in LTE or 1F/1IEventReporting in
UMTS.
\- loggingInterval: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported
and the JobType attribute is set to LoggedMDT or Logged MBSFN MDT.
\- loggingDuration: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported
and the JobType attribute is set to LoggedMDT or Logged MBSFN MDT.
\- anonymizationOfMDTData: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is
supported and the mdtAreaScope attribute is present.
\- measurementPeriodLTE: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is
supported and the JobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace
and Immediate MDT and the listOfMeasurements parameter for LTE has either M4
or M5 measurement set.
\- measurementPeriodUMTS: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is
supported and the JobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace
and Immediate MDT and the listOfMeasurements parameter for UMTS has M6 or M7
measurements set.
\- collectionPeriodRrmUmts: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is
supported and the JobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace
and Immediate MDT and the listOfMeasurements parameter has any of M3, M4, M5
measurement set in case of UMTS.
\- collectionPeriodRrmLte: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is
supported and the JobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace
and Immediate MDT and the listOfMeasurements parameter has any of M2, M3
measurement set in case of LTE.
\- positioningMethod: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported
and the JobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace and
Immediate MDT.
\- measurementQuantity: This attribute shall be present only if MDT is
supported and the JobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combined Trace
and Immediate MDT and the reportingTrigger parameter is set to event 1F.
\- pLMNTarget: This attribute shall be present for management based activation
when several PLMNs are suppored in the RAN.
\- mBSFNAreaList: This attribute shall be present only if Logged MBSFN MDT is
supported and the JobType attribute is set to Logged MBSFN MDT. This is
applicable only for eUTRAN.
### 5.3.2 TraceRecord
### 5.3.2.1 Definition
TraceRecord is the representation of the files containing the logged
information from the Trace Recording Sessions.
#### 5.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
fileName + M M -
* * *
### 5.3.3 TraceIRP
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
TraceIRPis the representation of the trace management capabilities specified
by the present document. This IOC inherits from ManagedGenericIRP IOC
specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [8].
### 5.3.4 ManagedEntity
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
In case of Signalling Based Activation the ManagedEntity represents the role
that can be played by an instance of one of the following IOCs:
\- HssFunction
\- MscServerFunction
\- SgsnFunction
\- MmeFunction
In case of Management Based Activation the ManagedEntity represents the role
that can be played by an instance of the following IOCs:
\- HssFunction
\- MscServerFunction
\- SgsnFunction
\- GgsnFunction
\- BmscFunction
\- RncFunction
\- CscfFunction
\- MmeFunction
\- ServingGWFunction
In case of Cell Traffic Trace the ManagedEntity represents the role that can
be played by an instance of the following IOCs:
\- UtranCell
\- E-UtranCell
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
### 5.4.1 relation-traceIRP-traceJob (M)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between TraceIRP and the TraceJob.
#### 5.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theTraceIRP It represents the TraceIRP theTraceJobList It
represents the TraceJobList
* * *
### 5.4.2 relation-traceJob-managedEntity (M)
#### 5.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between TraceJob and the ManagedEntity.
#### 5.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theManagedEntity The ManagedEntity, when playing this role,
represents the actual network resource instance, where a Trace Session is
activated. theTraceJob It represents the TraceJob
* * *
### 5.4.3 relation-traceJob-traceRecord (M)
#### 5.4.3.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between TraceJob and the TraceRecord.
#### 5.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theTraceJob It represents the TraceJob theTraceRecord It
represnts the TraceRecord.
* * *
## 5.5 Information attribute definitions
### 5.5.1 Definition and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | an | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | onymizationOfMDTData | level of | [9] | | | anonymization for an | | | | area based MDT. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | areaScope | It specifies MDT | List of | | | area scope when | cells/TA/LA/RA for | | | activates an MDT | subscription based | | | job. | MDT or area based | | | | Logged MDT. | | | For RLF and RCEF | | | | reporting it | List of cells for | | | specifies the eNB or | area based Immediate | | | list of eNBs where | MDT. | | | the RLF or RCEF | | | | reports should be | Cell, TA, LA, RA are | | | collected. | mutually exclusive. | | | | | | | | One or list of eNBs | | | | for RLF and | | | | RCEFreporting | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | co | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | llectionPeriodRrmLte | collection period | [9] | | | for collecting RRM | | | | configured | | | | measurement samples | | | | for M2, M3 in LTE. | | | | The attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | col | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | lectionPeriodRrmUmts | collection period | [9] | | | for collecting RRM | | | | configured | | | | measurement samples | | | | for M3, M4, M5 in | | | | UMTS. The attribute | | | | is applicable only | | | | for Immediate MDT. | | | | In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eventThreshold | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | threshold which | [9] , 3GPP TS | | | should trigger | 25.331 [11] , 3GPP | | | | TS 36.331 [12] | | | > the reporting in | | | | > case A2 event | | | | > reporting in LTE | | | | > or 1F/1l event in | | | | > UMTS. The | | | | > attribute is | | | | > applicable only | | | | > for Immediate MDT | | | | > and when | | | | > reportingTrigger | | | | > is configured for | | | | > A2 event in LTE or | | | | > 1F event or 1l | | | | > event in UMTS. In | | | | > case this | | | | > attribute is not | | | | > used, it carries a | | | | > null semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobType | It specifies the MDT | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | mode and it | [9] | | | specifies also | | | | whether the TraceJob | | | | represents only MDT, | | | | Logged MBSFN MDT, | | | | Trace or a combined | | | | Trace and MDT job. | | | | The attribute is | | | | applicable for | | | | Trace, MDT, RCEF and | | | | RLF reporting. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | listOfInterfaces | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | interfaces that need | [9] | | | to be traced in the | | | | given | | | | Manag | | | | edEntityFunction.The | | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Trace. In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | listOfMeasurements | It specifies the UE | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | measurements that | [9] | | | shall be collected | | | | in an Immediate MDT | | | | job. The attribute | | | | is applicable only | | | | for Immediate MDT. | | | | In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | listOfNETypes | It specifies in | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | which type of | [9] | | | ManagedFunction the | | | | trace should be | | | | activated. The | | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Trace with | | | | Signalling Based | | | | Trace activation. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | loggingDuration | It specifies how | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | long the MDT | [9] | | | configuration is | | | | valid at the UE in | | | | case of Logged MDT. | | | | The attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Logged MDT and | | | | Logged MBSFN MDT. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | loggingInterval | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | periodicty for | [9], 3GPP TS | | | Logged MDT. The | 25.331 [11] , 3GPP | | | attribute is | TS 36.331 [12] | | | applicable only for | | | | Logged MDT and | | | | Logged MBSFN MDT. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measurementPeriodLTE | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | measurement period | [9] | | | for the Data Volume | | | | and Scheduled IP | | | | throughput | | | | measurements for MDT | | | | taken by the eNB. | | | | The attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | m | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | easurementPeriodUMTS | measurement period | [9] | | | for the Data Volume | | | | and Throughput | | | | measurements for MDT | | | | taken by RNC. The | | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measurementQuantity | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | measurements that | [9] | | | are collected in an | | | | MDT job for a UMTS | | | | MDT configured for | | | | event triggered | | | | reporting. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pLMNTarget | It specifies which | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | PLMN that the | [9] | | | subscriber of the | | | | session to be | | | | recorded uses as | | | | selected PLMN. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | positionigMethod | It specifies what | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | positioning method | [9] | | | should be used in | | | | the MDT job. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportAmount | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | number of | [9] | | | measurement reports | | | | that shall be taken | | | | for periodic | | | | reporting while the | | | | UE is in connected. | | | | The attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT and | | | | when | | | | reportingTrigger is | | | | configured for | | | | periodical | | | | measurements. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportInterval | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | interval between the | [9] | | | periodical | | | | measurements that | | | | shall be taken when | | | | the UE is in | | | | connected mode. The | | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT and | | | | when | | | | reportingTrigger is | | | | configured for | | | | periodical | | | | measurements. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportingTrigger | It specifies whether | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | periodic or event | [9] | | | based measurements | | | | should be collected. | | | | The attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT and | | | | when the | | | | listOfMeasurements | | | | is configured for M1 | | | | (for both UMTS and | | | | LTE) or M2 (only for | | | | UMTS). In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceCol | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | lectionEntityAddress | address of the Trace | [9] | | | Collection Entity | | | | within an | | | | IRPManager. The | | | | attribute is | | | | applicable for both | | | | Trace and MDT | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceDepth | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | trace depth of the | [9] | | | M | | | | anagedEntityFunction | | | | instances. The | | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Trace. In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceReference | A globally unique | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | identifier, which | [9] | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the Trace Session | | | | that is created by | | | | the TraceJob. | | | | | | | | In case of shared | | | | network, it is the | | | | MCC and | | | | | | | | > MNC of the | | | | > Participating | | | | > Operator that | | | | > request the trace | | | | > session that shall | | | | > be provided. | | | | | | | | The attribute is | | | | applicable for both | | | | Trace and MDT. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceTarget | It specifies the | The ID type may be | | | target object of the | IMSI or IMEI or | | | Trace and MDT. The | IMEISV or Public ID | | | attribute is | or Private ID or a | | | applicable for both | Cell or an eNB or a | | | Trace and MDT. This | RNC. The ID value | | | attribute includes | can be a string. | | | the ID type of the | | | | target and the ID | If the ID type is a | | | value. | Cell, the ID value | | | | can be identified by | | | | its DN id. | | | | | | | | IMSI, IMEI, IMEISV, | | | | Public ID, cell, eNB | | | | and RNC are mutually | | | | exclusive. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | triggeringEvent | It specifies the | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | triggering event | [9] | | | parameter of the | | | | trace session. The | | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | | | | Trace. In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mBSFNAreaList | The MBSFN Area | See 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | consists of a MBSFN | [9] | | | Area ID and Carrier | | | | Frequency (EARFCN). | | | | The target MBSFN | | | | area List can have | | | | up to 8 entries. | | | | This parameter is | | | | applicable only if | | | | the job type is | | | | Logged MBSFN MDT. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 6 Interface Definition
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="3.7006944444444443in"}
Figure 6.1: Class Diagram
## 6.2 Generic rules
\- **Rule 1:** each operation with at least one input parameter supports a
pre-condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 2:** each operation with at least one optional input parameter
supports a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where
\"xxx\" is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition
indicates that the operation supports the named optional input parameter.
Additionally, each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 3:** each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
NOTE: These rules are mapped at the solution set level. Pre-conditions and
exceptions, generated by these rules, need not appear explicitly in the
present document.
## 6.3 TraceIRPManagement (M)
### 6.3.1 Operation activateTraceJob (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This operation support IRPManager's request to create a TraceJob through
Itf-N.
Once the TraceJob has been created, the attributes of the TraceJob will not be
modified during the lifetime of the TraceJob.
One TraceJob can manage Trace Sessions in one or more ManagedEntity.
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | iOCInstance | M | ManagedEntity | It specifies | | | | .objectInstance | the DN of | | | | | ManagedEntity | | | | | instance where | | | | | Trace Session | | | | | is to be | | | | | activated. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | l | O | TraceJob.l | | | istOfInterfaces | | istOfInterfaces | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | listOfNeTypes | CM | TraceJo | It specifies | | | | b.listOfNeTypes | the type of | | | | | Ma | | | | | nagedFunctions. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | traceDepth | M | Trac | It shows the | | | | eJob.traceDepth | traceDepth set | | | | | to the Trace | | | | | Session. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | traceReference | M | TraceJob | It identifies | | | | .traceReference | the | | | | | TraceSession. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | traceTarget | M | Trace | IMSI or IMEI or | | | | Job.traceTarget | IMEISV or | | | | | Public ID or | | | | | Private ID or a | | | | | Cell(identified | | | | | by its DN id) | | | | | or an eNB or a | | | | | RNC. | | | | | | | | | | IMSI, IMEI, | | | | | IMEISV,Public | | | | | ID, Cell, eNB | | | | | and RNC are | | | | | mutually | | | | | exclusive. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | triggeringEvent | CO | TraceJob. | | | | | triggeringEvent | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | traceCollecti | CM,CO | TraceJo | It specifies | | onEntityAddress | | b.traceCollecti | the address to | | | | onEntityAddress | the Trace | | | | | Collection | | | | | Entity that is | | | | | associated to | | | | | the TraceJob. | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | 32.422 [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | jobType | M | T | It specifies | | | | raceJob.jobType | the type of the | | | | | TraceJob | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | areaScope | CM | Tra | It specifies | | | | ceJob.areaScope | MDT area | | | | | ( | | | | | Cells/TA/RA/LA) | | | | | where the | | | | | Logged MDT | | | | | measurements or | | | | | Logged MBSFN | | | | | MDT shall be | | | | | collected. | | | | | | | | | | It specifies | | | | | one or list of | | | | | eNBs where the | | | | | RLF or RCEF | | | | | reports shall | | | | | be collected. | | | | | | | | | | It specifies | | | | | MDT area (list | | | | | of cells) where | | | | | the Immediate | | | | | MDT | | | | | measurements | | | | | shall be | | | | | collected. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | lis | CM | TraceJob.lis | It specifies | | tOfMeasurements | | tOfMeasurements | the | | | | | measurements to | | | | | be collected | | | | | from the UE | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | r | CM | TraceJob.r | It specifies | | eportingTrigger | | eportingTrigger | the reporting | | | | | trigger (event | | | | | based reporting | | | | | or periodic | | | | | reporting) in | | | | | the UE. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reportInterval | CM | TraceJob | It specifies | | | | .reportInterval | the interval | | | | | between the | | | | | periodical | | | | | measurements to | | | | | be taken by the | | | | | UE. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reportAmount | CM | TraceJ | It specifies | | | | ob.reportAmount | the number of | | | | | measurement | | | | | reports to be | | | | | taken in | | | | | periodical | | | | | reporting in | | | | | the UE | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventThreshold | CM | TraceJob | It specifies | | | | .eventThreshold | the threshold | | | | | triggering the | | | | | reporting in | | | | | case of A2 | | | | | event reporting | | | | | in LTE or 1F/1l | | | | | event reporting | | | | | in UMTS. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | loggingInterval | CM | TraceJob. | It specifies | | | | loggingInterval | the periodicity | | | | | of Logged MDT | | | | | or Logged MBSFN | | | | | MDT. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | loggingDuration | CM | TraceJob. | It specifies | | | | loggingDuration | the duration of | | | | | the Logged MDT | | | | | or Logged MBSFN | | | | | MDT at the UE. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | anonymi | CM | T | It specifies | | zationOfMDTData | | raceJob.anonymi | the | | | | zationOfMDTData | anonymization | | | | | level of an | | | | | area based MDT. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | measu | CM | TraceJob.measu | It specifies | | rementPeriodLTE | | rementPeriodLTE | the measurement | | | | | period for the | | | | | Data Volume and | | | | | Scheduled IP | | | | | Throughput | | | | | measurements in | | | | | the eNB within | | | | | an Immediate | | | | | MDT job. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | measur | CM | TraceJob. | It specifies | | ementPeriodUMTS | | measur | the measurement | | | | ementPeriodUMTS | period for the | | | | | Data Volume and | | | | | Throughput | | | | | measurements in | | | | | the RNC within | | | | | an Immediate | | | | | MDT job. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | collecti | CM | Tr | It specifies | | onPeriodRrmUmts | | aceJob.collecti | the collection | | | | onPeriodRrmUmts | period for M3, | | | | | M4, M5 in UMTS | | | | | within an | | | | | Immediate MDT | | | | | job. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | collect | CM | T | It specifies | | ionPeriodRrmLte | | raceJob.collect | the collection | | | | ionPeriodRrmLte | period for M2, | | | | | M3 in LTE | | | | | within an | | | | | Immediate MDT | | | | | job. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | po | CO | TraceJob.po | It specifies | | sitioningMethod | | sitioningMethod | the positioning | | | | | method to be | | | | | used for the | | | | | Immediate MDT | | | | | job. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | meas | CM | TraceJob.meas | It specifies | | urementQuantity | | urementQuantity | which | | | | | measurement | | | | | should be | | | | | collected in an | | | | | event triggered | | | | | measurement | | | | | collection. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | pLMNTarget | CM | Trac | It specifies | | | | eJob.pLMNTarget | which PLMN that | | | | | the subscriber | | | | | of the session | | | | | to be recorded | | | | | uses as | | | | | selected PLMN. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | mBSFNAreaList | CM | TraceJob. | It specifies | | | | mBSFNAreaList | MBSFN Area(s) | | | | | for MBSFN MDT | | | | | measurement | | | | | logging. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (Success,
Failure, PartialSuccess)  
unsupportedList M List of \ | identification | | | | | of each | | | | | activated Trace | | | | | Session. | | | | | | | | | | If no | | | | | TraceReference | | | | | can be found, | | | | | then this list | | | | | is empty and | | | | | status is | | | | | \"Success\" | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Success, | The operation | | | | Failure) | may fail | | | | | because of a | | | | | specified or an | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reason. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.3.5 Notification notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure (O)
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
The TraceIRP notifies all subscribed IRPManagers and the Trace Collection
Entity (if its address is provided) if a Trace Recording Session in a
ManagedEntity has not been started due to any problem.
#### 6.3.5.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
TraceIRP.objectClass Notification header objectInstance M,Y
TraceIRP.objectInstance Notification header eventTime M,Y -- Notification
header notificationType M,Y \"notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure\"
Notification header systemDN M,Y -- Notification header notificationID O,Y --
Notification header traceRecordingSessionReference O,N -- The Trace Recording
Session Reference may be visible only in signalling based activation.
traceReference M,Y TraceJob.traceReference  
reason O,N --
* * *
#### 6.3.5.3 Triggering event
##### 6.3.5.3.1 From state
internalProblemInManagedEntity
* * *
Assertion Name Definition internalProblemInManagedEntity Because of an
internal problem the ManagedEntity cannot start a Trace Recording Session.
* * *
##### 6.3.5.3.2 To state
newNotificationReported
* * *
Assertion Name Definition newNotificationReported The \"
notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure \" notification is emitted to the
subscribed IRPManager(s).
* * *
### 6.3.6 Notification notifyTraceSessionLocalActivation (M)
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
The TraceIRP notifies all subscribed IRPManagers if a Trace Session is
configured by the Element Manager.
#### 6.3.6.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
TraceIRP.objectClass Notification header objectInstance M,Y
TraceIRP.objectInstance Notification header eventTime M,Y -- Notification
header notificationType M,Y \"notifyTraceSessionLocalActivation\" Notification
header systemDN M,Y -- Notification header notificationID O,Y -- Notification
header traceReference M,Y TraceJob.traceReference  
traceTarget M,Y TraceJob.traceTarget  
iOCInstance M,Y ManagedEntity.objectInstance
* * *
#### 6.3.6.3 Triggering event
##### 6.3.6.3.1 From state
unknownTraceReference
* * *
Assertion Name Definition unknownTraceReference The TraceIRP has detected a
traceReference associated to a Trace Session in a ManagedEntity that is not
initiated via the Itf-N.
* * *
##### 6.3.6.3.2 To state
newNotificationReported
* * *
Assertion Name Definition newNotificationReported The \"
notifyTraceSessionLocalActivation \" notification is emitted to the subscribed
IRPManager(s).
* * *
### 6.3.7 Notification notifyTraceSessionIdentities (CM)
#### 6.3.7.1 Definition
The TraceIRP or the MmeFunction notifies the Trace Collection Entity about the
identities of the subscriber and Equipment in case of tracing a session in
E-UTRAN only.
#### 6.3.7.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
TraceIRP.objectClass, or MmeFunction.objectClass Notification header
objectInstance M,Y TraceIRP.objectInstance, or MmeFunction.objectClass
Notification header eventTime M,Y -- Notification header notificationType M,Y
\"notifyTraceSessionIds\" Notification header systemDN M,Y -- Notification
header notificationID O,Y -- Notification header traceReference M,Y
TraceJob.traceReference  
traceRecordingSessionReference M,Y TraceJob.traceRecordingSessionReference  
traceTarget M,Y TraceJob.traceTarget
* * *
#### 6.3.7.3 Triggering event
##### 6.3.7.3.1 From state
FFS
* * *
Assertion Name Definition FFS FFS
* * *
##### 6.3.7.3.2 To state
FFS
* * *
Assertion Name Definition FFS FFS
* * *
#### 6.3.7.4 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition notifyTraceSessionIdentities Notification CM qualifier Tracing
is performed only in E-UTRAN
* * *
#