# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.501: Self-Configuration of Network Elements; Concepts and Integration
Reference Point (IRP) Requirements
**32.502: Self-Configuration of Network Elements Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS)**
32.503: Self-Configuration of Network Elements Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the Information Service (IS) part of the Self-
Configuration IRP (SCIRP).\ It describes the semantics of the information and
the interactions visible across Itf-N in a protocol independent way.\ The
information is specified by means of Information Object Classes (IOCs) and the
interactions by means of operations and notifications. The present document
does not specify the syntax (encoding) of the information.
The scope of this version of the TS is restricted to self-configuration of
eNBs.
The present documents also describes how already defined Itf-N functionalities
are used in the context of Self-Configuration.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TR 32.816: \"Telecommunication management; Study on Management of
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) and Evolved
Packet Core (EPC)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.501: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Configuration of
Network Elements; Concepts and Requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.532: \"Telecommunication management; Software management
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network Resource Model (NRM)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Services\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Services (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Network Resource Model (NRM)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TR 21.905 [1], 32.501 [6] and the following
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TS 32.501 [6], TS 32.101 [2], TS
32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1], in that order.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[4], TS 32.501 [6] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [4] and TS 32.501 [6].
DNS Domain Name System
# 4 Stage 2 descriptions
## 4.1 General
For the logical/Physical architecture of functional blocs and their
interactions see in TR 32.816 [5] and TS 32.501 [6].
## 4.2 Management and Monitoring of Self-Configuration
### 4.2.1 Usage of Itf-N
For specifically defined interface see 6.4.1.
#### 4.2.1.1 Usage of alarmIRP
AlarmIRP is re-used for alarm reporting of self-establishment.
Specific definitions:
##### 4.2.1.1.2 Usage of information object classes
No specific definitions.
##### 4.2.1.1.2 Usage of notifications
No specific definitions.
##### 4.2.1.1.3 Usage of notifications
For notification without sub-clause no specific definitions exist.
###### 4.2.1.1.3.1 Usage of notifyNewAlarm
The parameter "probableCause" shall use one of the values\
"softwareDownloadFailure" (already defined),\ "softwareInstallationError" or\
"softwareFallbackError" (the latter two values need to be introduced)
For parameter alarmType the value "ProcessingErrorAlarm" should be used.
Parameters trendIndication and thresholdInfo should not be used.
###### 4.2.1.1.3.2 Usage of
notifyObjectCreation/-deletion/-attributeValueChange
For notifyObjectCreation/-deletion/-attributeValueChange notifications which
are triggered by a self-configuration functionality the value SON_operation
shall be used for parameter sourceIndicator. The parameter
additionalInformation may indicate that this was triggerd by self-
configuration.
## 4.3 Inventory Update
### 4.3.1 Usage of Itf-N
#### 4.3.1.1 Usage of Inventory Management IRP NRM (32.69n)
The Inventory Management NRM IRP shall be used.
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 32.532 [7], information object class,
SwMCapabilities SwMCapabilities 32.532 [7], information object class,
SwMProfile SwMProfile 32.532 [7], information object class, SwMProcess
SwMProcess 3GPP TS 32.622 [8], information object class, Top Top 3GPP TS
32.312 [9], information object class, ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP
* * *
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
The diagram reflects the definitions in the text of the following clauses. In
case of conflict text takes precedence.
{width="6.429861111111111in" height="3.120833333333333in"}
The following UML diagram describes the objects required for ARCF.
{width="6.864583333333333in" height="3.6979166666666665in"}
## 5.2.2 Inheritance
The diagram reflects the definitions in the text of the following clauses. In
case of conflict text takes precedence.
{width="6.427777777777778in" height="7.332638888888889in"}
The following UML diagram describes the inheritance of the objects required
for ARCF.
{width="6.166666666666667in" height="2.6458333333333335in"}
## 5.3 Information object class definitions
### 5.3.1 ScManagementCapability
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
This object class is a sub-class of swMCapability and represents the
IRPAgent's capabilities in support of self configuration.
It is created by the IRPAgent and cannot be modified by the IRPManager.\ A
ScManagementCapability object is valid for a certain NE type or a set of NE
types. For an NE there shall be no ambiguity which ScManagementCapability
object is valid for the NE.\ Multiple ScManagementCapability objects may be
instantiated in the IRPAgent.
The object identifies\ a) the sequence of the self-configuration steps\ and
for each step\ a.1) the NE behavior in case the step does not perform
normally\ a.2) the possibility, whether before the step a stop point can be
selected, such that the self-configuration step is suspended and waits for a
request by the IRPManager to resume.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_1  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_4  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_5
* * *
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC swMCapability.
Additional attributes: None
#### 5.3.1.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyNewScManagementAvailability O
* * *
### 5.3.2 ScManagementProfile
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
This object class is a sub-class of swMProfile. It represents the IRPManager
decision related to self configuration.
A ScManagementProfile object is valid for a certain NE type or a set of NE
types.\ For an NE starting its self-configuration process (see ScProcess)
there shall be no ambiguity which ScManagementProfile is valid for the NE.\
Multiple ScManagementProfile objects may be instantiated in the IRPAgent.
By using this object the IRPManager decides which of the possible stop points
offered in scManagementCapability are used to suspend the self-configuration
process of the specified NE type (or set of NE types).
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_1  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_2  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_3  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_5  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_6
* * *
#### 5.3.2.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC swMProfile.
Additional attributes: None.
#### 5.3.2.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyScManagementProfileCreation M  
notifyScManagementProfileChanged CM Condition: Present if operation
changeScManagementProfile is supported. notifyScManagementProfileDeletion M
* * *
### 5.3.3 ScProcess
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
This object class is a sub-class of genManProcess . It describes the Self
Configuration process for an NE. It allows the IRPManager to be informed about
the current progress of the Self Configuration process and where stop points
are set. No intervention of the IRPManager is foreseen except to provide
indication to resume after a stop point was reached or to abort the self-
configuration.
When the automated management process for an NE starts, an instance of the
scProcess is created automatically.
The id of the scProcess shall be identical to the identifier of the NE and
identify the scProcess instance uniquely.
The steps in the stepInfoList shall conform to the content of the relevant
scManagementProfile instance.\ Examples:\ 1\. If the
stepsAndSelectedStopPointList of scManagementProfile indicates
stopPointCanBeSetBeforeThisStep=No for step X, then the entry for step X in
the stepInfoList of scProcess can only have the value stopPointIsNotSet .\ 2\.
All steps within the stepInfoList shall have the same
sequenceNumberInScProcess as in the scStepList of scManagementProfile.
When there is no relevant scManagementProfile at creation time of scProcess,
then the IRPAgent creates the scProcess based on the relevant
scManagementCapability. In this case preferably no stop point shall be set in
the self configuration process.
When the last step of the self configuration process is completed
successfully, the scProcess instance is deleted automatically.
When self configuration process is terminated by the IRPManager, the scProcess
instance is deleted automatically.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_3  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_4  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_2  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_4  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_5  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_6
* * *
#### 5.3.3.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC GenManProcess.
No additional attributes.
#### 5.3.3.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyScProcessCreation M  
notifyScProcessStage M  
notifyScProcessDeletion M
* * *
### 5.3.4 SelfConfigurationIRP
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
This information object represents a self-configuration IRP. It inherits from
IOC managedGenericIRP.
#### 5.3.4.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC managedGenericIRP.
Additional attributes: None.
#### 5.3.4.3 Notifications
All notifications inherited from IOC managedGenericIRP.
Additional notifications: None.
### 5.3.5 ENBLevelArcfData
#### 5.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents the eNB level data defined only for the ARCF Handling.
#### 5.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
identifierInArcfContext M - -
* * *
#### 5.3.5.3 Notifications
None.
### 5.3.6 EUtranCellLevelArcfData
#### 5.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents the E-Utran Cell level data defined only for the ARCF
Handling.
#### 5.3.6.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
identifierInArcfContext M - - cellIdentity M - - pci M - - pciList CM - -
qRxLevMin M - - threshXHigh M - - threshXLow M - - maxTxPower M - - tac CM - -
qOffSetCell M - - nrt CM - -
* * *
For the conditions relevant to the attributes with CM qualifier see §5.5.1.
#### 5.3.6.3 Notifications
None.
### 5.3.7 AntennaLevelArcfData
#### 5.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents the Antenna level data defined only for the ARCF Handling.
#### 5.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
identifierInArcfContext M - - antennaAzimuth M - - antennaTilt M - -
* * *
#### 5.3.7.3 Notifications
None.
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
### 5.4.1 relation-SelfConfigurationIRP-scManagementCapability (M)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SelfConfigurationIRP and
ScManagementCapability.
#### 5.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSelfConfigurationIRP It represents the
SelfConfigurationIRP. theScManagementCapability It represents the
ScManagementCapability
* * *
#### 5.4.1.3 Constraints
There is no constraint for this relationship.
### 5.4.2 relation-SelfConfigurationIRP-scManagementProfile (M)
#### 5.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SelfConfigurationIRP and
ScManagementProfile.
#### 5.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSelfConfigurationIRP It represents the
SelfConfigurationIRP. theScManagementProfile It represents the
ScManagementProfile.
* * *
#### 5.4.2.3 Constraints
There is no constraint for this relationship.
### 5.4.3 relation-SelfConfigurationIRP-scProcess (M)
#### 5.4.3.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SelfConfigurationIRP and ScProcess.
#### 5.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSelfConfigurationIRP It represents the
SelfConfigurationIRP. theScProcess It represents the ScProcess.
* * *
#### 5.4.3.3 Constraints
There is no constraint for this relationship.
### 5.4.4 relation-ScManagementCapabilites-scManagementProfile (M)
#### 5.4.4.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between ScManagementCapability and
ScManagementProfile.
#### 5.4.4.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theScManagementCapability It represents the
ScManagementCapability. theScManagementProfile It represents the
ScManagementProfile.
* * *
#### 5.4.4.3 Constraints
A relation can only exist between a ScManagementProfile and a
ScManagementCapability when
a) all steps which are entries in the stepsAndSelectedStopPointList of
ScManagementProfile have stopPointCanBeSetBeforeThisStep = Yes in the
stepsAndOfferedStopPointList of the ScManagementCapability.
b) nEInformation of ScManagementProfile is a subset of nEInformation of
ScManagementCapability.
### 5.4.5 relation scManagementProfile-scProcess (M)
#### 5.4.5.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between ScManagementProfile and ScProcess.
#### 5.4.5.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theScManagementProfile It represents the
theScManagementProfile. theScProcess It represents the ScProcess.
* * *
#### 5.4.5.3 Constraints
A ScProcess shall perform all self-configuration steps according to
stepsAndOfferedStopPointList of ScManagementProfile.
A relation can only exist between a ScProcess and a ScManagementProfile when
nEIdentification of ScProcess falls into nEInformation of ScManagementProfile.
## 5.5 Information attribute definitions
### 5.5.1 Definition and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | It identifies | | | | uniquely an instance | | | | of its object class. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nEIdentification | See 32.532 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nEInformation | See 32.532 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sw | See 32.532 | | | VersionToBeInstalled | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | stepsAnd | See 32.532 | See 32.532 | | OfferedStopPointList | | | | | | The following values | | | | for nameOfStep can | | | | be used additionally | | | | to those defined in | | | | 32.532: | | | | | | | | prepareBasicCon | | | | figurationAndOAMLink | | | | | | | | retri | | | | eveConfigurationData | | | | | | | | setUpPreConfi | | | | guredSignallingLinks | | | | | | | | setFinalStateOfNE | | | | | | | | All steps may be | | | | offered as stop | | | | points. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | stepsAndS | See 32.532 | | | electedStopPointList | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | scProcessList | This attribute | See individual | | | contains information | definitions of the | | | about the instances | list entry content. | | | of scProcess . Each | | | | entry in the list | | | | contains (SET OF): | | | | | | | | - id (of the | | | | process) | | | | | | | | - nEIdentification | | | | | | | | - stepInfoList | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | stepInfoList | See 32.532 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | suspendBehaviour | See 32.532 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | of | See 32.532 | | | feredFinalAdministra | | | | tiveStateInformation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | selectedFina | See 32.532 | | | lAdministrativeState | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swVersionTo | See 32.532 | | | BeInstalledOfferList | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | versionNumber | See 32.532 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | matchingP | See 32.532 | | | rofileIdentification | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | m | See 32.532 | | | atchingNEInformation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antennaAzimuth | Amount of change | | | | compared to the | | | | bearing of the | | | | antenna in degrees | | | | clockwise. | | | | | | | | For required | | | | coordination see | | | | MaxTxPower | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antennaTilt | The actual tilt is | See TS 32.642 | | | the sum of | | | | mechanicalOffset and | | | | retTiltValue in | | | | antennaFunction (see | | | | 32.642 [11]) | | | | | | | | For required | | | | coordination see | | | | MaxTxPower | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellIdentity | See 32.762 | See 32.762 | | | | | | | Required | | | | coordination: Unique | | | | in context of PLMN; | | | | component local cell | | | | Id needs to be | | | | unique in context of | | | | eNB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ide | This attribute | String | | ntifierInArcfContext | allows to identify | | | | the ARCF data set, | | | | e.g. in order to | | | | correlate it with | | | | the self-configuring | | | | NE. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxTxPower | maxi | See TS 32.762 | | | mumTransmissionPower | | | | in TS 32.672 | | | | | | | | Required | | | | coordination: Needs | | | | to be aligned with | | | | neighbor cells to | | | | fulfill operator | | | | policies like | | | | allowed coverage | | | | overlap, maximum | | | | cell radius etc. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nrt | Neighbor Relation | | | | Table. This is a | | | | structure of the | | | | following | | | | attributes: tCI, | | | | | | | | isRemoveAllowed, | | | | | | | | isHOAllowed | | | | | | | | Required | | | | coordination: | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pci | See 32.762 and | 0..503, see 32.762 | | | PhysicalCellId (TS | | | | 36.331) / | | | | PhysicalCellIdRange | | | | (TS 36.331) | | | | | | | | Required | | | | coordination: The | | | | finally chosen | | | | PHY-CID must be | | | | collision and | | | | confusion free. | | | | | | | | When changing this | | | | parameter a cell | | | | shutdown is needed, | | | | hence this will | | | | cause a service | | | | interruption. | | | | Therefore the number | | | | of reconfigured | | | | cells should be kept | | | | to a minimum | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pciList | See 32.762 and | 0..503, list | | | PhysicalCellIdRange | thereof, see 32.762 | | | (TS 36.331) | | | | | | | | Required | | | | coordination: The | | | | finally chosen | | | | PHY-CID must be | | | | collision and | | | | confusion free. | | | | | | | | When changing this | | | | parameter a cell | | | | shutdown is needed, | | | | hence this will | | | | cause a service | | | | interruption. | | | | Therefore the number | | | | of reconfigured | | | | cells should be kept | | | | to a minimum | | | | | | | | Condition: pci / | | | | pciList are not | | | | subject to ARCF if a | | | | distributed | | | | algorithm using the | | | | full pciRange list | | | | is available in | | | | IRPAgent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | qOffSetCell | QoffSet..... See | dB -24 .. dB 24 by | | | 36.304, 36.331 | step of 2dB | | | | | | | Required | | | | coordination: The | | | | finally chosen | | | | PHY-CID must be | | | | collision and | | | | confusion free. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | qRxLevMin | Q-RxLevMin: Miniumum | -70 .. -22 see | | | required receiver | 36.331. | | | level in the cell in | | | | dBm. See 36.331 | | | | | | | | Required | | | | coordination: Needs | | | | to be aligned with | | | | neighbor cells to | | | | fulfill operator | | | | policies regarding | | | | inter-RAT cell | | | | re-selection. Other | | | | parameters in the | | | | same context: | | | | threshX-high, | | | | threshX-low | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tac | Tracking Area Code | See 32.762 | | | (see 23.003, "tac" | | | | in 32.762) | | | | | | | | Required | | | | coordination: TAC | | | | assigned to new eNB | | | | must not be used in | | | | another MME pool | | | | area than the one of | | | | the new eNB. | | | | | | | | Changing TAC will | | | | cause a cell to | | | | shutdown and so it | | | | leads to service | | | | interruptions. | | | | | | | | Condition: TAC | | | | assigned to new eNB | | | | must not be used in | | | | another MME pool | | | | area than the one of | | | | the new eNB. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | threshXHigh | Threshold to | See 36.304 | | | reselect towards a | | | | higher priority RAT. | | | | See TS 36.304 | | | | | | | | Required | | | | coordination: See | | | | Q-RxLevMin | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | threshXLow | Threshold to | See 36.304 | | | reselect towards a | | | | lower priority RAT. | | | | See TS 36.304 | | | | | | | | Required | | | | coordination: See | | | | Q-RxLevMin | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 5.6 Common Notifications
None.
## 5.7 Void
# 6 IRP descriptions: Interface Definitions
## 6.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 32.532 [7], operation, listSwmCapabilities
listScManagementCapabilities 32.532 [7], operation, listSwmProfiles
listScManagementProfiles 32.532 [7], operation, createSwmProfile
createScManagementProfile 32.532 [7], operation, deleteSwmProfile
deleteScManagementProfile 32.532 [7], operation, listSwmProcesses
listScManagementProcesses 32.532 [7], operation, resumeSwmProcess
resumeScManagementProcess 32.532 [7], operation, swFallback swFallback 32.532
[7], operation, changeSwmProfile changeScManagementProfile 32.532 [7],
operation, terminateSwmProcess terminateScManagementProcess 32.532 [7],
notification, notifySwmProfileCreation notifyScManagementProfileCreation
32.532 [7], notification, notifySwmProfileDeletion
notifySManagementProfileDeletion 32.532 [7], notification,
notifySwmProcessCreation notifySManagementProcessCreation 32.532 [7],
notification, notifySwmProcessStage notifyScManagementProcessStage 32.532 [7],
notification, notifySwmProcessDeletion notifySManagementProcessDeletion 32.532
[7], notification, notifySwmProfileChange notifyScManagementProfileChange
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram representing interfaces
The diagram reflects the definitions in the text of the following clauses. In
case of conflict text takes precedence.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="4.270833333333333in"}
## 6.3 Generic rules
Rule 1: each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 2: Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports a
set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_yyy where \"yyy\" is
the name of the optional input parameter and the\ pre-condition indicates that
the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally, each
such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_yyy which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_yyy is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 3: each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 6.4 SCManagementOperations_1 Interface (M)
### 6.4.1 Operation listScManagementCapabilities (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to determine on the Itf-N interface in
which sequence the self-configuration steps are performed in NEs of a certain
type, what is done by the NE in case a step does not perform normally and
before which steps a stop point can be set, such that the self-configuration
step halts and waits for a continuation request by the IRPManager.
This operation imports from operation listSwmCapabilities defined in
32.532[7]. It delivers instances of scManagementCapability.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_1  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_4  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_5
* * *
#### 6.4.1.2 Input parameters
Same as operation listSwmCapabilities defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | c | M | sw | List of | | apabilitiesList | | m.scManagementC | scManag | | | | apabilitiesList | ementCapability | | | | | instances and | | | | | their content. | | | | | Each entry in | | | | | the list | | | | | contains: | | | | | | | | | | - Id of | | | | | scManag | | | | | ementCapability | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | of | | | | | scManag | | | | | ementCapability | | | | | | | | | | - optionally | | | | | s | | | | | wVersionToBeIns | | | | | talledOfferList | | | | | of | | | | | scManag | | | | | ementCapability | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | stepsAndOffer | | | | | edStopPointList | | | | | of | | | | | scManag | | | | | ementCapability | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | offeredFinal | | | | | AdministrativeS | | | | | tateInformation | | | | | of | | | | | scManag | | | | | ementCapability | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Result | M | swm.result | result=success | | | | | and empty | | | | | c | | | | | apabilitiesList | | | | | mean: No | | | | | instance found. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
Same as operation listSwmCapabilities defined in 32.532[7]. The entries in the
capabilityList refer to instances of scManagementCapability.
#### 6.4.1.4 Pre-condition
Same as operation listSwmCapabilities defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.1.5 Post-condition
Same as operation listSwmCapabilities defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.1.6 Exceptions
Same as operation listSwmCapabilities defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.4.2 Operation listScManagementProfiles (M)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to find out which instances of
scManagementProfile are valid for NEs of a certain type.
This operation imports from operation listSwmProfiles defined in 32.532[7]. It
delivers instances of scManagementProfiles.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_1  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_2
* * *
#### 6.4.2.2 Input parameters
Same as operation listSwmProfiles defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.2.3 Output parameters
Same as operation listSwmProfiles defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.2.4 Pre-condition
Same as operation listSwmProfiles defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.2.5 Post-condition
Same as operation listSwmProfiles defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.2.6 Exceptions
##### 6.4.2.6.1 exceptionName
Same s operation listSwmProfiles defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.4.3 Operation createScManagementProfile (M)
#### 6.4.3.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to establish an instance of
scManagementProfile to be valid for NEs of a certain type.
This operation imports from operation createSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_2
* * *
#### 6.4.3.2 Input parameters
Same as operation createSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.3.3 Output parameters
Same as operation createSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.3.4 Pre-condition
Same as operation createSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.3.5 Post-condition
Same as operation createSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.3.6 Exceptions
##### 6.4.3.6.1 exceptionName
Same as operation createSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.4.4 Operation deleteScManagementProfile (M)
#### 6.4.4.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to delete an instance of
scManagementProfile.
This operation imports from operation deleteSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_2
* * *
#### 6.4.4.2 Input parameters
Same as operation deleteSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.4.3 Output parameters
Same as operation deleteSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.4.4 Pre-condition
Same as operation deleteSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.4.5 Post-condition
Same as operation deleteSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.4.6 Exceptions
##### 6.4.4.6.1 exceptionName
Same as operation deleteSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.4.5 Operation listScProcesses (M)
#### 6.4.5.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to find out the status of one or several
scProcess instances.
This operation imports from operation listSwmProcesses defined in 32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_4
* * *
#### 6.4.5.2 Input parameters
Same as operation listSwmProcesses defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.5.3 Output parameters
Same as operation listSwmProcesses defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.5.4 Pre-condition
Same as operation listSwmProcesses defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.5.5 Post-condition
Same as operation listSwmProcesses defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.5.6 Exceptions
##### 6.4.5.6.1 exceptionName
Same as operation listSwmProcesses defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.4. Operation resumeScProcess (M)
#### 6.4.6.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to resume a self-configuration process
which currently has been suspended at a stop point.
This operation imports from operation resumeSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_3
* * *
#### 6.4.6.2 Input parameters
Same as operation resumeSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.6.3 Output parameters
Same as operation resumeSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.6.4 Pre-condition
Same as operation resumeSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.6.5 Post-condition
Same as operation resumeSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.6.6 Exceptions
##### 6.4.6.6.1 exceptionName
Same as operation resumeSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.4.7 Operation terminateScProcess (M)
#### 6.4.7.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to terminate a self-configuration process
which is currently ongoing.
After termination it is not possible to resume the terminated self-
configuration process again.
This operation imports from operation terminateSwmProcess defined in
32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_4
* * *
#### 6.4.7.2 Input parameters
Same as operation terminateSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.7.3 Output parameters
Same as operation terminateSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.7.4 Pre-condition
Same as operation terminateSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.7.5 Post-condition
Same as operation terminateSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.4.7.6 Exceptions
##### 6.4.7.6.1 exceptionName
Same as operation terminateSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.4.8 Operation resumeScProcessWithArcfData (M)
##### 6.4.8.1.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager deliver ARCF parameter values to a
IRPAgent which it had requested the notifycProcessStage notification and to
resume the self-configuration process which has been suspended at a stop point
and is waiting for the ARCF data.
At reception of this operation request the IRPAgent validates the received
ARCF parameter values. If the validation fails, an error is reported in the
operation's result.
This operation is an import of operation resumeSwmProcess defined in
32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] **REQ-ARCF-FUN-1**  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] **REQ-ARCF-FUN-2**  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] **REQ-ARCF-FUN-3**
* * *
##### 6.4.8.1.2 Input parameters
Same as operation resumeSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7]. In addition the
following parameters are defined:
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | valuesOfNeeded | M | List of | If the | | ­RadioParameter | | (radi | fileLocation | | | | oParameterName; | carries no | | | | | information and | | | | radio | IRPManager is | | | | ParameterValue) | providing | | | | | requested radio | | | | | parameters | | | | | values, then | | | | | this shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | requested radio | | | | | parameters | | | | | values. | | | | | | | | | | (For the | | | | | requested radio | | | | | parameters see | | | | | input parameter | | | | | listOfNeeded | | | | | RadioParameters | | | | | of notification | | | | | notify | | | | | cProcessStage). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | fileLocation | M | FileLocation | If the | | | | | valuesOfNeeded | | | | | RadioParameters | | | | | is carrying no | | | | | information and | | | | | IRPManager is | | | | | providing | | | | | requested radio | | | | | parameters | | | | | values, then | | | | | this shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | location of a | | | | | file where the | | | | | requested radio | | | | | parameter | | | | | values can be | | | | | found. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
##### 6.4.8.1.3 Output parameters
Same as operation resumeSwmProcess defined in 32.532[7], with the addition of
the possibility to indicate a validationError, see table below:
+---------------------+-----------+----------------------+---------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching Information | Comment | +---------------------+-----------+----------------------+---------+ | validationErrorInfo | CM *) | Information | | | | | indicating why | | | | | validation failed | | | | | and which | | | | | parameter/s could | | | | | not be validated. | | | | | Reasons for | | | | | validation error: | | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | rameterNotSupported, | | | | | InvalidParameter, | | | | | ValueNotSupported, | | | | | Mi | | | | | ssingParameterValue, | | | | | Confl | | | | | ictingParamterValue, | | | | | SemanticsError, | | | | | OtherError | | +---------------------+-----------+----------------------+---------+
*) Condition: result = validationError
##### 6.4.8.1.4 Pre-condition
irpAgentDoesNotKnowSomeArcfData.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition irpAgentDoesNotKnowSomeArcfData The IRPAgent does
not know some ARCF data.
* * *
##### 6.4.8.1.5 Post-condition
irpAgentKnowsTheArcfData
* * *
Assertion Name Definition irpAgentKnowsTheArcfData The IRPAgent knows the ARCF
data and has validated them.
* * *
##### 6.4.8.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | result and in case of a validation error | | | additionally validationErrorInfo. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
## 6.5 SCManagementOperations_2 Interface (O)
### 6.5.1 Operation changeScManagementProfile (O)
#### 6.5.1.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to change an instance of
scManagementProfile.
This operation imports from operation changeSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_6
* * *
#### 6.5.1.2 Input parameters
Same as operation changeSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.5.1.3 Output parameters
Same as operation changeSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.5.1.4 Pre-condition
Same as operation changeSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.5.1.5 Post-condition
Same as operation changeSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.5.1.6 Exceptions
##### 6.5.1.6.1 exceptionName
Same as operation changeSwmProfile defined in 32.532[7].
## 6.6 SCManagementNotification_1 Interface (M)
### 6.6.1 Notification notifyScManagementProfileCreation (M)
#### 6.6.1.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about a creation of an instance of IOC
scManagementProfile.
This operation imports from notification notifySwmProfileCreation defined in
32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_2  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_3
* * *
#### 6.6.1.2 Input parameters
Same as notification notifySwmProfileCreation defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.6.1.3 Triggering event
##### 6.6.1.3.1 From state
Same as notification notifySwmProfileCreation defined in 32.532[7].
##### 6.6.1.3.2 To state
Same as notification notifySwmProfileCreation defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.6.2 Notification notifyScManagementProfileDeletion (M)
#### 6.6.2.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the deletion of an instance of IOC
scManagementProfile.
This operation imports from notification notifySwmProfileDeletion defined in
32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMAN_FUN_2  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_3
* * *
#### 6.6.2.2 Input parameters
Same as notification notifySwmProfileDeletion defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.6.2.3 Triggering event
##### 6.6.2.3.1 From state
Same as notification notifySwmProfileDeletion defined in 32.532[7].
##### 6.6.2.3.2 To state
Same as notification notifySwmProfileDeletion defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.6.3 Notification notifyScProcessCreation (M)
#### 6.6.3.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the creation of an instance of IOC
scProcess.
This operation imports from notification notifySwmProcessCreation defined in
32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_5  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_6
* * *
#### 6.6.3.2 Input parameters
Same as notification notifySwmProcessCreation defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.6.3.3 Triggering event
##### 6.6.3.3.1 From state
Same as notification notifySwmProcessCreation defined in 32.532[7].
##### 6.6.3.3.2 To state
Same as notification notifySwmProcessCreation defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.6.4 Notification notifyScProcessStage (M)
#### 6.6.4.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about progress of a self configuration.
It also reports the arrival at a stopPoint (stepProgress of a step in
stepInfoList changed value to awaitingResume) or leaving a stop point
(stepProgress of a step in stepInfoList changed value from awaitingResume ).
This notification also can carry
a request for radio parameters values that are needed to complete the radio
configuration;
information which can be relevant for IRPManager to determine the values of
the radio parameters requested and
a time limit within which the IRPManager must supply the requested radio
parameters values, otherwise, the process will be terminated.
This notification is an import of from notification notifySwmProcessStage
defined in 32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_2  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_5  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_6  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCOCE_FUN_2
* * *
#### 6.6.4.2 Input parameters
Same as notification notifySwmProcessStage defined in 32.532[7]. In addition,
the following parameters are defined:
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameters | Qualifiers | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | listOfNeeded | O,N | -- | This list | | RadioParameters | | | specifies a | | | | | list of radio | | | | | parameters | | | | | whose values | | | | | are needed. | | | | | | | | | | If this list is | | | | | empty, then all | | | | | radio | | | | | parameters | | | | | values are | | | | | requested. | | | | | | | | | | If this list | | | | | carries no | | | | | information, | | | | | then no radio | | | | | parameter value | | | | | is requested. | | | | | | | | | | For possible | | | | | radio | | | | | parameters see | | | | | TS 32.501 [6] | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | inputF | O,N | -- | This parameter | | orRadioParamete | | | carries | | r­Determination | | | information | | | | | which | | | | | IRPManager may | | | | | use to select | | | | | the values for | | | | | listOfNeededR | | | | | adioParameters. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | listOfNeeded | | | | | RadioParameters | | | | | carries no | | | | | information, | | | | | then this | | | | | parameter shall | | | | | also carry no | | | | | information or | | | | | not be present. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
If this notification is used to ask for ARCF data, then the
listOfNeededRadioParameters shall be present,
inputForRadioParameterDetermination may be present.
#### 6.6.4.3 Triggering event
##### 6.6.4.3.1 From state
* * *
* * *
Same as notification notifySwmProcessStage defined in 32.532[7].
##### 6.6.4.3.2 To state
Same as notification notifySwmProcessStage defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.6.5 Notification notifyScProcessDeletion (M)
#### 6.6.5.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the deletion of an instance of IOC
scProcess and what triggered the deletion.
IRPAgent shall also send out this notification in case of a process
termination caused by an exception, for example IRP Agent terminates the
process because it had to wait too long after a suspend operation.
This operation imports from notification notifySwmProcessDeletion defined in
32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCMON_FUN_5  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_6
* * *
#### 6.6.5.2 Input parameters
Same as notification notifySwmProcessDeletion defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.6.5.3 Triggering event
##### 6.6.5.3.1 From state
Same as notification notifySwmProcessDeletion defined in 32.532[7].
##### 6.6.5.3.2 To state
Same as notification notifySwmProcessDeletion defined in 32.532[7].
### 6.6.6 Notification notifyNewScManagementCapabilityAvailability (M)
#### 6.6.6.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the availability of a new
scManagementCapability instance.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_5
* * *
#### 6.6.6.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment
Id M,Y swm.id See 32.532
nEInformation M,Y swm.nEInformation See 32.532
stepsAndOfferedStopPointList M,N swm.stepsAndOfferedStopPointList See 32.5325
offeredFinalAdministrative\ M,N swm.\ See 32.532 StateInformation
offeredFinalAdministrative StateInformation
swVersionToBeInstalledOfferList CM, N swVersionToBeInstalledOfferList See
32.532
* * *
*) See 32.532 §4.3.4.2
#### 6.6.6.3 Triggering event
##### 6.6.6.3.1 From state
* * *
Assertion Name Definition newCapabilityAvailable A new self-configuration
capability is available.
* * *
##### 6.6.6.3.2 To state
* * *
Assertion Name Definition irpManagersInformed IRPManager are informed about
the new capabily.
* * *
## 6.7 SCManagementNotification_2 Interface (O)
### 6.7.1 Notification notifyScManagementProfileChange (O)
#### 6.7.1.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about a change of an instance of IOC
scManagementProfile.
This operation imports from notification notifySwmProfileChange defined in
32.532[7].
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] REQ_SCSW_FUN_6
* * *
#### 6.7.1.2 Input parameters
Same as notification notifySwmProfileChange defined in 32.532[7].
#### 6.7.1.3 Triggering event
##### 6.7.1.3.1 From state
Same as notification notifySwmProfileChange defined in 32.532[7].
##### 6.7.1.3.2 To state
Same as notification notifySwmProfileChange defined in 32.532[7].
## 6.8 Operations to transport ARCF data (M)
The following three options are defined to allow the transport of ARCF data
(see [6]). At least one option needs to be supported for ARCF.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.501 [6] **REQ-ARCF-FUN-1**  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] **REQ-ARCF-FUN-2**  
3GPP TS 32.501 [6] **REQ-ARCF-FUN-3**
* * *
### 6.8.1 Operation resumeScProcessWithArcfData (O)
See §6.4.8
### 6.8.2 Re-use of bulk CM IRP (O)
In order to transfer the ARCF data to the IRPAgent the IRPManager can use the
operations download, pre-activate and activate defined in the Bulk CM IRP
[10].
For validation of the ARCF data transferred via Bulk CM IRP operations, the
operation validate (see [10]) may be used.
### 6.8.3 Re-use of FT IRP (O)
In order to transfer the ARCF data to the IRPAgent the IRPManager can use the
File Transfer IRP [12].
#