# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.611: \"Configuration Management (CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Requirements\".
**32.612: \"Configuration Management (CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS)\".**
32.616: \"Configuration Management (CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Element (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service. The CM actions
are initiated either as a single actions on single NEs of the 3G network or as
part of a complex procedure involving actions on many resources/objects in one
or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document (Bulk Configuration Management IRP: Information Service)
defines a number of Integration Reference Point (IRP) through which an
\'IRPAgent\' (typically an Element Manager or Network Element) can communicate
bulk Configuration Management related information to one or several
\'IRPManagers\' (typically Network Managers).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.652: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.632: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Core Network Resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.692 \"Inventory Management (IM) network resource Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Network Resource Model (NRM)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.742: \"Configuration Management (CM); Signalling Transport
Network (STN) interface Network Resource Model (NRM)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.712: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Transport Network (TN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.732: **\"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".**
[16] 3GPP TS 32.172: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
(SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.722: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Repeater network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP);
information Service (IS)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 32.762: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): **Information Service (IS)** \".
[19] 3GPP TS 32.752: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): **Information
Service (IS)** \".
[20] 3GPP TS 32.522: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
**Information Service (IS)** \".
[21] 3GPP TS 32.772: \"Telecommunication management; Home Node B (HNB)
Subsystem (HNS); Network Resource Model (NRM); Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[22] 3GPP TS 32.782: \"Telecommunication management; Home enhanced Node B
(HeNB) Subsystem (HeNS); Network Resource Model (NRM); Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [8].
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) [name bindings]{.underline},
(2) [reference attributes]{.underline}, and
(3) [association objects]{.underline}.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams). Currently (in R99) however, all (non-
containment) associations are modelled. by means of reference attributes of
the participating MOs.
**Data:** is any information or set of information required to give software
or equipment or combinations thereof a specific state of functionality.
**Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of Network Elements (NEs). These
functions can be divided into two main categories:
  * _Element Management Functions_ for management of NEs on an individual basis. These are basically the same functions as supported by the corresponding local terminals.
  * _Sub-Network Management Functions_ that are related to a network model for a set of NEs constituting a clearly defined sub-network, which may include relations between the NEs. This model enables additional functions on the sub-network level (typically in the areas of network topology presentation, alarm correlation, service impact analysis and circuit provisioning).
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [6].
**IRP Information Service (IS):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRP Network Resource Model (NRM):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRP Solution Set (SS):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**Managed Element (ME)** : An instance of the Managed Object Class
G3ManagedElement/ManagedElement.
**Managed Object (MO)** : In the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is
instance of a MO class defined in a MIM/NRM. An MO class has
[attributes]{.underline} that provide information used to characterize the
objects that belong to the class (the term \"attribute \" is taken from TMN
and corresponds to a \"property \" according to CIM). Furthermore, a MO class
can have [operations]{.underline} that represent the behaviour relevant for
that class (the term \"operation \" is taken from TMN and corresponds to a
\"method \" according to CIM). An MO class may support
[notifications]{.underline} that provide information about an event occurrence
within a network resource.
**Managed Object Class (MOC):** a description of all the common
characteristics for a number of MOs, such as their attributes, operations,
notifications and behaviour.
**Managed Object Instance (MOI):** an instance of a MOC, which is the same as
a MO as described above.
**Management Information Base (MIB)** : A MIB is an instance of an NRM and has
some values on the defined attributes and associations specific for that
instance. In the context of the present document , a MIB consist of (1) a Name
space (describing the MO containment hierarchy in the MIB through
Distinguished Names), (2) a number of Managed Objects with their attributes
and (3) a number of Associations between these MOs. Also note that TMN (X.710
[7]) defines a concept of a [Management Information Tree]{.underline} (also
known as a Naming Tree) that corresponds to the name space (containment
hierarchy) portion of this MIB definition. Figure 3.1 depicts the
relationships between a Name space and a number of participating MOs (the
shown association is of a non-containment type)
Figure 3.1: Relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : Also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below. There is a slight difference between the meaning of MIM and
NRM -- the term MIM is generic and can be used to denote any type of
management model, while NRM denotes the model of the actual managed
telecommunications Network Resources (NRs).
**Name space** : A name space is a collection of names. The IRP name
convention [7] restricts the name space to a hierarchical containment
structure, including its simplest form - the one-level, flat name space. All
Managed Objects in a MIB shall be included in the corresponding name space and
the MIB/name space shall only support a strict hierarchical containment
structure (with one root object). A Managed Object that contains another is
said to be the superior (parent); the contained Managed Object is referred to
as the subordinate (child). The parent of all MOs in a single name space is
called a Local Root. The ultimate parent of all MOs of all managed systems is
called the Global Root.
**Network Element (NE):** is a discrete telecommunications entity, which can
be, managed over a specific interface e.g. the RNC.
**Network Manager (NM)** : provides a package of end-user functions with the
responsibility for the management of a network, mainly as supported by the
EM(s) but it may also involve direct access to the NEs. All communication with
the network is based on open and well-standardised interfaces supporting
management of multi-vendor and multi-technology NEs.
**Network Resource (NR):** is a component of a NE, which can be identified as
a discrete separate entity and is in an object oriented environment for the
purpose of management represented by an abstract entity called Managed Object
(MO).
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : a model representing the actual managed
telecommunications Network Resources (NRs) that a System is providing through
the subject IRP. An NRM describes Managed Object Classes (MOC), their
associations, attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as
\"MIM\" (see above) which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
**Operator:** is either a human being controlling and managing the network; or
a company running a network (the 3G network operator).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
IRP Integration Reference Point
MIB Management Information Base
MIM Management Information Model
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
TM Telecom Management
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
XML EXtensible Markup Language
# 4 System Overview
## 4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [13] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 4.1: System Context A
Figure 4.2: System Context B
## 4.2 Compliance rules
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for _operations_ , _notifications_ _and_
_parameters_ (of operations and notifications) please refer to 3GPP TS 32.150
[13].
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional attributes and
associations for Operations, in Solution Sets:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions must support normal
communication with an IRPManager with respect to all mandatory and optional
managed object classes, attributes, associations, operations, parameters and
notifications without requiring the IRPManager to have any knowledge of the
extensions.
Given that
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist,
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
## 4.3 Scope of Bulk CM Management Specification
Within the scope of the present document, it is specified how
BulkCMIRPsupports the monitoring and provisioning of NEs over Interface-N. It
is not within the scope of the present document to specify how BulkCMIRP and
the IRPAgent shall resolve any potentially conflicting CM management
activities that could arise from either multiple concurrent active IRPManager
management Bulk CM IRP sessions, any other IRP conflicting CM management
activities, or any CM management activities outside of the scope of an IRP and
interface-N. From a system perspective such potential conflicts need to be
guarded against, but how this is done e.g. operational procedures or
implementation specific recovery in an IRPManager or IRPAgent, is beyond the
scope of the present document.
NRMs for Bulk CM IRP are defined in other Network Resource IRP documents of
CM. All NRM IRPs that include SS-level XML definition are in the scope of the
Bulk CM IRP.
All NRM specifications define all the IOCs and attributes that can be
configuration managed by the Bulk CM IRP IS.
The types and number of NRM instances that can be managed by
SimpleUploadBulkCMIRP, ControlledUploadBulkCMIRP and BulkCMIRP are dependent
on network deployment scenarios. For example, an IRP instance may:
\- Manage instances of IOCs defined in CN NRM IRP, TS 32.632 [10] and in
Inventory Management NRM IRP, TS 32.692 [11];
\- Manage instances of IOCs specified in Inventory Management NRM IRP TS
32.692 [11].
All IRP instances in the above examples are compliant with this specification
since only their scope of management differs.
# 5 Modelling approach
See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] clause 10.
# 6 Information Object Classes
## 6.1 Information entities imported and local label
* * *
Label reference Local label 32.622 [4], information object class, Top Top
32.302 [3], information object class, NotificationIRP NotificationIRP 32.302
[3], interface, notificationIRPNotification NotificationIRPNotification 32.622
[4], [information object class, GenericIRP GenericIRP 32.622 [4], information
object class, IRPAgent IRPAgent 32.312 [9], information object class,
ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
This clause introduces the set of information object classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate capabilities contained by the IRPAgent. This clause provides the
overview of all support object classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these support object classes.
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relations
{width="3.254861111111111in" height="3.296527777777778in"}
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="2.1881944444444446in"}
## 6.3 Information object classes definition
### 6.3.1 SimpleUploadBulkCMIRP
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
It is the representation of the configuration management capabilities
specified in subclause 7.1.1. This IOC inherits from ManagedGenericIRP IOC
specified in TS.32.312 [9].
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
There is no additional attribute defined for this IOC besides those inherited.
#### 6.3.1.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifySessionStateChange M See 7.6.1.
* * *
### 6.3.2 ControlledUploadBulkCMIRP
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
It is the representation of the configuration management capabilities
specified by subclause 7.1.2. This IOC inherits from ManagedGenericIRP IOC
specified in TS.32.312 [9].
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
There is no additional attribute defined for this IOC besides those inherited.
#### 6.3.2.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifySessionStateChange M See 7.6.1.
notifyGetSessionLogEnded M See 7.7.1.
* * *
### 6.3.3 BulkCMIRP
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
BulkCMIRP is the representation of the configuration management capabilities
specified by subclause 7.1.3. This IOC inherits from ManagedGenericIRP IOC
specified in TS.32.312 [9].
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
There is no additional attribute defined for this IOC besides those inherited.
#### 6.3.3.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifySessionStateChange M See 7.6.1.
notifyGetSessionLogEnded M See 7.7.1.
* * *
## 6.4 Void
# 7 Interface Definition
Clause 7.1 specifies the operations and notifications.
In order for the IRPManager to receive the specified notifications, the
IRPManager must use the subscribe and unsubscribe operations defined in
Notification IRP [3].
The operations, upload, download, validate, preactivate, activate, fallback
and getSessionLog are performed asynchronously in that when the operations are
initiated, the BulkCMIRP of the IRPAgent returns an indication that the
requested activity has begun, and the IRPManager may release and continue with
other tasks. If the IRPManager has subscribed on event notifications, then the
IRPManager will receive a notification when the task requested in the
operation is complete.
The operations startSession, endSession, abortSessionOperation, getSessionIds,
getSessionStatus and getBulkCmIRPVersion,etc. are performed synchronously in
that the result of the operation is returned as a callback to the operation,
and the IRPManager will wait until the response is received before continuing.
Refer to clause 4.3 for system conditions that need to be potentially managed,
but are outside the scope of this document.
The operations and notifications of this document are specified and grouped
under Interfaces. To allow the flexible support of the necessary and
sufficient operations and notifications for various resources monitoring and
provisioning needs, the operations and notifications of this specification are
packaged to supporting various network management applications:
  1. BulkCM SimpleUpload, enabling upload of resource information by the IRPManager without explicit session control. This requires the following Interface and Notification specified in clause 7.1.1:
     * BulkCMPassive
     * BulkCMNotification_1
  2. BulkCM Controlled Upload, enabling a session controlled upload of resource information by the IRPManager. This requires the following Interfaces and Notification specified in clause 7.1.2:
     * BulkCMPassive
     * BulkCMSession
     * BulkCMNotification_1
     * BulkCMNotification_2
  3. BulkCM Controlled Upload & Provisioning, enabling a session controlled upload and provisioning of resource information by the IRPManager. This requires the following Interfaces and Notification specified in clause 7.1.3:
     * BulkCMPassive
     * BulkCMSession
     * BulkCMActive
     * BulkCMNotification_1
     * BulkCMNotification_2
## 7.1 Class Diagram
### 7.1.1 Operations and Notifications for Simple Upload
### 7.1.2 Operations and Notifications for Controlled Upload
### 7.1.3 Main Operations and Notifications for Controlled Upload &
Provisioning
### 7.1.4 Suboperations for Controlled Upload & Provisioning (of clause 10)
{width="6.595138888888889in" height="1.39375in"}
## 7.2 Generic rules
Rule 1: each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 2: Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports a
set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where \"xxx\" is
the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition indicates that
the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally, each
such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 3: each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 7.3 Interface BulkCMSession
### 7.3.1 Operation startSession (M)
#### 7.3.1.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to start a session state machine and
initialise temporary entities to be related with bulk data configuration
sessionId in the IRPAgent.
#### 7.3.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment sessionId M String
identifying the session Identifies the new session and process to be
associated with a bulk data operation e.g. upload or download.
* * *
#### 7.3.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M
ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed). indicates (a) operation is
successful and (b) operation failed because of specified or unspecified
reasons
* * *
#### 7.3.1.4 Pre-condition
sessionIdNotInUse
* * *
Assertion Name Definition sessionIdNotInUse No state, see clause 9. The
supplied sessionId is not already open in the BulkCMIRP.
* * *
#### 7.3.1.5 Post-condition
sessionStarted
* * *
Assertion Name Definition sessionStarted State = IDLE, see clause 9. The
BulkCMIRP has successfully opened the session and is ready to handle other
operations associated with the session.
* * *
#### 7.3.1.6 Exceptions
##### _7.3.1.6.1 operationFailed_
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### 7.3.2 Operation endSession (M)
#### 7.3.2.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to end a session state machine and
delete all temporary entities and their related bulk data configuration for a
specified sessionId in the IRPAgent. If a preactivation had been invoked,
endSession should release any internal local resources allocated for the
preactivation. The deletion will be rejected if the configuration state is in
a working state: e.g. uploading (including getting a log), downloading or
activating.
#### 7.3.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment sessionId M String
identifying the session Identifies this specific session and process
associated with an earlier bulk data operation e.g. upload or download
* * *
#### 7.3.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M
ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed). indicates (a) operation is
successful and (b) operation failed because of specified or unspecified
reasons
* * *
#### 7.3.2.4 Pre-condition
sessionInStableState
* * *
Assertion Name Definition sessionInStableState The supplied sessionId is open
in the BulkCMIRP and in not in a transition status as defined in clause 9,
table 1.
* * *
#### 7.3.2.5 Post-condition
sessionEnded
* * *
Assertion Name Definition sessionIdNotInUse No state, see clause 9. The
session is closed and the sessionId is no longer in use.
* * *
#### 7.3.2.6 Exceptions
##### _7.3.2.6.1 operationFailed_
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### 7.3.3 Operation abortSessionOperation (M)
#### 7.3.3.1 Definition
An IRPManager invokes this operation to request an IRPAgent to abort a
currently activate asynchronous operation. The abort will cause the session
state machine to exit the current state and enter a new state, see clause 9.
#### 7.3.3.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment sessionId M String
identifying the session Identifies this specific session and process
associated with an earlier bulk data operation e.g. upload or download for
which the abort is required.
* * *
#### 7.3.3.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M
ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed). indicates (a) start of abort
operation is successful and (b) abort operation failed because of specified or
unspecified reasons
* * *
#### 7.3.3.4 Pre-condition
operationInProgress
* * *
Assertion Name Definition operationInProgress The supplied sessionId is open
in the BulkCMIRP and an operation is in an 'in progress' state as defined in
clause 9, table 1.
* * *
#### 7.3.3.5 Post-condition
operationAborted
* * *
Assertion Name Definition operationAborted State changed from 'in progress' to
state as a function of the original state as defined in clause 9.
* * *
#### 7.3.3.6 Exceptions
##### _7.3.3.6.1 operationFailed_
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### 7.3.4 Operation getSessionIds (M)
#### 7.3.4.1 Definition
An IRPManager invokes this operation to request an IRPAgent to return a list
of all its currently open sessionIds.
#### 7.3.4.2 Input parameters
None.
#### 7.3.4.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment sessionIdList M List of
strings identifying sessions A list of all the sessionIds an IRPAgent
currently has open i.e. started with startSession and not ended with
endSession operations. status M ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed).
indicates (a) operation is successful and (b) operation failed because of
specified or unspecified reasons
* * *
#### 7.3.4.4 Pre-condition
None.
#### 7.3.4.5 Post-condition
None.
### 7.3.5 Operation getSessionStatus (M)
#### 7.3.5.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to request the IRPAgent to send the
current state of the bulk configuration data file operation. The IRPAgent
returns the current state. See clause 9.
This operation can be invoked in any session state and does not change the
session state.
#### 7.3.5.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment sessionId M String
identifying the session Identifies this specific session and process
associated with an earlier bulk data operation e.g. upload or download for
which the current status is required.
* * *
#### 7.3.5.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sessionState | M | List of | Indicates | | | | ENUM(Idle, | current state | | | | Upload In | of the | | | | Progress, | configuration | | | | Upload Failed, | data file | | | | Upload | operation. See | | | | Completed, Down | clause 9, i.e. | | | | Load In | will be one of: | | | | Progress, | | | | | Download | Idle, Upload In | | | | Failed, | Progress, | | | | Download | Upload Failed, | | | | Completed, | Upload | | | | Validation In | Completed, Down | | | | Progress, | Load In | | | | Validation | Progress, | | | | Failed, | Download | | | | Validation | Failed, | | | | Completed, | Download | | | | Preactivation | Completed, | | | | In Progress, | Validation In | | | | Preactivation | Progress, | | | | Failed, | Validation | | | | Preactivation | Failed, | | | | Partly | Validation | | | | Realised, | Completed, | | | | Preactivation | Preactivation | | | | Completed, | In Progress, | | | | Activation In | Preactivation | | | | Progress, | Failed, | | | | Activation | Preactivation | | | | Failed, | Partly | | | | Activation | Realised, | | | | Partly | Preactivation | | | | Realised, | Completed, | | | | Activation | Activation In | | | | Completed, | Progress, | | | | Fallback In | Activation | | | | Progress, | Failed, | | | | Fallback | Activation | | | | Failed, | Partly | | | | Fallback Partly | Realised, | | | | Realised, | Activation | | | | Fallback | Completed, | | | | Completed) | Fallback In | | | | | Progress, | | | | | Fallback | | | | | Failed, | | | | | Fallback Partly | | | | | Realised, | | | | | Fallback | | | | | Completed. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | | Indicates (a) | | | | | start of | | | | | operation is | | | | | successful or | | | | | (b) operation | | | | | failed because | | | | | of specified or | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reasons | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.3.5.4 Pre-condition
knownSessionID
* * *
Assertion Name Definition knowSessionID Session has been successfully started
(clause 7.3.1) and not ended (clause 7.3.2).
* * *
#### 7.3.5.5 Post-condition
None.
#### 7.3.5.6 Exceptions
##### _7.3.5.6.1 operationFailed_
+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------+
### 7.3.6 Operation getSessionLog (M)
#### 7.3.6.1 Definition
An IRPManager invokes this operation to request an IRPAgent to provide a log
of the results from activities associated with bulk data configuration file
sessionId operations.
This operation can be invoked in any session state and does not change the
session state.
#### 7.3.6.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment sessionId M String
identifying the session Identifies this specific session and process
associated with an earlier bulk data operation e.g. upload or download for
which the current log is required. logFileReference M String of complete path
of file and name. Specifies the address and file name where the result is to
be placed in the IRPManager. contentType M Boolean Identifies if retrieved
file should include (a) complete log including errors, (b) only errors.
* * *
#### 7.3.6.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M
ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed). Indicates (a) start of operation is
successful and (b) operation failed because of specified or unspecified
reasons
* * *
#### 7.3.6.4 Pre-condition
knownSessionID
* * *
Assertion Name Definition knowSessionID Session has been successfully started
(clause 7.3.1) and not ended (clause 7.3.2).
* * *
#### 7.3.6.5 Post-condition
sessionLogWrite
* * *
Assertion Name Definition sessionLogWrite The BulkCMIRP will begin to write
contents of log to the specified address and file.
* * *
#### 7.3.6.6 Exceptions
##### _7.3.6.6.1 operationFailed_
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
## 7.4 Interface BulkCMPassive
### 7.4.1 Operation upload (M)
#### 7.4.1.1 Definition
An IRPManager invokes this operation to request the IRPAgent to create a file
containing bulk configuration data (clause 10) and transfer the file to the
indicated globally unique data file reference.
IRPManager can ask for the file to be compressed. IRPManager expresses its
wish via the use of uploadDataFileReference input parameter.
The syntax of this input parameter, in particular how it can convey the
request for a compressed file using a specific compression format, is outside
the scope of standard. One suggested syntax would be the use of the file
extension or suffix, e.g. 'zip' of file.zip or 'ZIP' of file.ZIP or 'gz' of
file.gz to indicate the compressed file format used.
IRPManager and IRPAgent should have an agreement on the choice of file
compression format(s) used and the syntax of uploadDataFileReference and in
particular, how that syntax can indicate if the file is compressed and by
which file compression format. How that agreement is reached is outside the
scope of standardization
#### 7.4.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sessionId | M | String | This identifies | | | | identifying the | this specific | | | | session | session and | | | | | process | | | | | associated with | | | | | the requested | | | | | bulk data | | | | | upload. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | uploadDa | M | String of | This specifies | | taFileReference | | complete path | a globally | | | | of file | unique file | | | | | reference to | | | | | where the | | | | | specified scope | | | | | of bulk data is | | | | | to be uploaded | | | | | and stored. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | bas | M | Di | The DN of the | | eObjectInstance | | stinguishedName | MO where the | | | | | search (see | | | | | parameter scope | | | | | below) starts. | | | | | The DN is in | | | | | accordance to | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.300 | | | | | [7]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | scope | M | SEQUENCE \ | bas | | | | | eObjectInstance | | | | Note: Level | parameter. The | | | | contains valid | levels of | | | | information if | search that may | | | | NTH_LEVE | be performed | | | | L_SUBORDINATES | are: | | | | or | | | | | B | - BASE_ONLY: | | | | ASE_NTH_LEVEL | level | | | | is used. | ignored, | | | | | just return | | | | | the base | | | | | object; | | | | | | | | | | - BA | | | | | SE_NTH_LEVEL: | | | | | return all | | | | | subordinate | | | | | objects | | | | | that are on | | | | | \"level\" | | | | | distance | | | | | from the | | | | | base | | | | | object, | | | | | where 0 is | | | | | the base | | | | | object; | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | BASE_SUBTREE: | | | | | return the | | | | | base object | | | | | and all of | | | | | its | | | | | | | | | | subordinates | | | | | down to and | | | | | including | | | | | the nth | | | | | level; | | | | | | | | | | - BASE_ALL: | | | | | level | | | | | ignored, | | | | | return the | | | | | base object | | | | | and all of | | | | | it\'s | | | | | | | | | | subordinates. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | filter | M | See comment. | This parameter | | | | | defines a | | | | | filter test to | | | | | be applied to | | | | | the scoped | | | | | Managed | | | | | Object(s). If | | | | | the filter is | | | | | empty, all of | | | | | the managed | | | | | objects | | | | | included by the | | | | | scope are | | | | | selected. | | | | | | | | | | The actual | | | | | syntax and | | | | | capabilities of | | | | | the filter is | | | | | Solution Set | | | | | specific. | | | | | However, each | | | | | Solution Set | | | | | support a | | | | | filter | | | | | consisting of | | | | | one or several | | | | | assertions that | | | | | may be grouped | | | | | using the | | | | | logical | | | | | operators AND, | | | | | OR and NOT. | | | | | Each assertion | | | | | is a logical | | | | | expression of | | | | | attribute | | | | | existence, | | | | | attribute value | | | | | comparison | | | | | (\"equal to X, | | | | | less than Y\" | | | | | etc.) and MO | | | | | Class. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.4.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M
ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed). This indicates (a) start of
operation is successful and (b) operation failed because of specified (e.g.
IRPManager requesting a file compression format not supported by IRPAgent) or
unspecified reasons.
* * *
#### 7.4.1.4 Pre-condition
sessionIdle
* * *
Assertion Name Definition sessionIdle State as defined in clause 9. The
BulkCMIRP has successfully opened the session either explicitly (as in the
case of Controlled Upload, see 7.1.2, and Controlled Upload & Provisioning,
see 7.1.3) or implicitly (as in the case of Simple Upload, see 7.1.1) and is
ready to handle the first operations of the session or repeat this operation.
* * *
#### 7.4.1.5 Post-condition
uploadInProgress
* * *
Assertion Name Definition upload in progress State = UPLOAD_IN_PROGRESS, as
defined in clause 9. The BulkCMIRP has successfully started the upload of the
request configuration data.
* * *
#### 7.4.1.6 Exceptions
##### _7.4.1.6.1 operationFailed_
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
## 7.5 Interface BulkCMActive
### 7.5.1 Operation download (M)
#### 7.5.1.1 Definition
An IRPManager invokes this operation to request an IRPAgent to download and
administer a file containing bulk configuration data (clause 10). The IRPAgent
obtains the configuration data file from the indicated globally unique data
file reference.
IRPManager can first compress the file before invoking this download
operation. IRPManager uses the downloadDataFileReference input parameter to
indicate, among other things, if the file is compressed and if it is
compressed, by which compression format.
The syntax of this input parameter, and in particular how it can indicate that
the file is compressed by a specific compression format, is outside the scope
of standard. One suggested syntax would be the use of the file extension or
suffix, e.g. 'zip' of file.zip or 'ZIP' of file.ZIP or 'gz' of file.gz, to
indicate the compressed file format used.
IRPManager and IRPAgent should have a prior agreement on the syntax of
downloadDataFileReference and the choice of file compression format used. How
that agreement is reached is outside the scope of standardization.
For checks made during download see clause 7.5.6.
#### 7.5.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment sessionId M String
identifying the session This identifies this specific session and process
associated with the requested bulk data download. downloadDataFileReference M
This specifies a globally unique file reference from where the data to be
fetched and download from.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M
ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed). This indicates (a) start of
operation is successful or (b) operation failed because of specified (e.g.
IRPManager has compressed the file using a format not supported by IRPAgent)
or unspecified reasons.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.4 Pre-condition
sessionIdle
* * *
Assertion Name Definition sessionIdle State as defined in clause 9. The
BulkCMIRP has successfully opened the session and is ready to handle the first
operations of the session or repeat this operation.
validDownloadDataFileReference The downloadDataFileReference is valid. An
example of invalid downloadDataFileReference is: BulkCMIRP does not support
the file compression format indicated in downloadDataFileReference.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.5 Post-condition
downLoadInProgress
* * *
Assertion Name Definition downLoadInProgress State = UDOWNLOAD_IN_PROGRESS, as
defined in clause 9. The BulkCMIRP has successfully started the download of
the configuration data changes.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.6 Exceptions
##### _7.5.1.6.1 operationFailed_
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### 7.5.2 Operation validate (O)
#### 7.5.2.1 Definition
An IRPManager invokes this operation to request an IRPAgent to validate
previously downloaded bulk configuration data (clause.10), see clause 7.5.1.
Use of this optional operation enables an IRPManager to detect errors with
regard to the previously downloaded bulk configuration data before requesting
preactivation or activation. See clause 7.5.6 for scope and types of errors
attempted to be detected.
Specifying an activation mode is optional. There can only be one activation
mode for a session. If an activation mode is specified for the validate, it
shall be when the first validate operation is requested. If an activation mode
was specified for the first validate operation, it is not possible to change
the activation mode initially specified with any subsequent validate retries.
(If another activation mode is required; a new session, download, validate,
preactivate and activate should be started.). If no activation mode is
specified for the first validate, it cannot be subsequently specified with any
subsequent validate retries. (If specification of an activation mode is
required; a new session, download, validate, preactivate and activate should
be started.) If an activation mode is specified for the validate, it cannot be
specified for the preactivation or activation. If no activation mode is
specified for the validate operation, it cannot be specified for the
preactivation or activation. See also clauses 7.5.3 and 7.5.4.
Use of the validate operation shall have no influence on the fallback
behaviour of a session.
Invoking the validate operation shall not result in any of the suboperations
specified in the downloaded bulk configuration data being applied (clause 10).
The operation is essentially passive.
#### 7.5.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment sessionId M String
identifying the session Identifies this specific session and process
associated with the requested bulk data download. activationMode O Identifies
whether a specific activation mode is required. See also clauses 7.5.3 and
7.5.4. The valid choices are defined in the parameter table in clause 7.5.4.
* * *
#### 7.5.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M
ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed). indicates (a) start of operation is
successful or (b) operation failed because of specified or unspecified reasons
* * *
#### 7.5.2.4 Pre-condition
downLoaded
* * *
Assertion Name Definition downloaded State as defined in clause 9. The
BulkCMIRP has successfully opened the session and download had been attempted
or repeat this operation.
* * *
#### 7.5.2.5 Post-condition
validationInProgress
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validationInProgress State = VALIDATE_IN_PROGRESS,
as defined in clause 9. The BulkCMIRP has successfully started the validation
of the downloaded configuration data.
* * *
#### 7.5.2.6 Exceptions
##### _7.5.2.6.1 operationFailed_
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### 7.5.3 Operation preactivate (O)
#### 7.5.3.1 Definition
An IRPManager invokes this operation to request an IRPAgent to preactivate
previously downloaded bulk configuration data (clause 10) that may have
optionally been validated (clause7.5.3). The principal, but not mandatory,
functions of the preactivate operation is to validate the configuration data
changes in the context of current operational data and to pre-process the
configuration data changes. Use of this optional operation enables the
IRPManager to prepare the activation of the downloaded bulk configuration data
at the EM or NE level before requesting its effective activation. The actions
shall fall short of executing the bulk configuration data changes (clause 10)
in the network and impacting service. (The actions may for example be to
validate the configuration data changes in the context of current operational
data or to pre-process the configuration data changes). Performing such
actions prior to activate may help identify any potential problems prior to
executing the changes on a live a network and may minimise activation elapse
time. See also clause 7.5.6 for scope of checks during a session and
specifically for preactivate.
Specifying an activation mode is optional. There can only be one activation
mode for a session. If an activation mode is specified for the preactivation,
it shall be when the first preactivate or validate operation is requested. If
an activation mode was specified by validate it is not possible to change the
activation mode initially specified with any subsequent preactivate or
activate operations. If an activation mode was specified for the first
preactivate operation, it is not possible to change the activation mode
initially specified with any subsequent preactivate retries, activate or
activate retries. (If another activation mode is required, a new session,
download, validate, preactivate and activate should be started.) If no
activation mode is specified for the first preactivate, it cannot be
subsequently specified with any subsequent preactivate retries, activation or
activation retries. (If specification of an activation mode is required, a new
session, download, validate, preactivate and activate should be started.) See
also clauses 7.5.2 and 7.5.4.
See clause 6.2.4.3 for description of optional verification mode parameter and
associated checking.
Selecting a fallback option is optional. There can only be one fallback option
for a session.
If the option is selected it shall be initiated when the first preactivation
operation is requested. If a fallback option is not requested for the first
preactivation, it cannot be subsequently requested for repeated preactivations
or activations during the session. If the fallback option was requested, it is
not possible to change the fallback option initially selected with any
subsequent re- preactivate retries i.e. for a session it is only possible to
fallback to the configuration that existed when the first preactivate
operation was requested. See also clause 7.5.5. (If a new fallback
configuration is required a new session, download, activate and preactivate
should be started. The old session can be ended, prior to which fallback can
optionally be invoked).
Specifying how preactivate operation retries within a session shall be
implemented following a partially successful preactivation (e.g. repeat all
preactivation management actions or just the uncompleted delta of management
actions that did not previously complete successfully) is beyond the scope of
the present document. Only the IRPManager can initiate preactivate retries.
(The IRPAgent shall not initiate retries autonomously).
#### 7.5.3.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sessionId | M | String | Identifies this | | | | identifying the | specific | | | | session | session and | | | | | process | | | | | associated with | | | | | an earlier bulk | | | | | data download | | | | | that is | | | | | required to be | | | | | activated. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | v | O | | Selects the | | erificationMode | | | mode of | | | | | checking. One | | | | | of two choices | | | | | may be | | | | | selected: | | | | | \"full | | | | | checking\", | | | | | \"limited | | | | | checking\" (see | | | | | clause | | | | | 7.5.6.3). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | activationMode | O | | Identifies | | | | | whether a | | | | | specific | | | | | activation mode | | | | | is required. | | | | | See also | | | | | clauses 7.5.2 | | | | | and 7.5.4. The | | | | | valid choices | | | | | are defined in | | | | | the parameter | | | | | table in clause | | | | | 7.5.4. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | fallbackEnabled | M | | Indicates | | | | | whether or not | | | | | it is required | | | | | to initialise | | | | | and enable | | | | | fallback option | | | | | prior to the | | | | | preactivation. | | | | | | | | | | This option is | | | | | only open for | | | | | the first | | | | | preactivate | | | | | operation of a | | | | | session. For | | | | | any subsequent | | | | | preactivate | | | | | operation | | | | | retries within | | | | | a session the | | | | | fallbackEnabled | | | | | parameter must | | | | | be set to | | | | | indicate it is | | | | | not required to | | | | | initialise | | | | | fallback | | | | | otherwise the | | | | | pre-activate | | | | | operation retry | | | | | shall fail. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.5.3.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M
ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed). indicates (a) start of operation is
successful or (b) operation failed because of specified or unspecified reasons
* * *
#### 7.5.3.3 Pre-condition
* * *
Assertion Name Definition downloaded State as defined in clause 9. The
BulkCMIRP has successfully opened the session and download had been attempted
or repeat this operation.
* * *
#### 7.5.3.5 Post-condition
preactivationInProgress
* * *
Assertion Name Definition preactivationInProgress State =
PREACTIVATION_IN_PROGRESS, as defined in clause 9. The BulkCMIRP has
successfully started the validation of the downloaded configuration data.
* * *
#### 7.5.3.6 Exceptions
##### 7.5.3.6.1 operationFailed
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### 7.5.4 Operation activate (M)
#### 7.5.4.1 Definition
An IRPManager invokes this operation to request an IRPAgent to activate
previously downloaded bulk configuration data (clause 10) that may have
optionally been checked (clause 7.5.2 ) and/or been preactivated (clause
7.5.3). Activate means that operations specified in a previously downloaded
configuration data file, for example create, delete and modify of managed
objects are carried out on the live network i.e. mobile subscribers are
affected by the downloaded configuration data.
An IRPAgent may support an optional activationMode parameter. This enables the
IRPManager to indicate to the IRPAgent the preference for how the activation
shall be executed. One of two options may be selected: \"least service
impact\" or \"least elapse time\". If the \"least service impact\" option is
selected the IRPAgent shall optimise the execution of the activation in a way
that minimises disruption to network services. Elapse time to complete the
activation is of secondary importance. If the \"least elapse time\" option is
selected the IRPAgent shall optimise the execution of the activation in a way
that minimises the elapse time for completing the execution of the activation.
During the execution, disruption of network services is of secondary
importance.
See clause 7.5.6 for descriptions of checks made during activate execution.
Specifying an activation mode is optional. There can only be one activation
mode for a session. If an activation mode is specified for the activation, it
shall be when the first activate, validate or preactivate operation is
requested. If an activation mode was specified by validate or preactivate
operations, it is not possible to change the activation mode initially
specified with any subsequent activate operations. If an activation mode was
specified for the first activate, it is not possible to change the activation
mode initially specified with any subsequent activate retries. (If another
activation mode is required, a new session, download, validate, preactivate
and activate should be started.) If no activation mode is specified for the
first activate, it cannot be subsequently specified with any subsequent
activate retries. (If specification of an activation mode is required, a new
session, download, validate, preactivate and activate should be started.) See
also clauses 7.5.2 and 7.5.3.
If a preactivation had been invoked, successful completion of activate should
release any internal local resources allocated for the preactivation.
Selecting a fallback option is optional. There can only be one fallback option
for a session.
If the fallback option is selected it shall be initiated when the first
activation or preactivation operation is requested. If a fallback option is
not requested for the first activation or preactivation, it cannot be
subsequently requested for repeated activations or an activation following a
preactivation during the session. If the fallback option was requested, it is
not possible change the fallback option initially selected with any subsequent
re-activate retries or an activation following a preactivation i.e. for a
session it is only possible to fallback to the configuration that existed when
the first activate or preactivate operation was requested. See also clause
7.5.5. (If a new fallback configuration is required a new session, download
and activate should be started. The old session can be ended, prior to which
fallback can optionally be invoked).
Specifying how activate operation retries within a session shall be
implemented following a partially successful activation (e.g. repeat all
activation management actions or just the uncompleted delta of management
actions that did not previously complete successfully) is beyond the scope of
the present document. Only the IRPManager can initiate activate retries. (The
IRPAgent shall not initiate retries autonomously).
#### 7.5.4.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sessionId | M | String | Identifies this | | | | identifying the | specific | | | | session | session and | | | | | process | | | | | associated with | | | | | an earlier bulk | | | | | data download | | | | | that is | | | | | required to be | | | | | activated. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | activationMode | O | | Identifies | | | | | whether a | | | | | specific | | | | | activation mode | | | | | is required. | | | | | See also | | | | | clauses 7.5.2 | | | | | and 7.5.3. It | | | | | may be set to | | | | | indicate | | | | | \"least service | | | | | impact\" or | | | | | \"least elapse | | | | | time\" types of | | | | | activation are | | | | | required. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | fallbackEnabled | M | | Indicates | | | | | whether or not | | | | | it is required | | | | | to initialise | | | | | and enable | | | | | fallback option | | | | | prior to the | | | | | activation. | | | | | | | | | | This option is | | | | | only open for | | | | | the first | | | | | activate | | | | | operation of a | | | | | session. For | | | | | any subsequent | | | | | activate | | | | | operation | | | | | retries within | | | | | a session the | | | | | fallbackEnabled | | | | | parameter must | | | | | be set to | | | | | indicate it is | | | | | not required to | | | | | initialise | | | | | fallback | | | | | otherwise the | | | | | activate | | | | | operation retry | | | | | shall fail. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.5.4.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M
ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed). indicates (a) start of operation is
successful or (b) operation failed because of specified or unspecified reasons
* * *
#### 7.5.4.4 Pre-condition
downLoaded
* * *
Assertion Name Definition downloaded State as defined in clause 9. The
BulkCMIRP has successfully opened the session and download had been attempted
or repeat this operation.
* * *
#### 7.5.4.5 Post-condition
activationInProgress
* * *
Assertion Name Definition activationInProgress State = ACTIVATE_IN_PROGRESS,
as defined in clause 9. The BulkCMIRP has successfully started the activation
of the downloaded configuration data.
* * *
#### 7.5.4.6 Exceptions
##### _7.5.4.6.1 operationFailed_
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### 7.5.5 Operation fallback (M)
#### 7.5.5.1 Definition
An IRPManager may invoke this operation to request an IRPAgent to recover
(best effort) after a previously executed activation or preactivation
operation.
If a fallback is requested after a preactivation but before an activation the
IRPAgent should as necessary return any internal local resources impacted by
the preactivation back to the same state they were in prior to the
preactivation being invoked. There is no impact to the operational network
resources as the activate operation has not been invoked.
If fallback is requested after an activation the IRPAgent shall instigate
activating the fallback area to restore the operational network resources
impacted by the configuration changes for the session back to the
configuration they were in when the fallback option was selected during the
session. If a preactivation was also performed, as necessary the IRPAgent
should return any internal local resources impacted by the preactivation back
to the same state they were in prior to the preactivation being invoked.
Specifying how fallback operation retries within a session shall be
implemented after a fallback fails (e.g. repeat all fallback functions or just
the delta of fallback functions that did not previously complete successfully)
is beyond the scope of the present document. Only the IRPManager can initiate
the fallback operation. The IRPAgent shall not initiate fallback or fallback
retries autonomously. Within a session the fallback operation shall only be
accepted if an initial activate or preactivate operations was performed with
fallback option enabled. For further discussion of enabling or not the
fallback option see clause 7.5.4.
#### 7.5.5.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment sessionId M String
identifying the session Identifies this specific session and process
associated with an earlier bulk data operation e.g. upload or download for
which the current log is required.
* * *
#### 7.5.5.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M
ENUM(OperationSucceded, OperationFailed). indicates (a) start of operation is
successful or (b) operation failed because of specified or unspecified reasons
* * *
#### 7.5.5.4 Pre-condition
fallbackEnabled
* * *
Assertion Name Definition fallbackEnabled State as defined in clause 9. The
BulkCMIRP has successfully opened the session and fallbackEnables=True by
either, preactivate or activate operations being successfully invoked, as
defined in clauses 7.5.3 and 7.5.4.
* * *
#### 7.5.5.5 Post-condition
fallbackInProgress
* * *
Assertion Name Definition fallbackInProgress State = FALLBACK_IN_PROGRESS, as
defined in clause 9. The BulkCMIRP has successfully started the fallback.
* * *
#### 7.5.5.6 Exceptions
##### _7.5.5.6.1 operationFailed_
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
### 7.5.6 Validation and Checking Functions
#### 7.5.6.1 Download Checks
During download the IRPAgent should check the consistency of imported
configuration data against the data schema to ensure there are no errors. The
IRPAgent is not required to check the semantic of the downloaded bulk
configuration data during the download.
#### 7.5.6.2 Validate Checks
During validation the IRPAgent should check the syntax and semantic of
previously downloaded bulk configuration data.
#### 7.5.6.3 Preactivation Checks
During preactivation the IRPAgent should check the semantic of previously
downloaded bulk configuration data, and must also check the syntax if a
validate operation has not previously been successfully performed.
An Element Manager should, if technically feasible, send the configuration
data changes to all Network Elements (NE) for the NE to verify, to the extent
possible, that the activate will successfully execute the configuration data
changes. If any elements of configuration change data that will not
successfully execute are identified, diagnostic data identifying the NEs and
failing configuration data elements will be made available to the Manager.
An IRPAgent may support an optional verification mode parameter, see clause
7.5.2. When the IRPManager does not require extensive checking, this parameter
may be used to constrain the scope of validation to avoid performing checks
that potentially may require extensive real time to execute, for example
checks actively involving entities outside the IRPAgent such as NE\'s. The
validation mode parameter has two values: \"full checking\" and \"limited
checking\". In the \"full checking\" mode, the checking should be as complete
as possible with the intent of achieving the greatest assurance that the
subsequent activation operation will be successful. In the \"limited
checking\" mode, checking that can be performed by the IRPAgent rapidly is
still performed, but further checking that may cause significant delays to
execute should be omitted.
#### 7.5.6.4 Activate Checks
During the activation the same checks as for validate and preactivate should
be performed if these operations have not previously been successfully
performed. These checks may also be repeated if the context may have changed.
## 7.6 Interface BulkCMIRPNotification_1
### 7.6.1 Notification notifySessionStateChanged (M)
#### 7.6.1.1 Definition
The IRPAgent notifies the IRPManager that a state change has occurred on a
bulk -configuration data file sessionId operation subscribed to by the
IRPManager. E.g. a configuration data file is available for processing after
an upload, a download is complete. See clause 9 for a further description of
states.
#### 7.6.1.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifiers | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M, Y | ManagedEnt | Notification | | | | ity.objectClass | header - see | | | | | [3]. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M, Y | ManagedEntity. | Notification | | | | objectInstance. | header - see | | | | | [3]. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | O, N | This carries | Notification | | | | the semantics | header - see | | | | of notification | [3]. | | | | identifier. | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M, Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [3]. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C, Y | IR | Notification | | | | PAgent.systemDN | header - see | | | | where the | [3]. | | | | IRPAgent is | | | | | related to the | | | | | KernelCmIRP. | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M,Y | Mapped to | Notification | | otificationType | | n | header - see | | | | otificationType | [3]. For this | | | | in [3]. | notification it | | | | | indicates | | | | | notification | | | | | type is Notify | | | | | Session State | | | | | Changed. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sessionId | M, N | String | Identifies this | | | | identifying the | specific | | | | session | session and | | | | | process | | | | | associated with | | | | | an earlier bulk | | | | | data operation | | | | | e.g. upload or | | | | | download for | | | | | which the | | | | | current status | | | | | is required. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sourceIndicator | O, N | | This parameter, | | | | | when present, | | | | | indicates the | | | | | source of the | | | | | operation that | | | | | led to the | | | | | generation of | | | | | this | | | | | notification. | | | | | It can have one | | | | | of the | | | | | following | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | resource | | | | | operation: The | | | | | notification | | | | | was generated | | | | | in response to | | | | | an internal | | | | | operation of | | | | | the resource; | | | | | | | | | | management | | | | | operation: The | | | | | notification | | | | | was generated | | | | | in response to | | | | | a management | | | | | operation | | | | | applied across | | | | | the managed | | | | | object boundary | | | | | external to the | | | | | managed object; | | | | | | | | | | unknown: It is | | | | | not possible to | | | | | determine the | | | | | source of the | | | | | operation. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sessionState | M, N | ENUM(Upload | Indicates the | | | | Failed, Upload | state | | | | Completed, | transition that | | | | Download | caused the | | | | Failed, | Notification. | | | | Download | See clause 7. | | | | Completed, | i.e. : | | | | Validation | | | | | Failed, | Upload Failed, | | | | Validation | Upload | | | | Completed, | Completed, | | | | Preactivation | Download | | | | Failed, | Failed, | | | | Preactivation | Download | | | | Partly | Completed, | | | | Realised, | Validation | | | | Preactivation | Failed, | | | | Completed, | Validation | | | | Activation | Completed, | | | | Failed, | Preactivation | | | | Activation | Failed, | | | | Partly | Preactivation | | | | Realised, | Partly | | | | Activation | Realised, | | | | Completed, | Preactivation | | | | Fallback | Completed, | | | | Failed, | Activation | | | | Fallback Partly | Failed, | | | | Realised, | Activation | | | | Fallback | Partly | | | | Completed) | Realised, | | | | | Activation | | | | | Completed, | | | | | Fallback | | | | | Failed, | | | | | Fallback Partly | | | | | Realised, | | | | | Fallback | | | | | Completed. | | | | | | | | | | (Note: as per | | | | | clause 7.2 | | | | | \"in-progress\" | | | | | transition | | | | | states are not | | | | | notified) | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.6.1.3 Triggering events
State transitions as defined in clause 9.
## 7.7 Interface BulkCMIRPNotification_2
### 7.7.1 Notification notifyGetSessionLogEnded (M)
#### 7.7.1.1 Definition
The IRPAgent notifies the IRPManager that a requested GetSessionLog for a bulk
data configuration file sessionId operation subscribed to by the IRPManager
has ended successfully or unsuccessfully.
#### 7.7.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifiers | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M, Y | ManagedEnt | Notification | | | | ity.objectClass | header - see | | | | | [3]. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M, Y | ManagedEntity. | Notification | | | | objectInstance. | header - see | | | | | [3]. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | O, N | This carries | Notification | | | | the semantics | header - see | | | | of notification | [3]. | | | | identifier. | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M,Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [3]. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C, Y | IR | Notification | | | | PAgent.systemDN | header - see | | | | where the | [3]. | | | | IRPAgent is | | | | | related to the | | | | | KernelCmIRP. | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M,Y | Mapped to | Notification | | otificationType | | n | header - see | | | | otificationType | [3].For this | | | | in [3] | notification it | | | | | indicates | | | | | notification | | | | | type is Notify | | | | | Bulk CM Log | | | | | State. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sessionId | M, N | String | Identifies this | | | | identifying the | specific | | | | session | session and | | | | | process | | | | | associated with | | | | | an earlier bulk | | | | | data operation | | | | | e.g. upload or | | | | | download for | | | | | which Log State | | | | | is required. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sourceIndicator | O, N | | This parameter, | | | | | when present, | | | | | indicates the | | | | | source of the | | | | | operation that | | | | | led to the | | | | | generation of | | | | | this | | | | | notification. | | | | | It can have one | | | | | of the | | | | | following | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | resource | | | | | operation: The | | | | | notification | | | | | was generated | | | | | in response to | | | | | an internal | | | | | operation of | | | | | the resource; | | | | | | | | | | management | | | | | operation: The | | | | | notification | | | | | was generated | | | | | in response to | | | | | a management | | | | | operation | | | | | applied across | | | | | the managed | | | | | object boundary | | | | | external to the | | | | | managed object; | | | | | | | | | | unknown: It is | | | | | not possible to | | | | | determine the | | | | | source of the | | | | | operation. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | s | M, N | Boolean = | Indicates event | | essionLogStatus | | GetSessionLog | that caused the | | | | completed | Notification | | | | successfully or | i.e. | | | | GetSessionLog | GetSessionLog | | | | completed | completed | | | | unsuccessfully | successfully, | | | | | GetSessionLog | | | | | completed | | | | | unsuccessfully. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.7.1.3 Triggering event
Attempt to transfer session log to destinations completed successfully or
failed. Session state independent, see clause 9.
# 8 Void
# 9 State Machine
## 9.1 State Machine Overview
The Bulk CM IRPAgent state machine satisfies the following general
requirements and characteristics for Bulk CM IRP:
1) Each configuration session is associated with one state machine. The
session is identified by the sessionId. If a session is started (startSession
operation) an instance of the state machine is created. If the session is
ended (endSession operation) the instance of the state machine is deleted.
2) Under normal operation without errors the IRPManager is able to supervise a
configuration session by just monitoring the state change notifications
(notifySessionStateChanged) triggered by the IRPAgent
3) Under abnormal conditions where the IRPManager is not notified of a change,
the getSessionStatus operation can be invoked to determine current state of
the session. The IRPManager does not need to maintain a history of the state
machine.
4) On the IRPAgent there is only one download configuration data file (clause
10) associated with a session at a time.
5) Multi configuration session must be supported by the IRPAgent. E.g. it must
be possible to invoke an upload session in parallel with an active activate
session.
6) The IRPAgent resolves concurrency problems on a \"first come - first
serve\" basis. E.g. an upload and an activation requested on the same
configuration data cannot be performed at the same time and in this case the
first will be progress to completions and the second request rejected.
7) It must be possible to abort a configuration session within a transition
state.
8) The operator/IRPManager decides on whether or not enabling the fallback
option is required before requesting an activation or preactivation Enabling
the fallback option will maintain the disposition of the configuration before
the activation or preactivation . The fallback configuration information is
established at point before the first activation or preactivation is started.
If there is multiple activation or preactivation attempts during a session
only one (first) fallback configuration is maintained.
9) The session log file can be requested in any state. The uploaded log file
contains information which is specific to the configuration session.
10) Clause 7.3 defines the valid state machine pre and post conditions for
each operation.
## 9.2 State Machine Description
The IRPAgent progresses Bulk CM operations and associated configuration data
changes (clause 10) within a session according to the state machine defined
here. The IRPManager can manage a configuration session using session state
change notifications which are triggered by the IRPAgent. Not all state
changes defined here are notified to the IRPManager. The transition states
(UPLOAD_IN_PROGRESS, DOWNLOAD_IN_PROGRESS, VALIDATION_IN_PROGRESS,
PREACTIVATION_IN_PROGRESS, ACTIVATION_IN_PROGRESS) are not notified to the
IRPManager as they are not required.
If the IRPManager becomes unaware or needs to confirm the current state of a
configuration session it can request this by invoking getSessionStatus
operation. It is not required to know the history of the state machine. The
getSessionStatus operation will provide the \"actual \" current status.\ An
IRPManager may request the status when it detects loss of control, for example
because of the following reasons:
1) Session state change notifications are not being received as expected, e.g.
because IRPAgent is blocked in a transition state, e.g.
ACTIVATION_IN_PROGRESS;
2) IRPManager gets disconnected from the IRPAgent, e.g. session state
notification is not received.
The session state notification events are a considered a subset of the state
machine (without transition state). The actual configuration state can be
requested via getSessionStatus. Because of this common behaviour it is
reasonable to define one interface type for the state machine handling which
is used in the session state notification and in the getSessionStatus
operation.\ The IRPManager will only receive notifications if it registered
itself at the IRPAgent with the subscribe operation.
For ease of description the state machine of a configuration session is
introduced with the notion of substate machines but state itself is named
unique. This kind of notion is not to be interpreted as providing
implementation directions.
Within the description of the substate machines it is becoming clear that they
have the following state symmetries:
  * The state of the UPLOAD_PHASE, the DOWNLOAD_PHASE and the VALIDATION_PHASE are similar.
  * The state of the ACTIVATION_PHASE, PREACTIVATION_PHASE and the FALLBACK_PHASE are similar.
The startSession operation creates a state machine. The initial state of the
configuration session in the IDLE_PHASE is IDLE. The endSession deletes a
state machine which is not in a transition state, more details are defined in
the substate machines.
Figure 1: State Machine for Controlled Upload and Controlled Upload &
Provisioning
Figure 1a: State Machine for Simple Upload
The following figures describe the substate machine of a configuration
session. The transition states, DOWNLOAD_IN_PROGRESS, UPLOAD_IN_PROGRESS
VALIDATION_IN_PROGRESS, PREACTIVATION_IN_PROGRESS and ACTIVATION_IN_PROGRESS,
are either left implicit if the IRPAgent finished the processing or explicit
via an abortSessionOperation operation from the IRPManager.
In these figures solid transition lines indicate the transition is caused by
an external event and dashed transition lines indicate the transition is
caused by an internal event or decision as depicted in the following figure.
Figure 2: Depicting State Transition Lines for Internal and External Events
and Decision
### 9.2.1 Upload Phase
When the upload is triggered the IRP Agent writes the requested configuration
data into a configuration data file and copies to the file reference provided
by the IRP Manager. If the process succeeds the state UPLOAD_COMPLETED is
indicated. If the upload fails a retry can be triggered in state
UPLOAD_FAILED.
Once a session is associated with an upload none of the other state changes
phases outside of the upload phase, i.e., download, validate, preactivate and
activate phases cannot be triggered for the session.
Figure 9.2.1: Substate Machine - UPLOAD_PHASE
Figure 9.2.1a: Substate Machine - UPLOAD_PHASE_SIMPLE_UPLOAD
### 9.2.2 Download Phase
When the download is triggered the IRP Agent copies the configuration data
file (clause 10) from a given file area. The file is parsed and validated. If
valid the state DOWNLOAD_COMPLETED is indicated. If the download fails a retry
can be triggered in state DOWNLOAD_FAILED.
Once a session is associated with a download/validate/preactivate/activation
behaviour then an upload phase cannot be triggered within this session.
Figure 9.2.2: Substate Machine - DOWNLOAD_PHASE
### 9.2.3 Validation Phase
After a download had been completed the configuration data can be semantically
validated before being preactivated or activated into the real subnetwork of
an IRPAgent. (see clause 7.5.6.2). A best effort strategy shall be applied. If
validation was successful the state VALIDATION_COMPLETED is indicated. If the
validate fails a retry can be triggered in state VALIDATION_FAILED.
Figure 9.2.3: Substate Machine - VALIDATION_PHASE
### 9.2.4 Preactivation Phase
After a download had been completed and optionally validated the configuration
data can be preactivated before being activated into the real subnetwork of an
IRPAgent. If the process fully succeeds the preactivation is completed.
For preactivation a best effort strategy shall be employed.
If the IRPAgent is unable to successfully complete all pre-MIB changes that
were actioned in the configuration data file (clause10) the state
PREACTIVATION_PARTLY_REALISED is indicated. This state is not an error
condition because the preactivation of configuration data changes follows a
best effort strategy. If the preactivation fails completely i.e. there are no
pre-MIB changes the state PREACTIVATION_FAILED is indicated. A retry of the
preactivate can be performed in states PREACTIVATION_PARTLY_REALISED and
PREACTIVATION_FAILED. The PREACTIVATION_FAILED state cannot be entered if
previously during the session the state had become
PREACTIVATION_PARTLY_REALISED. The PREACTIVATION_PARTLY_REALISED state should
be re-entered instead. A retry of the preactivate is allowed so that it is
possible to recover after transient condition that caused a preactivate to
fail or partly realise are no longer present.
Figure 9.2.4: Substate Machine - PREACTIVATION_PHASE
### 9.2.5 Activation Phase
After a download has been completed and optionally validated and/or
preactivated the configuration data can be activated into the real subnetwork
of an IRPAgent. If the process fully succeeds the activation is completed.
For activation a best effort strategy shall be employed.
If the IRPAgent is unable to successfully complete all MIB changes and
corresponding changes in the network elements that were actioned in the
configuration data file (clause 10) the state ACTIVATION_PARTLY_REALISED is
indicated. This state is not an error condition because the activation of
configuration data changes follows a best effort strategy. If the activate
fails completely i.e. there are no MIB changes or corresponding changes in the
network elements, the state ACTIVATION_FAILED is indicated. A retry of the
activate can be performed in states ACTIVATION_PARTLY_REALISED and
ACTIVATION_FAILED. The ACTIVATION_FAILED state cannot be entered if previously
during the session the state had become ACTIVATION_PARTLY_REALISED. The
ACTIVATION_PARTLY_REALISED state should be re-entered instead. A retry of the
activate is allowed so that it is possible to recover after transient
condition that caused an activate to fail or partly realise are no longer
present.
Figure 9.2.5: Substate Machine - ACTIVATION_PHASE
### 9.2.6 Fallback Phase
If an activate or preactivate operation was requested with the fallback option
enabled and was successfully or partially completed then a fallback operation
can be requested. If the process of a fallback fully succeeds then the related
MIB and subnetwork is reverted back to its former configuration prior to first
configuration data file preactivation or activation of a session.
For fallback a best effort strategy shall be employed.
In case that not all MIB changes and corresponding changes in the network
elements that were actioned in configuration data file were successfully
reverted back the state FALLBACK_PARTLY_REALISED is indicated. This state is
not an error condition as the fallback to the former configuration follows a
best effort strategy. If the fallback fails completely i.e. no MIB changes or
corresponding changes in the network elements can be reverted back then the
state FALLBACK_FAILED is indicated. A retry of fallback can be performed in
the states FALLBACK_PARTLY_REALISED and FALLBACK_FAILED. The FALLBACK_FAILED
state cannot be entered if previously during the session the state had become
FALLBACK_PARTLY_REALISED. The FALLBACK_PARTLY_REALISED state should be re-
entered instead. A retry of the fallback is allowed so that it is possible to
recover after transient condition that caused a fallback to fail or partly
realise are no longer present.
Figure9.2.6: Substate Machine -- FALLBACK_PHASE
## 9.3 State Machine Pre and Post Conditions Tables
For each operation the following tables identify the state machine pre and
post conditions.
Table 9.3: State Machine Pre and Post Conditions (Controlled Upload and
Controlled Upload & Provisioning)
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Operation | Pre-condition | Post Condition | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | startSession | No state -- input | State = IDLE | | | sessionId provided | | | | by an IRPManager is | | | | not already in use | | | | in the IRPAgent by | | | | this or any other | | | | IRPManager | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | endSession | not in a Transition | sessionId is | | | status i.e. state | released - No state. | | | \<>. | | | | *_IN_PROGRESS | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | upload | State = IDLE or | Initially while | | | UPLOAD_FAILED | operation is being | | | | performed: | | | | | | | | State= | | | | UPLOAD_IN_PROGRESS | | | | | | | | Finally when | | | | operation has | | | | completed: | | | | | | | | State = | | | | UPLOAD_COMPLETED or | | | | UPLOAD_FAILED | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | download | State = IDLE or | Initially while | | | DOWNLOAD_FAILED | operation is being | | | | performed: | | | | | | | | State= | | | | DO | | | | WNLOAD_IN_PROGRESS | | | | | | | | Finally when | | | | operation has | | | | completed: | | | | | | | | State = | | | | DOWNLOAD_COMPLETED | | | | or DOWNLOAD_FAILED | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | validate | State = | Initially while | | | DOWNLOAD_COMPLETED | operation is being | | | or | performed: | | | VALIDATION_FAILED | | | | | State= | | | | VALI | | | | DATION_IN_PROGRESS | | | | | | | | Finally when | | | | operation has | | | | completed: | | | | | | | | State = | | | | V | | | | ALIDATION_COMPLETED | | | | or | | | | VALIDATION_FAILED | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | preactivate | State = | Initially while | | | DOWNLOAD_COMPLETED | operation is being | | | or | performed: | | | V | | | | ALIDATION_COMPLETED | State= | | | or | PREACTI | | | PREACTIVATI | VATION_IN_PROGRESS | | | ON_PARTLY_REALISED | | | | or | Finally when | | | P | operation has | | | REACTIVATION_FAILED | completed: | | | | | | | | State = | | | | PREA | | | | CTIVATION_COMPLETED | | | | or | | | | PREACTIVATI | | | | ON_PARTLY_REALISED | | | | or | | | | P | | | | REACTIVATION_FAILED | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | activate | State = | Initially while | | | DOWNLOAD_COMPLETED | operation is being | | | or | performed: | | | V | | | | ALIDATION_COMPLETED | State= | | | or | ACTI | | | ACTIVATI | VATION_IN_PROGRESS | | | ON_PARTLY_REALISED | | | | or | Finally when | | | ACTIVATION_FAILED | operation has | | | or | completed: | | | PREA | | | | CTIVATION_COMPLETED | State = | | | or | A | | | PREACTIVATI | CTIVATION_COMPLETED | | | ON_PARTLY_REALISED | or | | | or | ACTIVATI | | | P | ON_PARTLY_REALISED | | | REACTIVATION_FAILED | or | | | | ACTIVATION_FAILED | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fallback | State = | Initially while | | | PREA | operation is being | | | CTIVATION_COMPLETED | performed: | | | or | | | | PREACTIVATI | State= | | | ON_PARTLY_REALISED | FA | | | or | LLBACK_IN_PROGRESS | | | A | | | | CTIVATION_COMPLETED | Finally when | | | or | operation has | | | ACTIVATI | completed: | | | ON_PARTLY_REALISED | | | | or | State = | | | FALLBA | FALLBACK_COMPLETED | | | CK_PARTLY_REALISED | or | | | or FALLBACK_FAILED | FALLBA | | | | CK_PARTLY_REALISED | | | | or FALLBACK_FAILED | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | a | State = | State = | | bortSessionOperation | UPLOAD_IN_PROGRESS | | | | or | UPLOAD_FAILED or | | | DO | DOWNLOAD_FAILED or | | | WNLOAD_IN_PROGRESS | VALIDATE_FAILED or | | | or | PREACTIVATI | | | VALI | ON_PARTLY_REALISED | | | DATION_IN_PROGRESS | or | | | or\ | P | | | PREACTI | REACTIVATION_FAILED | | | VATION_IN_PROGRESS | or | | | or | ACTIVATI | | | ACTI | ON_PARTLY_REALISED | | | VATION_IN_PROGRESS | or | | | or | ACTIVATION_FAILED | | | FA | or | | | LLBACK_IN_PROGRESS | FALLBA | | | | CK_PARTLY_REALISED | | | | or FALLBACK_FAILED | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getSessionIds | N/A -- State Machine | N/A | | | independent | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getSessionStatus | None | None | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getSessionLog | None | None | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getBulkCmIRPversion | N/A -- State Machine | N/A | | | independent | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 9.3a: State Machine Pre and Post Conditions (Simple Upload)
+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | Operation | Pre-condition | Post Condition | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | upload | No state -- input | Initially while operation | | | sessionId provided by an | is being performed: | | | IRPManager is not already | | | | in use in the IRPAgent by | State= | | | this or any other | UPLOAD_IN_PROGRESS | | | IRPManager | | | | | When operation has | | | | completed: | | | | | | | | State = UPLOAD_COMPLETED | | | | or UPLOAD_FAILED | | | | | | | | until | | | | Sessi | | | | onStateChangeNotification | | | | sent then finally | | | | sessionId released and | | | | State becomes -- no state | +-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
# 10 Bulk Configuration Data File
The overall management of Bulk CM is controlled by the operations in clause 7.
Unitary management information is aggregated into a configuration data file
for bulk CM operations. The file can be used for active and passive CM.
Bulk configuration data files consist of one or more blocks. Each block
contains one or more object containment trees defined by a standardised
language, for example XML. The basic building block (node) of this tree is a
specifically typed MO. This MO is identified by an ID attribute (the Naming
attribute used in the RDN), and contains (1) data associated with the MO, and
(2) zero or more children nodes. The structure and content of the MO data is
constrained by the possible types of contained objects for the CM NRM that is
being managed by Bulk CM IRP IS.
The file structure is the same for both upload and download bulk CM
operations, apart that for active bulk CM operations, as well as containing MO
data the blocks also specify the management actions (sub-operations)
associated with each MOs item in the file. The following management actions
(sub-operations) on MOs are supported for active bulk CM:
  * Create MO. (clause 10.1.1)
  * Delete MO. (clause 10.1.2)
  * Change one or more existing MO attribute values. (clause 10.1.3)
The rules for ordering management actions in the configuration data file are
defined in clause 10.2.
## 10.1 Bulk Configuration Data Management Actions -- Sub-operations
By the nature of active Bulk CM IRP, in the download bulk configuration file
all sub-operation parameters identified in the following clauses 10.1.1 --
10.1.3 are \"input \" only. Bulk CM IRP:IS will not generate any explicit
notifications or responses for each sub-operation. The resulting session log
and output(s) from the associated Bulk CM operations will record and convey
the overall result of the sub-operations in the bulk configuration data file.
The IRPAgent can record the outcome of relevant sub-operations in the session
log. The IRPManager can subsequently get the session log (clause 7.3.6) if it
is required to make a detailed analysis.
It should be noted other IRPs can generate notifications as a result of Bulk
CM: IS sub-operations if an IRPAgent implements Basic CM IRP. The rules and
definitions for these notifications are beyond the scope of the present
document. The NRMs identified in clause 6.4 and references [4], [5] and [6]
give further details of which MOCs may generate Basic CM IRP notifications as
a consequence of the sub-operations defined here.
### 10.1.1 bulkCmCreateMo (Create MO Sub-operation) (M)
The IRPManager associates this sub-operation with an MOI in the configuration
data file to request the IRPAgent to create the MOI.
Table 10.1.1: bulkCmCreateMo parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Description objectClass Input, M Identifies the NRM MOC within
the scope of clause 6.4 that is to be created. objectInstance Input, M
Identifies the NRM MOC instance that is to be created. attributeList Input, O
Empty, or one or more attribute name and value pairs valid for the MOC. See
clause 6.4. If the list is not empty the indicated attributes will be set to
their indicated values when the object is created.
* * *
### 10.1.2 bulkCmDeleteMo (Delete MO Sub-operation) (M)
The IRPManager associates this sub-operation with an MOI in the configuration
data file to request the IRPAgent to delete the MOI.
Table 10.1.2: bulkCmDeleteMo parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Description objectClass Input, M Identifies the NRM MOC within
the scope of clause 6.3 that is to be deleted. objectInstance Input, M
Identifies the NRM MOC instance that is to be deleted.
* * *
### 10.1.3 bulkCmChangeMo (Change MO Sub-operation) (M)
The IRPManager associates this sub-operation with an MOI in the configuration
data file to request the IRPAgent to change/set one or more attributes of the
MOI.
Table 10.1.3: bulkCmChangeMo parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Description
objectClass Input, M Identifies the NRM MOC within the scope of clause 6.4
that the attributes are to be changed.
objectInstance Input, M Identifies the NRM MOC instance for which the
attributes are to be changed.
attributeList Input, M One or more attribute name and value pairs valid for
the MOC. See clause 6.3.\ The indicated attributes of the MOC instance will be
changed / set to their indicated values.
* * *
## 10.2 Rules for ordering Management Actions (Sub-operations) in
Configuration Data Files
### 10.2.1 Download files
  1. The IRP Manager shall enter the management actions into the configuration data file in the order they are to be interpreted and actioned by the IRPAgent following its sequentially step-by-step single pass operation. The IRPManager has overall responsibility for ensuring the correct order of action is given according to the rules in this clause.
  2. The IRPAgent shall interpret the management actions in the configuration data file sequentially step-by-step in a single pass operation. The IRPManager has overall responsibility for ensuring the correct order of action is given.
  3. The permitted order shall follow NRM hierarchy subtree(s) of the Managed Object instances pertaining to the configuration data file.
  4. All delete MOs actions shall precede any Create MOs actions.
  5. The present document does not specify any limitations on the ordering of change MO attribute actions other than the impacted if the impacted MO does not already exist it needs to be created by a prior create action. The choice of standardised language may recommend or specify some additional constraints e.g. for reasons of efficiency or for compliance with language syntax. Such recommendation and constraints are beyond the scope of the present document
  6. All necessary MO changes supported by Bulk CM IRP interface-N need to be fully specified in a configuration data file to maintain consistency within the NRM MIB subtree being operated on. (e.g. if an object is to be deleted, all relations and associations shall be removed).
  7. All relations to an MO instance shall be removed prior to deleting an MO instance.
  8. When part or whole NRM subtree is to be deleted, in the configuration data file the IRPManager shall first action delete of all associated child instances contained in the NRM subtree before actioning delete of MO parents instances i.e. delete actions on MO instances shall be specified in a recursive manner following the NRM hierarchy subtree from the lowest MO instances to the highest MO instances the IRPManager requires to be deleted. (The IRPAgent will not support autonomous deletion of all MO instance contained in a NRM subtree identified by a single delete action of the highest MO instance of the subtree).
  9. When part or a whole NRM subtree is to be created, in the configuration data file the IRPManager shall first action the create action of parents MO instances before actioning the create of any child MO instances contained in the NRM subtree i.e. create actions on MO instances shall be specified in recursive manner following the NRM hierarchy subtree from the highest MO instances to the lowest MO instances the IRPManager requires to be created.
### 10.2.2 Upload files
  1. No rules are identified i.e. it is not necessary that they be part of the scope of the present document. They may be implementation specific and specified in other document as part of a specific solution.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Scenarios
Supporting background informational only.
Figure A.1: Example 1: Successful Upload Session
Figure A.2: Example 2: Successful Download and Activation without validation
and preactivation
Figure A.3: Example 3: Successful Download and Activation with validation and
preactivation
Figure A.4: Example 4: Successful Download and Activation with Validation
Figure A.5: Example 5: Successful Download and Activation with Preactivation
Figure A.6: Example 6: Successful Upload Session -- Simple Upload
###### ## Annex B (informative): Bulk CM Application and Operation Principles
# B.1 Key characteristics
  1. Bulk CM operations are not transaction based.
  2. The state machine does not allow looping. Can only progress forward through main states.
  3. If any errors are found in the configuration data, it should not be possible to revise the configuration data during a session e.g. to try to resolve any problems found during a session. A new session should be started with a new corrected version of the configuration data being applied.
  4. Non-transitional interface;
  5. Sessions may be run in parallel. There should not be any exclusion of specified changes between parallel sessions.
#