# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
**Data volume measurements for RAN sharing are specified in TS 36.314[2]:**
> _\"4.1.9 Data Volume for Shared Networks_
>
> _The objective of this measurement is to measure the data volume transmitted
> or received by the eNB in a configured measurement period, for the different
> PLMN identities in a shared network. The measurement is performed per
> configured PLMN ID per configured QoS profile criteria._
>
> _The QoS profile criteria may include one or more of the following criteria:
> one QCI indicator, one GBR Indicator, one ARP Indicator, where_
>
> _\- a QCI Indicator identifies one specific QCI value. QCI values range from
> 1 to 256. If the indicator is not set then all QCI values should be taken
> into account._
>
> _\- a GBR Indicator identifies one GBR range value defined by OAM. If the
> indicator is not set then all GBR ranges should be taken into account._
>
> _\- an ARP Indicator identifies one ARP priority value. ARP values range
> from 1 to 15. If the indicator is not set then all ARP priority values
> should be taken into account._
>
> _The QoS profile criteria are satisfied when all the configured indicators
> are matched. It is possible that none of the QoS parameters are configured
> in which case the measurement is collected per configured PLMN ID._
>
> _4.1.9.1 Data volume for shared networks in DL_
>
> _Protocol Layer: PDCP_
+------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | **_Definition_** | _Data Volume for shared networks in DL. Amount | | | of PDCP SDU bits in downlink delivered from PDCP | | | layer to RLC layer in a measurement period. The | | | measurement is performed per configured PLMN ID | | | per configured DL QoS profile criteria._ | | | | | | _The unit is Mbit._ | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
> _4.1.9.2 Data Volume for shared networks in UL_
>
> Protocol Layer: PDCP
+------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | **_Definition_** | _Data Volume for shared networks in UL. Amount | | | of PDCP SDU bits successfully received by the | | | eNB in uplink in a measurement period. The | | | measurement is performed per configured PLMN ID | | | per configured UL QoS profile criteria._ | | | | | | _The unit is Mbit._ | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
> _\"_
TS 36.300 [9] specified the following for Resource usage reporting for shared
networks:
> _\"23.12 Resource usage reporting for shared networks_
>
> _The eNB may be configured to report the resource usage as data volume for
> the different PLMN identities of the operators in a shared network. The
> measurements, which are defined in TS 36.314 [63], are based on the QoS
> parameter values exchanged at E-RAB setup/modification._
>
> _OAM configures data volume reporting criteria. The configured data volume
> criteria define the PLMN IDs and the QoS profile criteria for the collection
> and reporting. The data volume reports are per configured PLMN ID and per
> configured QoS profile per DL/UL._
>
> _The QoS profile configuration shall be the same for all configured PLMN IDs
> and for all eNBs. The configured QoS profile criteria can differ in UL and
> DL in terms of GBR ranges. It shall be possible to collect and report up to
> 200 counter types and a maximum of 200 counter instances._
>
> _Data volumes for the DL/UL direction of a GBR bearer shall be collected
> within a given DL/UL GBR range if the DL/UL E-RAB guaranteed bit rate is
> within a configured DL/UL range delimited by a minimum and maximum value.
> The GBR ranges shall be five in number for DL and five in number for UL. GBR
> ranges shall be non-overlapping and configurable. The configured set of GBR
> ranges applies to the whole RAN and to all PLMN IDs in the RAN. \"_
This means that the PM mechanism needs to be changed to support limitation of
the number of measurements. It is further necessary to ensure that the report
format supports to describe how these measurements are defined or limited.
The solutions might be beneficial also for other measurements.
# 1 Scope
**The study is to investigate:**
\- Solutions for how to manage measurement collection in network sharing
context over Itf-N.
\- Solutions for how to indicate high reliability to different E-UTRAN
measurements.
\- Whether the PM file format would need to be changed and possible solutions.
The solution is intended to be valid for data volume measurements, but a more
generically applicable solution should be considered, if feasible. The
solution can be valid also for non-shared networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.314: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Layer 2 -- Measurements\".
[3] Void
**[4] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Performance Management (PM); Concept and
requirements\".**
**[5] 3GPP TS 32.130: \"** Telecommunication management; **Network sharing;
Concepts and requirements\".**
**[6] 3GPP TS 32.425: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)\".**
**[7] 3GPP TS 32.412: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".**
**[8] 3GPP TS 32.416: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions\".**
**[9]** 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
EUR Euro
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 Business level use case
The operator has made an agreement to act as a Master Operator, MOP, for
another operator (Participating Operator, POP) for RAN sharing, ref 3GPP TS
32.130 [5]. An example of an agreement states the following:
The QoS profile criteria ARP 1 to ARP 10 and GBR-5 for QCI- 4 and QCI-8 are
supported. The DL QCI-4, GBR-5, and ARP-1 to ARP 10 are charged x EUR per
Mbit, while UL QCI-4, GBR-5, and ARP-1 to ARP 10 are charged y EUR per Mbit.
QCI-8 is charged z EUR per Mbit regardless of QoS.\ For cross operator
accounting purpose, the network needs to reliably provide data volume
measurements for the used QoS profile criteria to the MOP.
## 4.2 Service level use case
The network manager requests a measurement job for data volume measurements
for shared network (ref. 3GPP TS 32.130 [5]) for charging purposes with high
reliability, for a subset of data volume counters per shared PLMN, per UL/DL
traffic direction and per QoS profile criteria. The QoS profile criteria may
include one or more of the following criteria: one QCI Indicator, one GBR
Indicator, one ARP Indicator, where:
\- a QCI Indicator identifies one specific QCI value. QCI values range from 0
to 255. If the indicator is not set then all QCI values should be taken into
account.
\- a GBR Indicator identifies one GBR range value defined by the management
system. If the indicator is not set then all GBR ranges should be taken into
account.
\- an ARP Indicator identifies one ARP value. ARP values range from 1 to 15\.
If the indicator is not set then all ARP values should be taken into account.
An overall maximum number of 200 counter instances (measurement instances) can
be recorded per granularity period.
The measurement type is specified by sub-clause 4.1.9 in 3GPP TS 36.314 [2].\
All the counters instances in the measurement job should be subject to the
highest reliability as it is for cross operator accounting purpose. The levels
of reliability and their definitions are vendor specific.
The network provides the statistic counters each granularity period.
# 5 Potential requirements
## 5.1 Potential business level requirements
**REQ-NETSHAR_PM-CON-1** The MOP shall be able to charge the POPs for the data
volume used by POP's users per selected QCI criteria via statistical
measurements defined for shared networks.
\- The QoS profile criteria may include QCI Indicator, GBR Indicator, ARP
Indicator.
\- It shall be possible to differentiate between DL and UL.
**REQ-NETSHAR_PM-CON-2** The MOP shall be able to set the level of reliability
for the selected measurements defined for cross operator accounting purpose in
shared networks.
**REQ-NETSHAR_PM-CON-3** A maximum number of 200 counter instances (for
measurements defined for cross operator accounting purpose in shared networks)
can be recorded per granularity period.
## 5.2 Potential specification level requirements
**REQ-NETSHAR_PM-FUN-1** The IRPAgent shall have the capability to support
subscription of UL and DL data volume measurements per QoS profile criteria
for cross operator accounting purpose from the IRPManager.\ The QoS profile
criteria may include one or more of the following criteria: one QCI indicator,
one GBR Indicator, one ARP Indicator, where:
\- a QCI Indicator identifies one specific QCI value. QCI values range from 0
to 255. If the indicator is not set then all QCI values should be taken into
account.
\- a GBR Indicator identifies one GBR range value defined by the management
system. If the indicator is not set then all GBR ranges should be taken into
account.
\- an ARP Indicator identifies one ARP value. ARP values range from 1 to 15\.
If the indicator is not set then all ARP values should be taken into account.
**REQ-NETSHAR_PM-FUN-2** The IRPAgent shall be able to support that the
IRPManager can set levels of reliability for the counter instances in a
measurement job. The levels of reliability and their definitions are vendor
specific.
**REQ-NETSHAR_PM-FUN-3** The IRPAgent shall be able to support up maximum
number of 200 counter instances to be recorded per granularity period of data
volume measurements for cross operator accounting purpose.
**REQ-NETSHAR_PM-FUN-4** The IRPAgent shall be able to support the IRPManager
to access a file containing data volume measurements for cross operator
accounting purposes every granularity period.
# 6 Potential solutions
## 6.1 Additions to Measurement type definitions
(Ref: 3GPP TS 32.425 clause 4.4)
##### DL cell PDCP SDU Data Volume {#dl-cell-pdcp-sdu-data-volume .H6}
> a) This measurement provides the Data Volume (amount of PDCP SDU bits) in
> the downlink delivered from PDCP layer to RLC layer. The measurement is
> calculated per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR).\ The
> unit is Mbit.
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by counting the number of bits entering the
eNodeB/RN. The measurement is performed at the PDCP SDU level. The measurement
is performed per configured PLMN ID per configured DL QoS profile criteria.
(See 3GPP TS 36.314, clause 4.1.9).
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the number of bits
measured in Mbits. The number of measurements is equal to the number of PLMNs
multiplied by the number of QoS profiles.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduVolumeDl_Filter\ Filter:
_PLMNID (1-6), QCImax (1-255), QCImin (1-255), ARPmax (1-15), ARPmin (1-15),
GBR (1-5)_ \ [Total no. of measurement instances] x [no. of filter values for
all measurements] (DL and UL) ≤ 200.\ Example: A measurement with filter
PLMN=2, QCImax=4, QCImin=2, ARPmax=10, ARPmin=1 and GBR=3 results in a
measurement name: DRB.PdcpSduVolumeDl_Plmn2Qci2-4Arp1-10Gbr3.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) Can be used by MOP for cross-operator accounting in shared networks.
##### UL cell PDCP SDU Data Volume {#ul-cell-pdcp-sdu-data-volume .H6}
a) This measurement provides the Data Volume (amount of PDCP SDU bits) in the
uplink delivered from PDCP layer to RLC layer. The measurement is calculated
per PLMN ID and per E-RAB QoS profile (QCI, ARP and GBR).\ The unit is Mbit.
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by counting the number of bits entering the
eNodeB/RN. The measurement is performed at the PDCP SDU level. The measurement
is performed per configured PLMN ID per configured UL QoS profile criteria.
(See 3GPP TS 36.314, clause 4.1.9).
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the number of bits
measured in Mbits. The number of measurements is equal to the number of PLMNs
multiplied by the number of QoS profiles.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduVolumeUl_Filter\ Filter:
_PLMNID (1-6), QCImax (1-255), QCImin (1-255), ARPmax (1-15), ARPmin (1-15),
GBR (1-5)_ \ [Total no. of measurement instances] x [no. of filter values for
all measurements] (DL and UL) ≤ 200.\ Example: A measurement with filter
PLMN=2, QCImax=4, QCImin=2, ARPmax=10, ARPmin=1 and GBR=3 results in a
measurement name DRB.PdcpSduVolumeUl_Plmn2Qci2-4Arp1-10Gbr3.f) EUtranCellFDD\
EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) Can be used by MOP for cross-operator accounting in shared networks.
## 6.2 Use of PM IRP
Ref: 3GPP TS 32.412
Proposed additions to 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
* * *
measurementSubFilter It specifies a sub part of a filter that determines the
conditions for stepping a specific measurement. Specified for all measurements
that have the suffix \"filter\" in item e) of the measurement definition (see
3GPP TS 32.425)
* * *
Additions to 7.3.1 Operation createMeasurementJob
7.3.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
measurementFilter O List of \ See clause
6.5.1 (definition and legal values).
* * *
+-------------+---+------------------------+------------------------+ | Reliability | O | JobMeasure | Vendor specific. | | | | mentJob.jobReliability | | | | | | Specifies reliability | | | | | for a measurement job. | +-------------+---+------------------------+------------------------+
# 7 Conclusions
The proposed solutions are fulfilling the request to facilitate cross operator
accounting for shared networks. The solutions can also be used for other new
measurements.
# 8 Recommendations
The solutions are proposed to be implemented in 3GPP TS 32.425 [6], 3GPP TS
32.412 [7] and 3GPP TS 32.416 [8). The requirements are to be specified in
3GPP TS 32.130 [5].
#