# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the architecture, the interfaces and solutions
with regards to Licensed Shared Access, LSA ETSI TS 103 154 [5] relevant to a
3GPP mobile network operator. The study includes:
\- Study how the solution and architecture defined in ETSI TS 103 235 [3] may
provide a global solution.
\- Study the impact on the 3GPP management reference model defined in 3GPP TS
32.101 [2].
\- Analyse the LSA functionalities and the information flow defined in ETSI TS
103 235 [3] towards a 3GPP mobile network operator and any impact on Itf-N.
\- Study how to support the static and semi-static spectrum sharing scenarios
and reference use case defined in ETSI TR 103 113 [4].
Interfaces and functionality specified for LSA that are not involving the 3GPP
mobile network operator are out of scope for this study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\"
[3] ETSI TS 103 235 V0.0.9: \"Reconfigurable Radio Systems (RRS); System
Architecture and High Level Procedures for operation of Licensed Shared Access
(LSA) in the 2300 MHz-2400 MHz band\"
[4] ETSI TR 103 113 V1.1.1: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); System Reference document (SRdoc); Mobile broadband services in
the 2 300 MHz -- 2 400 MHz frequency band under Licensed Shared Access
regime\"
[5] ETSI TS 103 154 V1.1.1: \"Reconfigurable Radio Systems (RRS); System
requirements for operation of Mobile Broadband Systems in the 2300 MHz - 2400
MHz band under Licensed Shared Access (LSA)\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Exclusion zone:** geographical area within which LSA Licensees are not
allowed to have active radio transmitters
NOTE: An exclusion zone is normally applicable for a defined frequency range
and time period.
**Incumbent:** current holder of spectrum rights of use
**LSA licensee:** entity operating a MFCN, which holds individual rights of
use to an LSA spectrum resource
**LSA spectrum resource:** spectrum resource which is to be shared between an
Incumbent and a LSA Licensee on a static or dynamic basis according to the
Sharing Framework defined by the Administration/NRA
**LSA system:** system that enables and/or facilitates the realization of LSA,
and which comprises the LSA-specific technical features, architecture,
protocols, and interfaces
**LSA system administrator:** entity responsible for system administration
aspects (e.g. implementing security access rights or executing system
management tasks)
**LSA spectrum resource availability information:** information provided to a
Licensee, which conveys the LSA spectrum resource that may be used by the
Licensee, and the respective operational conditions or restrictions that the
Licensee shall apply
**Protection zone:** geographical area within which Incumbent receivers will
not be subject to harmful interference caused by LSA Licensees\' transmissions
NOTE: A protection zone is defined using specific measurement quantities and
thresholds (e.g. a mean field strength that does not exceed a defined value in
dBµV/m/MHz at a defined receiver antenna height above ground level). A
protection zone is normally applicable for a defined frequency range and time
period.
**Restriction zone:** geographical area within which LSA Licensees are allowed
to operate radio transmitters, under certain restrictive conditions (e.g.
maximum EIRP limits and/or constraints on antenna parameters)
NOTE: A restriction zone is normally applicable for a defined frequency range
and time period.
**Sharing arrangement:** set of practical details for sharing an LSA spectrum
resource
**Sharing framework:** set of sharing rules or sharing conditions that will
materialize the change, if any, in the spectrum rights of the Incumbents(s)
and define the spectrum, with corresponding technical and operational
conditions, that can be made available for alternative usage under LSA
**Spectrum resource:** resource or set of resources defined in time, space and
frequency domains
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
LC LSA Controller
LR LSA Repository
LSA Licensed Shared Access
LSR LSA Spectrum Resource
LSRAI LSA Spectrum Resource Availability Information
MFCN Mobile/Fixed Communications Network
NMLS Network Management Layer Service
NRA National Regulatory Authority
# 4 Use Cases
# 4.1 Bandwidth expansion for mobile network operator
### 4.1.1 High level use case description
ETSI RRS TR 103 113 [4] section 7.1.2 contains the following Use Case
description:
A mobile network operator operating LTE in a licensed band in a region applies
for an individual authorization to use radio frequencies within the 2300 -
2400 MHz frequency band in the same region to use a portion of this band under
the LSA regime for LTE.
The application for the authorization may include (but are not limited to) the
geographical region and the time period in which the mobile network operator
plans to access the allowed portion of the band. The administration/National
Regulatory Authority, which has the sole responsibility of granting such
individual authorization, plays a key role in determining with relevant
stakeholders (i.e. incumbent user and the mobile operator) the conditions of
the LSA sharing framework including sharing options and modalities. The
conditions to use the spectrum may be made available in an information
repository that may be accessed by the mobile network operator\'s Operation,
Administration and Maintenance system (OAM).
The mobile network operator also operates LTE in a licensed band in the said
region and provisions the same or additional base stations to support the
authorized portion of the 2300 - 2400 MHz band.
At the appropriate time indicated by the information repository, the mobile
network operator\'s OAM system instructs the relevant base stations to enable
transmission in the allowed portion of the 2300 - 2400 MHz band. With this
availability of new spectrum, load balancing algorithms in the Radio Access
Network will make use of these new resources and transfer devices to the new
band based on need.
When the granted time period for the operation in the authorized portion of
the 2300 - 2400 MHz band expires, the mobile network operator\'s OAM system
instructs the relevant base stations to disable transmission in the allowed
portion of the 2 300 - 2 400 MHz band. The load balancing algorithms in the
Radio Access Network will ensure that devices are transferred back to the
licensed band.
### 4.1.2 Implications on network management
The following are the use case related network management interactions:
\- The mobile network operator\'s OAM system instructs the relevant base
stations to enable transmission in the allowed portion of the frequency band.\
Examples of parameters: Area, Cells/Base station identity, Channel
bandwidth/Transmission bandwidth, Frequencies, Output power.
\- When the granted time period for the operation in the authorized portion of
the allowed portion of the frequency band (e.g. 2300 -- 2400 MHz) expires, the
mobile network operator\'s OAM system instructs the relevant base stations to
disable transmission in the allowed portion of the frequency band. Examples of
parameters: Area, Cells/Base station identity, Frequencies.
# 5 Potential requirements
Proposed business level requirements:
REQ-LSA-CON-01 The **LSA spectrum resource availability information** should
be made available to an authorized mobile network operator (the LSA licensee).
REQ-LSA-CON-02 It should be possible for the LSA licensee to use the LSA
spectrum resource of an incumbent for the time, space and frequency domains
given by the LSA spectrum resource availability information.
Specification level requirements, proposed to be used in later specification
work:
REQ-LSA-FUN-01 It shall be possible for the LSA licensee to configure the LSA
spectrum resource in the mobile network according to the restrictions given by
the LSA spectrum resource availability information.
REQ-LSA-FUN-02 It shall be possible for the LSA licensee to activate the usage
of the LSA spectrum resource in the mobile network.
REQ-LSA-FUN-03 It shall be possible for the LSA licensee to deactivate the
usage of the LSA spectrum resource in the mobile network.
# 6 Potential solutions
## 6.1 Interaction between LSA Controller (LC) and PLMN
### 6.1.1 Reference points to be considered by 3GPP SA5
The LSA Architecture reference model defined in [4] and shown on Figure
6.1.1-1 below identifies the LSA Controller (LC) logical element. The LC
definition [4] states that LC is located within the LSA Licensee (Mobile
Network Operator in 3GPP SA5 terms) domain. The LC interacts with the
Licensee's MFCN (PLMN in 3GPP SA5 terms) in order to support the mapping of
availability information into appropriate radio transmitter configurations,
and receive the respective confirmations from the MFCN.
{width="3.8027777777777776in" height="2.7625in"}
Figure 6.1.1-1: LSA Architecture Reference Model (Figure 4-1 in [4])
The reference point between LC and PLMN is out of scope for standardization by
ETSI RRS. However, the reference point between LC and Mobile Network
Operator\'s OAM system is in the scope of present 3GPP SA5 \"Study on OAM
support for LSA\".
### 6.1.2 Interaction at the NE level
The LC may interact with NEs directly as shown on the Figure 6.1.2-1 below. In
this case, the communication between LC and NEs may use either existing or new
signalling interfaces and would be out of scope for 3GPP SA5.
Figure 6.1.2-1: Direct interaction between LC and NE(s)
Or LC may be a part of the NE itself as shown on the Figure 6.1.2-2 below. In
this case, the NE could implement the LC functionality and expose the
interface LSA~1~ directly. The internal interaction between the NE components
and LC component would be out of scope of standardization. The external
interaction (over the LSA1 reference point) would be in the scope of ETSI RRS.
Figure 6.1.2-2: LC as part of the NE
The LSA~1~ interface acts on LSA Spectrum Resource level, i.e. an area where
the LSA spectrum is used. The time aspect is covered by the method static
sharing (no changes over the time) or dynamic sharing where availability of
LSA spectrum in the area varies over the time. Currently LR and LC have no
knowledge about affected NEs when LSA Spectrum Resource Availability
information is exchanged from LR to LC (see [5]). Therefore the interaction at
the NE level scenario requires input at the LC from MNO about the NEs that
belongs to a LSR. This input is part of the mapping but also set to out-of-
scope in ETSI RRS.
Advantages with interaction at the NE level:
No advantage is found.
Disadvantages with interaction at the NE level:
a) The operator\'s management systems are bypassed, which might mean that the
management systems do not know which cells are using which frequency, if the
cells are taken into operation, or if statistic measurements should be
subscribed for them, etc.
b) Currently the LR doesn't know how the PLMN (MFCN) is organized, i.e. LR has
to send LSRAI to all registered LCs. Only when LR has received the
confirmations from all registered LCs, the LR has appropriate information that
LSRAI is performed successfully in the PLMN (MFCN). This introduces a lot of
signalling overhead, especially when multiple LSRs are defined.
c) This option requires additional security measures, because LR is outside
the Operator domain.
d) LSRAI may contain changes in interference protection zone definitions (the
zone may extend beyond single LC boundaries), and this may require
coordination of several LC/NE. This is not possible without coordination at LC
level.
### 6.1.3 Interaction at the EM/DM level
The LC may interact with OAM system at the EM/DM level. Figure 6.1.3-1 below
shows interaction between LC and DM.
Figure 6.1.3-1: Interaction between LC and DM
Or LC may be a part of the EM/DM as shown on the Figure 6.1.3-2 below. In this
case, the DM could implement the LC functionality and expose the interface
LSA~1~ directly. The internal interaction between the DM components and LC
component would be out of scope of standardization. The external interaction
(over the LSA1 reference point) would be in the scope of ETSI RRS.
Figure 6.1.3-2: LC as part of the EM/DM
Advantages with interaction at the EM/DM level:
No advantage is found.
Disadvantages with interaction at the EM/DM level:
a) The operator\'s NM is bypassed, which might mean that the NM does not know
which cells are using which frequency, if the cells are taken into operation,
or if statistic measurements should be subscribed for them, etc.
b) Currently the LR doesn't know how the PLMN (MFCN) is organized, i.e. LR has
to send LSRAI to all registered LC/DMs. Only when LR has received the
confirmations from all registered LC/DMs, the LR has appropriate information
that LSRAI is performed successfully in the PLMN (MFCN). This introduces still
signalling overhead, especially when multiple LSRs are defined.
c) LSRAI may contain changes in interference protection zone definitions (the
zone may extend beyond single LC boundaries), and this may require
coordination of several LC/NE. This is not possible without coordination at LC
level.
### 6.1.4 Interaction at the NM level
The LC may interact with OAM system at the NM level. Figure 6.1.4-1 below
shows interaction between LC and NM.
Figure 6.1.4-1: Interaction between LC and NM
Or LC may be a part of the NM as shown on the Figure 6.1.4-2 below. In this
case, the NM could implement the LC functionality and expose the interface
LSA~1~ directly. The internal interaction between the NM components and LC
component would be out of scope of standardization. The external interaction
(over the LSA1 reference point) would be in the scope of ETSI RRS.
Figure 6.1.4-2: LC as part of the NM
Advantages with interaction at the NM level:
a) The LC being connected to the NM level means that it can be connected to NM
level applications (including the existing planning tools) and the activities
to use the shared spectrum resource are part of the existing processes of
managing the RAN.
Disadvantages with interaction at the NM level:
No disadvantages are found.
Use of type-7 interface for interaction at the NM level:
\- The LC is a kind of NMLS (Network Management Layer Service, see the
description of Type-7 interface in TS 32.101 [2]). The LC is the SP (Service
Provider). The NM is the SC (Service Consumer). LC is part of the operator\'s
(the LSA licensee\'s) domain as defined in [3]. It is assumed that the LSA
related NM operations towards the NEs (Base Stations) are performed using the
existing IRPs already defined by SA5.
\- The use of Type-7 interface needs to be evaluated for possible solutions.
Figure 6.1.4-3 depicts the System Context for a Type-7 interface between the
NM and the LC.
Figure 6.1.4-3: System Context for a Type-7 interface
Use of type-7 interface for interaction at the NM level is also possible in
cases where LC is combined with another Functional Block (i.e. other
Functional Block implements the LSA~1~ interface to the LR). Figure 6.1.4-4
depicts the architecture where LC is a part of RPT.
Figure 6.1.4-4: LC is a part of RPT
## 6.2 Functional split between LC and OAM
### 6.2.1 Alternative 1: network reconfiguration performed within the OAM
#### 6.2.1.1 Overview
In this alternative, the OAM is responsible for processing LSRAI, and
reconfiguring the network accordingly.
As specified in [3], the LSRAI is sent by the LR to the LC. The LC forwards
the LSRAI received from LR to the OAM, Using this information, the OAM
determines which cells are allowed to emit, as well as the allowed parameters
(e.g., TX power) for those cells.
{width="5.047916666666667in" height="1.5680555555555555in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1-1: Overview of alternative 1
#### 6.2.1.2 Functional split
The clauses 4.2 and 4.3 of ETSI RRS TS 103 235 [3] list, describe high level
functions performed by the LSA system and map them to LSA logical elements.
From the perspective of the present study, the Information Mapping Function
described in clause 4.2.3 of [3] is the most interesting: \"The information
mapping function receives LSA spectrum resource availability information,
confirms reception and initiates respective operations in the MFCN. It also
sends acknowledgements to the information exchange function (for forwarding to
the information processing function) when changes in the MFCN are processed.\"
The detailed functionalities fulfilled by LC and OAM in alternative 1 where
network reconfiguration performed within the OAM are as follows:
LC:
  * Communicates with LR, receives the LSRAI and filters it for the MFCN/PLMN (part of) served by this particular LC and controlled by the OAM system. I.e. identifies and acts upon the LSRAIs relevant to the (portion of) MFCN the LC is responsible for.
  * Notifies OAM about changes in LSRAI relevant to the (part of) MFCN controlled by the OAM system the LC interacts with (e.g. new LSRAI available, LSRAI expired).
  * Sends the LSRAI relevant to the (part of) MFCN managed by the OAM system to the OAM.
  * Notifies OAM about changes in connectivity between LR and LC (e.g. connection loss, connection establishment).
  * Receives the acknowledgements from the OAM system when the changes in the (part of) MFCN corresponding to the received LSRAI are processed.
OAM:
  * Receives the notifications from the LC related to the availability of the LSRAI and connectivity to the LR
  * Receives the LSRAI from the LC.
  * Acts upon the notifications from the LC and performs necessary changes in the (part of) MFCN corresponding to the received LSRAI.
  * Notifies the LC when changes in the (part of) MFCN corresponding to the received LSRAI or triggered by a relevant notification are completed.
#### 6.2.1.3 End-to-end exemplary use cases derived from LSA~1~ procedures
##### 6.2.1.3.1 Overview
ETSI RRS TS 103 235 [3] defined several high level procedures and procedure
flows on LSA1 interface. From the LC to OAM interaction perspective currently
studied in 3GPP SA5, these flows may be seen as external triggers or as being
triggered. This section analyzes the procedure flows on LSA1 and, where
appropriate, derives end-to-end Use Cases that may be in the scope of 3GPP SA5
specifications.
##### 6.2.1.3.2 LC registration
According to section 5.2.1 of [3], the purpose of registration procedure is to
register the LC with an LR.
The OAM may trigger the LC registration procedure based on the results of
Network Planning. The inputs to Network Planning may include, but are not
limited to: information about sharing arrangement (exchanged between Licensee
and Incumbent), LSA license, eNB availability, coverage data, capacity data,
etc... Figure 6.2.1.3.2-1 below shows the LC Registration Procedure triggered
by Network Planning.
Figure 6.2.1.3.2-1: LC Registration Procedure triggered by Network Planning
Other scenarios where LC registration procedure may be needed could be the
deployment of a new LC within operator\'s network, or a re-registration
required after s/w update.
##### 6.2.1.3.3 LC deregistration
According to section 5.2.2 of [3], the purpose of deregistration procedure is
to deregister the LC with an LR.
The OAM may trigger the LC deregistration procedure when the license for the
Spectrum Resource expires, the network is reconfigured (Licensee stopped using
the shared spectrum resource). Figure 6.2.1.3.3-1 below shows the LC
Registration Procedure triggered by OAM system.
Figure 6.2.1.3.3-1: LC Deregistration Procedure triggered by OAM system
Other scenarios where LC deregistration procedure may be needed could be the
decommissioning of a LC (assuming that there is more than one LC) within
operator\'s network, or a re-registration required after s/w update.
##### 6.2.1.3.4 Connectivity Check Notification
According to section 5.2.6 of [3], the purpose of the LR-initiated
Connectivity Check Notification procedure is to allow the LR to test the
connectivity with any registered LC.
The connectivity check triggered by LR may trigger the end-to-end connectivity
check (e.g. LC to OAM and beyond). However, according to the current
agreements in ETSI RRS (requirement R-FUNC-GRA-01 in [4]), the operator is not
required to provide any failure information of such end-to-end connectivity
check back to the LR. Figure 6.2.1.3.4-1 below shows a possible end-to-end
connectivity check triggered by the LR connectivity check notification
procedure.
Figure 6.2.1.3.4-1: End-to-end connectivity check triggered by LR Connectivity
Check Notification
##### 6.2.1.3.5 Connectivity Check Request
According to section 5.2.7 of [3], the purpose of the LC-initiated
Connectivity Check Request procedure is to allow the LC to test the
connectivity with the LR.
The OAM may initiate the LC to LR Connectivity Check procedure. The results of
connectivity check may return more results than just connectivity to the LR -
this information should be forwarded to the OAM by LC. Based on the result of
LC-LR connectivity check, OAM may perform certain actions (e.g. Network
Reconfiguration if connectivity to the LR is lost). Figure 6.2.1.3.5-1 below
shows the connectivity check request procedure triggered by the OAM with
possibility for the connectivity check result to trigger the Network
Reconfiguration.
Figure 6.2.1.3.5-1: LC-LR Connectivity check triggers Network Reconfiguration
#### 6.2.1.4 Evaluation
In this alternative, the OAM system is responsible for evaluation of LSRAI
information received from the LC and ensuring compliancy to the LSA Sharing
Arrangement in its \"normal\" operation (e.g., SON and CM functions).
### 6.2.2 Alternative 2: network reconfiguration performed within the LC
#### 6.2.2.1 Overview
In this alternative, the LC is responsible for processing LSRAI.
As specified in [3], the LSRAI is sent by the LR to the LC. Using this
information, the LC determines configuration constraints (e.g., maximum TX
power, allowed downtilt range, allowed azimuth range, maximum antenna height)
for cells utilizing the LSA resources, and provides this information to the
OAM.
The OAM then utilizes these configurations constraints provided by the LC in
its \"normal\" operation (e.g., SON and CM functions), in order to ensure
compliancy with the LSA Sharing Arrangement.
{width="5.144444444444445in" height="1.6916666666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: Overview of alternative 2
#### 6.2.2.2 Functional split
The figure below shows the functional split between LC and OAM.
{width="4.459027777777778in" height="1.9458333333333333in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: Functional split according to alternative 2
The detailed functionalities fulfilled by LC and OAM are as follows:
LC:
\- Determines and provides constraints on cells parameters (e.g., maximum TX
power) upon:
\- receiving LSRAI from the LR,
\- receiving a notification from the NM describing a change in network
deployment,
\- losing connection with the LR.
OAM:
\- Utilizes the constraints on cells parameters received from LC in its normal
operation (e.g., SON and CM functions).
\- Provides the information for utilizing the LSA resources (e.g., the antenna
parameters) to the LC.
#### 6.2.2.3 End-to-end exemplary Use Cases derived from LSA~1~ procedures
##### 6.2.2.3.1 LC initialization
This procedure is performed when a new LC is started or restarted.
{width="5.03125in" height="2.8118055555555554in"}
Figure 6.2.2.3.1-1: LC Initialization
1\. The LC or the OAM initiates the connexion between LC and OAM.
2\. The OAM provides the LC with network deployment information related to
cells utilizing LSA resources.
3\. The registration procedure is performed, as specified in [3].
##### 6.2.2.3.2 Network configuration upon receiving LSRAI
Figure 6.2.2.3.2-1 illustrates the operations performed upon receiving LSRAI
information.
{width="5.35625in" height="2.895138888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2.3.2-1: Network configuration upon receiving LSRAI
1\. The LC receives LSRAI from the LR. This step can be performed using a push
or pull mechanism, as specified in [3].
2\. The LC determines, based on LSRAI, configuration constraints for cells
utilizing the LSA resources, and provides these to the OAM system.
3\. Once the configuration constraints have been applied and confirmed by the
OAM, the LC notifies the LR.
Note: LSRAI may contain time information related to incumbent usage of shared
spectrum. Therefore, after receiving LSRAI in step 1, the LC may initiate
multiple communications with the OAM system, at different point in time. The
LC is then responsible to generate appropriate LSRAI Confirmation messages to
the LR.
##### 6.2.2.3.3 Re-evaluation of configuration constraints upon change in
network deployment
The deployment of cells may change over time. Such change may occur, for
instance, in the following cases:
\- Deployment of new base stations,
\- Hardware update of base stations.
Figure 6.2.2.3.3-1 illustrates the operations performed upon such change. The
LR is not involved in this procedure.
{width="4.839583333333334in" height="2.645138888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2.3.3-1: Re-evaluation of configuration constraints upon change in
network deployment
1\. The network deployment is changed. For example, cells are added or
removed, or cells capabilities changed.
2\. The OAM notifies the LC of the changes.
3\. The LC determines new configuration constraints for the updated cells,
based on current incumbent usage, and requests the OAM to take them into
account.
##### 6.2.2.3.4 Re-evaluation of configuration constraints upon connectivity
loss with LR
Figure 6.2.2.3.4-1 shows the procedure performed when the LC loses
connectivity with the LR.
{width="4.311111111111111in" height="1.7777777777777777in"}
Figure 6.2.2.3.4-1: Re-evaluation of configuration constraints upon
connectivity loss with LR
1\. The connexion is lost with LR. This error may be detected using the LC-
initiated Connectivity Check procedure defined in [3].
2\. The LC may provide the OAM with a set of default configuration
constraints.
#### 6.2.2.4 Evaluation
In this alternative, cell information such as frequency information, antenna
parameters, cell location, maximum Tx power for utilizing LSA resources should
be provided by the OAM to the LC.
The LC is responsible for evaluation of LSRAI information received from the LR
and providing the configuration constraints to the OAM system. The OAM system
utilizes these constraints in its \"normal\" operation (e.g., SON and CM
functions) to ensure compliancy to the LSA Sharing Arrangement.
# 7 Conclusions
The present document identified several options for interaction between LSA
Controller and PLMN and evaluated their advantages and disadvantages. These
are outlined in the clause 6.1 sub-clauses 6.1.2, 6.1.3 and 6.1.4. For the OAM
based LSA solutions, the group selected the interaction between LSA Controller
and PLMN at the NM level as preferred option. The options where LSA Controller
interacts with PLMN either at the NE level or at the EM/DM level were
evaluated and rejected.
The following high level Deployment Scenarios may be recognized as possible
non-mutually exclusive alternative solutions satisfying the requirements
documented in the clause 5 to be supported by the standards:
\- **_Deployment Scenario 1_** : LSA controller communicates the LSRAI to the
OAM system (NM). All planning and configuration decisions are performed within
the OAM system. The architecture for this scenario is depicted on Figure
6.1.4-3, the functional split is depicted on figure 6.2.1.1-1 and described in
clause 6.2.1.2. It does require some normative work in SA5.
\- **_Deployment Scenario 2_** : LSA controller is part of the NM. The
architecture for this scenario is depicted on Figure 6.1.4-2, the functional
split is out of scope for standardization. It does not require new normative
work in 3GPP SA5.
\- **_Deployment Scenario 3_** : LSA controller performs the planning
decisions (some or all) internally and communicates the constraints on
configuration attributes (max TX power, allowed downtilt range, allowed
azimuth range, maximum antenna height, etc...) to the NM. The architecture for
this scenario is depicted on Figure 6.1.4-3, the functional split is depicted
on figure 6.2.2.1-1 and described in clause 6.2.2.2. This option will require
some normative work in SA5.
# 8 Recommendations
Based on the detailed evaluation of various options for interaction between
LSA Controller and PLMN documented in clause 6.1 and related conclusion
documented in clause 7 of the present report, the group recommends to consider
OAM LSA solutions where LSA Controller interacts with PLMN at the NM level.
The group recommends to start normative work and to define a new set of
specifications supporting both Deployment Scenario 1 and Deployment Scenario 3
identified in the conclusions of the study.
#