# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The AAS can enable system optimization to be adaptive to traffic demands and
address network evolution issues through flexible software re-configuration of
the BS and antenna system.
SON mechanism with OAM support can be beneficial to optimize the inter-
operability of AAS operations for the following AAS capabilities:
> 1) Cell Shaping: where the main coverage of each cell is maintained
> unchanged but the cell edge can be adapted to load demand.
>
> 2) Cell Splitting: it adopts higher order sectorisation (vertical,
> horizontal or a combination) to an eNB by changing the coefficients of the
> antenna elements of an active antenna system (AAS) to form more antenna
> beams, each beam may be presented by one cell.
>
> 3) Cell Merging: the contrary functionality of Cell Splitting.
Note: the description about Cell Shaping, Cell Splitting and Cell Merging may
need to be realigned with their definitions which are to be specified.
The present document studies how OAM supports the SON for AAS-based
deployments.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the OAM aspects of SON (Self-Organizing Network)
for AAS (Active Antenna Systems (AAS) based deployments in LTE.
The study includes use cases, potential requirements and possible solutions of
OAM aspects of SON for AAS-based deployments in LTE, for both OAM centralized
architecture and eNB distributed architecture with OAM supervision.
The study also makes conclusions on the preferred solution(s), and provides
recommendations based on the conclusions of the study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 Application Protocol (X2AP)\".
[5] 3GPP TR 37.822 V12.1.0 (2015-03) Study on next generation Self-Optimizing
Network (SON) for UTRAN and E-UTRAN
[6] 3GPP TS 28.628: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.658: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[8] 3GPP TR 37.842: \"E-UTRA and UTRA; Radio Frequency (RF) requirement
background for Active Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
TBD
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AAS Active Antenna System
SON Self-Organizing Network
OAM Operations, Administration and Maintenance
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 Cell Splitting
### 4.1.1 Overview
Cell Splitting adopts higher order sectorisation (vertical, horizontal or a
combination) to an eNB by changing the coefficients of the antenna elements of
an active antenna system (AAS) to form more antenna beams, each beam may be
presented by one cell.
The number of cells split by AAS from an original cell is not fixed, i.e., it
is flexible based on the antenna capability.
The cells newly split from an original cell may or may not change the coverage
of the original cell. In order to simplify the description, the term SO-Cell
and SP-Cell are used to signify the original cell and the new cell split from
the original cell in Cell Splitting.
### 4.1.2 Issues
#### 4.1.2.1 Triggering of Cell Splitting
The Cell Splitting may be triggered (automatically) by EM (EM centralized SON
for AAS based on measurement data (PM data and/or MDT data)), or by eNB (eNB
distributed SON for AAS based on Network and/or UE measurements) if the cell
coverage change is within the planning.
It may be unfeasible for NM to trigger the Cell Splitting, since 1) EM or eNB
has more accurate knowledge about dynamic traffic distribution (e.g., within
15 minutes, Note 1) with detailed location information in the SO-Cell, and 2)
AAS has many vendor specific parameters needs.
Note 1: the time granularity can be variant to different implementations and
it can be discussed further whether 15 minutes is a good example.
Cell Splitting causes UE handovers between the SO-Cell, SP-Cells and their
neighbour cells. The handover margins need to be set properly and efficiently
at the eNB (regardless of before, during or after the Cell Splitting) for each
SP-Cell for both outgoing and incoming handovers with its neighbours to avoid
call drops, this is very difficult to be guaranteed if Cell Splitting is
performed too often. So Cell splitting should not perform with a very high
frequency (Note 2). According to [5], cell splitting procedure is considered
on a long term time scale (every 1h or more seldom - few times a day).
Note 2: The appropriate frequency is to be discussed and may need to be
conducted with RAN WG(s).
NM and EM should also be able to activate (switch on) and deactivate (switch
off) the Cell Splitting:
  * based on network performance observed; or
  * for a special time duration for a planned event.
#### 4.1.2.2 Management of SP-Cells
The SP-Cells need to be manageable by NM and EM as soon as possible after they
are split from the SO-Cell, for the following reason:
  * the coverage and capacity of each SP-Cell needs to be known by other SON functions (e.g., ANR, MRO and CCO) affecting the parameters about neighbour relations;
  * allowing signalling based MDT, since the id and geographical information of each SP-Cell are needed to locate UEs;
  * Allowing Cell traffic trace and/or area based MDT to the SP-Cells;
  * Allowing Performance Management (PM) of the SP-Cells;
  * Allowing Fault Management (FM) of the SP-Cells;
  * Allowing Configuration Management (CM) of the SP-Cells when necessary.
The SP-Cell, once split from the SO-Cell, needs to be made known to NM and EM
as soon as possible, at least before AAS operation is applied to the SP-Cell.
The id of the SP-Cell needs to be manageable to avoid conflict and confusion.
The PCI of the SP-Cell may be or may be not the same as the PCI of the SO-
Cell, however PCI conflict or confusion with other cells needs to be avoided.
So the PCI or PCI range of each SP-Cell may be pre-allocated by NM or EM.
ECGI of each SP-Cell needs to be globally unique, it should be possible to be
configured (or pre-configured) by OAM (both NM and EM).
#### 4.1.2.3 Coverage and capacity planning for AAS
The radio network is initially deployed under network planning, and is
optimized manually or automatically (by SON functions) based on network
performance within the network capability.
AAS Cell Splitting increases network capacity in a certain area, the maximum
network capacity of a specific area is normally planned, so the Cell Splitting
should be possible to be planned by OAM (NM or EM) for some specific SO-Cell
or some specific geographical area though the Cell Splitting action may be
triggered at eNB. The Cell Splitting planning may include:
  * The quantity of potential (allowed) SP-Cells;
  * Planned capacity and coverage for each potential (allowed) SP-Cell;
  * PCI value or range of each potential (allowed) SP-Cell; and
  * ECGI of each potential (allowed) SP-Cell,
To support the planning across networks provided by multi-vendor, NM should be
able to pre-configure the information of planned Cell Splitting to EM, and EM
then forwards to eNB.
## 4.2 Cell Merging
### 4.2.1 Overview
Cell Merging is the contrary functionality of Cell Splitting (see section
4.1).
The number of cells can be merged by AAS into one cell is not fixed, i.e., it
is based on AAS algorithm.
The cell merged from the original cells (in respect to Cell Merging) may or
may not change the coverage of these original cells. In order to simplify the
description, the term MO-Cell and MT-Cell are used to signify the original
cell and the target cell merged from the original cells in Cell Merging.
### 4.2.2 Issues
#### 4.2.2.1 Triggering of Cell Merging
The Cell Merging may be triggered (automatically) by EM (EM centralized SON
for AAS based on measurement data (PM data and/or MDT data)), or by eNB (eNB
distributed SON for AAS based on Network and/or UE measurements). NM may not
be efficient enough to react the fast change (e.g., within 15 minutes, Note 1
of section 4.1 is also applicable here) within the network.
Cell Merging should not happen with a very high frequency (Note 2 of section
4.1 is also applicable to Cell Merging). According to [5], cell merging
procedure is considered on a long term time scale (every 1h or more seldom -
few times a day).
The entity triggering the Cell Merging should be the same as the entity
triggering the Cell Splitting for one active antenna system.
Similarly to Cell Splitting, NM and EM should be also able to activate (switch
on) and deactivate (switch off) the Cell Merging.
#### 4.2.2.2 Management of MT-Cell
For Cell Merging, the MT-Cell is normally assigned with a new ECGI, but may
inherit the PCI from one of its MO-cells (Note 3). So, in the view of other
(e.g., neighbour/adjacent) cells, the Cell Merging is the case that one MO-
Cell (whose id is continuously used by the MT-Cell) enlarges its coverage
while the other MO-Cells become unavailable.
In order to avoid PCI conflict or confusion, NM or EM may pre-configure the
PCI(s) to be (re)used by MT-Cell for Cell Merging; in case multiple PCIs are
pre-configured, eNB needs to choose the appropriate one when a Cell Merging
event happens. In multi-vendor networks scenario, NM should be able to do such
pre-configuration to EM, and EM then forwards to eNB.
Note 3: This is to be confirmed with RAN WG(s).
## 4.3 Cell Shaping
### 4.3.1 Overview
Cell Shaping adapts the cell edge to load demand while maintaining the main
coverage unchanged.
### 4.3.2 Issues
#### 4.3.2.1 Triggering of Cell Shaping
The Cell Shaping may be triggered (automatically) by EM (EM centralized SON
for AAS based on measurement data (PM data and/or MDT data)), or by eNB (eNB
distributed SON for AAS based on Network and/or UE measurements). NM may not
be efficient enough to react the fast change (e.g., within 15 minutes, Note 1
of section 4.1 is also applicable here) within the network.
Cell Shaping may cause UE handovers with its neighbour cells. For each Cell
Shaping event, the handover margin needs to be set properly and efficiently
for both outgoing and incoming handovers with its neighbours to avoid call
drops. So Cell Shaping should not be performed with too high frequency (the
Note 2 of section 4.1 is also applicable here).
NM and EM should be also able to activate (switch on) and deactivate (switch
off) the Cell Shaping.
#### 4.3.2.2 Scale of change
The cell coverage change made by each Cell Shaping event is undefined. If the
eNB executes Call Shaping in a fully unconstrained manner, it may decrease the
reliability of handovers with its neighbour cells since in this case an
appropriate handover margin cannot be guaranteed.
So, according to [2], the eNB may be pre-configured with alternative coverage
configurations and the eNB may autonomously select and switch between these
configurations using Active Antenna Systems functions including Cell Shaping.
And based on [3] and [4], the number of allowed coverage configurations is
limited.
The eNB needs to consider each allowed coverage configuration, to 1) make the
right selection for the coverage change during Cell Shaping, and 2) set the
proper handover margin with neighbour cells. So each pre-configured coverage
configuration should include a state identifier and the range of the
parameters (e.g., tilt, power) affecting the coverage range.
In multi-vendor networks scenario, NM should be able to pre-configure the
allowed alternative coverage configurations to EM, and EM then forwards to
eNB.
# 5 Architecture
## 5.1 Potential architecture options
### 5.1.1 General
According to clause 3 of TS 32.500, there may have 3 potential architecture
options for management of SON for AAS - NM centralized SON for AAS, EM
centralized SON for AAS and distributed SON for AAS.
These potential architecture options are described in the following clauses,
followed with comparison among them.
Editor's note: feasibility analyses are FFS.
### 5.1.2 NM centralized SON for AAS
NM centralized SON for AAS means the algorithm of SON of AAS is located in NM.
Figure - 5.1.2.1 NM centralized SON for AAS
### 5.1.3 EM centralized SON for AAS
EM centralized SON for AAS means the algorithm of SON of AAS is located in EM.
NM provides the management and control functionalities for SON of AAS.
Figure - 5.1.3.1 EM centralized SON for AAS
### 5.1.4 Distributed SON for AAS
Distributed SON for AAS means the algorithm of SON of AAS is located in eNB.
EM and NM provide the management and control functionalities for SON of AAS.
The EM provides vender specific management and control functionalities for SON
of AAS, while the NM provides management and control functionalities for SON
of AAS of multi-vendors.
Figure - 5.1.4.1 Distributed SON for AAS
## 5.2 Comparison of the potential architecture options for response to fast
conditions change
A comparison of the potential architecture options is described in the table
below. The comparison is based on the analyses and characteristics of each of
the architecture options.
* * *
                           **NM centralized SON for AAS**                                                                                                                         **EM centralized SON for AAS**                                                                        **Distributed SON for AAS**
Fast conditions change NM may not be efficient enough to react to the fast
change in conditions of the network, if they happen in the short time interval
(e.g. 5 minutes). Up to vendor's implementation, whether EM can react to the
fast change in conditions of the network The eNB is able to react to the fast
change in conditions of the network
* * *
# 6 Potential Requirements
## 6.1 Introduction
The potential requirements listed below are applicable to the EM centralized
SON for AAS and distributed SON for AAS architecture.
## 6.2 Generic requirements
To be added.
## 6.3 Requirements for management of Cell Splitting
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSp-CON-1** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
switch on/off the Cell Splitting function of an AAS.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSp-CON-2** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
set the quantity of allowed SP-Cells to be split from a SO-Cell.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSp-CON-3** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
pre-configure the ECGI for the potential SP-Cells.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSp-CON-4** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
pre-allocate the PCI range(s) for the potential SP-Cells.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSp-CON-5** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
pre-configure the range of parameters affecting the coverage for each
potential SP-Cell.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSp-CON-6** The EM should be able to notify NM about the
creation of SP-Cell as soon as possible after it is split from the SO-Cell.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSp-CON-7** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
modify the ECGI and PCI of SP-Cell.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSp-CON-8** The EM should enable management operations with the
newly created SP-Cell as soon as possible after it is split from the SO-Cell.
## 6.4 Requirements for management of Cell Merging
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeMr-CON-1** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
switch on/off the Cell Merging function of an AAS.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeMr-CON-2** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
pre-configure the ECGI for the potential MT-Cells.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeMr-CON-3** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
pre-configure the PCI range(s) for the potential MT-Cells.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeMr-CON-4** The EM should be able to notify NM about the
information of MT-Cell as soon as possible after it is merged from the MO-
Cells.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeMr-CON-5** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
modify the ECGI and PCI of MT-Cell.
## 6.5 Requirements for management of Cell Shaping
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSh-CON-1** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
switch on/off the Cell Shaping function of an AAS.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSh-CON-2** The EM should support a capability allowing NM to
pre-configure the alternative coverage configurations for the SON function for
Cell Shaping (SON function for Cell Shaping may reside in eNB or EM depending
on the architecture of SON for AAS) to autonomously select and switch between
these configurations.
**REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSh-CON-3** Each coverage configuration, pre-configured
according to **REQ-OAM_AAS_CeSh-CON-2** , should include a state identifier
and the range of the parameters (e.g., tilt, power) affecting the coverage.
# 7 Potential Solutions
## 7.1 Activation and deactivation of SON for AAS
To support activation and deactivation of SON for AAS, the following
attributes are added to SONControl IOC defined in TS 28.628 [x]. The SON for
AAS function will be switched on or off according to the value assigned to the
attributes.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable aasSwitch CM M M - M
* * *
The constraints of aasSwitch Support Qualifier is AAS function is supported.
The properties of aasSwitch attribute are defined in the following table.
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | aasSwitch | This attribute is the | type: \> | | | list of following | | | | entries: | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | - cellSplittingSwitch | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | - cellMergingSwitch | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | - cellShapingSwitch | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | The allowedValues for | isNullable: True | | | each entry are: on, off | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
## 7.2 Cell identities management for AAS
To support the pre-configuration of PCI of the SP-Cells and MT-Cells, the
pciList attribute defined in EUtranGenericCell IOC defined in TS 28.658[y] is
reused. The SON for AAS function below Itf-N will allocate the PCI to the SP-
Cells and MT-Cells in Cell Splitting and Cell Merging from the value assigned
to pciList attribute.
To support the pre-configuration of ECGI of the SP-Cells and MT-Cells, the
following attributes are added to EUtranGenericCell IOC defined in TS
28.658[y]. The SON for AAS function below Itf-N will allocate the cell local
identifier to the SP-Cells and MT-Cells in Cell Splitting and Cell Merging
from the value assigned to cellLocalIdList attribute.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable cellLocalIdList CM M M - M
* * *
The constraints of cellLocalIdList Support Qualifier is AAS function is
supported.
The properties of cellLocalIdList attribute are defined in the following
table.
+-----------------+----------------------------+---------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed | Properties | | | Values | | +-----------------+----------------------------+---------------------+ | cellLocalIdList | This holds a list of cell | type: Integer | | | local identities that can | | | | be assigned to the | multiplicity: 1..* | | | cellLocalId attribute of | | | | the SP-Cell and MT-Cell by | isOrdered: N/A | | | the AAS function. The | | | | assignment algorithm is | isUnique: N/A | | | not specified. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues of each | | | | entry: 0 : 255 | isNullable: True | +-----------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
## 7.3 Alternative coverage configurations for AAS
To support the alternative cell coverage configurations for AAS function, the
following attributes are added to EUtranCellSON IOC defined in TS 28.628 [x].
The SON for AAS function below Itf-N will select one coverage configuration
when executing Cell Splitting, Cell Merging or Cell Shaping from the
alternative coverage configurations assigned to AlterCovConfig attribute.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable AlterCovConfig CM M M - M
* * *
The constraints of AlterCovConfig Support Qualifier is AAS function is
supported.
The properties of AlterCovConfig attribute are defined in the following table.
+----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed | Properties | | | Values | | +----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------+ | AlterCovConfig | This holds a list of | type: Integer | | | alternative coverage | | | | configurations which are | multiplicity: 1..* | | | used for AAS function to | | | | select and switch between | isOrdered: N/A | | | these configurations. Each | | | | coverage configuration | isUnique: N/A | | | contains the following | | | | entries: | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | - StateId, which | isNullable: True | | | indicates the | | | | identifier of the | | | | coverage configuration; | | | | | | | | - horizontalHBW, which | | | | indicates the | | | | horizontal Half Power | | | | Beamwidth (Note 1), see | | | | 3GPP TR 37.842 [z]; | | | | | | | | - verticalHBW, which | | | | indicates the vertical | | | | Half Power Beamwidth | | | | (Note 1), see 3GPP TR | | | | 37.842 [z]; | | | | | | | | - max | | | | imumTransmissionPowerRange, | | | | which indicates the | | | | range of | | | | | | | | maximumTransmissionPower, | | | | see 28.658[y]; | | | | | | | | - | | | | referenceSignalPowerRange, | | | | which indicates the | | | | range of | | | | referenceSignalPower, | | | | see 28.658[y] | | | | | | | | allowedValues: TBD | | | | | | | | Note 1: The Half Power | | | | Beamwidth is, in a | | | | radiation pattern cut | | | | containing the direction of | | | | the maximum of a lobe, the | | | | angle between two | | | | directions in which the | | | | radiation intensity is | | | | one-half the maximum value, | | | | see 3GPP TR 37.842 [z]. | | +----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------+
## 7.4 Cell Splitting and Cell Merging relation management
To support showing the relation between SO-Cell and SP-Cell for Cell
Splitting, the relation between MO-Cell and MT-Cell for Cell Merging, the
following attributes are added to EUtranCellSON IOC defined in TS 28.628 [x].
The SON for AAS function below Itf-N will indicate the SO-Cell that the SP-
Cells has replaced in Cell Splitting, and the MO-Cells that the MT-Cell has
replaced in Cell Merging, by ReplacedCells attribute.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable ReplacedCells CM M M - M
* * *
The constraints of ReplacedCells Support Qualifier is Cell Splitting or Cell
Merging function is supported.
The properties of ReplacedCells attribute are defined in the following table.
+----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed | Properties | | | Values | | +----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------+ | ReplacedCells | This holds a list of local | type: Integer | | | identities of the cells | | | | which has been replaced by | multiplicity: 1..* | | | the subject cell within the | | | | eNodeB. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues of each | isUnique: N/A | | | entry: 0 : 255 | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------+
# 8 Conclusions
TBD
# 9 Recommendations
TBD
#