# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Distributed SON (D-SON) functions are important tools for network
optimization.\ The present document studies potential areas where performance
of automated D-SON functions can be improved by OAM aspects. It is aimed that
such performance enhancements would help network operators in improvement of
network efficiency without significant additional expenses.
# 1 Scope
The present document aims the following:
\- Identify whether Distributed SON (D-SON) Mobility Load Balancing (MLB) as
currently specified in 3GPP can be improved;
\- In case potential areas of improvement are identified, propose possible
solutions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.522: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 Application Protocol (X2AP)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.314: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Layer 2 - Measurements\".
[5] NGMN P-SmallCell Work Stream 2 (WS2) Recommended Practices for Multivendor
SON Deployment:
http://www.ngmn.org/uploads/media/P-Small_Cells_WS2_Multivendor_Recommended_Practices_v1_0.pdf
[6] 3GPP TS 32.412: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.432: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
D-SON Distributed - Self-Organizing Networks
OAM Operations, Administration and Management or Operations, Administration
and Maintenance (OA&M or OAM)
MLB Mobility Load Balancing
SON Self-Organizing Networks
TNL Transport Network Layer
# 4 MLB SON function
## 4.1 Background
The objective of Mobility Load Balancing (MLB) is to distribute cell load
evenly among adjacent cells or to transfer part of the traffic from congested
cells to other cells so that radio resources remain highly optimised.
In MLB, this is done by self-optimization of the mobility parameters. Handover
and cell selection parameters can be tuned in order to cope with the unequal
traffic load and to minimize the number of handovers and redirections needed
to achieve the load balancing.
SON procedures for MLB must be implemented locally at the eNB level and
communicate over X2 interface to overcome processing delays and enable a fast
adaptation to changing conditions.
The 3GPP TS 32.522 [2] specifies the location of SON decision algorithm of the
load balancing at the eNB.
## 4.2 Use cases
### 4.2.1 Use cases related to multi-vendor HetNet
#### 4.2.1.1 Background
One of the most likely deployments where the MLB is expected to play a vital
role is in the Heterogeneous Network (HetNet) or multi-layered network
deployments. HetNets are adopted primarily for improving capacity and coverage
in areas with unequal user distribution.
Typically small cells are deployed to provide extra capacity in areas with
dense user demand while macro-cells are used to provide coverage in the
remaining areas.
{width="3.183333333333333in" height="3.1395833333333334in"}
Figure 4.2.1.1-1: System architecture -- Distributed MLB in multi-vendor
HetNet
A key area that requires operator\'s attention in such HetNets is the inter-
layer coordination for efficient radio resources assignment, in a deployment
scenario where different layers of base stations are provided by different
suppliers (see figure 4.2.1.1-1).
#### 4.2.1.2 Load information exchange interoperability issues
The architecture in figure 4.2.1.1-1 assumes that the Load Balancing SON
function is located at EM or eNB level for both Macro and Small cell vendors.\
Normally, in this case each vendor would have implemented standardized 3GPP X
2 interfaces 3GPP TS 36.423 [3] and would be able to support most of the X2
exchanges for inter-working purposes.\ However, possible interoperability
issue may arise from the fact that vendors are free to run any load balancing
algorithm at any timescale, with any load metrics [5]. Without coordination,
the load balancing action might conflict between vendors.
Hence, in general the main challenges for multi-vendor interoperability over
X2 in this deployment scenario are:
  * Alignment of supported 3GPP optional signalling;
  * Alignment of exchanged parameters value meaning;
  * Alignment of timing for function monitoring and reporting.
It should be highlighted here that in a single vendor environment load
balancing entities could be easily aligned, hence most of the above
interoperability issues and challenges can be avoided.
An insight analysis of the details of possible interoperability challenges
associated with Load Balancing SON mechanism in multi-vendor HetNets
deployments is provided below:
Interface related issues/observations: Load Information Exchange
The X2AP provides a range of functions including Load Management. This
function is used by eNBs to indicate resource status, overload and traffic
load to each other.
An eNB should support the following X2AP elementary procedures/messages for
exchange of load information:
\- X2AP Resource Status Reporting Initiation
\- RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST
\- RESOURCE STATUS RESPONSE
\- RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE
\- X2AP Resource Status Reporting
\- RESOURCE STATUS UPDATE
3GPP TS 36.423 (X2AP) [3] defines the RESOURCE STATUS UPDATE message
containing the following measurement Information Elements (IEs) for reporting
of cell load (as highlighted in Table 4.2.1.2-1).\ This message is sent by one
eNB to neighbouring eNB to report the results of the requested load-related
measurements.
Table 4.2.1.2-1: X2AP RESOURCE STATUS UPDATE
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | | | | | | | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.13 | | YES | ignore | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | eNB1 | M | | INTEGER | | YES | reject | | Meas | | | (1..409 | | | | | urement | | | 5,...) | | | | | ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | eNB2 | M | | INTEGER | | YES | reject | | Meas | | | (1..409 | | | | | urement | | | 5,...) | | | | | ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Cell | |_1_ | | | YES | ignore | | Meas | | | | | | | | urement | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | esult** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | | _1 to | | | EACH | ignore | |_ >Cell | | maxCel | | | | | | Meas | | lineNB _| | | | | | urement | | | | | | | | Result | | | | | | | | Item_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |__\ | M | | ECGI | | | | | >>Cell | | | | | | | | ID_ _| | | 9.2.14 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |__> >H | O | | 9.2.34 | | | | | ardware | | | | | | | | Load | | | | | | | | Indi | | | | | | | | cator_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | O | | 9.2.35 | | | | |_ >>S1 | | | | | | | | TNL | | | | | | | | Load | | | | | | | | Indi | | | | | | | | cator**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** > | O | | 9.2.37 | | | | | >Radio | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | tatus**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | O | | 9.2.44 | | YES | ignore | | * >>Co | | | | | | | | mposite | | | | | | | | Av | | | | | | | | ailable | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | apacity | | | | | | | | Group** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | >>ABS | O | | 9.2.58 | | YES | ignore | | Status | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
**Issue#1**
> The type of load information can be requested by the source eNB, via the
> Report Characteristics IE in the X2AP message RESOURCE STATUS REQUEST. If
> the target eNB is capable of providing the requested type of load
> information, it shall initiate the corresponding measurement and send
> RESOURCE STATUS RESPONSE.\ Otherwise, it shall send RESOURCE STATUS FAILURE,
> or alternatively, in case of partial failure, the target eNB may send
> RESOURCE STATUS RESPONSE with a specific failure cause.
>
> A possible failure of Resource Status Reporting Initiation can happen due to
> non-supported load information by the target eNB.
**Issue#2**
> Hardware Load Indicator and S1 TNL Load Indicator can take 4 values (low,
> mid, high, overload).\ The definition of HW/S1 TNL Load is not standardized,
> neither is how to map a measured HW/S1 TNL Load to the HW/S1 TNL Load
> Indicator value.\ Radio Resource Status (PRB usage) is carried in the Radio
> Resource Status IE.\ The PRB usage definition is standardised in 3GPP TS
> 36.314 [4], therefore no interoperability problems associated with this load
> measurement type are expected.
>
> Composite Available Capacity (scaled at 0 to 100) can be used for carrying
> any combined, operator-specific load metric and calculation formula for
> composite available capacity can vary between vendors.
**Issue#3**
> The metric used by SON Load Balancing can be calculated differently by each
> vendor.\ It is typically derived from a combination of Load Measurements
> from X2 and internal measurements.
**Issue #4**
> The TS 36.423, 9.2.46 includes reference to Cell Capacity Class Value
> defined in TS 36.300, 22.4.1.2.1. The assumed usage of the Cell Capacity
> Class Value is to be a factor for the Capacity Value. This value may depend
> on specific deployment and may change with addition of new eNBs or
> activation of new software versions / licenses. Currently there is no
> standard way for the operator to set the Cell Capacity Class Value in case
> when Cell Capacity Class feature is implemented in the eNB.
#### 4.2.1.3 MLB algorithms misalignment
##### 4.2.1.3.1 Problem statement
> The following example includes two _single cell_ eNBs from different vendors
> in which MLB decision algorithms are not aligned _and the load is measured
> using one of metrics defined in TS 32.425 or their derivatives (average,
> peak etc.). This problem statement is not applicable in case when the
> distributed MLB is implemented with Composite Available Capacity (CAC)
> indicator_. Then the eNBs exchange correct X2 messages and properly
> understand each other, but real load balancing may not happen. To make the
> case stronger, in this example two eNBs are using _identical_ algorithms and
> only configuration parameters of the algorithm are different. The goal of
> the algorithm is to keep the load of the eNB between L and H (both
> parameters are part of factory configuration), for which purpose offload to
> another eNB may be requested. The eNB however avoids requesting offload if
> the potential offload target is over the threshold L.
\- eNB#1 (vendor #1), does not accept offload requests when it is loaded over
70% and tries to offload when it is over H1 = 85%
\- For eNB#2 (vendor #2) these thresholds are L2 = 80% and H2 = 90%.
> _It is assumed that eNB#2 evaluates load information received from eNB#1
> using its own load threshold i.e. L2._
>
> Suppose that _the eNB#2 is above 90% while the_ eNB#1 is at 75% _which
> number is communicated to the eNB#2. The eNB#2 will evaluate the received
> load information by comparison with L2: 75% \  of view of eNB#2, the eNB#1 is not overloaded therefore must be able to
> accept offload request._ _As the load at the_ eNB#2 goes over H2=90%, the
> eNB#2 will permanently try to offload _however the_ eNB#1 will be rejecting
> offload requests. No load balancing actions will happen.
##### 4.2.1.3.2 Analysis of the problem statement
_The goal of the proprietary algorithm under investigation is "to keep the
load of the eNB between L and H (values are factory configuration), for which
purpose offload to another eNB may be requested"._
_The following Table illustrates the context where problem exists_.
* * *
         L        H        Load is...
eNB1 L1= 70 H1= 85 75 eNB2 L2= 80 H2= 90 91
* * *
_The eNB2 knows (is aware of) the RED values in the Table above. The RED
values affect the eNB2 proprietary algorithm behaviour (actions)._
_One feature of this proprietary algorithm is that an eNB (e.g. the single
cell eNB2 as used in Problem Statement) would consider his neighbours (e.g.
the eNB1) would have the same L values as that of itself (L2)._
_Therefore, when eNB2 a) knows eNB1 loading is 75% and b) eNB2 'thinks' eNB1's
L1 is the same as eNB2's, i.e. 80% and c) eNB1's loading (75%) is less than L2
(80%), eNB2 concludes that eNB1 would accept offload request and start
requesting offload._
_As illustrated in the Problem Statement, "the eNB#1 will be rejecting offload
requests" because its load (75%) is greater than L1 (70%). This result in the
problem: "No load balancing actions will happen"._
Operator, who considers using such proprietary algorithm, knows its behaviour
and in particular, knows the risk of "no load balancing actions will happen"
situation depicted by the Problem Statement. When operator decides to deploy
the said proprietary algorithm with the two factory configured L/H values,
operator knows and accepts the risk of "no load balancing actions will happen"
on specific loading conditions. If the operator does not want to take such
risk, the operator would need to replace this proprietary algorithm.
The problem is caused by the fact that the factory configured L/H values are
not coordinated and results in eNB2 algorithm guessing, wrongly, the eNB1 L
value.
_This problem will be more common, comparatively speaking, in a single-vendor
environment where the algorithms have higher chance to be identical._
##### 4.2.1.3.3 Potential solutions
[]{.underline}
[Potential solution #1.]{.underline}
One possible solution is to make the following parameters L, H available for
configuration via OAM:
\- if the eNB load \ H, the eNB should not accept offload requests from the
neighbour eNB.
[Potential solution #2]{.underline}
Another possible solution is to make the parameters L, H available for
configuration via OAM so that the eNB is expected to do its best to keep the
load between these two thresholds.
##### 4.2.1.3.4 Analysis of potential solutions
The Problem statement makes two assumptions.
  1. The eNBs uses _identical_ algorithms, i.e. eNB does not accept offload requests when it is loaded over L and tries to offload when it is over H.
  2. Each eNB knows its own L/H values and assumes neighbouring eNBs are using the same L/H values.
As documented in 4.2.1.3.2, Operator, who considers using such proprietary
algorithm, knows its behaviour and in particular, knows the risk of "no load
balancing actions will happen" situation depicted by the Problem Statement.
When operator decides to deploy the said proprietary algorithm with the two
factory configured L/H values, operator knows and accepts the risk of "no load
balancing actions will happen" on specific loading conditions. An alternative
solution for the problem is that if the operator does not want to take such
risk, the operator would need to avoid use of this proprietary algorithm.
The proprietary D-MLB algorithm for offload action is assumed to be: "request
offload when its load is over its H" (see point 1 above).
The potential solution#1 algorithm to request offload action is different than
one assumed (see point 1 above). It is now "if the eNB load \ The figure below shows an example where the load levels are expressed in
> percents of fully loaded eNB. Load metrics defined in the TS 32.425 could be
> used as load level indicators. In particular, the load level can be
> indicated by average percentage of PRB utilization. This problem statement
> is not applicable in case when the distributed MLB algorithm is using the
> Composite Available Capacity (CAC) indicator
>
> The load situation is signaled to neighbor eNBs over X2 interface.
>
> Suppose that all eNBs are running same MLB algorithm. The target of the
> algorithm is to keep the load of the eNB between the thresholds L and H
> (both are factory configuration), for which purpose offload to another eNB
> may be requested. The eNB however avoids requesting offload if the potential
> offload target is over the threshold L.
>
> The thresholds are defined per neighbour; initially in all eNBs L =60%, H =
> 80% in all directions
>
> For the scenario depicted in the figure below, eNB#2 and eNB#3 are potential
> offload targets for eNB#1. Suppose that behind eNB#3 there is eNB#4 with low
> load. Then eNB#2 and eNB#3 are below H = 80% therefore they will not offload
> to eNB#4. It should be noted that eNB#4 is not a neighbour of eNB#1 so there
> is no X2 connection between them; therefore the load situation at eNB#4 is
> not visible to eNB#1. In this situation eNB#1 will not try to offload to
> eNB#3 and eNB#2, because their load is above L The load distribution will
> remain far from uniform; the max:min ratio in this case will be 3:1.
##### 4.2.1.4.2 Analysis of the problem statement
_The goal of the proprietary algorithm under investigation is "to keep the
load of the eNB between L and H (factory configuration), for which purpose
offload to another eNB may be requested"._
**_Analysis from eNB1 perspective:_**
_The following Table illustrates the context where problem: "t_ he load
distribution will remain far from uniform" exists. The Table ignores eNB3 as
the use of eNB2 is sufficient for the purpose of analysis.
* * *
         L        H        Load is...
eNB1 L1= 60 H1= 80 90 eNB2 L2= 60 H2= 80 70 eNB4 L3= 60 H3= 80 30
* * *
_The eNB1 knows (is aware of) the RED values in the Table above. These RED
values affect the eNB1 proprietary algorithm behaviour (actions)._
As correctly identified in the Problem Statement, the said eNB1 proprietary
algorithm would not request offload to eNB2 (or eNB3) "because their load is
above L" (i.e. eNB1 knows eNB2's load is 70% which is greater than L2=L1=60%).
As a consequence, "the load distribution will remain far from uniform; the
max:min ratio in this case will be 3:1".
Given the said proprietary algorithm behaviour and the specific set of L/H
values, it is deterministic that the problem will occur under specific eNBs'
loading situation.
Operator, who considers using such algorithm, knows the behaviour of this
proprietary algorithm and in particular, knows the risk of _"t_ he load
distribution will remain far from uniform" situation depicted by the Problem
Statement.
When operator decides to deploy such algorithm, operator would not only know
but accept the risk of _"t_ he load distribution will remain far from uniform"
on specific loading conditions. If the operator does not want to take such
risk, the operator needs to replace this proprietary algorithm.
**_Analysis from eNB2 perspective_**
_The following Table illustrates the context where problem: "t_ he load
distribution will remain far from uniform" exists. The Table ignores eNB3 as
use of eNB2 is sufficient for the purpose of analysis.
The analysis is about the proprietary algorithm described in Problem
Statement.
* * *
         L        H        Load is...
eNB1 L1= 60 H1= 80 90 eNB2 L2= 60 H2= 80 70 eNB4 L3= 60 H3= 80 30
* * *
_The eNB2 knows (is aware of) the RED values in the Table above. These RED
values affect the eNB2 behaviour (actions). The following are behaviour
samples:_
  1. In this load situation the said proprietary algorithm (in eNB2 or in > eNB3) would reject incoming offload request ( because its load is > 70 > L2=60) independently from ability of its neighbour nodes > (e.g. eNB4) to accept offload.
  2. The said proprietary algorithm (in eNB#2 and eNB#3) would reject > incoming offload requests when its load is over 60%. The said > proprietary algorithm would not discard its own non-GBR traffic to > accept incoming offload request. When operator decides to deploy > such algorithm, operator would not only know but accept the risk > of _"t_ he load distribution will remain far from uniform" on > specific loading conditions. If the operator does not want to take > such risk, the operator needs to replace this proprietary > algorithm.
When operator decides to deploy such algorithm, operator would not only know
but accept the risk of _"t_ he load distribution will remain far from uniform"
on specific loading conditions. If the operator does not want to take such
risk, the operator needs to replace this proprietary algorithm.
#### 4.2.1.5 Alignment of behaviour of D-MLB instances, CAC case
##### 4.2.1.5.1 Problem statement
In the TS 36.423, 9.2.45, the Composite Available Capacity (CAC) is defined as
combination of Cell Capacity Class Value and Capacity Value specified further
in 9.2.46/47.
Proprietary CAC computation algorithms implemented by different vendors may be
significantly different.
For example, as one possible CAC computation method, the Capacity Value B
towards certain neighbor eNB may be computed as a function of the parameters
G, N, M as denoted in the Figure 4.2.1.5.1-1 which is a snapshot of eNB
capacity utilization. Selection of the parameters G, N, M is configured at the
production time.
Figure 4.2.1.5.1-1. Example of CAC computation algorithm
A possible scenario considers two neighbor cells serviced by eNB1 and eNB2
which may be produced by different vendors, with different CAC computation
algorithms or at least with different margins M. In case when eNB1 cell is
overloaded while the eNB2 cell load is not that significant, there is
potential to relief overload in the eNB1 cell by offload to eNB2. However it
can happen that the eNB2 shows CAC = 0 simply because it keeps its margin M
larger than may be really desired by the operator in this particular
deployment. Then the MLB algorithm at the eNB1 will not initiate offload to
the eNB2.
This example shows that existing specifications of CAC-based MLB [3] do not
assure sufficient level of control over the MLB operations.
4.2.1.5.2 Analysis
The current CAC definition was discussed and agreed in RAN3. At that time
there was no specific requirement(s) for operators to control the CAC
parameters (including for example the margin). Should an operator requires
such control, the operator can discuss and agree possible solution with the
vendor.
## 4.3 Other considerations
### 4.3.1 Intent
The TR studies potential areas where performance of standard D-SON MLB (or
D-MLB SON) functions can be improved by \"OAM aspects\". Some \"OAM aspects\"
improvement can result in a Hybrid-SON configuration (i.e. NM function and
D-SON functions working at the same time to achieve SON objectives). This
Hybrid-SON configuration is different than that of D-SON and than that of
Centralized SON.
Using specialized NM function to work with D-MLB functions, as opposed to
using D-MLB functions alone, has a cost.
The intent of this subclause is to identify \"the cost\" or impact so that one
can properly evaluate if using such configuration to enhance D-MLB performance
is cost-effective.
### 4.3.2 Data transferred over Itf-N
One configuration/mechanism to improve D-MLB performance is for NM to collect,
periodically or on demand, the managed nodes\' load information measured by
using metrics defined in TS 32.425 or their derivatives (average, peak etc.).
The NM would then analyse the collected information and instruct, when
necessary, D-MLB(s) to change their load balancing decision/behaviour. This
mechanism is different from one supporting NM setting policy or target.
If such configuration/mechanism is used to improve performance of D-MLBs, the
information of this subclause should be taken into consideration when
evaluating the suitability and cost-effectiveness of the
configuration/mechanism.
1\. This mechanism requires volumes of network statistical data transferred
from managed nodes, via IRPAgent in a store-and-forward manner, to NM
periodically where periodicity (which is the PM report period) is not in hours
but may be in minutes or seconds (to be effective supporting NM algorithm to
handle load balancing).
2\. The impact of additional (relative to the case when NM is not involved)
volume and higher rate (relative to the case when NM is not involved) of
statistical data transfer across the Itf-N cannot be determined by this TR
since its impact is dependent on specific operating environment.
3\. Suppose an operation environment is not using standard [6, 7] or vendor-
specific equivalence currently. The cost of using/running the standard [6, 7]
or its vendor-specific equivalence needs to be considered.
4\. Suppose an operation environment is already using standard [6, 7]
supporting existing NM applications and it plans to use the same standard to
transfer statistical data. The potential performance degradation of the
IRPAgent, caused by the reconfiguration of Granularity Period (GP) and Report
Period (RP) as listed below, requires consideration.
\- PM IRPAgent [6] collects and the involved nodes produce
counter/measurements once every five minutes (GP==5);
\- PM IRPAgent [6] to transfer the collected counter/measurements over Itf-N
once every five minutes (RP==5).
Furthermore, the impact of the above mentioned degradation on existing NM
level applications (using standard [6, 7]) also requires consideration.
### 4.3.3 Optimization cycle
Suppose that the Hybrid-SON MLB is operating in the following way (note that
this procedure is different from one supporting NM setting policy or target):
1\. Managed node where D-MLB runs monitors the cell load. When the load is
unbalanced with the neighbors, it instantly takes action to offload traffic to
the appropriate neighbours;
2\. Managed node, where D-MLB runs, collects information needed by the Hybrid
SON NM algorithm;
3\. Managed node sends information to NM;
4\. The Hybrid SON NM algorithm analyzes the received information;
5\. Based on the analysis, the Hybrid SON NM algorithm instructs D-MLBs to
balance the load (i.e. D-MLB would behave differently if Hybrid SON NM
algorithm does not offer instructions).
If this configuration/procedure is used to improve performance of D-MLBs, the
information of this subclause should be taken into consideration when
evaluating the suitability and cost-effectiveness of the
configuration/procedure.
The collection frequency of Step 1 determines the shortest possible delayed-
reaction times, i.e. T2 - T1 where T1 is the time when eNB is experiencing a
load situation and T2 is the time when NM issues instruction to balance the
load situation.
If the standard Performance Management IRP is used to support the above
described procedure, it would mean the shortest possible collection time is 5
minutes, due to the fact that the shortest standardized Granularity Period is
5 minutes.
Thus, use of the above described procedure implies the use of long delayed
reaction time (5 minutes or longer). Put it in another way, the above
described procedure does not support near real time (e.g. delayed reaction
time less than one minute) traffic load balancing.
Note: The delayed reaction time (5 minutes or longer) discussed above is based
on the best possible situation supported by standard PM (measurement transfer)
implementation. It does not account for the NM algorithm processing time. That
time is dependent on the vendor-specific algorithm used. This TR does not and
cannot provide a reasonable estimate on the NM algorithm and D-MLB algorithm
processing time.
### 4.3.4 Use of load performance metrics for short term load balancing
decision
One mechanism to improve D-MLB performance is for NM to collect, periodically
or on demand, the managed nodes\' loading information measured by using
metrics defined in TS 32.425 or their derivatives (average, peak etc.). The NM
would then analyse the collected information and instruct, when necessary,
D-MLB(s) to change their load balancing decision. This mechanism is different
than one supporting NM setting policy or target.
The information of this subclause should be taken into consideration when
evaluating the suitability and cost-effectiveness of the mechanism.
a) The use of load performance metrics collected over comparatively long time
to predict the immediate future load information is not 100% reliable. There
is a probability of failure associated with such prediction. Given that D-MLB
has the actual real-time load information to decide on its load balancing
decision, it is questionable why one would involve NM, who uses the predicted
(not 100% reliable) load information, to instruct the D-MLB to change its
loading decision.
b) The prediction of immediate future load information, based on statistics of
load performance metrics, is reliable with certain level of probability of
failure. A load balancing algorithm using such prediction may incorrectly
determine the way of actions. For example, based on statistics of load
records, it can predict a load level which is lower than actual; in this case
the system would fail when higher than the predicted load level occurs.
c) The above negative effect can also be explained using Jensen\'s inequality
(also known as the flaw of averages when applied to averages). The following
is an example of how the average of PRB utilization can deviate from the short
term PRB usage. See more information below:
The user i in a cell desires the bitrate Ri in the downlink (uplink is
analogous). Over a time window, each user thus needs (Ri * the length of the
time window) bits transferred. Consider a long term time window T (typically
as considered by the Hybrid-MLB), and a short term time window t (typically
considered by D-MLB).
Assume that T=N * t, and let n denote a short term time step, n=1,...,N.
At time step n, the user is scheduled based on the CSI feedback CQIi,n, and
the corresponding bits Bi,n that can be transferred with an acceptable BLER in
one PRB can be seen as a function f() of the CQI, Bi = f(CQIi,n).
Thus, the total number of PRBs at short term time step n can be expressed as:
_PRBtot,n = sum,i [Ri*t/f(CQIi,n)]_
Furthermore, the average number of PRBs over the long term time interval T can
be expressed as:
_PRBave = 1/N * sum,n [PRBtot,n]_
Due to Jensen's inequality (also known as the flaw of averages when applied to
averages), the long term average PRBave can be quite far off from the short
term PRB usage. Hence, comparing the long term load between two cells is of
little value when it comes to the short term load situation. In such a short
term situation, eNB1 can identify the need and opportunity to offload users to
eNB2 based on the short term load situation, but more importantly on the short
term radio conditions with respect to served users. However, such short term
mechanisms do not need any information about the averages calculated from load
records from NM or recommendations based on such average.
In a simple example, assume uniformly spread bitrates over 20 users in a cell.
The figure (left) shows the histogram of the short term PRB usage over the 20
users, as well as the long term average. Clearly, the average can be
misguiding at times. In an adjacent cell, there are two users at quite
favorable radio conditions that do not fluctuate much, and the figure (right)
shows the short term PRB usage histogram and long term average, which in this
case are not that far off.
{width="4.402777777777778in" height="1.4909722222222221in"}
Load balancing recommendations based on averages calculated from load records
can thus be misleading, since the recommendation based on averages calculated
from load records is to always aim at offloading users from cell 2 to cell 1,
while in fact the short term load situations can be the opposite with cell 1
more loaded than cell 2.
Use of load records collected over comparatively long time for short term load
balancing decision will not necessarily be correct.
### 4.3.5 NM analysis - driven load balancing decisions
One example of mechanism to improve D-MLB performance is for NM to collect,
periodically or on demand, the managed nodes\' load information measured by
using metrics defined in TS 32.425 or their derivatives (average, peak etc.).
(Note that not all of possible OAM improvement options result in a Hybrid-SON
solution.) The NM would then analyse the collected information and instruct,
when necessary, D-MLB(s) to change the load balancing decision. [The example
below is analysing the case when the NM is involved into particular D-MLB
decisions, specifically into triggering HO of particular uEs, but not in
changing general behaviour.]
The information of this subclause should be taken into consideration when
evaluating the suitability and cost-effectiveness of this mechanism.
A use case below is used:
Cell-A of node-A is loaded heavily. Cell-B of node-B is loaded lightly. NM
will issue instruction(s) to D-MLB to even the loads on Cell-A and Cell-B.
Intervention of NM (as described in use case above) into triggering HO, based
on loads of Cell-A and Cell-B, may be harmful (i.e. result in call drop due to
handover failure) if the NM is not aware of the existence of a coverage hole.
The above paragraph illustrates a call failure when load balancing decision is
based only on cell loading information and without consideration of the
coverage hole aspect. Here is a list of other aspects which, if not taken into
consideration by the load balancing decision, may also introduce call failure
or non-optimal operation. The aspects are: matching of UE and NW capabilities;
neighbour's schedule to enter energy saving state.
The use of load information alone and not using other information such as cell
coverage maps for example, to guide load balancing action may not be optimal
at best but may result in call drops. Therefore, in the use case described,
the use of NM function may be ineffective.
## 4.4 Use of long term average of load value
The short term load average values are made available to D-MLB function. The
use of short term load average value to make decisions on load balancing may
have negative result.
One negative result is that the short term load average values can
significantly change within seconds while the load balancing action may need
to be spread over significantly longer time interval to avoid high frequency
of handovers. Another possible negative result is that in the wide area the
convergence time of the distributed algorithm can be significant. In such
scenarios use of load records collected over comparatively long time for short
term load balancing decision will not necessarily be correct.
However, the availability of short term load average values to the D-MLB
function does not imply that the D-MLB function must make load balancing
decision based directly on the values. The D-MLB function can calculate the
long term load average values based on the collected short term load average
values and decide on load balancing decision based on the calculated long term
load average values.
In other words, the availability of short term load average values to the
proprietary D-MLB function means the function will have an option to use long
term or short term average values for decision for load balancing. Such option
does not exist in the case for a load balancing function that resides in NM.
## 4.5 Recommendations
### 4.5.1 Recommendations for load information exchange interoperability
issues (clause 4.2.1.2)
The solution for the load information exchange interoperability issues can in
general be considered outside the scope of SA5 working group. The followings
are optional recommended practices that could be adopted to overcome or
alleviate the impact of some of the issues. It should also be emphasized here
again that the issues in clause 4.2.1.2 should only occur in multi-vendor
deployments.
**Solution for Issue#1:**
The TS 36.423 specification does not currently identify any issue or problem
that would or could occur when failure of Resource Status Reporting Initiation
happens. However, if operator would like, for any reason, to avoid such
failure, due to non-supported load information by the target eNB, from
happening, such avoidance can possibly be achieved by offline coordination
between the operator and their vendors regarding which types of load
information shall be implemented, without the need to expose any proprietary
information. An option can be that the supported types of load information
made configurable by the operator such that they are aligned between the
vendors.
**Solution for Issue#2:**
An alignment on the definition of HW/S1 TNL Load can be performed offline and
the mapping from HW/S1 TNL Load to HW/S1 TNL Load Indicator will be based on a
proprietary system configuration. It should, however, be noted that HW load is
particularly vendor specific as it depends on potential bottlenecks of a
vendor specific HW architecture and as such alignment of the HW Load may be
only rough.
RAN3 has agreed that the use of load information over X2 is sufficient. The
CAC value reflects how much more load the eNB can accept; it should not matter
to the neighbour eNB what actual resource is scarce. The maximum capacity is
already available between eNBs through Cell Capacity Class Value; which should
be settable by OAM for internal cells in the eNB.
**Solution for Issue#3**
The SON LB metric calculation could be aligned offline between the operator
and their vendors. It should also be possible to resolve this issue using
appropriate CAC settings for cell capacity, as mentioned for Issue #2.
### 4.5.2 Recommendations for non-uniform load distribution (clause 4.2.1.4)
and alignment of behaviour of D-MLB instances, CAC case (clause 4.2.1.5)
In case when an operator needs control over certain MLB parameters, the
operator can discuss and agree possible solution with the vendor.
### 4.5.3 Recommendations based on other considerations (clause 4.3)
For the load balancing implementation where the NM algorithm instructs D-MLBs
how to balance the load, involvement of NM implies long delayed reaction time
(5 minutes or longer) so such implementation does not support near real time
(e.g. delayed reaction time less than one minute) traffic load balancing.
Direct processing of near real time load information in the NM would create
significant load on the NM layer which can cause degradation on existing NM
level applications also requires consideration.
Use of load records collected over comparatively long time for short term load
balancing decision, will not necessarily be correct.
#