# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document studies the enhancements of the **management solutions
of** mobile networks that include virtualized core network functions (EPC or
IMS) needed to support the management of virtualized network functions that
are part of the New Radio (NR), as described in the NR access technology:
radio access architecture and interfaces [2].
# 1 Scope
The present document studies on the management of virtualized network
functions that are part of the NR that includes the following aspects:
  * **The management use cases and requirements for the** virtualized network functions that are part of the NR, and their relations with non-virtualized part of the RAN and the core networks**.**
  * **Analysis to identify the gaps for the use cases and requirements that cannot be supported by the management solutions of** mobile networks that include virtualized core network functions (EPC or IMS).
  * The potential solutions for the gaps identified above.
  * Recommendations on the next step.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 38.801: \"Study on New Radio Access Technology; Radio Access
Architecture and Interfaces \".
[3] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 (V2.1.1) (2016-10): \"Network Function Virtualisation
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point - Interface
and Information Model Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.525: "Life Cycle Management (LCM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Requirements"
[5] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 v2.1.1: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Network Service Templates Specification\".
[6] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 v2.1.1: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; VNF Packaging Specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
VL Virtual Link
VNFFG VNF Forwarding Graph
# 4 Potential Use Cases related to management of virtualized network functions
that are part of the NR
## 4.1 Configuration Management use cases
### 4.1.1 Establishment of relation between virtualized part and non-
virtualized part of a gNB
#### 4.1.1.1 Issues
The granularity of the CU/DU functional split has the following options (see
clause 11.3.3 in [2]):
\- Per CU: each CU has a fixed split, and DUs are configured to match this.
\- Per DU: each DU can be configured with a different split. The choice of a
DU split may depend on specific topology or backhaul support in a given area.
It is FFS in RAN3 as to how the CU/DU decide or coordinate the split. But, the
relation between CU and DU that form a gNB needs to be established through
configuration.
#### 4.1.1.2 Pre-conditions
\- Virtualized part of a gNB has been instantiated;
\- Non-virtualized part of a gNB has been deployed;
\- NM knows which virtualized part and non-virtualized part can form a gNB.
#### 4.1.1.3 Description
NM requests EM to establish the relation, which is the management view of the
RAN3 defined CU-DU reference point, between the virtualized part and the non-
virtualized part of a gNB through configuration.
EM configures the virtualized part and/or the non-virtualized part to
establish the relation, and responds to NM that the relation has been
established.
Editor's note: The cardinality of the relation between virtualized part and
non-virtualized part of a gNB is pending on RAN3 guidance.
#### 4.1.1.4 Post-conditions
The relation between the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB
has been established.
### 4.1.2 Establishment of relation between the CN NF and the gNB
#### 4.1.2.1 Issues
The reference point between the CN NF and the gNB needs to be managed. So it
is necessary to allow operator to establish the relation, which is the
management view of the reference point, between the CN NF and the gNB.
#### 4.1.3.2 Pre-conditions
\- The VNF that is part of the CN has been instantiated.
\- The gNB that contains virtualized part and non-virtualized part has been
instantiated.
\- The relation between the CN NF and the gNB has not yet been established.
#### 4.1.2.3 Description
NM requests EM to establish the relation, which is the management view of the
reference point, between the CN NF, and the gNB through configuration.
EM configures the CN NF, and/or the gNB to establish the relation.
Editor's Note: whether the CN NF needs to be configured depends on RAN WG3
conclusion.
EM responds to NM to indicate that the relation has been established.
#### 4.1.2.4 Post-conditions
The relation between the CN NF, and the gNB has been established.
## 4.2 Life Cycle Management use cases
### 4.2.1 Instantiation of virtualized part of a gNB
#### 4.2.1.1 Issues
A gNB in the New RAN may contain the following characteristics:
\- The gNB can be functionally split into Central Unit (CU) and Distributed
Unit (DU) (see clause 11.1 in [2]).
\- The functional split between CU and DU of the gNB includes 8 options (see
clause 11.1.1 in [2]). Each CU-DU split option has specific characteristic
that are listed in Table 11.1.2.9-1 in [2], in which transport network latency
and transport network peak bandwidth are key requirements. Table A-1 [2] lists
the bandwidth and latency of the underlying transport network that should be
considered for each CU-DU functional split option.
\- The CU that is part of a gNB can be virtualized (see clause 11.3.1 in [2]).
\- The DU that is part of a gNB cannot be virtualized.
To meet the interface requirements mentioned above, the following
considerations may apply:
\- A specific underlying transport networks (e.g. optical, etc) between CU and
DU may be required.
\- The distance between the CU and DU may need to be within a limit;
#### 4.2.1.2 Pre-conditions
> \- Operator decides to instantiate the virtualized part of a gNB.
>
> \- The underlying transport network requirements for the selected CU-DU
> functional split option is known.
>
> \- The VNF package for the virtualized part of a gNB has been on-boarded.
>
> \- The descriptor of the non-virtualized part of the gNB on boarded to NFVO.
#### 4.2.1.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to instantiate the virtualized part of a gNB (see clause
7.3.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), with the following information:
The underlying transport network requirements (e.g. bandwidth, latency,
transport network type (e.g. optical)) for the interface between the
virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
  * The location constraints for the NFVI where the virtualized part of a gNB needs to be instantiated, or the location of non-virtualized part of the gNB that can be used to choose the NFVI location.
Editor's Note:
  * The case that the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB > are from a single vendor is supported;
  * Whether the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB can > be from different vendors is FFS, as it is pending on RAN3 > decison.
NFVO selects a NFVI where the virtualized part of a gNB will be instantiated,
and the transport network to be used to connect virtualized part and non-
virtualized part of a gNB in order to meet the requirements given by NM.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate the virtualized part of a gNB has been
instantiated successfully.
#### 4.2.1.4 Post-conditions
The virtualized part of a gNB is instantiated onto the appropriate NFVI.
### 4.2.2 Instantiation of NS containing VNF that is part of the CN and gNB
#### 4.2.2.1 Issues
TS 28.525 [4] only includes the instantiation of VNF that is part of the CN,
since the RAN node cannot be virtualized at the time.
#### 4.2.2.2 Pre-conditions
> \- The NSD for the NS containing VNF that is part of the CN and the gNB has
> been onboarded and enabled.
>
> \- The VNF package for VNF that is part of the CN has been onboarded and
> enabled;
>
> \- The VNF package corresponding to the gNB has been onboarded and enabled.
#### 4.2.2.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to instantiate the NS containing VNF that is part of the CN
and gNB (see clause 7.3.3 [3]).
NFVO instantiates the NS based on the request received from NM.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate that the NS has been instantiated
successfully.
#### 4.2.2.4 Post-conditions
The NS containing VNF that is part of the CN and the gNB has been
instantiated**.**
### 4.2.3 Update of transport network requirements
#### 4.2.3.1 Pre-conditions
> \- The instance of the virtualized part of a gNB already exists.
>
> \- The transport network requirements between virtualized part and non-
> virtualized part of a gNB need to be updated, e.g., to support the change of
> CU/DU functional split option or to support the changes of network
> requirements.
Editor's note: whether the CU/DU functional split option can be changed
depends on RAN WG3 conclusion.
> \- The descriptor of the non-virtualized part of the gNB has been on boarded
> to NFVO.
#### 4.2.3.2 Description
NM needs to update the transport network requirements between virtualized part
and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
NM sends the updated transport network requirements between the virtualized
part and non-virtualized part of a gNB to NFVO, with the following
information:
  * The updated underlying transport network requirements (e.g. bandwidth, latency, transport network type (e.g. optical)) for the interface between the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
  * Optionally, the updated location constraints for the NFVI where the virtualized part of a gNB needs to be deployed.
NFVO performs necessary actions (e.g., update the VL, or create a new VL to
replace the old one) to support the updated transport network requirements
between the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate the updated transport network requirements
have been supported.
#### 4.2.3.3 Post-conditions
The updated transport network requirements between virtualized part and non-
virtualized part of a gNB have been supported.
### 4.2.4 Addition of non-virtualized part of gNB
#### 4.2.4.1 Issues
Operator may need to deploy one or more new DUs to an existing CU to increase
the capacity or coverage of the New RAN. To support this, 3GPP management
system needs to be able to add one or more non-virtualized parts of gNB as PNF
via ETSI NFV MANO system.
#### 4.2.4.2 Pre-conditions
A NS containing the virtualized part of the gNB has been instantiated.
The PNFD of the non-virtualized part of gNB to be added is on-boarded to NFVO.
The non-virtualized part of gNB to be added does not exist in the NS.
#### 4.2.4.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to add one or more of non-virtualized parts of gNB as PNF to
an NS instance.
NFVO adds the non-virtualized parts of gNB as PNF to the NS instance.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate the successful result.
#### 4.2.4.4 Post-conditions
The non-virtualized parts of gNB have been added.
### 4.2.5 Removal of non-virtualized part of gNB
#### 4.2.y.1 Issues
Operator may need to remove one or more DUs from an existing CU if the DUs are
not needed as part of the gNB anymore. To support this, 3GPP management system
needs to be able to remove one or more PNFs of non-virtualized parts of gNB
via ETSI NFV MANO system.
#### 4.2.5.2 Pre-conditions
An NS containing the non-virtualized parts of the gNB has been instantiated.
#### 4.2.5.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to remove one or more PNFs of the non-virtualized parts of
gNB from an NS.
NFVO removes the non-virtualized parts of gNB from the NS.
NFVO responds to NM that PNFs of the non-virtualized parts of gNB have been
removed successfully.
#### 4.2.5.4 Post-conditions
The non-virtualized parts of gNB have been removed.
### 4.2.6 Replacement of non-virtualized part of gNB
#### 4.2.6.1 Issues
Operator may need to replace a DU with a new one for a CU, if the DU cannot
meet the network requirements. To support this, 3GPP management system needs
to be able to replace the PNF of non-virtualized part of gNB with a new one
via ETSI NFV MANO system.
#### 4.2.6.2 Pre-conditions
A NS containing the virtualized part of the gNB has been instantiated.
The PNFD of the new non-virtualized part of gNB for replacing the old one is
on-boarded to NFVO.
#### 4.2.6.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to replace the PNF of the non-virtualized part of gNB with a
new one in an NS.
NFVO replaces the non-virtualized part of gNB in the NS.
NFVO responds to NM that the PNF of the non-virtualized parts of gNB have been
replaced successfully.
#### 4.2.6.4 Post-conditions
The non-virtualized parts of gNB have been replaced.
### 4.2.7 On-board NSD for the gNB
#### 4.2.7.1 Issues
Operator needs to be able to on-board a NSD that can be used to deploy a NS
that includes the both virtualized part and non-virtualized part of the gNB.
The NSD needs to include the attributes supporting the transport network
requirements as specified in clause 11.1.2.9 and Annex A of TR 38.801 [2].
#### 4.2.7.2 Pre-conditions
> \- The VNF package for the virtualized part of a gNB has been on-boarded.
>
> \- The VNF packages containing the other constituent VNFDs of the NSD, if
> any, have been on-boarded.
>
> \- The PNFDs for the constituent PNFs, if any, have been on boarded.
#### 4.2.7.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to on-board the NSD (see clause 7.2.2. in NFV-IFA 013 [3])
including virtual link descriptor (see clause 6.2.2.2 in NFV-IFA 014 [5]) and
virtual link profile (see clause 6.3.4 in NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contain the
latency and bandwidth attributes, as defined in the transport network
requirements in clause 11.1.2.9 and Annex A of TR 38.801 [2]. The virtual link
descriptor and virtual link profile are needed for the creation of VLs to
connect the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of the gNB.
NFVO on-boards the NSD.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate the successful NSD on-boarding.
#### 4.2.7.4 Post-conditions
The NSD containing the attributes supporting the transport network
requirements for the gNB has been on-boarded.
Editor' Note: It is FFS whether the UC - 6.4.4.1 NS Descriptor (NSD) On-
boarding in TS 28.525 [4] and its corresponding solution need to be updated so
that they are applicable to both EPC/IMS nodes and gNB.
### 4.2.8 Add VNFFGs to a NS containing VLs for virtualized and non-
virtualized parts of gNB
#### 4.2.8.1 Issues
The VNFFGs including the Virtual Links (VLs) to connect the VNF instance that
is part of gNB with other VNF/PNF instances may be missing in the NS instance.
It should be possible to add the VNFFG (see clause 6.4.2 in NFV-IFA 014 [5])
containing the attributes supporting the transport network requirements as
specified in clause 11.1.2 and Annex A of TR 38.801 [2].
#### 4.2.8.2 Pre-conditions
\- The NS instance containing the VNF instance that is part of gNB already
exists.
\- The VNFFGs were not provided during the NS instantiation, or have been
removed from the NS instance.
#### 4.2.8.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to use the NS update operation to add a VNFFG to a NS (see
clause 7.3.5 in NFV-IFA 013 [3]). The VNFFG contains the VLs connecting the
virtualized parts and non-virtualized parts of the gNB described by the
virtual link descriptor (see clause 6.2.2.2 in NFV-IFA 014 [5]) and virtual
link profile (see clause 6.3.4 in NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contain the latency
and bandwidth attributes, as defined in the transport network requirements in
clause 11.1.2.9 and Annex A of TR 38.801 [2].
NFVO adds the VNFFGs to the NS.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate that the VNFFGs have been added successfully.
#### 4.2.8.4 Post-conditions
The VNFFGs, containing the VLs to connect the VNF instance that is part of gNB
and other VNF/PNF instances, have been added to the NS instance.
Editor' Note: The potential solution of this UC may be applicable to NS that
may contain or not contain gNB(s).
### 4.2.9 Add a VNFFGD to a NSD containing VLDs for virtualized and non-
virtualized parts of gNB
#### 4.2.9.1 Issues
A NSD should contain the VNFFGD to enable NS update operation to add a VNFFG
to a NS. The VNFFGD (see clause 6.4.2 in NFV-IFA 014 [5]) needs to support
attributes, required by the transport network requirements in clause 11.1.2.9
and Annex A of TR 38.801 [2].
#### 4.2.9.2 Pre-conditions
VNFFGD is missing in the NSD, since it was not included in the NSD on-boarded,
or has been removed.
#### 4.2.9.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to use NSD update to add a VNFFGD to a NSD (see clause 7.2.5
in NFV-IFA 013 [3]),. The VNFFGD includes the VLDs (see clause 6.2.2.2 in NFV-
IFA 014 [5]) that contain the latency attribute, as defined in the transport
network requirements in clause 11.1.2.9 and Annex A of TR 38.801 [2].
NFVO adds the VNFFGD to the NSD.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate that the VNFFGD has been added successfully.
#### 4.2.9.4 Post-conditions
The VNFFGD, containing the VLDs to connect the VNF instance that is part of
gNB and other VNF/PNF instances, has been added to the NSD.
Editor' Note: The potential solution of this UC may be applicable to NS that
may contain or not contain gNB(s).
# 5 Potential requirements on management of virtualized network functions that
are part of the NR
## 5.1 Configuration management
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_CM-CON-1** 3GPP management system should be able to configure
the relation between the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_CM-CON-2** 3GPP management system should be able to configure
the relation between the CN NF, and the gNB that contains virtualized part and
non-virtualized part.
## 5.2 Life cycle management
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-1** 3GPP management system should be able to
instantiate the virtualized part of a gNB (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.001 in [3]).
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM -CON-2** 3GPP management system should be able to provide
the underlying transport networks requirements on the interface between
virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM -CON-3** 3GPP management system should be able to provide
the location constraints for the NFVI where the virtualized part of a gNB
needs to be instantiated.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-4** 3GPP management system should be able to request
instantiation of a NS containing VNF that is part of the CN and the gNB (see
requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.001 in [3])
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-5** 3GPP management system should be able to send the
updated underlying transport networks requirements on the interface between
virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.005 in [3]).
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-6** 3GPP management system should be able to send the
updated location constraints for the NFVI where the virtualized part of a gNB
needs to be deployed.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-7** 3GPP management system should be able to request
NFVO to add one or more non-virtualized parts of gNB as PNF to an NS instance.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-8** 3GPP management system should be able to request
NFVO to remove one or more PNFs of the non-virtualized parts of gNB from an NS
instance.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-9** 3GPP management system should be able to request
NFVO to replace the PNF of the non-virtualized part of gNB in an NS instance.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-10** 3GPP management system should be able to on-board
the NSD that includes the virtual link descriptor and virtual link profile
containing both latency and bandwidth information.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-11** 3GPP management system should be able to add the
VNFFG, which includes the VLs described by the virtual link descriptor and
virtual link profile containing both latency and bandwidth information, to a
NS
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-12** 3GPP management system should be able to add the
VNFFGD, which includes virtual link descriptors containing latency
information, to a NSD.
# 6 Gap Analysis
# 7 Potential solutions
## 7.1 Potential solutions on instantiation of virtualized part of a gNB
The potential solutions reuse the existing VNF instantiation mechanisms. The
virtualized part of a gNB can be instantiated via Instantiate NS or Update NS
operations (see clause 7.3.1 [3]).
### 7.1.1 Instantiating the virtualized part of gNB by instantiating a new NS
This solution is used when the virtualized part of a gNB is instantiated by
instantiating a new NS.
NM requests NFVO to on-board the VNF package corresponding to the virtualized
part of a gNB (see clause 7.7.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), if it has not yet
been on-boarded.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with the parameters
onboardedVnfPkgInfoId and vnfdId.
NM requests NFVO to on-board the PNFD corresponding to the non-virtualized
part of a gNB (see clause 7.2.8 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), if it has not yet
been on-boarded.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with the parameter
pnfdInfoId.
NM requests NFVO to on-board the NSD that is referencing the VNFD and PNFD
above-mentioned (see clause 7.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), if the NSD has
not yet been on-boarded. The NSD contains the VNFFGD and the VLD where the
transport network requirements (e.g., latency, bandwidth) between virtualized
part of the gNB and non-virtualized part of the gNB are included (see clause
6.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]).
Editor's Note: It is FFS whether the information elements of the VLD are
sufficient to convey the transport network requirements.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with parameter nsdInfoId.
NM requests NFVO to enable the VNF package if it is not enabled (see clause
7.7.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO responds to NM about the successful enabling.
NM requests NFVO to enable the NSD if it is not enabled (see clause 7.2.3 of
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO responds to NM about the successful enabling.
NM requests NFVO to create the NS identifier for the NSD mentioned above (see
clause 7.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO responds to NM about the successful creation with the parameter
nsInstanceId.
NM requests NFVO to instantiate the NS identified by nsInstanceId, with the
parameter additionalParamForVnf providing the information for the virtualized
part of the gNB, parameter locationConstraints indicating the location
constraints for the virtualized part of the gNB, parameter pnfInfo providing
the information of the non-virtualized part of the gNB, and other parameters
if necessary according to clause 7.3.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3].
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS instantiation procedure** (see clause 7.3.3.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[3]).
NFVO instantiates the NS and the virtualized part of the gNB with other MANO
entities, based on the information provide by NM and the information provided
in the NSD, VNF package, and PNFD.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS instantiation (see clause 7.3.3.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
### 7.1.2 Instantiating the virtualized part of gNB by updating an existing NS
This solution is used when the virtualized part of a gNB is instantiated by
updating an existing NS.
NM requests NFVO to on-board the VNF package corresponding to the virtualized
part of a gNB (see clause 7.7.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), if it has not yet
been on-boarded.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with the parameters
onboardedVnfPkgInfoId and vnfdId.
NM requests NFVO to on-board the PNFD corresponding to the non-virtualized
part of a gNB (see clause 7.2.8 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), if it has not yet
been on-boarded.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with the parameter
pnfdInfoId.
NM requests NFVO to update the NSD if needed (e.g., to add the constituent
VNFD and PNFD above-mentioned, VLD, VFFGD, etc., see clause 7.2.5 of ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 [3]). The NSD needs to contain the VNFFGD and the VLD where the
transport network requirements (e.g., latency, bandwidth) between virtualized
part of the gNB and non-virtualized part of the gNB are included (see clause
6.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]).
Editor's Note: It is FFS whether the information elements of the VLD are
sufficient to convey the transport network requirements.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with parameter nsdInfoId.
NM requests NFVO to enable the VNF package if it is not enabled (see clause
7.7.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]); NFVO responds to NM about the successful
enabling.
NM requests NFVO to enable the NSD if it is not enabled (see clause 7.2.3 of
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO responds to NM about the successful enabling.
NM requests NFVO to update the NS identified by nsInstanceId, with the
parameter updateType = "InstantiateVnf", and parameter instantiateVnfData
providing the information for the virtualized part of the gNB(according to
clause 7.3.5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]). The parameter instantiateVnfData
may contain attribute extVirtualLink specifying the transport network
requirements between virtualized part and non-virtualized part of the gNB,
attribute locationConstraints indicating the location constraints for the
virtualized part of the gNB to be instantiated, and other attributes if
necessary according to clause 8.3.4.12of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3].
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS update procedure** (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO updates the NS and instantiates the virtualized part of the gNB with
other MANO entities, based on the information provide by NM and the
information provided in the NSD, VNF package, PNFD.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS update (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
## 7.2 NRM for gNB that includes virtualized part
### 7.2.1 NRMs for gNB
The gNB is modelled to IOC GNBFunction, and contained by the IOC
ManagedElement.
The IOC GNBFunction is inherited from the IOC ManagedFunction.
Figure 7.2.1-1 The Containment/Naming and Association relation of NRM for gNB
Figure 7.2.1-2 The inheritance relation of NRM for gNB
## 7.3 Potential solutions on adding, removing and replacing non-virtualized
part of gNB
### 7.3.1 Adding, removing and replacing the non-virtualized part of gNB by
updating NS
NM requests NFVO to update the NS instance (by Update NS operation, see clause
7.3.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3])) to:
  * add non-virtualized part of gNB as PNF\ > The pnfdId (see clause 6.6.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) of > the non-virtualized part of gNB is needed.
  * remove PNF of the non-virtualized part of gNB\ > The pnfdId (see clause 6..6.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]), > indicating the PNFD information related to the non-virtualized > part of gNB is needed.
  * replace PNF of the non-virtualized part of gNB\ > The pnfdId(see clause 6.6.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [3]) of the > new non-virtualized part of gNB and the PnfdId (see clause 6.6.2.2 > of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) of the old non-virtualized part of > gNB are needed.
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS update procedure** (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO updates the NS to add, remove or replace the PNF of the non-virtualized
part of gNB according to the information provide by NM.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS update (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
# 8 Conclusions
# 9 Recommendations
###### ### Annex \: \
Annexes are only to be used where appropriate:
Annexes are labelled A, B, C, etc. and are \"informative\"(3GPP TRs are
informative documents by nature).
#