# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
3GPP TR 22.985 Service requirement for the UDC [5] describes the architecture
of the User Data Convergence, a concept that proposes to move the user data
from where it has been distributed and siloed in Network Elements,
Applications, and other network resources to a single logical consolidated
facility here called User Data Repository (UDR) where it can be accessed,
stored and managed in a common way.
The introduction of a User Data Convergence of user data for network services
and management applications could significantly enhance the ability of 3GPP
based networks to offer complex and combined services. User data can be
decomposed and reformed by a common data model framework (e.g. tree-like data
model, rational data model) provided by UDR. In that case, user data
categorized by services can be regrouped and identified by user ID, leaving no
data redundancy. Also, convergence in data model will unify the user data
access interface and its protocol, which will promote new service application
development. Thereby, the capability of user data convergence can be open to
creation of data-less applications.
Methods for data protection against access by unauthorized parties are outside
the scope of this document.
3GPP TS 32.181 UDC Framework for Model Handling and Management [3] and 3GPP TS
29.335 UDC; User Data Repository Access Protocol over the Ud interface; Stage
3 [4] provide various types of information and data models associated with the
architecture of UDC.\ These include the Common Baseline Information Model
(CBIM) (see 3GPP TS 32.182 [7]), the Specialized Information Model (SpIM),
Application Information Models (AIMs), Application Data Models (ADMs), and the
Consolidated Data Model (CDM) of the User Data Repository (UDR).\ Figure 1
from 3GPP TS 32.181 UDC Framework for Model Handling and Management [3] shows
the operational environment of the UDC.
{width="6.559722222222222in" height="5.236111111111111in"}
Figure 1.1: Evolution of the CDM in a UDR
In addition to the models previously mentioned, Figure 1.1 introduces the
aspect of the Provisioning Gateway, which is essential for the operation of
the UDR. The Provisioning Gateway provides a single logical point for access
to provisioning of user data for **all** services in the UDR. The Provisioning
Gateway is shown supporting an interaction with the operator\'s BSS; by
implication this interaction is associated with the provisioning of user
subscription and service data in the UDR via the Provisioning Gateway.
This study analyzes the progression of information models displayed in the
above figure using some specific application examples, in particular the
applications of HSS-IMS and MMTel. It provides guidelines and preliminary
requirements for the BSS provisioning capabilities and information model
handling when new applications and related services are implemented in the
operator\'s UDR by doing the following:
\- Develop several example initial SpIMs for discussion purposes.
\- Examine what BSS interactions with the Provisioning Gateway would be
required to support provisioning of user service and subscription data in the
UDR for these SpIMs.
\- Study the relationship to the information model of 3GPP TS 32.172
Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP Information
Service [9].
\- Develop understanding of CBIM-derived entities of Application Information
Models (AIM) for HSS-IMS and MMTel from application data elements available in
3GPP TS 29.364 IMS Application Server service data descriptions for AS
interoperability [11], 3GPP TS 23.008 Organization of subscriber data [12],
and other relevant specifications.
\- Discuss the integration and consolidation of these AIM entities with the
example initial SpIMs above.
\- Evaluate the potential changes to the BSS provisioning interactions for the
implementation of HSS-IMS and MMTel applications in the UDR and implications
concerning the information model of 3GPP TS 32.172 Subscription Management
(SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP Information Service [9].
This study does not derive findings concerning the Ud reference point, the
subject of 3GPP TR 23.845 Study on UDC Evolution [10].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication and/or
edition number or version number) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.335: \"User Data Convergence (UDC); Technical realization and
information flows; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.181: \"User Data Convergence (UDC); Framework for Model
Handling and Management\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.335: \"User Data Convergence (UDC); User Data Repository Access
Protocol over the Ud interface; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TR 22.985: \"Service requirement for the User Data Convergence
(UDC)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.182: \"User Data Convergence; Common Baseline Information
Model\".
[8] 3GPP TR 32.808: \"Study of Common Profile Storage (CPS) Framework of User
Data for network services and management\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.172: \"Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[10] 3GPP TR 23.845: \"Study on UDC Evolution\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.364: \"IP Multimedia System (IMS) Application Server (AS)
service data descriptions for AS interoperability\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organization of subscriber data\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AIM Application Information Model
ADM Application Data Model
BSS Business Support System
CBIM Common Baseline Information Model
CDM Consolidated Data Model
CPS Common Profile Storage
FE Front End
HSS Home Subscriber Server
IMS IP Multimedia System
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
MMTel MultiMedia Telephony
NRM Network Resource Model
RDM Reference Data Model
SpIM Specialized Information Model
SuM Subscription Management
UDC User Data Convergence
UDR User Data Respository
# 4 Example SpIMs
## 4.1 Example SpIM for Preferred Currency
A user can request that any charging or pricing information be provided using
a specific currency. The method is operator specific, but the example shown
below is typical of what would transpire to derive the SpIM and resulting Data
Model.
## Example SpIM for User Name
A user can request that his/her name be made available for messaging and
special services as a particular value, e.g. "Jane M. Doe", or "Dr. Terry W.
Smith IV". The method is operator specific, but the example shown below is
typical of what would transpire to derive the SpIM and resulting Data Model.
# 5 Applications
This section describes application data for all network domains supporting UDC
handling and provisioning.
The domains shown below are at the AIM level including CS, EPS, and IMS.
_The AIM import from existing applications is outside the scope of the present
document. This study is not an application guide._
## 5.1 Application Information Models (AIM)
> AIM may be imported from existing applications or may be generated from
> information elements already existing in the UDR. _The import method is for
> further study_.
An AIM should contain IOCs for
\- the Service Profile(s) of the particular application,
\- Identifier(s) used by the application.
and additionally, if needed, any other IOC defined in CBIM. E.g. related End
Device, if such is to be connected to one or more identifiers within the
application.
### Information Object Classes
#### 5.1.1.0 General
The information object classes described in 5.1.1.1 through 5.1.1.10 are meant
to illustrate the use of example data within the context of this study
document, and not meant as replacements or to supersede any IOCs in any 3GPP
specifications,
#### 5.1.1.1 UdcASServiceProfile
This _is a class created only to represent some ASServiceProfile data within
the context of this example_. It can be unique to the operator.
#### 5.1.1.2 UDCBasicServiceProfile
This is a _class created only to represent some BasicServiceProfile data
within the context of this example_. It can be unique to the operator.
#### 5.1.1.3 UDCCSCFServiceProfile
This is a _class created only to represent some CSCFServiceProfile data within
the context of this example_. It can be unique to the operator.
#### 5.1.1.4 UdcHSSServiceProfile
This is a _class created only to represent some HSSServiceProfile data within
the context of this example_. It can be unique to the operator.
#### 5.1.1.5 UdcSpecialServicesProfile
This is a _class created only to represent some SpecialServicesProfile data
within the context of this example_. It can be unique to the operator.
#### 5.1.1.6 UdcCSServiceProfile
This object class is provided in 3GPP TS 32.182, and represents the part of
the UdcServiceProfile that contains data related to Circuit-Switched services.
An example of further specialization of this object class, including
attributes, is provided in 3GPP TS 32.181.
#### 5.1.1.7 UdcEPSServiceProfile
This object class represents the part of the UdcServiceProfile that contains
data related to the Evolved Packet System services. An example of further
specialization of this object class, including attributes, is provided in 3GPP
TS 32.181.
#### 5.1.1.8 UdcGPRSServiceProfile
This object class is provided in 3GPP TS 32.182, and represents the part of
the UdcServiceProfile that contains data related to Packet-Switched services.
An example of further specialization of this object class, including
attributes, is provided in 3GPP TS 32.181.
#### 5.1.1.9 UdcIMSServiceProfile
This object class is provided in 3GPP TS 32.182, and represents the part of
the UdcServiceProfile that contains data related to IMS services. An example
of further specialization of this object class, including attributes, is
provided in 3GPP TS 32.181.
#### 5.1.1.10 UdcMMTelServiceProfile
This is a class created only to represent some MMTelServiceProfile data within
the context of this example. It can be unique to the operator. The use of
MMTel data is typically transparent to applications and is usually part of the
ASServiceProfile. It is shown here as one example of how the data is modeled.
### 5.1.2 CS/GPRS
#### 5.1.2.1 HLR
Figure 5.1-1: Consolidation of data in the application for CS/GPRS-HLR
Editor\'s note: This diagram is an example and is FFS.
### 5.1.3 EPS
#### 5.1.3.1 HSS
Figure 5.1-2: Consolidation of data in the application for EPS-HSS
Editor\'s note: This diagram is an example and is FFS.
### 5.1.4 IMS
#### 5.1.4.1 CSCF
Figure 5.1-3: Consolidation of data in the application for IMS CSCF
Editor\'s note: This diagram is an example and is FFS.
#### 5.1.4.2 MMTel
Figure 5.1-4: Consolidation of data in the application for IMS MMTel
Editor\'s note: This diagram is an example and is FFS.
## 5.2 SPIM Level
### Preferred Currency Use Case
Expression of currency information to the subscriber in a particular currency
may be supported by setting the optional \"Currency Preference\" subscription
data element. The values for this data element may be any national currency
(euros, Japanese yen, U.S. dollars, etc.):
#### 5.2.1.1 Setting or modification of the value of this data item
The subscriber may be able to change the value of this data element through an
appropriate procedure at any time, e.g., a subscription profile web interface
that the operator provides, or through interaction with an operator customer
representative.
#### 5.2.1.2 Scenarios for use of the data element
Below are examples of scenarios in which different applications may use the
same Currency Preference data element to beneficially improve the subscriber's
service experience. One type of subscriber case where use of this data element
would be most meaningful would be a when a person has travelled to another
country (either as a tourist or on business) and starts a subscription with an
operator in that visited country.
a) A subscriber calls a freephone number to automated routine of Acme Airlines
to get a ticket price for a certain itinerary. This 'prompt and collect menu-
driven application is running on an AS in the network. At the point where the
application is about ready to provide the price quote, It checks the
subscriber's profile for the Preferred Currency setting, and provides the
quote in that currency.
b) A subscriber with a smartphone is at the operator's smartphone \"app
store\". The app store checks the subscriber's subscriber's profile for the
Preferred Currency setting. As the subscriber browses apps, the app prices are
stated in the preferred currency.
c) The subscriber makes an international call and invokes the operator's
Advice of Charge supplementary service to be told the price of the call when
it ends. And perhaps may be provided the cumulative price-so-far updates at
periodic intervals during the call. The Advice of Charge application checks
the subscriber's profile for a preferred currency, and indicates the advice of
charge information to the subscriber in that currency.
### 5.2.2 Age and Birth Date Use Case
Expression of age and birth date to the subscriber may be supported by setting
the optional \"Age Preference\" subscription data element. The values for this
data element may be age in years or birth date:
#### 5.2.2.1 Setting or modification of the value of this data item
The subscriber may be able to change the value of this data element through an
appropriate procedure at any time, e.g., a subscription profile web interface
that the operator provides, or through interaction with an operator customer
representative. The operator has to responsibility to verify the age of the
subscriber to ensure age appropriate information is conveyed.
#### 5.2.2.2 Scenarios for use of the Age data element
Below are examples of scenarios in which different applications may use the
same Age data element to beneficially improve the subscriber's service
experience, perhaps is a criteria for deciding if service fulfilment is to be
allowed, either according to operator policy or national regulations, or
perhaps as a way of targeting specific advertising to the subscriber.
a) A subscriber calls a freephone number for Acme airlines, e.g., for travel
information or to make a reservation. There is a queue. The Acme airlines
application checks the subscriber profile for age information and, if set,
selects the type of music or advertising or both that are played to that
specific subscriber while in queue.
b) A subscriber with a smartphone is browsing the operator's app store.
Certain apps with inappropriate themes for children are not to be displayed to
subscribers/users under the age of 18, due to operator policy or federal
regulation. The app store checks the subscriber profile and uses the Age data
element to determine whether the under 18. (Note: in order to purchase, this
may still be followed up with a step where the users must confirm that they
are over 18.)
A subscriber calls a freephone number for a \"Find Me A Restaurant\"
application and asks for recommendations for a good Italian restaurant in the
local area. In this particular case there are lots of such restaurants, and so
the application needs to apply some criteria determining just what
recommendations to make available to the subscriber. Statiscally, the
application knows that some of the restaurants are more popular with the
younger crowd and others with the older crowd. The application checks the
subscriber profile for the Age value to help determine the specfiic restaurant
suggestions to the subscriber. (Note: the application could certainly use
other criteria as well.) It may also use the Age value to select the
appropriate coupon enticement to offer to the subscriber (free appetizer, free
drink, or free dessert).
### Name Use Case
The name of the subscriber may be supported by setting the optional \"Name\"
subscription data element.
#### 5.2.3.1 Input for Name
The subscriber may be able to change the value of this data element through an
appropriate procedure at any time, e.g., a subscription profile web interfance
that the operator provides, or through interaction with an operator customer
representative.
#### 5.2.3.2 Scenarios for use of the data element Name
Below are examples of scenarios in which different applications may use the
Name data element to beneficially improve the subscriber's service experience.
One type of subscriber case where use of this data element would be most
meaningful would be a when a person wishes to have his or her name be known
for personalized notices and offerings.
a) A subscriber receives a personalized greeting, and is asked that name be
maded available for friends list, or to a vendor for product offerings.
b) A subscriber with a smartphone is at the operator's smartphone \"app
store\". The \"app store\" checks the subscriber's subscriber's profile for
the Name setting. As the subscriber browses apps, the app prices are stated to
the subscriber in their name.
c) The subscriber makes a a call and their name is presented to the called
party.
### 5.2.4 Gender Use Case
The gender of the subscriber may be supported by setting the optional
\"Gender\" subscription data element.
#### 5.2.4.1 Setting or modification of the value of this data item
The subscriber may be able to change the value of this data element through an
appropriate procedure at any time, e.g., a subscription profile web interfance
that the operator provides, or through interaction with an operator customer
representative.
#### 5.2.4.2 Scenarios for use of the data element
Below are examples of scenarios in which different applications may use the
Gender data element to beneficially improve the subscriber's service
experience. One type of subscriber case where use of this data element would
be most meaningful would be a when a subscriber\'s gender required for
specific services.
a) A subscriber calls a merchant to get a price for a certain item. This
'prompt and collect menu-driven application is running on an AS in the
network. At the point where the application is about ready to provide the
price quote, It checks the subscriber's profile for the Gender setting, and
provides the information asked for and offers some gender related
suggestions..
b) A subscriber with a smartphone wishes to be networked into a gender related
social action group, or a gender related group is seeking membership and
solicits the subscriber to join its organization.
c) The subscriber makes a call and asks for assiistance. The responders can
target their actions based on appropriate gender.
### 5.2.5 Preferred Language Use Case
Expression of language information to the subscriber in a particular language
may be supported by setting the optional \"Language Preference\" subscription
data element. The values for this data element may be any language supported
by the network.
#### 5.2.5.1 Setting or modification of the value of this data item
The subscriber may be able to change the value of this data element through an
appropriate procedure at any time, e.g., a subscription profile web interfance
that the operator provides, or through interaction with an operator customer
representative.
#### 5.2.5.2 Scenarios for use of the data element
Below are examples of scenarios in which different applications may use the
same Language Preference data element to beneficially improve the subscriber's
service experience. One type of subscriber case where use of this data element
would be most meaningful would be a when a person has travelled to another
country (either as a tourist or on business) and starts a subscription with an
operator in that visited country.
a) A subscriber calls a freephone number to automated routine of Acme Airlines
to get information for a certain itinerary. This 'prompt and collect menu-
driven application is running on an AS in the network. At the point where the
application is about ready to provide the itinerary, It checks the
subscriber's profile for the Preferred Langauge setting, and provides the
information in that language.
b) A subscriber with a smartphone is at the operator's smartphone \"app
store\". The \"app store\"checks the subscriber's subscriber's profile for the
Preferred Language setting. As the subscriber browses apps, the app items are
stated in the preferred language.
c) The subscriber makes an international call and invokes the operator's
Advice of Charge supplementary service to be told the price of the call when
it ends. And perhaps may be provided the cumulative price-so-far updates at
periodic intervals during the call. The Advice of Charge application checks
the subscriber's profile for a preferred langauge, and indicates the advice of
charge information to the subscriber in that langauge.
### 5.2.6 Friend/Friends List Use Case
The list of friends of the subscriber may be supported by setting the optional
\"Friends List\" subscription data element. The values for this data element
may be a list representing a friends call group\' or individual friend call
numbers.
#### 5.2.6.1 Setting or modification of the value of this data item
The subscriber may be able to change the value of this data element through an
appropriate procedure at any time, e.g., a subscription profile web interfance
that the operator provides, or through interaction with an operator customer
representative.
#### 5.2.6.2 Scenarios for use of the data element
Below are examples of scenarios in which different applications may use the
Friends identifier data element to beneficially improve the subscriber's
service experience. One type of subscriber case where use of this data element
would be most meaningful would be a when a person wishes to contact an
individual friend or group of friends.
a) A subscriber wants to notify a friend or group of friends of a particular
event.. This 'notification\' menu-driven application is running on an AS in
the network. At the point where the application is about to process the
service, it determines that a friends list exist, and will forward the
notification to all members in that list.
b) An operator has just provided a specific application service to the
subscriber who has a friends list. The Friends List data elements are then
used to notify all members in that list of the service. Some examples are
The subscriber has just landed on an internation al flight and registers his
mobile with the local operator. The operator determines the presence of the
Friends List application and checks which type of subscribed notifications can
be applied. The AS then notifies the friend or friends of the arrival.and
local registration.
The subscriber has a specific event and wants friends to be automatically
notified. The friends AS will send the notice to all members in the list.
# 6 Recommendations regarding provisioning guidelines and requirements
The result of this study is for further consideration and is a guide for use
by operators in the application of UDC for specialized services.
#