# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document gives a general overview of the half rate speech traffic
channels speech processing functions for the digital cellular
telecommunications system. The present document is part of ENs\' series
covering the half rate speech traffic channels as described below:
**GSM 06.02 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Half rate speech processing functions\".**
GSM 06.20 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
GSM 06.21 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
GSM 06.22 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic channels\".
GSM 06.41 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
GSM 06.42 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic channels\".
GSM 06.06 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; ANSI-C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
GSM 06.07 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to GSM 06.20 [4], GSM 06.21 [5], GSM
06.22 [6], GSM 06.41 [7] and GSM 06.42 [8] TSs dealing with the speech
processing functions in the half‑rate channel of the GSM system. A general
overview of the speech processing functions is given, with reference to the
TSs where each function is specified in detail.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 03.50: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Transmission planning aspects of the speech services in the GSM Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
[3] GSM 05.03: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Channel coding\".
[4] GSM 06.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech: Half rate speech transcoding\".
[5] GSM 06.21: \" Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Substitution and muting of lost frame for half rate speech
traffic channels\".
[6] GSM 06.22: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic channels \".
[7] GSM 06.41: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Discontinuous transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[8] GSM 06.42: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic
channels \".
[9] ITU‑T Recommendation G.711: \"Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
[10] GSM 06.07: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
[11] GSM 06.06: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; ANSI‑C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Definition of terms used in the present document can be found in GSM 06.20
[4], GSM 06.21 [5], GSM 06.22 [6], GSM 06.41 [7] and GSM 06.42 [8].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.
BFI Bad Frame Indication
BSS Base Station System
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
MS Mobile Station
PCM Pulse Code Modulated
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
RF Radio Frequency
RX Receive
RSS Radio SubSystem
SACCH Slow Associated Control CHannel
SID SIlence Descriptor
SP flag SPeech flag
TAF Time Alignment Flag
TX Transmit
VSELP Vector Sum Excited Linear Predictor
UFI Unreliable Frame Indication
For abbreviations not given in this subclause, see GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 General
Figure 1 presents a reference configuration where the various speech
processing functions are identified. In this figure, the relevant documents
for each function are also indicated.
In figure 1, the audio parts including analogue to digital and digital to
analogue conversion are included, to show the complete speech path between the
audio input/output in the Mobile Station (MS) and the digital interface of the
Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN). The detailed specification of the
audio parts are contained in GSM 03.50 [2]. These aspects are only considered
to the extent that the performance of the audio parts affect the performance
of the speech transcoder.
1 8 bit /A‑law or μ-law (PCS 1900) PCM (ITU‑T Recommendation G.711) [9], 8 000
samples/s.
2 13 bit uniform PCM, 8 000 samples/s.
3 Voice Activity Detector (VAD) flag.
4 Encoded speech frame, 50 frames/s, 112 bits/frame.
5 SIlence Descriptor (SID) frame, 112 bits/frame.
6 SPeech (SP) flag, indicates whether information bits are speech or SID
information.
7 Information bits delivered to the radio subsystem.
8 Information bits received from the radio subsystem.
9 Bad Frame Indication (BFl) flag.
10 SIlence Descriptor (SID) flag.
11 Time Alignment Flag (TAF), marks the position of the SID frame within the
Slow Associated Control CHannel (SACCH) multiframe.
12 Unreliable Frame Indication (UFI).
Figure 1: Overview of audio processing functions
# 5 Half rate speech transcoding
The half rate speech transcoding function is described in GSM 06.20 [4].
As shown in figure 1, the speech encoder takes its input as a 13 bit uniform
Pulse Code Modulated (PCM) signal either from the audio part of the MS or on
the network side, from the PSTN via an 8 bit/A‑law or μ-law (PCS 1900) to 13
bit uniform PCM conversion. The encoded speech at the output of the speech
encoder is delivered to the channel coding function as defined in GSM 05.03
[3] to produce an encoded block consisting of 228 bits leading to a gross bit
rate of 11,4 kbit/s.
In the RX direction, the inverse operations take place.
GSM 06.20 [4] describes the detailed mapping between input blocks of 160
speech samples in 13 bit uniform PCM format into encoded blocks of 112 bits
and from encoded blocks of 112 bits to output blocks of 160 reconstructed
speech samples. The sampling rate is 8 000 sample/s leading to an average bit
rate for the encoded bit stream of 5,6 kbit/s. The coding scheme is called
Vector Sum Excited Linear Prediction (VSELP) coding.
GSM 06.20 [4] describes the codec and GSM 06.06 [11] defines the C code, thus
enabling the verification of compliance to GSM 06.20 [4] to a high degree of
confidence by use of a set of digital test sequences given in GSM 06.07 [10].
# 6 Half rate Discontinuous Transmission (DTX)
The half rate discontinuous transmission function is described in GSM 06.41
[7].
During a normal conversation, the participants alternate so that, on the
average, each direction of transmission is occupied about 50 % of the time.
Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) is a mode of operation where the transmitters
are switched on only for those frames which contain useful information. This
may be done for the following two purposes:
1) in the MS, battery life will be prolonged or a smaller battery could be
used for a given operational duration;
2) the average interference level over the air interface is reduced, leading
to better Radio Frequency (RF) spectrum efficiency.
The overall DTX mechanism is implemented in the DTX handlers (Transmit (TX)
and Receive (RX)) described in GSM 06.41 [7] and requires the following
functions:
‑ a Voice Activity Detector (VAD) on the TX side, see GSM 06.42 [8];
‑ evaluation of the background acoustic noise on the TX side, in order to
transmit characteristic parameters to the RX side, see GSM 06.22 [6];
‑ generation of comfort noise on the RX side during periods where the radio
transmission is turned off, see GSM 06.22 [6].
The transmission of comfort noise information to the RX side is achieved by
means of a SIlence Descriptor (SID) frame. The SID frame is transmitted at the
end of speech bursts and serves as an end of speech marker for the RX side. In
order to update the comfort noise characteristics at the RX side, SID frames
are transmitted at regular intervals also during speech pauses. This also
serves the purpose of improving the measurement of the radio link quality by
the Radio SubSystem (RSS).
The DTX handlers interwork with the RSS using flags. The RSS is controlled by
the transmitter keying on the TX side, which performs pre‑processing functions
on the RX side. This is described in GSM 06.41 [7].
The speech flag (SP) indicates whether information bits are speech or SID
information. The SP flag is calculated from the VAD flag by the TX DTX
handler. When SID information is transmitted (SP=\"0\") the operation of the
speech encoder is modified to reduce the remaining computation for that frame.
This is described in GSM 06.22 [6].
# 7 Half rate Voice Activity Detection (VAD)
The half rate VAD function is described in GSM 06.42 [8].
The input to the VAD is a set of parameters computed by the half‑rate speech
encoder defined in GSM 06.20 [4]. The VAD uses this information to decide
whether each 20 ms speech coder frame contains speech or not.
NOTE: The VAD flag is an input to TX DTX handler and does not control the
transmitter keying directly.
GSM 06.42 [8] describes the VAD algorithm and GSM 06.06 [11] defines the C
code. The verification of compliance to GSM 06.42 [8] is achieved by use of
digital test sequences (see GSM 06.07 [10]) applied to the same interface as
the test sequences for the speech codec.
# 8 Half rate comfort noise insertion
The half rate noise comfort insertion function is described in GSM 06.22 [6].
When switching the transmission on and off during DTX operation, the effect
would be a modulation of the background noise at the receiving end, if no
precautions were taken. When transmission is on, the background noise is
transmitted together with the speech to the receiving end. As the speech burst
ends, the connection is off and the perceived noise would drop to a very low
level. This step modulation of noise may be perceived as annoying and reduce
the intelligibility of speech, if presented to a listener without
modification.
This \"noise contrast effect\" is reduced in the GSM system by inserting an
artificial noise, termed comfort noise, at the receiving end when speech is
absent.
The comfort noise processes are as follows:
‑ the evaluation of the acoustic background noise in the transmitter;
‑ the noise parameter encoding (SID frames) and decoding;
‑ and the generation of comfort noise in the receiver.
The comfort noise processes and the algorithm for updating the noise
parameters during speech pauses are defined in detail in GSM 06.22 [6].
The comfort noise mechanism is based on the half rate speech codec defined in
GSM 06.20 [4].
# 9 Half rate lost speech frame substitution and muting
The half rate speech frame substitution and muting function is described in
GSM 06.21 [5].
In the receiver, frames may be lost due to transmission errors or frame
stealing.
GSM 06.21 [5] describes the actions to be taken in these cases, both for lost
speech frames and for lost SID frames in DTX operation.
In order to mask the effect of an isolated lost frame, the lost speech frame
is substituted by a predicted frame based on previous frames. Insertion of
silence frames is not allowed. For several subsequent lost frames, a muting
technique shall be used to indicate to the listener that transmission has been
interrupted.
# 10 Half rate codec homing
The GSM half rate speech transcoder, VAD, DTX system and comfort noise parts
of the audio processing functions (see figure 1) are defined in bit exact
arithmetic. Consequently, they shall react on a given input sequence always
with the corresponding bit exact output sequence, provided that the internal
state variables are also always exact in the same state at the beginning of
the experiment.
The input test sequences provided in GSM 06.07 [10] shall force the
corresponding output test sequences, provided that the tested modules are in
their home‑state when starting.
The modules may be set into their home states by provoking the appropriate
homing‑functions.
NOTE: This is normally done during reset.
Special inband signalling frames (encoder‑homing‑frame and
decoder‑homing‑frame described in GSM 06.20 [4] have been defined to provoke
these homing‑functions also in remotely placed modules.
This mechanism is specified to support three main areas:
‑ type approval of mobile terminal equipment;
‑ type approval of infrastructure equipment;
‑ remote control and testing for operation and maintenance.
At the end of the first received homing frame, the audio functions that are
defined in a bit exact way shall go into their predefined home states. The
output corresponding to the first homing frame is dependent on the codec state
when the frame was received. Any consecutive homing frames shall produce
corresponding homing frames at the output.
#