# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document provides the bit exact definition of the Enhanced Full
Rate (EFR) speech traffic codec for the digital cellular telecommunications
system.
An electronic attachment accompanies the present document, containing clause
5, the bit‑exact ANSI‑C code for the Enhanced Full Rate speech transcoder.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains an electronic copy of the ANSI‑C code for the
GSM Enhanced Full Rate codec. The ANSI‑C code is necessary for a bit exact
implementation of the Enhanced Full Rate speech transcoder (GSM 06.60 [3]),
Voice Activity Detection (GSM 06.82 [7]), comfort noise (GSM 06.62 [5]),
Discontinuous Transmission (GSM 06.81 [6]) and example solutions for
substituting and muting of lost frames (GSM 06.61 [4]).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 06.54: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Test
sequences for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech codec\".
[3] GSM 06.60: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech transcoding\".
[4] GSM 06.61: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Substitution and muting of lost frame for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech
traffic channels\".
[5] GSM 06.62: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Comfort noise aspects for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic channels\".
[6] GSM 06.81: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Discontinuous transmission (DTX) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic
channels\".
[7] GSM 06.82: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Voice
Activity Detector (VAD) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic
channels\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Definition of terms used in the present document can be found in GSM 06.60
[3], GSM 06.61 [4], GSM 06.62 [5], GSM 06.81 [6] and GSM 06.82 [7].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ANSI American National Standards Institute
DS‑HD Double Sided High Density
ETS European Telecommunication Standard
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
I/O Input/Output
ROM Read Only Memory
For abbreviations not given in this clause see GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 C code structure
This clause gives an overview of the structure of the bit‑exact C code and
provides an overview of the contents and organization of the archive
en_300724v080000o0.ZIP which accompanies the present document.
The C code has been verified on the following systems:
‑ Sun Microsystems [^1]**^)^** workstations and Sun Microsystems cc compiler
and gcc compiler;
‑ IBM [^2]**^)^** PC/AT compatible computers and Borland Turbo‑C++ [^3]**^)^**
compiler;
‑ Hewlett Packard\'s [^4]**^)^** workstations and HP cc compiler;
ANSI‑C 9899 was selected as the programming language because portability was
desirable.
## 4.1 Contents of the C source code disk
The C code disk has all of the files in the root level.
In this disk, the files with suffix \"c\" contain the source code and the
files with suffix \"h\" are the header files. The ROM data is contained mostly
in files with suffix \"tab\". All text files are formatted such that they are
correct for an IBM PC/AT compatible.
The archive en_300724v080000o0.ZIP which accompanies the present document
contains one speech coder installation verification data file,
\"spch_dos.inp\". The reference encoder output file is named \"spch_dos.cod\",
the reference decoder input file is named \"spch_dos.dec\" and the reference
decoder output file is named \"spch_dos.out\". These four files are formatted
such that they are correct for an IBM PC/AT compatible. The same files with
reversed byte order of the 16 bit words are named \"spch_unx.inp\",
\"spch_unx.cod\", \"spch_unx.\"dec\" and \"spch_unx.out\", respectively.
In an IBM PC/AT compatible platform, the installation verification can be
performed by running the batch file \"ts_dos.bat\". In most UNIX platforms,
the installation verification can be performed by running the batch file
\"ts_unx.bat\". Final verification is to be performed using the GSM Enhanced
Full Rate test sequences described in GSM 06.54 [2].
Makefiles are provided for the three platforms in which the C code has been
verified (listed above). Once the software is installed, this directory will
have compiled versions of _coder_ and _decoder_ (the bit‑exact C executables
of the speech codec), _ed_iface_ (interface program between coder and decoder)
and all the object files.
The programs _coder_ and _decoder_ are the GSM Enhanced Full Rate encoder and
decoder executable files, respectively. A third program, _ed_iface_ , is also
contained in this directory. This is the program which provides the format
conversion between the encoder output file format and the decoder input file
format.
## 4.2 Program execution
The GSM enhanced full rate speech codec is implemented as three separate
programs:
‑ (_coder_) speech encoder;
‑ _(ed_iface)_ encoder/decoder interface;
‑ (_decoder_) speech decoder.
For encoding using the _coder_ program, the input is a binary speech file
(*.inp) and the output is a binary encoded parameter file (*.cod). For
decoding using the _decoder_ program, the input is a binary parameter file
(*.dec) and the output is a binary synthesized speech file (*.out).
NOTE: The format for the parameter input file required for decoding (*.dec) is
not the same as the format of the parameter output file generated by encoding
(*.cod). The _ed_iface_ program will translate an *.cod file into a *.dec
file.
See the file readme.txt for more information on how to run the coder,
_ed_iface_ and _decoder_ programs.
## 4.3 Code hierarchy
Figures 1 to 5 are call graphs that show the functions used in the speech
codec, including the functions of VAD, DTX, and comfort noise generation.
The encode call graph is broken down into three separate call graphs, and the
decode call graph is broken down into two separate call graphs. Those clauses
which are large are separated from the primary call tree and given their own
call tree. Each vertical column represents a call level. For example, main()
is at level 0, Coder_12k2() at level 1, Int_lpc2() at level 2, Lsp_Az() at
level 3, Get_lsp_pol() at level 4, etc. The basic operations are not counted
as extending the depth, therefore the deepest level in this software is level
4.
Some items have been omitted from this call graph. All standard C functions:
printf(), fwrite(), etc. have been omitted. Also, no basic operations (add(),
L_add(), mac(), etc.) or double precision extended operations (e.g.
L_Extract()) appear in the graphs. The reset functions of the encoder and
decoder are only visible as the functions reset_enc and reset_dec,
respectively. There are several subroutine calls from inside these functions.
The time order in the call graphs is from the bottom upwards as the processing
of a frame advances.
Figure 1: Speech encoder call graph (see figures 2 and 3)
Figure 2: Speech encoder subframe processing call graph
Figure 3: Voice Activity Detector (VAD) call graph
Figure 4: Speech decoder call graph (see figure 5)
Figure 5: Speech decoder postfilter call graph
#