# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
**Ready for Converged Management**
> This specification is part of a set that has been developed for converged
> management solutions.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 28.611 Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System
Network Resource Model (NRM); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
TS 28.612 Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System
Network Resource Model (NRM); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)
**TS 28.616 Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System Network
Resource Model (NRM) IRP, through which an IRPAgent can communicate
configuration management information to one or several IRPManagers concerning
Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System resources.
The Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System NRM IRP
comprises a set of specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral
Information Service and one or more Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the Solution Sets for the Evolved Packet Core
(EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System NRM IRP.
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 28.612 V1. 0.X [4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.153: "Telecommunication management; Integration Reference Point
(IRP) technology specific templates, rules and guidelines".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.612: \" Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
and non-3GPP access Interworking System Network Resource Model (NRM);
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.606: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.616: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.623: "Generic network resources Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definition".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 32.600 [3] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**XML file:** See definition of [8].
**XML document:** See definition of [8].
**XML declaration:** See definition of [8].
**XML element:** See definition of [8].
**empty XML element:** See definition of [8].
**XML content (of an XML element):** See definition of [8].
**XML start-tag:** See definition of [8].
**XML end-tag:** See definition of [8].
**XML empty-element tag:** See definition of [8].
**XML attribute specification:** See definition of [8].
**DTD:** See definition of [8].
**XML schema:** See definition of [8].
**XML namespace:** See definition of [8].
**XML complex type:** See definition of [8].
**XML element type:** See definition of [8].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], TS 32.600 [3], and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
DTD Document Type Definition
EDGE Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IS Information Service
IDL Interface Definition Language (OMG)
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
SS Solution Set
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
XML eXtensible Markup Language
XSD XML Schema Definition
# 4 Solution Set Definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and
non-3GPP access Interworking System NRM IRP Solution Set Definitions:
  * 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System NRM IRP CORBA SS (Annex A)
  * 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System NRM IRP XML Definitions (Annex B)
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System
NRM IRP: Information Service (TS 28.612 [4]).
# A.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP
access Interworking System Network Resources IRP is specified in 3GPP TS
28.612 [4].\ This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
See clause A.1.1 of [8].
## A.1.2 Rules for NRM extensions
See clause A.1.2 of [8].
### A.1.2.1 Allowed extensions
See clause A.2.1 of [8].
### A.1.2.2 Extensions not allowed
See clause A.2.1 of [8].
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 General mapping
See clause A.2.1 of [8].
## A.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
## A.3 Solution Set definitions
## A.3.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.3.2 defines the MO classes for Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP
access Interworking System NRM IRP.
## A.3.2 IDL specification
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML Definitions
This annex contains the XML Definitions for the Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and
non-3GPP access Interworking System NRM IRP as it applies to Itf-N, in
accordance with Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking
System NRM IRP IS definitions [4].
# B.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP
access Interworking System Network Resources IRP is specified in 3GPP TS
28.612 [4].\ This clause specifies features that are specific to the Schema
definitions.
The XML definitions of this document specify the schema for a configuration
content.
When using the XML definitions for a configuration file transfer with the Bulk
CM IRP, using either CORBA Solution Set of 3GPP TS 32.616 [7] or SOAP Solution
Set of 3GPP TS 32.616 [7], the basic part of the XML file format definition is
provided by 3GPP TS 32.616 [7]. The XML definitions of this document provide
the schema for the configuration content to be included in such a
configuration file.
When using the XML definitions with a SOAP Solution Set of any Interface IRP
that perform operations on managed objects, for example the Basic CM IRP SOAP
SS of 3GPP TS 32.606 [6], the XML definitions of this document provides the
schema for the configuration content operated on by the interface IRP. Such
configuration content can be name of managed object and, if applicable, IOC
attributes.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
# B.2 Mapping
### B.2.1 General mapping
An IOC maps to an XML element of the same name as the IOC\'s name in the IS.
An IOC attribute maps to a sub-element of the corresponding IOC\'s XML
element, and the name of this sub-element is the same as the attribute\'s name
in the IS.
### B.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
The overall description of the file format of configuration data XML files is
provided by 3GPP TS 32.616 [7].
The definition of those NRM-specific XML element types complies with the
generic mapping rules defined in 3GPP TS 32.616 [7].
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
Not present in the current version of this specification.
#