# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.401 Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements
52.402 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -- GSM
32.404 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements - Definitions and
template
**32.405 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)**
32.406 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Packet Switched (PS) domain
32.407 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Circuit Switched (CS) domain
32.408 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Teleservice
32.409 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS)
32.425 Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM); Performance
measurements Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)
32.426 Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM); Performance
measurements Evolved Packet Core (EPC) network
32.452 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Home Node B
Subsystem (HNS)
32.453 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Home enhanced
Node B Subsystem (HeNS)
28.401 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements for Core Network
(CN) and non-3GPP access Interworking System
**28.402 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements for Evolved
Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking System**
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of the Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and
Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) Interworking System.
During the lifetime of interworking network, its logical and physical
configuration will undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order
to optimise the utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be
executed through network configuration management activities and/or network
engineering, see 3GPP TS 32.600 [1].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of interworking require data on which to base decisions. This data
refers to the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In
order to produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs,
which comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external
system, e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further
evaluation.
Annex B of TS 32.404 [2] helps in the definition of new performance
measurements that can be submitted to 3GPP for potential adoption and
inclusion in the present document. Annex B of TS 32.404 discusses a top-down
performance measurement definition methodology that focuses on how the end-
user of performance measurements can use the measurements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the measurements for EPC and non-3GPP
interworking system.
TS 32.401 [3] describes Performance Management concepts and requirements.
The present document is valid for all measurement types provided by an
implementation of a interworking system. Only measurement types that are
specific to interworking system are defined within the present documents.
Vendor specific measurement types used in interworking system are not covered.
Instead, these could be applied according to manufacturer\'s documentation.
Measurements related to \"external\" technologies (such as ATM or IP) as
described by \"external\" standards bodies (e.g. ITU-T or IETF) shall only be
referenced within this specification, wherever there is a need identified for
the existence of such a reference.
The definition of the standard measurements is intended to result in
comparability of measurement data produced in a multi-vendor network, for
those measurement types that can be standardised across all vendors\'
implementations.
The structure of the present document is as follows:
\- Header 1: Network Element (e.g. measurements related to ePDG);
\- Header 2: Measurement function (e.g. FFS);
\- Header 3: Measurements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -
Definitions and template\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
The measurement names defined in the present document are all beginning with a
prefix containing the measurement family name. This family name identifies all
measurements which relate to a given functionality and it may be used for
measurement administration (see TS 32.401 [3]).
The list of families currently used in the present document is as follows:
\- TUN (measurements related to Tunnel Establishment Management)
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ePDG Evolved Packet Data Gateway
# 4 Measurements related to ePDG
## 4.1 Tunnel Establishment Measurements
The measurements types defined in subclauses 6.x are subject to the \"2 out of
3 approach\".
### 4.1.1 Attempted Tunnel Establishment
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted tunnel establishment
b) CC
c) Receipt of tunnel establishment request message from UE to ePDG
d) A single integer value
e) TUN.TunEst Att
f) EPDGFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS
### 4.1.2 Successful Tunnel Establishment
a. This measurement provides the number of successful tunnel establishment
b. CC.
c. Transmission of tunnel establishment response message from ePDG to UE
d. A single integer value.
e. TUN.TunEstSucc
f. EPDGFunction
g. Valid for packet switched traffic.
h. EPS
### 4.1.3 Failed Tunnel Establishment
a) This measurement provides the number of failed tunnel establishment
b) CC
c) Transmission of tunnel establishment reject message from ePDG to UE
d) A single integer value.
e) TUN.TunEstFail
f) EPDGFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS
###### ## Annex A: Use cases for performance measurements definition
The present annex provides the concrete use cases for the interworking system
performance measurements defined in clause 4.
# A.1 Use case for tunnel establishment measurements
**It's required to** setup secure tunnels between WLAN UE and remote tunnel
endpoint once UE attaches to interworking system. The tunnel shall reside
between the WLAN UE and ePDG. In order to guarantee the user experiences, the
tunnel should be established before the data is transmitted. During the period
of tunnel establishment, ePDG may reject the tunnel establishment due to WLAN
QoS profile request or policy enforcement in AAA servers. Those rejections
would impact subsequent traffic transmission and user experiences. It's
desirable to operators to get the indications before massive rejection
happened.
#