# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**28.627: "Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements"**
28.628: "**Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)"**
28.629: **"** Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions"
# 1 Scope
The present document describes concept and requirements of SON Policy
management for Self-Optimization and SON coordination.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2], TS
32.150 [3] and TR 21.905 [4], in that order.
**Target:** Target provides a clear basis for assessing performance of self-
optimization functions. Targets need to be carefully specified in terms of a
series of performance measurements and/or KPIs, which can be specific, and
which can be used also to identify problems. A target should be expressed in
terms of a specific value or specific value range. The present document does
not specify the specific value or desired value range of each target since
those should be set by operators according to their policy and different
network situation.
**Trigger condition: The condition at which self-optimization should be
triggered. Different self-optimization algorithms may have different trigger
conditions for achieving same objectives and targets.**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
> CCO Capacity and Coverage Optimization
EM Element Manager
eNodeB evolved NodeB
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
HO Handover
ICIC Inter Cell Interference Coordination
LB Load Balancing
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
OAM Operation Administration Maintenance
PRB Physical Resource Block
SON Self Organizing Networks
UE User Equipment
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Overview
A self-optimization functionality will monitor input data such as performance
measurements, fault alarms, notifications etc. After analyzing the input data,
optimization decisions will be made according to the optimization algorithms.
Finally, corrective actions on the affected network node(s) will be triggered
automatically or manually when necessary.
IRPManager should be able to control the self-optimization procedures
according to the operator's objectives and targets.
The following diagram is illustrated how the self-optimization functionality
works:
Figure 4-1 Logical view of self-optimization procedure
The self-optimization functionality working procedure could be interpreted
logically as following:
1\. The self-optimization functionality keeps monitoring input data according
to the operator's objectives and targets.
2\. Whenever the objectives and targets are not met, optimization algorithms
will be triggered.
3\. Corrective actions are provided and executed.
4\. Then the self-optimization functionality evaluates the result of the
executed corrective actions.
a. If the system status is not satisfactory after the corrective actions'
execution, fallback may be needed to reverse the system configuration to the
previous status, which is before the corrective actions executed.
b. If the system status is satisfactory after the corrective actions'
execution, the one time self-optimization procedure ends.
5\. Self-optimization functionality returns to monitoring the input data.
## 4.2 Self-Optimization Concept
### 4.2.1 Logical Function Blocks
#### 4.2.1.1 Self-Optimization Input Monitoring Function (SO_MON_F)
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SO1].
#### 4.2.1.2 Triggering Optimization Function (TG_F)
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SO2], [SO3].
#### 4.2.1.3 Optimization Fallback Function (O_FB_F)
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SO7], [SO9], [SO10].
#### 4.2.1.4 Self-Optimization Progress Update Function (SO_PGS_UF)
This function updates the self-optimization progress and important events to
the operator: [SO11]
#### 4.2.1.5 NRM IRP Update Function (NRM_UF)
This function updates the E-UTRAN and EPC NRM IRP with the optimization
modification if needed.
#### 4.2.1.6 Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management Function (SO_MMF)
This function monitors the self-optimization process and provides the operator
with this information. This function must be able to get information about all
other functional blocs. In addition to this it allows the operator to control
the execution of the self-optimization process.
This function also resolves conflicts of different SON functions trying to
change or actually changing parameter values in different directions or
reports such conflicts, if they cannot be solved.
##### 4.2.1.6.1 Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management Function
(SO_MMF_NM)
SO_MMF_NM (IRP Manager): representing the NM portion of SO_MMF (necessary
monitoring and limited interaction capabilities to support an automated
optimization), as well as related IRPManager functionality
In a centralized conflict resolution approach SO_MMF_NM identifies and
resolves conflicts.
In distributed and hybrid conflict resolution approach SO_MMF_NM sends policy
directions towards the SO_MMF_EM.
##### 4.2.1.6.2 Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management Function
(SO_MMF_EM)
SO_MMF_EM (IRP Agent): representing the portion of SO_MMF operating below
Itf-N, as well as related IRPAgent functionality
In distributed and hybrid conflict resolution approach SO_MMF_EM identifies,
resolves and/or reports conflicts, according to the policy directions received
by SO_MMF_NM.
In case SO_MMF_EM is not able to solve a conflict, it will request the
SO_MMF_NM to resolve the conflict.
#### 4.2.1.7 Load Balancing Function (LB_F)
This function handles the load balancing optimization.
#### 4.2.1.8 Interference Control Function (IC_F)
This function handles the interference control optimization.
#### 4.2.1.9 Coverage and Capacity Function (CC_F)
This function handles the coverage and capacity optimization.
#### 4.2.1.10 RACH Optimization Function (RACH_F)
This function handles the RACH optimization.
#### 4.2.1.11 HandOver Optimization Function (HO_F)
This function handles the handover optimization.
## 4.3 SON Coordination Concepts
When multiple SON functions attempt to change some (same or associated)
network configuration parameters of some (same or associated) nodes, one or
more of these SON functions may not be able to achieve the operator's
specified SON target(s) (for individual SON function) since they may have
conflicting demands on network resources. This situation is considered as "SON
functions in conflict" and requires conflict prevention or resolution.
Detection of "SON functions in conflict" can be Use Case specific (for
example, two SON functions make change at the same time or during the impact
time interval).
The associated network configuration parameters include parameters within the
same network element or parameters of different network elements with impact
between each other. For example, the associated parameters of one cell are the
parameters of its neighbour cells. Another typical association example is the
TX power, antenna azimuth and tilt of one cell are associated with each other.
Different SON functions may have dependancies with each other. The behaviour
of one SON function may have influence on other SON functions. For example,
CCO function may adjust the Neighbour Relation due to coverage optimization,
and then the changed NR will have an influence on Handover Parameter
Optimization function.
SON coordination is to detect, prevent or resolve conflicts or negative
influences between SON functions to make SON functions comply with operator's
policy.
# 5 Business level requirements
The following general and high-level requirement applies for the present IRP:
A. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2].
B. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [3].
C. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [5].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
D. Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
E. Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [6] and its
information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [6]
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-1** IRPManager shall be able to control the self-optimization
functions.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-2** The self-optimization complex corrective actions shall be
executed in a consistent and coordinated way.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-3** Self-optimization functions shall reuse existing
standardized solutions as much as possible.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-4** void
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-5** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to know the success or failure result of Self-Optimization.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-6** The trigger conditions of self-optimization functions
should be able to be managed by the IRPManager. The trigger condition may be
the scheduled time to start a self-optimization function or a period of time
during which a self-optimization function is forbidden to be started or the
event (i.e. do not meet objectives or targets) to start a self-optimization
function. Each self-optimization function shall have its own set of trigger
condition.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-7** For the self-optimization functions which need continuous
monitoring, the IRPManager should be able to manage the execution of self-
optimization actions (e.g. setting a period of time during which a self-
optimization action is forbidden to be executed).
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-8** Each self-optimization function shall have one or several
related performance indicator, which may be used as objective to evaluate the
performance before the self-optimization is initiated and after the self-
optimization function is completed.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-9** For operator controlled (open loop) SON function, the
IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing IRPManager to know the
information about the self-optimization actions. The necessity of this
capability will be decided case by case.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-10** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing
IRPManager to know the information about the execution result of self-
optimization actions.
### 5.1.2 Load Balancing
**REQ-SO_LB-CON-1** The optimization of load balancing shall be performed with
minimal human intervention.
**REQ-SO_LB-CON-2** The following scenarios shall be considered in
optimization of load balancing. Each scenario shall include the load balancing
on intra-frequency, inter-frequency, and inter-RAT.
> 1\. Overlapping Coverage
>
> 2\. Hierarchical Coverage
>
> 3\. Neighbouring Coverage
### 5.1.3 Handover (HO) Parameter optimization
**REQ-SO_HO-CON-1** HO parameter optimization shall be performed with no human
intervention as much as possible.
**REQ-SO_HO-CON-2** HO parameter optimization function shall aim at reducing
the number of HO failures as well as reducing inefficient use of network
resources due to unnecessary handovers. In particular, the HO parameter
optimization function shall aim at reducing the number of HO related failures
that cause degradation in user experience, such as call drops, radio link
failures before, during or shortly after HO, and reduced data rates.
### 5.1.4 Interference control
**REQ-SO_IC-CON-1** Interference control shall be performed with as little
human intervention as possible.
**REQ-SO_IC-CON-2** The following scenarios shall be considered in
interference control.
> 1\. Uplink inter cell interference coordination
>
> 2\. Downlink inter cell interference coordination
### 5.1.5 Capacity and coverage optimization
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-1** Coverage and capacity optimization shall be performed with
minimal human intervention.
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-2 Operator shall be able to configure the objectives and
targets for the coverage and capacity optimisation function.**
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-3 Operator shall be able to configure the objectives and
targets for the coverage and capacity optimisation functions differently for
different areas of the network.**
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-4 The collection of data used as input into the coverage and
capacity optimisation function shall be automated to the maximum extent
possible and shall require minimum possible amount of dedicated resources.**
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-5 The following scenarios shall be considered in capacity and
coverage optimization.**
> **1\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes with 2G/3G coverage**
>
> **2\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes without any other radio coverage**
>
> **3\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes with isolated island cell coverage**
>
> **4\. E-UTRAN cells with too large coverage**
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-6 The IRPAgent shall provide a capability allowing the
IRPManager to manage tradeoffs between** coverage and capacity using policies.
### 5.1.6 RACH optimization
**REQ-SO_RO-CON-1 RACH optimization shall be performed with minimal human
intervention.**
### 5.1.7 SON Coordination
**REQ-SON_COORD-CON-1** SON coordination shall allow the prevention and
resolution of conflicts between SON functions.
**REQ-SON_COORD-CON-2 In case the SON coordination function is below Itf-N,**
the IRPAgent should support the capability for the IRPManager to define
policies for the case that SON functions request conflicting parameter values.
In case no policy is given, the IRPAgent shall apply default policies.
Note: A policy describes an expected behaviour from the IRPAgent. Examples for
such policies:
i) Prioritizing SON functions in case of conflicts
ii) Assigning weights to SON targets
iii) Prohibiting further changes of a parameter for a certain amount of time
iv) Selecting preferred value ranges
v) Telling the IRPAgent to report conflicts
**REQ-SON_COORD-CON-3 For the** case that the IRPAgent does not resolve the
case of SON functions requesting conflicting values for parameters, the
IRPAgent should support the capability for the IRPManager to decide about the
parameter values.
**REQ-SON_COORD-CON-4** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to configure the SON coordination policy. The coordination includes
the following aspects:
> 1) Coordination between SON functions below Itf-N and CM operations over
> Itf-N.
>
> 2) Coordination between different SON functions.
## 5.2 Actor roles
_Managed system: The entity performing an IRPAgent role._
_Managing system: The entity performing the IRPManager role._
## 5.3 Telecommunications Resources
_The managed E-UTRAN/EPC network equipments are viewed as relevant
telecommunications resources in this specification._
## 5.4 High-Level use case
### 5.4.1 Load Balancing
**1\. Overlapping Coverage**
In this scenario, two same size cells overlap each other. Cell A and cell B
both cover the same area. The load balancing between cell A and Cell B may be
considered. The load balancing could be carried out between Cell A and Cell B
regardless of the UE location within the coverage of the cells.
Figure 5.4.1-1: Overlapping Coverage
**Hierarchical Coverage**
In this scenario, two different size cells overlap each other. Cell B that has
a smaller area is covered totally by cell A, which has a bigger size. The load
balancing between cell A and Cell B may be considered. The load balancing
could be carried out from Cell B to Cell A regardless of the UE location
within the coverage of the cell B. Only UE located in the overlapping coverage
could be considered in the scenario of Cell A to Cell B.
Figure 5.4.1-2: Hierarchical Coverage
**Neighbouring Coverage**
In this scenario, there are some overlapped area between two neighbour cell A
and cell B. This is the usual neighbour cells scenario in EUTRAN. The load
balancing between cell A and Cell B may be considered. Load Balancing could
only be carried out for UE located in the overlapping coverage of Cell A and
Cell B.
Figure 5.4.1-3: Neighbouring Coverage
### 5.4.2 Interference control
**1\. Uplink inter cell interference coordination**
In this scenario, cell-edge UEs like UE A and B belong to different cell, and
they are assigned the same physical resource block (PRB). When they transmit
uplink messages, e.g. UE A sends message to its serving cell A, its neighbour
cell B may also receives it; UE B has a similar situation. Therefore, cell A
cannot judge which is signal-comes from UE A, and which is interference-comes
from UE B, so as cell B. In this situation, inter cell interference
coordination is essential to compensate for the system performance loss and
increase cell edge users' bit rate.
{width="4.872222222222222in" height="2.841666666666667in"}
Figure 5.4.2-1: Uplink Inter Cell Interference Coordination
**2\. Downlink inter cell interference coordination**
In this scenario, when UE located in cell-edge area, it is much adapted to
suffer downlink interference from its neighbour cell in case that there is
another UE occupying the same PRB in the same region belonging to its
neighbour cell. So downlink inter cell interference coordination is essential
to restrain interference and increase system capacity.
{width="5.125in" height="2.879166666666667in"}
Figure 5.4.2-2: Downlink inter cell interference coordination
### 5.4.3 Capacity and coverage optimization
Although, it is of primary interest to provide coverage to users during a
roll-out, it is equally important to enhance the capacity of the network
during operation. As such, both coverage and capacity are considered in the
use case and supported by the SON function. The CCO SON function should be
configured through appropriate objectives and targets in order to meet the
operator's requirement on coverage and capacity, and the prioritization
between them.
**1\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes with 2G/3G coverage**
In this scenario, legacy systems, e.g. 2G/3G provide radio coverage together
with E-UTRAN. However, in the first deployment stage of E-UTRAN, unsuitable
planning or error parameters settings will lead to coverage holes in some
area. In this scenario, there may be too many IRAT HOs. The SON use case
coverage and capacity optimization should enable to detect this kind of
problems on network coverage automatically. Another case similar with this is
that coverage problems exist between different frequencies in E-UTRAN, i.e.
inter-frequency case. For simple reasons, this case is also described here.
Figure 5.4.3-1: Coverage holes with 2G/3G coverage
**2\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes without any other radio coverage**
In this scenario, there is no 2G/3G coverage except E-UTRAN. In the first
deployment stage of E-UTRAN, unsuitable planning or error parameters settings
will lead to un-continuous coverage in some area. That will lead to many drop
calls because of bad coverage. The SON use case coverage and capacity
optimization should enable to detect this kind of problems on network coverage
automatically.
Figure 5.4.3-2: Coverage holes without any other radio coverage
**3\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes with isolated island cell coverage**
In this scenario, the actual coverage area of an isolated island cell is
smaller than the planned isolated island cell area. The uncovered planned cell
area is the coverage holes that need to be detected and optimized by the
coverage and capacity optimization.
Figure 5.4.3-3: Coverage holes with isolated island cell coverage
**4\. E-UTRAN cells with too large coverage**
In this scenario, the operator does a gradual network evolution using LTE
cells in location where higher capacity is needed. Here the actual LTE
coverage is greater than the planned LTE coverage. The overflow area is shown
in figure 5.4.3.4. The problem with a too large coverage is that the planned
capacity may not be reached. As such, it is important to keep the coverage
within the planned area.
Figure 5.4.3-4: Difference between actual and planned LTE coverage
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management
#### 6.1.1.1 Management Part
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-1** IRPManager shall be able to configure objectives and
targets for the self-optimization functions.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-2** For open loop, IRPManager shall be able to configure
whether a confirmation is needed before the execution of optimization actions.
The necessity of a confirmation will be decided case by case.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-3** For open loop, IRPManager shall be able to confirm the
execution of optimization actions in case IRPManager configured a confirmation
is needed.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-4** For open loop, IRPAgent shall provide information to the
IRPManager about the optimization actions. The necessity of this capability
will be decided case by case.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-5** IRPAgent shall provide information to the IRPManager about
the execution result of self-optimization actions.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-6** The IRPAgent shall provide information to the IRPManager
about the outcome of self-optimization.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-7** IRPManager shall be able to configure the values of KPIs
or performance counters which may be used to trigger the optimization
function.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-8** When the IRPAgent is aware of disruptive situations for
the SON functionality, it shall support optimization functions in coping with
them as much as possible without the need for an intervention from the
IRPManager. Disruptive situations are e.g. an outage of a cell, the insertion
of a new cell, deactivation of a cell etc.
### 6.1.2 Load Balancing
**REQ-SO_LB-FUN-1** The IRPManager shall be able to disable/enable the load
balancing function.
**REQ-SO_LB-FUN-2** The IRPManager shall be informed about the eNodeB load.
**REQ-SO_LB-FUN-3** The IRPManager shall be able to request that load
balancing be allowed from source cell to target cell.
**REQ-SO_LB-FUN-4** The IRPManager shall be able to request that load
balancing be prohibited from source cell to target cell.
**REQ-SO_LB-FUN-5** The IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager about success or
failure of IRPManager operations to allow load balancing, prohibit load
balancing.
### 6.1.3 Handover (HO) Parameter optimization
#### 6.1.3.1 HO failure categorization
##### 6.1.3.1.1 HO failures due to too late and too early HO triggering
HO failures can be categorized as follows:
  * HO failures due to too late HO triggering
  * HO failures due to too early HO triggering
  * Failures due to HO to a wrong cell
Consequently, the HO parameter optimisation should aim at detecting and
mitigating too early HOs, too late HOs and HOs to a wrong cell. The following
subsections provide the scenarios for too early HO, too late HO and HO to a
wrong cell triggering leading to HO failures.
##### 6.1.3.1.1.1 Too late HO triggering {#too-late-ho-triggering .H6}
Example scenario for too late HO triggering is shown in Figure 6-1. If the UE
mobility is more aggressive than what the HO parameter settings allow for, the
HO could be triggered when the signal strength of the serving cell is already
too low or may not be triggered at all if a radio link failure preempts it.
The connection may be re-established on a different cell from the serving
cell. This is a common scenario in areas where user mobility is very high,
such as along the highways, train lines etc.
{width="4.757638888888889in" height="1.9993055555555554in"}
Figure 6-1 -- Too late HO triggering scenario
##### 6.1.3.1.1.2 Too early HO triggering {#too-early-ho-triggering .H6}
Example scenario for too early HO triggering is shown in Figure 6-2. HO can be
triggered when the UE enters unintended island of coverage of the target cell
inside the intended coverage area of the serving cell. When the UE exits the
island of coverage of the target cell, it cannot acquire the target cell any
more and the HO fails, potentially leading to a radio link failure. This is a
typical scenario for areas where fragmented cell coverage is inherent to the
radio propagation environment, such as dense urban areas.
{width="4.757638888888889in" height="1.9993055555555554in"}
Figure 6-2 -- Too early HO triggering scenarios
##### 6.1.3.1.1.3 HO to a wrong cell {#ho-to-a-wrong-cell .H6}
Example scenario for HO to a wrong cell is shown in Figure 6-3. In this
scenario UE is moved from cell A to cell C, but because the HO parameter not
optimized and a cell A sends a wrong HO command performs a handover to cell B
and then a RLF happens. After that UE re-establishes connection with cell C.
{width="4.758333333333334in" height="3.25in"}
Figure 6-3 --HO to a wrong cell scenarios
#### 6.1.3.2 Reducing inefficient use of network resources due to unnecessary
HOs
HO procedure is resource-consuming and therefore costly to the network
operator. Sometimes, the combination of user mobility patterns and cell
coverage boundary layout can generate frequent unnecessary HOs that consume NW
resources inefficiently. This scenario is illustrated in Figure 6-4a. HO
parameter optimisation function should aim at detecting such scenarios. These
scenarios sometimes can be remedied by HO parameter optimisation, as
illustrated in Figure 6-4b. Since the goal of reducing unnecessary HOs can
sometimes be opposed to the goal of reducing the number of HO failures,
operators should be able to set the tradeoff point.
{width="4.757638888888889in" height="1.6243055555555554in"}
Figure 6-4a -- Frequent HOs cause inefficient use of NW resources
{width="4.758333333333334in" height="1.625in"}
Figure 6-4b -- HO parameter adjustment prevents frequent Hos
Additionally, incorrect cell reselection parameters setting may result
unwanted handover right after RRC connection setup, HO parameter optimization
function should also aim at detecting misalignment between cell reselection
parameters and handover parameters setting and adjust the parameters to avoid
such scenarios.
#### 6.1.3.3 Requirements
**REQ-SO_HO-FUN-1** HO parameter optimisation function shall aim at detecting
too early handover, too late handover and handover to a wrong cell.
**REQ-SO_HO-FUN-2 HO parameter optimisation function shall aim at detecting
inefficient use of network resources due to unnecessary HOs.**
**REQ-SO_HO-FUN-3 HO parameter optimisation function shall aim at meeting the
objectives and targets for the HO optimisation function**
**REQ-SO_HO-FUN-4** The objectives for the HO parameter optimisation function
shall reflect the desired tradeoff between the reduction in the number of HO
related failures and the reduction of inefficient use of network resources due
to HOs.
**REQ-SO_HO-FUN-5** The IRPManager shall be able to disable/enable the HO
parameter optimization function.
## 6.1.4 Interference control
**REQ-SO_IC-FUN-1** The IRPManager shall be able to disable/enable the
Interference Control function.
**REQ-SO_IC-FUN-2** The IRPManager shall be able to request that ICIC be
allowed from source cell to target cell.
**REQ-SO_IC-FUN-3** The IRPManager shall be able to request that ICIC be
prohibited from source cell to target cell.
**REQ-SO_IC-FUN-4** An IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager about success or
failure of IRPManager operations to allow ICIC, prohibit ICIC.
### 6.1.5 Capacity and coverage optimization
**REQ-SO_CC-FUN-1 Performance measurements with geographical binning may be
used as inputs into the coverage and capacity optimisation function.**
**REQ-SO_CC-FUN-2 CCO function shall aim at providing optimal capacity and
coverage for the radio network while considering the tradeoff between capacity
and coverage.**
**REQ-SO_CC-FUN-3** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to **enable or disable the CCO function.**
### 6.1.6 RACH optimization
**REQ-SO_RO-FUN-1 The IRPAgent shall support enabling and disabling the RACH
optimization function.**
### 6.1.7 SON Coordination
The following requirements apply when the SON coordination function is in NM
layer.
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-1** The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to inform
the IRPManager whether a SON function is activated or not.
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-2** The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to inform
the IRPManager about which SON functions modified configuration parameter(s).
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-3** The IRPAgent should provide the capability to inform
the IRPManager about the time duration how long the configuration parameter(s)
should not be modified.
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-4** The IRPAgent should provide the capability to inform
the IRPManager about the SON targets which are the justification for the
configuration change.
The following requirements apply when the SON coordination function is below
Itf-N.
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-5** The IRPAgent should provide a capability to allow the
IRPManager to configure the priority of SON functions in case of conflicts.
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-6** The IRPAgent shall provide the capability for the
IRPManager to be informed when the SON coordination function could not resolve
a conflict. This information should include the involved SON functions, the
involved configuration parameters and/or the involved SON targets.
## 6.2 Actor roles
_No new actor._
## 6.3 Telecommunications Resources
_No new telecommunications resources._
## 6.4 Use case
### 6.4.1 Use case Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Optimize the system in | | | | an automated manner. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its management | | | | system. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The network is properly | | | | installed and running. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The self-optimization | | | | objectives and targets | | | | have been set by | | | | operators | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **Based on the monitored | | | | input parameters (KPIs, | | | | Alarms, etc.), targets | | | | for the objectives | | | | defined for the | | | | self-optimization | | | | functions are not met.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | The order of the bullet | | | | points in the list below | | | | does not imply any | | | | statements on the order | | | | of execution. | | | | | | | | [SO1] The input | | | | parameters **(KPIs, | | | | Alarms, etc.)** are | | | | monitored continuously. | | | | | | | | [SO2] When the | | | | monitored parameters do | | | | not meet the | | | | optimization targets, | | | | the optimization | | | | function is triggered. | | | | | | | | [SO3] Optimisation | | | | function proposes | | | | corrective actions. | | | | | | | | [SO4] Operator may | | | | confirm the | | | | execution/activation of | | | | the proposed actions if | | | | needed. | | | | | | | | [SO5] Corrective | | | | actions are executed. | | | | | | | | [SO6] Optimisation | | | | function monitors system | | | | status for a certain | | | | pre-defined monitoring | | | | time period. | | | | | | | | [SO7] The | | | | configuration prior to | | | | the corrective action is | | | | memorised if needed. | | | | | | | | [SO8] If the system | | | | status is satisfactory | | | | during the monitoring | | | | time period, then go to | | | | [SO1]. | | | | | | | | **[SO9]Operator may | | | | confirm if fallback is | | | | needed.** | | | | | | | | [SO10] Fallback is | | | | executed. | | | | | | | | [SO11] **The operator | | | | is informed about the | | | | progress and important | | | | events occurring during | | | | the self-optimization | | | | process.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step n (M\|O) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful.. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | System is operating | | | | normally. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-5, | | | | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-6 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
###
### 6.4.2 Use case Load Balancing Allowed/Prohibited Management
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | The load balancing (LB) | | | | can be | | | | allowed/prohibited from | | | | a source cell to a | | | | target cell by the | | | | IRPManager. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | There is operator's | | | | policy for LB | | | | allowing/prohibiting | | | | management. For example: | | | | | | | | LB from the higher | | | | priority cell to the | | | | lower priority cell is | | | | allowed; reverse is | | | | prohibited. | | | | | | | | LB between an eNB cell | | | | and another eNB cell | | | | which belongs to another | | | | unwanted PLMN is | | | | prohibited. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The network is | | | | operational. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The IRPManager makes a | | | | decision to | | | | allow/prohibit LB from a | | | | source cell to a target | | | | cell: | | | | | | | | According to operator's | | | | policy, or | | | | | | | | According to some | | | | information got in run | | | | time. For example: | | | | | | | | LB would always fail | | | | between some particular | | | | cells in case of some | | | | inappropriate parameters | | | | setting. In that | | | | situation, the LB | | | | function located at eNB | | | | may make a decision to | | | | prohibit LB between | | | | these particular cells | | | | and notify this | | | | infomation to the | | | | IRPManager. | | | | | | | | After the CM parameters | | | | adjusting, the LB | | | | between those cells may | | | | be allowed again based | | | | on the good values of | | | | relative PM counters. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | The IRPAgent is | | | | instructed by the | | | | IRPManager to | | | | allow/prohibit LB from | | | | the source cell to the | | | | target cell. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | The LB is allowed / | | | | prohibited from the | | | | source cell to the | | | | target cell by the | | | | corresponding eNB(s). | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 4 (*) (M) | Reporting of the | | | | allowing/prohibiting LB | | | | operation result to the | | | | IRPManager. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The LB is | | | | allowed/prohibited from | | | | a source cell to a | | | | target cell successfully | | | | or unsuccessfully. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ-SO_LB-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-SO_LB-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-SO_LB-FUN-5 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
# 7 Functions and Architecture
## 7.1 Self-Optimization Logical Architecture
The lines between the functional blocks do not indicate specific 3GPP
interfaces.
For the abbreviations used, please see the headlines of clause 3.
## 7.2 Self-Optimization Reference Model
The SO_MMF has a part located in the EM and a part located at the NM.
For the abbreviations used, please refer to clause 3.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Steps for SON self-optimization Technical
Specifications
The TSs for SON self-optimization shall follow the steps below.
**1\. Goal**
\
**2\. Problem Scenarios**
The problem scenarios need to be optimized under the goal. This part may
contain multiple problem scenarios
\
\
**3\. Parameters to be Optimized**
The list of parameters needs to be optimized to resolve the problems under the
goal. The parameters listed here are the overall parameters need to be
optimized; it does not imply that all of the parameters are required to be
open over Itf-N.
\
**4\. Architecture and Responsibilities**
The suitable architecture to optimize the parameters above, it can be
centralized, distributed or hybrid SON architectures.
And based on the architecture, the clear split of the responsibilities among
NM, EM and NE should be stated here. This will result in the work split among
3GPP WGs.
**5\. Performance Measurements and NRMs**
**Performance measurements:**
List of the performance measurements which are required via Itf-N to recognize
the problem scenarios, and to monitor the result of self-optimization, based
on the selected architecture and responsibilities.
This part only includes the descriptions for the performance measurements, and
the detailed definitions will be defined in TS 32.425/32.426.
\
\
**NRMs:**
The parameters need to be modeled in NRM, to support the optimizations
required over Itf-N according to the selected architecture and split
responsibilities.
\
#