# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.621 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements;
**28.622 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS) ;**
**28.623 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions.**
The interface Itf-N, defined in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], is built up by a number of
Integration Reference Points (IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which
realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure
of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [4].
This specification is part of a set that has been developed for converged
management solutions.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Generic network resource information that
can be communicated between an IRPAgent and an IRPManager for
telecommunication network management purposes, including management of
converged networks.
This document specifies the semantics of information object class attributes
and relations visible across the reference point in a protocol and technology
neutral way. It does not define their syntax and encoding.
This document supports the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) concept
described in [8] in that the relevant Information Object Class (IOC)s defined
in this specification are directly or indirectly inherited from those
specified in the Umbrella Information Model (UIM) of [9].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and Definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Numbering, addressing and identification\"
[6] 3GPP TS 32.532: \" Telecommunication management; Software Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \"
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.710 (1991): \"Common Management Information Service
Definition for CCITT Applications\".
[8] TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\"
[9] TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model (UIM)\"
[10] TS 32.156: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Model Repertoire\"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [14].
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
1) name bindings,
2) reference attributes, and
3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that name containment associations shall be expressed
through name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other
types of associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate
entities in the object models (UML diagrams). Currently however, all (non-
containment) associations are modelled by means of reference attributes of the
participating MOs.
**Information Object Class (IOC): An IOC represents the management aspect of a
Network Resource.** It describes the information that can be passed/used in
management interfaces. **Their representations are technology agnostic
software objects.** IOC has [attributes]{.underline} that represents the
various properties of the class of objects. See the term \"attribute\" defined
in [10]. Furthermore, IOC can support [operations]{.underline} providing
network management services invocable on demand for that class of objects. An
IOC may support [notifications]{.underline} that report event occurrences
relevant for that class of objects. It is modelled using the stereotype
\"Class\" in the UML meta-model. See TS 32.156 [10] for additional information
on IOC.
**Managed Element (ME)** : An instance of the IOC ManagedElement.
**Managed Object (MO)** : A MO is an instance of a Managed Object Class (MOC)
representing the management aspects of a Network Resource. Its representation
is a technology specific software object. It is sometimes called MO instance
(MOI). The MOC is a class of such technology specific software objects. An MOC
is the same as an IOC except that the former is defined in technology specific
terms and the latter is defined in technology agnostic terms. MOCs are
used/defined in SS level specifications. IOCs are used/defined in IS level
specifications.
**Management Information Base (MIB)** : A MIB is an instance of an NRM and has
some values on the defined attributes and associations specific for that
instance. In the context of the present document, an MIB consists of:
1) a Name space (describing the MO containment hierarchy in the MIB through
Distinguished Names),
2) a number of Managed Objects with their attributes and
3) a number of Associations between these MOs. Also note that TMN (ITU-T
Recommendation X.710 [7]) defines a concept of a [Management Information
Tree]{.underline} (also known as a Naming Tree) that corresponds to the name
space (containment hierarchy) portion of this MIB definition. Figure 3.1
depicts the relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs (the shown association is of a non-containment type)
Figure 3.1: Relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs
**Name space** : A name space is a collection of names. The IRP name
convention (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13]) restricts the name space to a
hierarchical containment structure, including its simplest form - the one-
level, flat name space.\ All Managed Objects in a MIB shall be included in the
corresponding name space and the MIB/name space shall only support a strict
hierarchical containment structure (with one root object). A Managed Object
that contains another is said to be the superior (parent); the contained
Managed Object is referred to as the subordinate (child). The parent of all
MOs in a single name space is called a Local Root. The ultimate parent of all
MOs of all managed systems is called the Global Root.
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : A collection of IOCs representing a set of
Network Resources under management.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AUC Authentication Centre
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
EM Element Manager
HLR Home Location Register
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
ME Managed Element
MIB Management Information Base
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
MSC Mobile Services Switching Centre
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
RNC Radio Network Controller
SS Solution Set
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
VLR Visitor Location Register
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11], notification,
notifyAckStateChanged notifyAckStateChanged 3GPP TS 32.662 [12], notification,
notifyAttributeValueChanged notifyAttributeValueChanged 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyChangedAlarm notifyChangedAlarm 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyClearedAlarm notifyClearedAlarm 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyComments notifyComments 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyNewAlarm notifyNewAlarm 3GPP TS 32.662 [12], notification,
notifyObjectCreation notifyObjectCreation 3GPP TS 32.662 [12], notification,
notifyObjectDeletion notifyObjectDeletion 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11], notification,
notifyAlarmListRebuilt notifyAlarmListRebuilt 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList
3GPP TS 32.532 [6], notification, notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged
notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged 3GPP TS 32.532 [6], notification,
notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged 3GPP TS 32.532
[6], notification, notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged
notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _Domain__ _Domain__
3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _ManagedElement__ _ManagedElement__ 3GPP TS 28.620
[9], IOC, _Function__ _Function__ 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _ManagementSystem__
_ManagementSystem__ 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _TopologicalLink__
_TopologicalLink__ 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _Top__ _Top__
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagrams
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g.IOCs) that encapsulates the
information relevant for this IRP. This clause provides the overview of the
relationships of relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
The following figure shows the containment/naming hierarchy and the
associations of the classes defined in the present document. See Annex A of a
class diagram that combines this figure with Figure 1 of [2], the class
diagram of UIM.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="2.5395833333333333in"}
NOTE 1: ManagedElement may be contained either
  * in a SubNetwork (since _SubNetwork_ inherits from _Domain_ _ and _ManagedElement_ inherits from _ManagedElement_ _ and _Domain_ _ name-contained _ManagedElement__ as observed in the figure of Annex A) or
  * in a MeContext instance as observed by the above figure or in the figure of Annex A.
> This either-or relation cannot be shown by using an {xor} constraint in the
> above figure.
>
> ManagedElement may also have no parent instance at all.
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
NOTE 3: If the configuration contains several instances of SubNetwork, exactly
one SubNetwork instance shall directly or indirectly contain all the other
SubNetwork instances.
NOTE 4: The SubNetwork instance not contained in any other instance of
SubNetwork is referred to as \"the root SubNetwork instance\".
NOTE 5: ManagementNode shall be contained in the root SubNetwork instance.
NOTE 6: If contained in a SubNetwork instance, IRPAgent shall be contained in
the root SubNetwork instance.
NOTE 7: For a clarification on the choice of containment of the IRPAgent
(since it has three possible parents), see the def. of IRPAgent.
Figure 4.2.1-1: Generic NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram
Each Managed Object is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [13] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example,
the DN of a ManagedElement instance could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden,MeContext =MEC-Gbg-1, ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="2.691666666666667in"}
NOTE 8: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs by
virtue of inheritance from the GENERIC NRM.
Figure 4.2.1-2: VsDataContainer Containment/Naming and Association in GENERIC
NRM diagram
The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships.
The following figure shows the inheritance diagram.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="1.9756944444444444in"}
Figure 4.2.2-1: Generic Network Resource Model IRP Inheritance Hierarchy
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 Any
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This class represents the classes (e.g. IOC) that are not defined in this
specification but are or will be defined in other IRP specification(s).
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
None
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
_This class does not support any notification._
### 4.3.2 IRPAgent
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents the functionality of an IRPAgent. It shall be present. For
a definition of IRPAgent, see 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
The IRPAgent will be contained under an IOC as follows (only one of the
options shall be used):
  1. ManagementNode, if the configuration contains a ManagementNode;
  2. SubNetwork, if the configuration contains a SubNetwork and no ManagementNode;
  3. ManagedElement, if the configuration contains no ManagementNode or SubNetwork.
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable systemDN C M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions
### 4.3.3 ManagedElement
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents telecommunications equipment or TMN entities within the
telecommunications network that performs Managed Element (ME) functions, i.e.
provides support and/or service to the subscriber.\ An ME communicates with a
manager (directly or indirectly) over one or more interfaces for the purpose
of being monitored and/or controlled. MEs may or may not additionally perform
element management functionality.\ An ME contains equipment that may or may
not be geographically distributed. An ME is often referred to as a \"Network
Element\".
A ManagedElement may be contained in either a SubNetwork or in a MeContext
instance. A single ManagedElement seen over the Itf-N may also exist stand-
alone with no parent at all.
The ManagedElement IOC may be used to represent combined ME functionality (as
indicated by the managedElementType attribute and the contained instances of
different functional IOCs).
Single function ManagedElement IOC instances will have a 1..1 containment
relationship to a function IOC instance (in this context a function IOC
instance is an instance of an IOC derived from the ManagedFunction IOC).
Multiple function ManagedElement instances will have a 1..N containment
relationship to function IOC instances.
NOTE: For some specific functional IOCs a 1..N containment relationship is
permitted. The specific functional entities are identified in the NRMs that
define subclasses of ManagedFunction.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M M - M - vendorName M M - - M userDefinedState M M M - M
swVersion M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
Attribute constrains for dnPrefix: The attribute dnPrefix shall be supported
if an instance of ManagedElement is the local root instance of the MIB.
Otherwise the attribute shall be absent or carry no information.
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
_The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC_. In
addition, the following set of notifications is also valid.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged See Software Management
IRP (3GPP TS 32.532 [6])  
notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged See Software Management IRP (3GPP TS 32.532
[6])  
notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged See Software Management IRP (3GPP TS 32.532
[6])
* * *
### 4.3.4 _ManagedFunction_
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. It provides attribute(s) that are
common to functional IOCs. Note that a ManagedElement may contain several
managed functions. The ManagedFunction may be extended in the future if more
common characteristics to functional objects are identified.
#### Attributes
* * *
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc349638169 .anchor}Attribute Name Support Qualifier
isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable id M M - M -
* * *
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.
### 4.3.5 ManagementNode
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents a telecommunications management system (EM) within the TMN
that contains functionality for managing a number of ManagedElements (MEs).
The management system communicates with the MEs directly or indirectly over
one or more interfaces for the purpose of monitoring and/or controlling these
MEs.
This class has similar characteristics as the ManagedElement. The main
difference between these two classes is that the ManagementNode has a special
association to the managed elements that it is responsible for managing.
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M M - M - vendorName M M - - M userDefinedState M M M - M
locationName M M - - M swVersion M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.6 MeContext
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC is introduced for naming purposes. It may support creation of unique
DNs in scenarios when some MEs have the same RDNs due to the fact that they
have been manufacturer pre-configured.\ If some MEs have the same RDNs (for
the above mentioned reason) and they are contained in the same SubNetwork
instance, some measure shall be taken in order to assure the global uniqueness
of DNs for all IOC instances under those MEs. One way could be to set
different dnPrefix for those NEs, but that would require either that:
a) all LDNs or DNs are locally modified using the new dnPrefix for the upper
portion of the DNs, or
b) a mapping (translation) of the old LDNs or DNs to the new DNs every time
they are used externally, e.g. in alarm notifications.
As both the two alternatives above may involve unacceptable drawbacks (as the
old RDNs for the MEs then would have to be changed or mapped to new values),
using MeContext offers a new alternative to resolve the DN creation. Using
MeContext as part of the naming tree (and thus the DN) means that the
dnPrefix, including a unique MeContext for each ME, may be directly
concatenated with the LDNs, without any need to change or map the existing ME
RDNs to new values.
MeContext have 0..N instances. It may exist even if no SubNetwork exists.
Every instance of MeContext contains exactly one ManagedElement during steady-
state operations.
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable dnPrefix CM M - - M
* * *
#### Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition dnPrefix It shall be supported if an instance of MeContext is
the local root instance of the MIB. Otherwise the attribute shall be absent or
carry no information.
* * *
#### 4.3.6.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.7 SubNetwork
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents a set of managed entities as seen over the Itf-N.
There may be zero or more instances of a SubNetwork. It shall be present if
either a ManagementNode or multiple ManagedElements are present (i.e.
ManagementNode and multiple ManagedElement instances shall have SubNetwork as
parent).
The SubNetwork instance not contained in any other instance of SubNetwork is
referred to as \"the root SubNetwork instance\".
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M M - M - setOfMcc CM M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition dnPrefix (inherited from _Domain__) It shall be supported if
an instance of SubNetwork is the local root instance of the MIB. Otherwise the
attribute shall be absent or carry no information. setOfMcc If there is more
than one value in setOfMcc of the SubNetwork instance, the support of this
attribute setOfMcc is mandatory. Otherwise it is optional.
* * *
#### 4.3.7.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions
### 4.3.8 _Top_
#### 4.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. All information object classes
defined in all TS that claim to be conformant to 32.102 [2] shall inherit from
Top.
#### 4.3.8.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable objectClass M M - M M objectInstance M M - M M
* * *
#### 4.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.8.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.
### 4.3.9 VsDataContainer
#### 4.3.9.1 Definition
The VsDataContainer managed object is a container for vendor specific data.
The number of instances of the VsDataContainer can differ from vendor to
vendor. This IOC shall only be used by the Bulk CM IRP for all the NRMs.
#### 4.3.9.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable vsDataType M M - - O vsData M M O - O vsDataFormatVersion M M - -
O
* * *
#### 4.3.9.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.9.4 Notifications
Support for notification on the change of attribute value is vendor-specific.
### 4.3.10 _Link_
#### 4.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. This IOC represents a
communication link or reference point between two network entities. The Link
IOC does not indicate whether the represented communication link or reference
point is a physical or logical entity.
For the subclasses of Link, the following rules apply:
1) The subclass names shall have the form "Link_\_\", where \ is a
string that represents the IOC at one end of the association related to the
particular Link subclass, and \ is a string that represents the IOC at the
other end of the association. For the order of the two strings, \ shall
come alphabetically before \.
2) In case \ and \ are YyyFunction IOCs (inheriting from ManagedFunction
and on first level below ManagedElement), the \ and \ strings shall have
the same form as the legal values of the managedElementType attribute (see
clause 4.5.1), e.g. "Auc". Otherwise \ and \ shall be the full IOC
names.
Thus, two valid examples of Link subclass names would be: **Link_As_Cscf** and
**Link_Mrfc_Mrfp.**
#### 4.3.10.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M M - M - userLabel M M M - M linkType O M - - M
protocolVersion O M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.10.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition aEnd and zEnd (inherited from _TopologicalLink_ _) The
property multiplicity is 1.
* * *
#### 4.3.10.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions
### 4.3.11 _EP_RP_
#### 4.3.11.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. This IOC represents an end point
of a link used across a reference point between two network entities.
The detailed subclassed IOC, e.g. EP_X2, will be defined in E-UTRAN NRM IRP,
by inheriting from this EP_RP.
For naming the subclasses of **EP_RP** , the following rules shall apply:
  * The name of the subclassed IOC shall have the form "EP_\", where \ is a string that represents the name of the reference point.
Thus, two valid examples of EP_RP subclassed IOC names would be: EP_S1 and
EP_X2.
#### 4.3.11.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable farEndEntity O M - - M userLabel O M M - M
* * *
#### 4.3.11.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.11.4 Notifications
_This class does not support any notification._
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes specified in the
present document.
+---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndEntity | The value of this | type: DN | | | attribute shall be | | | | the Distinguished | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | Name of the far end | | | | network entity to | isOrdered: N/A | | | which the reference | | | | point is related. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | As an example, with | defaultValue: No | | | EP_Iucs, if the | default value | | | instance of EP_Iucs | | | | is contained by one | isNullable: False | | | RncFunction | | | | instance, the | | | | farEndEntity is the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the | | | | MscServerFunction | | | | instance to which | | | | this Iucs reference | | | | point is related. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | type: DN | | | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | multiplicity: 1 | | | when naming an | | | | instance of the | isOrdered: N/A | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | isUnique: N/A | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | defaultValue: None | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | allowedValues: N/A | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | linkType | This attribute | type: String | | | defines the type of | | | | the link. | multiplicity: 0..* | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isOrdered: F | | | Signalling, Bearer, | | | | OAM&P, Other or | isUnique: T | | | multiple | | | | combinations of this | defaultValue: No | | | type. | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | locationName | The physical | type: String | | | location of this | | | | entity (e.g. an | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | address). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectClass | An attribute which | type: String | | | captures the name of | | | | the class from which | multiplicity: 1 | | | the object instance | | | | is an occurrence of. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectInstance | An information which | type: String | | | captures the | | | | Distinguished Name | multiplicity: 1 | | | of any object. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | protocolVersion | Versions(s) and | type: String | | | additional | | | | descriptive | multiplicity: 0..* | | | information for the | | | | protocol(s) used for | isOrdered: F | | | the associated | | | | communication link. | isUnique: T | | | Syntax and semantic | | | | is not specified. | defaultValue: no | | | | default value | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | setOfMcc | Set of Mobile | type: Integer | | | Country Code (MCC). | | | | The MCC uniquely | multiplicity: 1..* | | | identifies the | | | | country of domicile | isOrdered: F | | | of the mobile | | | | subscriber. MCC is | isUnique: T | | | part of the IMSI (TS | | | | 23.003 [5]) | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | This list contains | | | | all the MCC values | isNullable: False | | | in subordinate | | | | object instances to | | | | this SubNetwork | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | clause 2.3 of TS | | | | 23.003 [5] for MCC | | | | allocation | | | | principles. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swVersion | The software version | type: String | | | of the | | | | ManagementNode or | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | ManagedElement (this | | | | is used for | isOrdered: N/A | | | determining which | | | | version of the | isUnique: N/A | | | vendor specific | | | | information is valid | defaultValue: No | | | for the | default value | | | ManagementNode or | | | | ManagedElement). | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | systemDN | The Distinguished | type: DN | | | Name (DN) of | | | | IRPAgent. Defined in | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | 3GPP TS 32.300. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | userDefinedState | An operator defined | type: String | | | state for operator | | | | specific usage. | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | userLabel | A user-friendly (and | type: String | | | user assignable) | | | | name of this object. | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | The name of the | type: String | | | vendor. | | | | | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vsData | Vendor specific | type: -- | | | attributes of the | | | | type vsDataType. The | multiplicity: -- | | | attribute | | | | definitions | isOrdered: -- | | | including | | | | constraints (value | isUnique: -- | | | ranges, data types, | | | | etc.) are specified | defaultValue: -- | | | in a vendor specific | | | | data format file. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: -- | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vsDataFormatVersion | Name of the data | type: String | | | format file, | | | | including version. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vsDataType | Type of vendor | type: String | | | specific data | | | | contained by this | multiplicity: 1 | | | instance, e.g. | | | | relation specific | isOrdered: N/A | | | algorithm | | | | parameters, cell | isUnique: N/A | | | specific parameters | | | | for power control or | defaultValue: No | | | re-selection or a | default value | | | timer. The type | | | | itself is also | isNullable: False | | | vendor specific. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dnPrefix | It carries the DN | type: DN | | | Prefix information | | | | or no information. | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | See Annex C of | | | | 32.300 [13] for | isOrdered: N/A | | | one usage of this | | | | attribute. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [11], that IRPManager
can receive. The notification header attribute objectClass/objectInstance,
defined in [3], would capture the DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this
IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
### Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [12], that IRPManager
can receive. The notification header attribute objectClass/objectInstance,
defined in [3], would capture the DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this
IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): Alternate class diagram
This class diagram combines the Figure 4.2.1-1 of this document with Figure 1
of [9], the class diagram of UIM.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.7555555555555555in"}
Figure A-1: Alternate class diagram
#