# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.621 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements
28.622 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)
**28.623 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM)** **Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The TS 28.62x-series (Generic Network Resources IRP) define an Integration
Reference Point (IRP) through which an \"IRPAgent\" (typically an Element
Manager or Network Element) can communicate Network Management related
information to one or several \"IRPManagers\" (typically Network Managers).
This TS-family specifies a generic Network Resource Model, NRM (also referred
to as a Management Information Model - MIM) with definitions of Information
Object Classes (IOCs) and Managed Object Classes (MOCs).
The present document specifies the Solution Set definition for the Generic NRM
IRP.
The Solution Set definition is related to 3GPP TS 28.622 V11.4.X [4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.622: "Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[6] Void
[7] 3GPP TS 32.616: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[8] W3C REC-xml11-20060816: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.1 (Second
Edition)\".
[9] Void.
[10] **W3C XML Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 1: Structures**.
[11] **W3C XML Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 2: Datatypes.**
[12] W3C REC-xml-names-20060816: \"Namespaces in XML 1.1 (Second Edition)\".
[13] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
## For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given
in TR 21.905 [13], TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2], TS 32.600 [3], TS 28.622 [4]
and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [13], TS
32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2], TS 32.600 [3] and TS 28.622 [4].3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [13] and TS 28.622 [4] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [13] and TS 28.622 [4].
# 4 Solution Set definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP Generic NRM IRP Solution Set
Definitions:
\- 3GPP Generic NRM IRP CORBA SS (Annex A).
\- 3GPP Generic NRM IRP XML Definitions (Annex B).
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
# A.0 Introduction
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in Generic NRM IRP: Information Service (TS 28.622 [4]).
# A.1 Architectural features
## A.1.0 Introduction
The overall architectural feature of Generic Network Resources IRP is
specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [4].\ This clause specifies features that are
specific to the CORBA SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
## A.1.2 Rules for NRM extensions
### A.1.2.0 Introduction
This clause discusses how the models and IDL definitions provided in the
present document can be extended for a particular implementation and still
remain compliant with 3GPP SA5\'s specifications.
### A.1.2.1 Allowed extensions
Vendor-specific MOCs may be supported. The vendor-specific MOCs may support
new types of attributes.\ The 3GPP SA5-specified notifications may be issued
referring to the vendor-specific MOCs and vendor-specific attributes. New MOCs
shall be distinguishable from 3GPP SA5 MOCs by name. 3GPP SA5-specified and
vendor-specific attributes may be used in vendor-specific MOCs. Vendor-
specific attribute names shall be distinguishable from existing attribute
names.
NRM MOCs may be subclassed. Subclassed MOCs shall maintain the specified
behaviour of the 3GPP SA5\'s superior classes. They may add vendor-specific
behaviour with vendor-specific attributes. When subclassing, naming attributes
cannot be changed. The subclassed MOC shall support all attributes of its
superior class. Vendor-specific attributes cannot be added to 3GPP SA5 NRM
MOCs without subclassing.
When subclassing, the 3GPP SA5-specified containment rules and their specified
cardinality shall still be followed.\ As an example, ManagementNode (or its
subclasses) shall be contained under SubNetwork (or its subclasses).
Managed Object Instances may be instantiated as CORBA objects. This requires
that the MOCs be represented in IDL. 3GPP SA5\'s NRM MOCs are not currently
specified in IDL, but may be specified in IDL for instantiation or subclassing
purposes. However, management information models should not require that
IRPManagers access the instantiated managed objects other than through
supported methods in the present document.
Extension rules related to notifications (Notification categories, Event
Types, Extended Event Types etc.) are for further study.
### A.1.2.2 Extensions not allowed
The IDL specifications in the present document cannot be edited or altered.
Any additional IDL specifications shall be specified in separate IDL files.
IDL interfaces (note: not MOCs) specified in the present document may not be
subclassed or extended. New interfaces may be defined with vendor-specific
methods.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 General mapping
Attributes modelling associations as defined in the NRM (here also called
\"reference attributes\") are in this SS mapped to attributes. The names of
the reference attributes in the NRM are mapped to the corresponding attribute
names in the MOC. When the cardinality for an association is 0..1 or 1..1 the
datatype for the reference attribute is defined as an MOReference. The value
of an MO reference contains the distinguished name of the associated MO. When
the cardinality for an association allows more than one referred MO, the
reference attribute will be of type MOReferenceSet, which contains a sequence
of MO references.
## A.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
### A.2.2.0 Introduction
This Solution Set supports reference attributes for relations other than
containment relations between objects. Reference attributes are therefore
introduced in each MOC where needed.
### A.2.2.1 IOC SubNetwork
Mapping from NRM IOC SubNetwork attributes to SS equivalent MOC SubNetwork
attributes
* * *
IS Attributes SS Attributes SS Type id id string dnPrefix dnPrefix string
userLabel userLabel string userDefinedNetworkType userDefinedNetworkType
string setOfMcc setOfMcc
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::StringSet
* * *
### A.2.2.2 IOC ManagedElement
Mapping from NRM IOC ManagedElement attributes and association roles to SS
equivalent MOC ManagedElement attributes
* * *
IS Attributes SS Attributes SS Type id id string dnPrefix dnPrefix string
userLabel userLabel string locationName locationName string vendorName
vendorName string userDefinedState userDefinedState string managedElementType
managedElementType GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::StringSet
managedBy managedBy
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::MOReferenceSet swVersion
swVersion string
* * *
### A.2.2.3 IOC MeContext
Mapping from NRM IOC MeContext attributes to SS equivalent MOC MeContext
attributes
* * *
IS Attributes SS Attributes SS Type id id string dnPrefix dnPrefix string
* * *
### A.2.2.4 IOC ManagementNode
Mapping from NRM IOC ManagementNode attributes and association roles to SS
equivalent MOC ManagementNode attributes
* * *
IS Attributes SS Attributes SS Type id id string userLabel userLabel string
locationName locationName string vendorName vendorName string userDefinedState
userDefinedState string managedElements managedElements
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::MOReferenceSet swVersion
swVersion string
* * *
### A.2.2.5 IOC VsDataContainer
Mapping from NRM IOC VsDataContainer attributes and association roles to SS
equivalent MOC VsDataContainer attributes
* * *
IS Attributes SS Attributes SS Type id id string vsDataType vsDataType string
vsData vsData any vsDataFormatVersion vsDataFormatVersion string
* * *
### A.2.2.6 IOC ManagedFunction
Mapping from NRM IOC ManagedFunction attributes and association roles to SS
equivalent MOC ManagedFunction attributes
* * *
IS Attributes SS Attributes SS Type id id string userLabel userLabel string
* * *
### A.2.2.7 IOC IRPAgent
Mapping from NRM IOC IRPAgent attributes to SS equivalent MOC IRPAgent
attributes
* * *
IS Attributes SS Attributes SS Type id id string systemDN systemDN string
* * *
### A.2.2.8 IOC Top
Mapping from NRM IOC Top attributes to SS equivalent attributes in all MOCs
* * *
IS Attributes SS Attributes SS Type objectClass CLASS string objectInstance No
direct mapping
* * *
### A.2.2.9 IOC Link
Mapping from NRM IOC Link attributes to SS equivalent MOC IRPAgent attributes
* * *
IS Attributes SS Attributes SS Type id id string userLabel userLabel string
aEnd aEnd GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::MOReference zEnd
zEnd GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::MOReference linkType
linkType LinkTypeType protocolName protocolName string protocolVersion
protocolVersion string
* * *
NOTE 1: Void**.**
NOTE 2: Void**.**
### A.2.2.10 IOC EP_RP
Mapping from NRM IOC EP_RP attributes to SS equivalent MOC EP_RP attributes
* * *
IS Attributes SS Attributes SS Type id id string userLabel userLabel string
farEndEntity farEndEntity
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::MOReference
* * *
# A.3 Solution Set definitions
## A.3.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.3.2 defines the types which are used by the Generic NRM IRP.
Clause A.3.3 defines the MO classes for the Generic NRM IRP.
## A.3.2 IDL specification \"GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem.idl\"
//File: GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _GENERIC_NETWORK_RESOURCES_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _GENERIC_NETWORK_RESOURCES_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem
{
/**
* The format of Distinguished Name (DN) is specified in \"Name Convention
* for Managed Objects (3GPP TS 32.300 [5])\".
*/
typedef string DN;
/**
* This module adds datatype definitions for types
* used in the NRM which are not basic datatypes defined
* already in CORBA.
*/
module AttributeTypes
{
/**
* An MO reference refers to an MO instance.
* \"otherMO\" contains the distinguished name of the referred MO.
* A conceptual \"null\" reference (meaning no MO is referenced)
* is represented as an empty string (\"\").
*
*/
struct MOReference
{
DN otherMO;
};
/**
* MOReferenceSet represents a set of MO references.
* This type is used to hold 0..n MO references.
* A referred MO is not allowed to be repeated (therefore
* it is denoted as a \"Set\")
*/
typedef sequence\ MOReferenceSet;
/**
* A set of strings.
*/
typedef sequence\ StringSet;
/**
* A set of long.
*/
typedef sequence\ LongSet;
/*
* The LinkListSet represents the Link_X_Y objects (or subclasses of
* Link_X_Y objects) that have a relationship with this object instance.
* Each Link_X_Y object models interface(s) between objects of class X and
* Y. The object containing this attribute must either be a class of type X,
* Y, XFunction, YFunction or a subclass of one of those classes. The
* LinkListSet may be empty, or there may be no instances for a particular
* Link_X_Y class name.
*/
typedef MOReferenceSet LinkListSet;
};
};
#endif // _GENERIC_NETWORK_RESOURCES_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
## A.3.3 IDL specification \"GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl\"
//File: GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl
#ifndef _GENERIC_NETWORK_RESOURCES_NRM_DEFS_IDL_
#define _GENERIC_NETWORK_RESOURCES_NRM_DEFS_IDL_
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/**
* This module defines constants for each MO class name and
* the attribute names for each defined MO class.
*/
module GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs
{
/**
* Definitions for MO class Top
*/
interface Top
{
// Attribute Names
//
const string CLASS = \"Top\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class SubNetwork
*/
interface SubNetwork : Top
{
const string CLASS = \"SubNetwork\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string dnPrefix = \"dnPrefix\";
const string userLabel = \"userLabel\";
const string userDefinedNetworkType = \"userDefinedNetworkType\";
const string setOfMcc = \"setOfMcc\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class ManagedElement
*/
interface ManagedElement : Top
{
const string CLASS = \"ManagedElement\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string dnPrefix = \"dnPrefix\";
const string managedElementType = \"managedElementType\";
const string userLabel = \"userLabel\";
const string vendorName = \"vendorName\";
const string userDefinedState =\"userDefinedState\";
const string locationName =\"locationName\";
const string managedBy = \"managedBy\";
const string swVersion = \"swVersion\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class MeContext
*/
interface MeContext : Top
{
const string CLASS = \"MeContext\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string dnPrefix = \"dnPrefix\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class ManagementNode
*/
interface ManagementNode : Top
{
const string CLASS = \"ManagementNode\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string userLabel = \"userLabel\";
const string vendorName = \"vendorName\";
const string userDefinedState = \"userDefinedState\";
const string locationName = \"locationName\";
const string managedElements = \"managedElements\";
const string swVersion = \"swVersion\";
};
/**
* Definitions for abstract MO class ManagedFunction
*
*/
interface ManagedFunction : Top
{
const string CLASS = \"ManagedFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string userLabel = \"userLabel\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class IRPAgent
*/
interface IRPAgent : Top
{
const string CLASS = \"IRPAgent\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string systemDN = \"systemDN\";
};
/**
* Definitions for abstract MO class Link
* This inherits from ManagedFunction
* The attributes aEnd and zEnd are populated with the DNs\ * of the entities associated via the link class.\ * The aEnd takes the DN of the 1st entity in alphabetical order,
* the zEnd takes the 2nd entity in alphabetical order of the class
* names.
*/
interface Link : ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"Link\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string aEnd = \"aEnd\";
const string zEnd = \"zEnd\";
const string linkType = \"linkType\";
const string protocolName = \"protocolName\";
const string protocolVersion = \"protocolVersion\";
};
/**
* Definitions for MO class VsDataContainer
*/
interface VsDataContainer : Top
{
const string CLASS = \"VsDataContainer\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string id = \"id\";
const string vsDataType = \"vsDataType\";
const string vsData = \"vsData\";
const string vsDataFormatVersion = \"vsDataFormatVersion\";
};
/**
* Definitions for abstract MO class EP_RP
*/
interface EP_RP : Top
{
const string CLASS = \"EP_RP\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string farEndEntity = \"farEndEntity\";
const string id = \"id\";
const string userLabel = \"userLabel\";
}; /**
* This module adds datatypes definitions for the Link Class
* These attributes are not the basic datatypes already defined
*/
module LinkAttributeTypes
{
enum LinkType
{
SIGNALLING,
BEARER,
OAM_AND_P,
OTHER
};
typedef sequence \ LinkTypeType;
};
};
#endif // _GENERIC_NETWORK_RESOURCES_NRM_DEFS_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML Definitions
# B.0 Introduction
This annex contains the XML Definitions for the Generic NRM IRP as it applies
to Itf-N, in accordance with Generic NRM IRP IS definitions TS 28.622 [4].
The XML file formats are based on XML W3C REC-xml11-20060816 [8], **W3C XML
Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 1: Structures** [10], **W3C XML
Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 2: Datatypes** [11] and W3C REC-xml-
names-20060816 [12] standards.
# B.1 Architectural features
## B.1.0 Introduction
The overall architectural feature of Generic Network Resources IRP is
specified in 3GPP TS 28.622 [4].\ This clause specifies features that are
specific to the Schema definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
# B.2 Mapping
## B.2.1 General mapping
An IOC maps to an XML element of the same name as the IOC\'s name in the IS.
An IOC attribute maps to a sub-element of the corresponding IOC\'s XML
element, and the name of this sub-element is the same as the attribute\'s name
in the IS.
## B.2.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
The mapping is not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
The overall description of the file format of configuration data XML files is
provided by 3GPP TS 28.616 [7].
Annex B.3.3 of the present document defines the NRM-specific XML schema
genericNrm.xsd for the Generic Network Resources IRP NRM defined in 3GPP TS
28.622 [4].
XML schema genericNrm.xsd explicitly declares NRM-specific XML element types
for the related NRM.
The definition of those NRM-specific XML element types complies with the
generic mapping rules defined in 3GPP TS 28.616 [7], with the following
exception: as defined in 3GPP TS 28.616 [7], the vsData XML element type has
an empty XML content.
Additionally, XML schema genericNrm.xsd also provides the following global XML
declarations and definitions:
\- XML complex type NrmClass: derivation base type (see [8], [10] and [11])
for all NRM class associated XML element types (see 3GPP TS 28.616 [7]);
\- XML element type vsData: derivation base type (see [8], [10] and [11]) for
all vendor-specific XML element types (see 3GPP TS 28.616 [7]);
\- XML element type SubNetworkOptionallyContainedNrmClass: substitution group
head (see [8], [10] and [11]) for all XML element types associated to further
NRM classes optionally contained under SubNetwork NRM class;
\- XML element type ManagedElementOptionallyContainedNrmClass: substitution
group head (see [8], [10] and [11]) for all XML element types associated to
further NRM classes optionally contained under ManagedElement NRM class.
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
The graphical representation is not present in the current version of this
specification.
## B.3.3 XML schema \"genericNrm.xsd\"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#