# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**28.651 UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements**
**28.652 UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)**
**28.653 UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in [1],
[2] and [3], the requirements for the present IRP: Universal Terrestrial Radio
Access Network (UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS.28.622: "Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**Information Object Class (IOC):** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IRP Integration Reference Point
NRM Network Resource Model
TDD Time Division Duplex
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Requirements
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
A. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
B. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
C. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
D. Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
E. Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [4] and its
information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [5].
In addition, the following more specific requirements apply:
**REQ-UTRAN_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall contain UTRAN
specific IOCs and related definitions, supporting UTRAN network entities,
which shall include FDD and TDD mode aspects.
**REQ-UTRAN_NRM-CON-002:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall support
management of UMTS-GSM inter-system handover.
#