# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**28.654: GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network (GERAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements**
28.655: GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network (GERAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)
28.656: GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network (GERAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in [1],
[2] and [3], the requirements for the present IRP: GERAN Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS.28.622: "Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : See definition in TS 32.622 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see [1])
NRM Network Resource Model
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 Requirements
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
a) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
b) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
c) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
a) Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
b) Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [4] and its
information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [5].
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements apply:
> **REQ-GERAN_NRM-CON-001:** The Network Resource Model defined by this IRP
> shall contain GERAN specific classes and related definitions, supporting the
> management of GERAN Network entities.
>
> **REQ-GERAN_NRM-CON-002:** The Network Resource Model defined by this IRP
> shall support management of UMTS-GSM Inter-system handover.
#