# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.651: \"UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Requirements\".
**28.652: \"UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS) \".**
**28.653:** \"**UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions** \"**.**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) that can
be communicated between an IRPAgent and an IRPManager for telecommunication
network management purposes, including management of converged networks.
The present document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information
object class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.433: \"UTRAN Iub Interface NBAP Signalling\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.655: \"Telecommunication management; GSM/EDGE Radio Access
Network (GERAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.625: \"Telecommunication management; State Management Data
Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 28.662: "Telecommunication management; Generic Radio Access
Network (**RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS)".**
[18] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling\".
[19] 3GPP TS 25.466: \"UTRAN Iuant interface: Application Part\".
[20] 3GPP TS 28.732: \" Telecommunication management; Transport Network (TN)
interface Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[21] 3GPP TS 28.702: \" Telecommunication management; Core Network (CN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS) \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply. For
definitions and not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS
32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 28.622 [16] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [14].
**Antenna** : Within the present document an Antenna is the set of radiating
elements involved in the transmission and reception of Radio Frequency energy
to support the Uu interface of a UTRAN cell. See Annex A for more detail.
**Association** : See definition in TS 28.622 [16].
**Managed Element (ME)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [16].
**Managed Object (MO)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [16].
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [16].
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [16].
**Node B:** A logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment.\ It terminates the Iub interface
towards the RNC.
**TMA** : See TS 25.466 [19].
**Tower Mounted Amplifier:** See TS 25.466 [19].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CN Core Network
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
Iub Interface between RNC and Node B
Mcps Mega-chips per second
ME Managed Element
MIM Management Information Model
MO Managed Object
NRM Network Resource Model
PS Packet Switched
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
RET Remote control of Electrical Tilting (RET) antenna
RNC Radio Network Controller
TDD Time Division Duplex
TMA Tower Mounted Amplifier
UML Unified Modelling Language
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [16], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement 3GPP TS 28.622 [16], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP
TS 28.622 [16], IOC, MeContext MeContext 3GPP TS 28.622 [16], IOC, SubNetwork
SubNetwork 3GPP TS 28.622 [16], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 28.622 [16], IOC,
VsDataContainer VsDataContainer 3GPP TS 28.622 [16], IOC, EP_RP EP_RP 3GPP TS
28.655 [6], IOC, ExternalGSMCell ExternalGSMCell 3GPP TS 28.655 [6], IOC,
GsmCell GsmCell 3GPP TS 28.655 [6], IOC, GsmRelation GsmRelation 3GPP TS
28.625 [8], attribute, operationalState operationalState 3GPP TS 28.662 [17],
IOC, AntennaFunction AntennaFunction 3GPP TS 28.662 [17], IOC, TmaFunction
TmaFunction 3GPP TS 28.662 [17], IOC, SectorEquipmentFunction
SectorEquipmentFunction 3GPP TS 28.662 [17], IOC, _CellReferences_
_CellReferences_ 3GPP TS 28.702 [21], IOC, MscServerFunction MscServerFunction
3GPP TS 28.702 [21], IOC, SGSNFunction SGSNFunction 3GPP TS 28.732 [20], IOC,
TransportNetworkInterface TransportNetworkInterface 3GPP TS 28.732 [20], IOC,
ATMChannelTerminationPoint ATMChannelTerminationPoint 3GPP TS 28.732 [20],
IOC, ATMPathTerminationPoint ATMPathTerminationPoint
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagrams
### 4.2.1 Relationships {#relationships .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates
information relevant for this IRP. This subclause provides the overview of the
relationships of relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
The following figures show the containment/naming hierarchy and the
associations of the information object classes defined in the present
document. They are split in several figures only for a readability purpose.
{width="4.957638888888889in" height="2.486111111111111in"}
Figure 4.2.1-1: Transport view UTRAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association
diagram
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
NOTE 2: The AntennaFunction instances (referenced by a role-attribute of IOC
CellReferences inherited by _UTRANGenericCell_) is required when supporting
RET. For a description and clarification of RET, please refer to Annex A.
NOTE 3: The AntennaFunction Instances can be associated with a particular
NodeBFunction instance (via IubLink and _UTRANGenericCell_). These
AntennaFunction instances and NodeBFunction instance must be contained by the
same ManagedElement instance.
NOTE 4: The TmaFunction Instances can be associated with a particular
NodeBFunction instance (via IubLink and _UTRANGenericCell_). These TmaFunction
Instances and NodeBFunction instance must be contained by the same
ManagedElement instance.
NOTE 5: Please see TS 28.662 [17] for the definitions of the five associations
between a) _UtranGenericCell_ and AntennaFunction b) between
_UtranGenericCell_ and SectorEquipmentFunction c) between _UtranGenericCell_
and TmaFunction d) between SectorEquipmentFunction and AntennaFunction and e)
between SectorEquipmentFunction and TmaFunction.
{width="6.483333333333333in" height="3.4291666666666667in"}
Figure 4.2.1-1: Transport view UTRAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association
diagram
NOTE 6: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
NOTE 7: The relation between GSMRelation and GSMCell is optional. It may be
present if both the _UTRANGenericCell_ and the GSMCell are managed by the same
management node.
NOTE 8: The UtranRelation and GsmRelation can be name-contained under IOCs
defined in other NRMs.
NOTE 9: _ExternalUTRANGenericCell_ is contained under SubNetwork or
ExternalRncFunction.
{width="2.4583333333333335in" height="1.867361111111111in"}
Figure 4.2.1-2: Cell view UTRAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram
NOTE 10: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
NOTE 11: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under
one IOC.\ The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other
NRMs.
{width="6.366666666666666in" height="2.88125in"}
Figure 4.2.1-3: VsDataContainer Containment/Naming and Association in UTRAN
NRM diagram
NOTE 1: The ATMChannelTerminationPoint is name-contained under IOCs defined in
the Transport Network NRM.
NOTE 2: The group of ATMChannelTerminationPoints associated with an IubLink
(the relation AssociatedWith1) represent the RNC end of the ATM Virtual
Channel Connections (transport connection) between an RNC and a NodeB.
NOTE 3: An ATMChannelTerminationPoint can be associated with more than one
IubLink for the case of AAL2 multiplexing/switching, i.e. to allow an ATM
Channel at the RNC to be connected to multiple NodeBs.
Figure 4.2.1-4: UTRAN Transport Network NRM Containment/Naming and Association
diagram
The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
Each IOC instance is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [13] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example,
the DN of an IOC instance representing a cell could have a format like:
> SubNetwork=Sweden, MeContext=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1,
> RncFunction=RF-1,UtranCell=Gbg-1.
{width="5.641666666666667in" height="2.7194444444444446in"}
Figure 4.2.1-5: Association diagram of EP_Iur, EP_IuCS and EP_IuPS
### 4.2.2 Inheritance {#inheritance .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 4.2.2.1 shows the inheritance hierarchy for the UTRAN NRM.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.3784722222222223in"}Figure 4.2.2.1:
UTRAN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 RNCFunction {#rncfunction .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents RNC functionality. For more information about the RNC, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable** mcc M M M - M mnc M M M - M rncId M M M - M
siptoSupported M M - - M tceIDMappingInfoList CM M M - M
sharNetTceMappingInfoList CM M M - M
* * *
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
**Name** **Definition** tceIDMappingInfoList The condition is "MDT function is
supported" and only one PLMN is supported sharNetTceMappingInfoList The
condition is "MDT function and several PLMNs are supported"
* * *
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.2 NodeBFunction {#nodebfunction .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents Node B functionality. For more information about the Node
B, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable**
**Attribute related to role**  
iubLink M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition nodeBFunction-IubLink M support qualifier When a particular
IubLink identifies this particular NodeBFunction, this particular
NodeBFunction must identify the particular IubLink.
* * *
#### 4.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.3 IubLink {#iublink .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents the logical link to a Node B as seen from the RNC. For
more information about the RNC, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable**
**Attribute related to role**  
uTRANGenericCell M M M - M nodeBFunction M M - - M aTMChannelTerminationPoint
M M -
* * *
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _iubLink-UTRANCell M support qualifier_ _When a particular
IubLink identifies a particular UTRANGenericCell derivative, that particular
UTRANGenericCell derivative must have identified this particular IubLink._
_iubLink-NodeBFunction M support qualifier_ _When a particular IubLink
identifies a particular NodeBFunction, that particular NodeBFunction must
identify this particular IubLink._ _iubLink-ATMChannelTerminationPoint_ _When
a particular IubLink identifies a particular ATMChannelTerminationPoint, that
particular ATMChannelTerminationPoint must identify this particular IubLink._
* * *
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.4 UtranRelation {#utranrelation .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
The UtranRelation IOC contains radio network related parameters for the
relation to the _UTRANGenericCell_ or _ExternalUTRANGenericCell_ IOC.
The _UTRANGenericCell_ and the _ExternalUTRANGenericCell_ may be an FDD mode
cell, a lcr (low chip rate) 1.28 Mcps TDD mode cell or a hcr (high chip rate)
3.84 (7.68) Mcps TDD mode cell.
NOTE: In handover relation terms, the cell containing the UTRAN Relation
object is the source cell for the handover. The cell referred to in the UTRAN
relation object is the target cell for the handover.\ This defines a one-way
handover relation where the direction is _from_ source cell _to_ target cell.
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable** id M M - M - **Attribute related to role**  
adjacentCell M M M - M
* * *
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _adjacentCell M support qualifier_ _This attribute can
hold either an UTRANGenericCell (or its derivative) DN or an
ExternalUTRANGenericCell (or its derivative) DN or no information._
* * *
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
The common configuration notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid
for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.5 ExternalRncFunction {#externalrncfunction .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents an RNC function controlled by another IRPAgent. For more
information about the RNC, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable** mcc M M M - M mnc M M M - M rncId M M M - M
**Attribute related to role**  
controlledCellList O M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
The common configuration notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid
for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.6 _UtranGenericCell_ {#utrangenericcell .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the common properties of radio cells of different
types (FDD, TDD) controlled by an RNC. For more information about radio cells,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
The IOC UtranCellFDD and UtranCellTDD (1,28 Mcps TDD mode cell or a 3.84
(7.68) Mcps TDD mode cell) inherit from that abstract IOC.
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **A | * |** isRe | **isWr |** isInv | **isNoti | | ttribute | *Support | adable** | itable**| ariant** | fyable**| | name** | Qua | | | | | | | lifier**| | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | cId | M | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | loc | M | M | M | - | M | | alCellId | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | maximumT | M | M | M | - | M | | ransmiss | | | | | | | ionPower | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | p | CM | M | O | - | M | | ichPower | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | pchPower | CM | M | O | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | f | CM | M | O | - | M | | achPower | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | cellMode | M | M | - | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | lac | M | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | rac | CM | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | sac | M | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | uraList | CM | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | hsFlag | CM | M | - | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | hsEnable | CM | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | numOf | CM | M | M | - | M | | Hspdschs | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | numO | CM | M | M | - | M | | fHsscchs | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | fra | CO | M | - | - | M | | meOffset | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | cell | CO | M | - | - | M | | Individu | | | | | | | alOffset | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | hcsPrio | CO | M | - | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | maximum | CO | M | - | - | M | | AllowedU | | | | | | | lTxPower | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | snaInf | CO | M | - | - | M | | ormation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | q | CO | M | - | - | M | | rxlevMin | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | deltaQ | CO | M | - | - | M | | rxlevmin | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | qhcs | CO | M | - | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | pen | CO | M | - | - | M | | altyTime | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | refer | CO | M | - | - | M | | enceTime | | | | | | | Differen | | | | | | | ceToCell | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | readSFNI | CO | M | - | - | M | | ndicator | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | r | CO | M | - | - | M | | estricti | | | | | | | onStateI | | | | | | | ndicator | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | dpcMo | CO | M | - | - | M | | deChange | | | | | | | SupportI | | | | | | | ndicator | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | operatio | O | M | - | - | M (see | | nalState | | | | | Note 2) | | (See | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |** A | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | role** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | re | CO | M | M | - | M | | latedAnt | | | | | | | ennaList | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | relate | CM | M | - | - | M | | dSectorE | | | | | | | quipment | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | relate | CO | M | - | - | M | | dTMAList | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | iubLink | M | M | - | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | No state | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | pagation | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | implied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | conveyed | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | otifySta | | | | | | | teChange | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | ication. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 4.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _relatedAntennaList and relatedTMAList CO support
qualifier_ _The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction (see 28.662 [17]) is not used_
_relatedSectorEquipment CM support qualifier_ _The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction
(see 28.662 [17]) is used_ _uTRANGenericCell-IubLink M support qualifier_
_When a particular UtranGenericCell derivative identifies a particular
IubLink, that particular IubLink must have identified this particular
UtranGenericCell derivative._ _rac and uraList CM support qualifier_ _The PLMN
contains a PS CN._ _hsFlag, hsEnable, numOfHspdschs and numOfHsscchs CM
support qualifier_ _The HSDPA feature is not supported by vendor specific
extension mechanisms._ _pichPower, pchPower and fachPower CM support
qualifier_ _The attributes pichPower, pchPower and fachPower are not supported
by vendor specific extension mechanisms._ _frameOffset, cellIndividualOffset,
hcsPrio, maximumAllowedUlTxPower, snaInformation, qrxlevMin, deltaQrxlevmin,
qhcs, penaltyTime, referenceTimeDifferenceToCell, readSFNIndicator,
restrictionStateIndicator and dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator CO support
qualifier_ _Itf-p2p is supported._
* * *
#### 4.3.6.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC In
addition, the following set of notification, defined in 3GPP TS 32.662 [10],
is also valid.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyStateChange O
* * *
### 4.3.7 _ExternalUTRANGenericCell_ {#externalutrangenericcell .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the properties of a radio cell controlled by
another IRPAgent. This IOC contains necessary attributes for inter-system and
intra-system handover. It also contains a subset of the attributes of related
IOCs controlled by another IRPAgent. The way to maintain consistency between
the attribute values of these IOCs is outside the scope of the present
document.
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable** cId M M M - M mcc M M M - M mnc M M M - M
rncId M M M - M cellMode M M - - M lac M M M - M rac CM M M - M hsFlag CM M -
- M frameOffset CO M - - M cellIndividualOffset CO M - - M hcsPrio CO M - - M
maximumAllowedUlTxPower CO M - - M qrxlevMin CO M - - M deltaQrxlevmin CO M -
- M qhcs CO M - - M penaltyTime CO M - - M referenceTimeDifferenceToCell CO M
- - M readSFNIndicator CO M - - M restrictionStateIndicator CO M - - M
dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator CO M - - M snaInformation CO M - - M **Attribute
related to role**  
controllingRNC O M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _rac CM support qualifier_ _The PLMN contains a PS CN._
_hsFlag CM support qualifier_ _The HSDPA feature is not supported by vendor
specific extension mechanisms._ frameOffset,cellIndividualOffset, hcsPrio,
maximumAllowedUlTxPower, qrxlevMin, deltaQrxlevmin, qhcs, penaltyTime,
referenceTimeDifferenceToCell, readSFNIndicator, restrictionStateIndicator,
dpcModeChangeSupportIndicator and snaInformation CO support qualifier Itf-p2p
is supported.
* * *
#### 4.3.7.4 Notifications
The common configuration notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid
for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.8 UtranCellFDD {#utrancellfdd .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC represents a FDD radio cell controlled by an RNC. For more
information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.8.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable** uarfcnUl O M M - M uarfcnDl O M M - M
primaryScramblingCode O M M - M primaryCpichPower O M M - M primarySchPower O
M M - M secondarySchPower O M M - M bchPower O M M - M aichPower O M - - M
qqualMin CO M - - M cellCapabilityContainerFDD CO M - - M txDiversityIndicator
CO M - - M temporaryOffset1 CO M - - M temporaryOffset2 CO M - - M
sttdSupportIndicator CO M - - M closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator CO M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _aichPower CM support qualifier_ _The attribute aichPower
is not supported by vendor specific extension mechanisms._ _qqualMin,
cellCapabilityContainerFDD, txDiversityIndicator temporaryOffset1,
temporaryOffset2, sttdSupportIndicator and closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator CO
support qualifier_ _Itf-p2p is supported._
* * *
#### 4.3.8.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.9 UtranCellTDD {#utrancelltdd .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.9.1 Definition
This IOC is an abstract class representing the common properties of TDD high
chip rate (hcr) and TDD low chip rate (lcr) radio cells controlled by an RNC.
For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.9.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable** uarfcn O M M - M cellParameterId O M M - M
primaryCcpchPower O M M - M cellCapabilityContainerTDD CO M - - M
sctdIndicator CO M - - M dpchConstantValue CO M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.9.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _cellCapabilityContainerTDD, sctdIndicator and
dpchConstantValue CO support qualifier_ _Itf-p2p is supported._
* * *
#### 4.3.9.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.10 UtranCellTDDLcr {#utrancelltddlcr .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC represents a TDD low chip rate (lcr) radio cell controlled by an RNC.
For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.10.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** uarfcnLCRList O M M - M fpachPower O M O - M dwPchPower O M M
- M tstdIndicator CO M - - M timeSlotLcrList O M M - M
* * *
#### 4.3.10.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition tstdIndicator CO support qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
#### 4.3.10.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.11 UtranCellTDDHcr {#utrancelltddhcr .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.11.1 Definition
This IOC represents a TDD high chip rate (hcr) radio cell controlled by an
RNC. For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.11.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** schPower O M M - M temporaryOffset1 CO M - - M syncCase CO M
- - M timeSlotForSch CO M - - M schTimeSlot CO M - - M timeSlotHcrList O M M -
M
* * *
#### 4.3.11.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition temporaryOffset1, syncCase, timeSlotForSch and schTimeSlot CO
support qualifier Itf-p2p is supported.
* * *
#### 4.3.11.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.12 ExternalUtranCellFDD {#externalutrancellfdd .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.12.1 Definition
This IOC represents a FDD radio cell controlled by another IRP agent. For more
information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.12.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** uarfcnUl O M M - M uarfcnDl O M M - M primaryScramblingCode O
M M - M primaryCpichPower O M M - M qqualMin CO M - - M
cellCapabilityContainerFDD CO M - - M txDiversityIndicator CO M - - M
temporaryOffset1 CO M - - M temporaryOffset2 CO M - - M sttdSupportIndicator
CO M - - M closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator CO M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.12.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _qqualMin, cellCapabilityContainerFDD,
txDiversityIndicator, temporaryOffset1, temporaryOffset2, sttdSupportIndicator
and closedLoopMode1SupportIndicator CO support qualifier_ _Itf-p2p is
supported._
* * *
#### 4.3.12.4 Notifications
The common configuration notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid
for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.13 ExternalUtranCellTDD {#externalutrancelltdd .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.13.1 Definition
This IOC is an abstract class representing the common properties of TDD high
chip rate (hcr) and TDD low chip rate (lcr) radio cells controlled by another
IRP agent. For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.13.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** uarfcn O M M - M cellParameterId O M M - M primaryCcpchPower
O O O - M cellCapabilityContainerTDD CO M - - M sctdIndicator CO M - - M
dpchConstantValue CO M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.13.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _cellCapabilityContainerTDD, sctdIndicator and
dpchConstantValue CO support qualifier_ _Itf-p2p is supported._
* * *
#### 4.3.13.4 Notifications
The common configuration notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid
for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.14 ExternalUtranCellTDDHcr {#externalutrancelltddhcr .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.14.1 Definition
This IOC represents a TDD high chip rate (hcr) radio cell controlled by
another IRPagent. For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002
[15].
#### 4.3.14.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** temporaryOffset1 CO M - - M syncCase CO M - - M
timeSlotForSch CO M - - M schTimeSlot CO M - - M timeSlotHcrList O M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.14.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _temporaryOffset1, syncCase, timeSlotForSch and
schTimeSlot CO support qualifier_ _Itf-p2p is supported._
* * *
#### 4.3.14.4 Notifications
The common configuration notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid
for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.15 ExternalUtranCellTDDLcr
#### 4.3.15.1 Definition
This IOC represents a TDD low chip rate (lcr) radio cell controlled by another
IRPAgent. For more information about radio cells, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.15.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** tstdIndicator CO M - - M timeSlotLcrList O M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.15.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _tstdIndicator CO support qualifier_ _Itf-p2p is
supported._
* * *
#### 4.3.15.4 Notifications
The common configuration notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid
for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.16 EP_IuCS {#ep_iucs .header-3-new}
#### 4.3.16.1 Definition
This IOC represents an end point of the Iu-CS interface. For more information
Iu-CS interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.16.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** connMscNumber CO M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.16.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _connMscNumber CO support qualifier_ _The farEndEntity is
supported_
* * *
#### 4.3.16.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.17 EP_IuPS {#ep_iups .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.17.1 Definition
This IOC represents an end point of the Iu-PS interface. For more information
Iu-PS interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.17.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** connSgsnNumber CO M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.17.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _connSgsnNumber CO support qualifier_ _The farEndEntity is
supported_
* * *
#### 4.3.17.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.18 EP_Iur {#ep_iur .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
#### 4.3.18.1 Definition
This IOC represents an end point of the Iur interface. For more information
Iur interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 4.3.18.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable**
**Attribute related to role**  
connectedRNCId CO M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.18.3 Attribute constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | connectedRNCId CO support | The far end entity is supported. | | qualifier | | | | When supported, It either | | | | | | a) identifies one connected | | | RNC; in such case, it | | | contains one RNC-Id or | | | | | | b) identifies one connected | | | BSC; in such case, it | | | contains one RNC-Id to | | | indentify BSC. (See "RNC-Id" | | | in TS 23.003 [3]). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.18.4 Notifications
The common configuration notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid
for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties {#attribute-properties .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
The following table defines the attributes that are present in several
Information Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | **Documentation and |** Properties**| | | Allowed Values** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aichPower | The Power of the the | type: Real | | | AICHchannel in an | | | | FDD cell, \"AICH | multiplicity: 1 | | | Power\" in TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isUnique: N/A | | | \"AICH Power\" in | | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | bchPower | The power of the | type: Real | | | broadcast channel in | | | | the FDD mode cell, | multiplicity: 1 | | | \"BCH Power\" in | | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isUnique: N/A | | | \"DL Power\" in | | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellCa | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: BitString | | pabilityContainerFDD | 25.423. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | This attribute has | | | | 32 bits. Each bit | isOrdered: T | | | indicates whether a | | | | cell supports a | isUnique: N/A | | | particular | | | | functionality. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isNullable: False | | | 'CellCapa | | | | bilityContainer-FDD' | | | | in 3GPP TS 25.423. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellCa | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: BitString | | pabilityContainerTDD | 25.423. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | This attribute has | | | | 32 bits. Each bit | isOrdered: T | | | indicates whether a | | | | cell supports a | isUnique: N/A | | | particular | | | | functionality. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isNullable: False | | | 'CellCapa | | | | bilityContainer-TDD' | | | | in 3GPP TS 25.423. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellIndividualOffset | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: Integer | | | 25.331 (25.423). | | | | Attribute relevant | multiplicity: 1 | | | for HO decision. | | | | Used to offset | isOrdered: N/A | | | measured quantity | | | | value. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | defaultValue: None | | | \"Cell individual | | | | offset\" in | isNullable: True | | | TS 25.331 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellMode | An attribute that | type: | | | identifies the cell | \> | | | mode. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: FDD | | | | mode\", | isOrdered: N/A | | | \"1.28McpsTDD | | | | mode\", | isUnique: N/A | | | \"3.84McpsTDD | | | | mode\", | defaultValue: None | | | \"7.68McpsTDD | isNullable: True | | | mode\". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellParameterId | This attribute | type: Integer | | | identifies | | | | unambiguously the | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | TDD mode cell: | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | 3.84 and 7.68 Mcps | | | | TDD - Code Groups, | isUnique: N/A | | | Scrambling Codes, | | | | Midambles and | defaultValue: None | | | Toffset, or | | | | | isNullable: True | | | 1.28 Mcps TDD - | | | | SYNC-DL and SYNC-UL | | | | sequences, the | | | | scrambling codes and | | | | the midamble codes. | | | | | | | | \"Cell Parameter | | | | ID\" in TS 25.433 | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Cell Parameter | | | | ID\" in TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cId | The attribute is the | type: Integer | | | identifier of a cell | | | | in one RNC, \"C-id\" | multiplicity: 1 | | | in TS 25.401 [4] | | | | and \"C-ID\" in | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: see | | | | \"C-ID\" in | defaultValue: None | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | closedLoopM | Power control, | type: | | ode1SupportIndicator | defined in 3GPP TS | \> | | | 25.423 | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | The Closed Loop | | | | Mode1 Support | isOrdered: N/A | | | Indicator indicates | | | | whether the | isUnique: N/A | | | particular cell is | | | | capable to support | defaultValue: None | | | Closed loop mode1 or | | | | not. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | supported, not | | | | supported | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | connMscNumber | The MSC number of | type: Integer | | | the far end MSC | | | | Server connected by | multiplicity: 1 | | | the Iu-CS interface | | | | for which the end | isOrdered: N/A | | | point is modelled, | | | | "MSC number" in TS | isUnique: N/A | | | 23.003 [3]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: See | | | | "MSC number" in TS | isNullable: True | | | 23.003 [3] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | connectedRNCId | The RNC-Id of the | type: Integer | | | far end RNC or BSC | | | | connected by the Iur | multiplicity: 1 | | | interface for which | | | | the end point is | isOrdered: N/A | | | modelled, "RNC-Id" | | | | in TS 23.003 [3]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | defaultValue: None | | | "RNC-Id" in TS | | | | 23.003 [3] | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | connSgsnNumber | The SGSN number of | type: Integer | | | the far end SGSN | | | | connected by the | multiplicity: 1 | | | Iu-PS interface for | | | | which the end point | isOrdered: N/A | | | is modelled, "SGSN | | | | number" in TS 23.003 | isUnique: N/A | | | [3]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: See | | | | "SGSN number" in TS | isNullable: True | | | 23.003 [3] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dpcModeCh | Power control, | type: | | angeSupportIndicator | defined in 3GPP TS | \> | | | 25.423 | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | The DPC Mode Change | | | | Support Indicator IE | isOrdered: N/A | | | indicates that the | | | | particular cell is | isUnique: N/A | | | capable to support | | | | DPC mode change. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isNullable: True | | | supported, not | | | | supported | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | deltaQrxlevmin | Cell (re)selection, | type: Integer | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 25.331\ | multiplicity: 1 | | | If present, the | | | | actual value of | isOrdered: N/A | | | Qrxlevmin = | | | | Qrxlevmin + | isUnique: N/A | | | DeltaQrxlevmin. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Delta~Qrxlevmin~\" | isNullable: True | | | in TS 25.331 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dpchConstantValue | DPCH Constant Value | type: Integer | | | is the power margin | | | | in dB used by a UE | multiplicity: 1 | | | to set the proper | | | | uplink power, \"DPCH | isOrdered: N/A | | | Constant Value\" in | | | | Ref. TS 25.433 | isUnique: N/A | | | [5]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Constant Value\" | isNullable: True | | | in TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dwPchPower | DwPCH Power is the | type: Real | | | power that shall be | | | | used for | multiplicity: 1 | | | transmitting the | | | | DwPCH in a 1.28 Mcps | isOrdered: N/A | | | TDD cell, \"DwPCH | | | | Power\" in TS 25.433 | isUnique: N/A | | | [5]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"DwPCH Power\" in | isNullable: False | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fachPower | The maximum power of | type: Real | | | the FACH transport | | | | channel that may be | multiplicity: 1 | | | used in the cell, | | | | \"Max FACH Power\" | isOrdered: N/A | | | in Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 25.433 | isUnique: N/A | | | [5]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"DL Power\" in | isNullable: False | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fpachPower | The maximum power of | type: Real | | | the FPACH channel | | | | that shall be used | multiplicity: 1 | | | in TDD cell, \"FPACH | | | | Power\" in TS 25.433 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [5]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"FPACH Power\" in | defaultValue: None | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | frameOffset | Neighbouring cells | type: Integer | | | monitoring, defined | | | | in TS 25.423\ | multiplicity: 1 | | | Frame Offset is the | | | | required offset | isOrdered: N/A | | | between the | | | | dedicated channel | isUnique: N/A | | | downlink | | | | transmission frames | defaultValue: None | | | (CFN, Connection | | | | Frame Number) and | isNullable: True | | | the broadcast | | | | channel frame offset | | | | (Cell Frame Number). | | | | The Frame Offset is | | | | used in the | | | | translation between | | | | Connection Frame | | | | Number (CFN) on | | | | Iub/Iur and least | | | | significant 8 bits | | | | of SFN (System Frame | | | | Number) on Uu. The | | | | Frame Offset is UE | | | | and cell specific. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | 0..255 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hcsPrio | Cell (re)selection | type: Integer | | | for HCS\ | | | | Defined in TS 25.331 | multiplicity: 1 | | | [9].\ | | | | This specifies the | isOrdered: N/A | | | HCS priority level | | | | (0-7) for serving | isUnique: N/A | | | cell and | | | | neighbouring cells.\ | defaultValue: None | | | HCS priority level 0 | | | | means lowest | isNullable: True | | | priority and HCS | | | | priority level 7 | | | | means highest | | | | priority. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"HCS_OFF~mbms~\" | | | | in TS 25.331 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hsEnable | A label indicating | type: Integer | | | whether or not HSDPA | | | | is enabled in the | multiplicity: 1 | | | UTRAN cell. A value | | | | of 0 represents that | isOrdered: N/A | | | HSDPA is not enabled | | | | and a value of 1 | isUnique: N/A | | | represents that | | | | HSDPA is enabled. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: 0,1 | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hsFlag | A label indicating | type: Integer | | | whether or not HSDPA | | | | is supported in the | multiplicity: 1 | | | UTRAN cell. A value | | | | of 0 indicates that | isOrdered: N/A | | | HSDPA is not | | | | supported and a | isUnique: N/A | | | value of 1 indicates | | | | that HSDPA is | defaultValue: None | | | supported. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | allowedValues: 0,1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | type: DN | | | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | multiplicity: 1 | | | when naming an | | | | instance of the | isOrdered: N/A | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | isUnique: N/A | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | defaultValue: None | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | allowedValues: N/A | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lac | Location Area Code, | type: Integer | | | \"LAC\" in TS 23.003 | | | | [3]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | \"LAC\" in TS 25.413 | | | | [18]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | localCellId | The Local Cell id is | type: Integer | | | used to uniquely | | | | identify the set of | multiplicity: 1 | | | resources defined in | | | | a Node B to support | isOrdered: N/A | | | a cell. It must be | | | | unique in Node B at | isUnique: N/A | | | a minimum, but may | | | | be unique in UTRAN. | defaultValue: None | | | Local Cell | | | | Identifier\" | isNullable: True | | | TS 25.401 [4], | | | | \"Local Cell ID\" in | | | | 3GPP TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Local Cell ID\" in | | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | max | Cell (re)selection, | type: Integer | | imumAllowedUlTxPower | defined in TS 25.331 | | | | [9].\ | multiplicity: 1 | | | This information | | | | element indicates | isOrdered: N/A | | | the maximum allowed | | | | uplink transmit | isUnique: N/A | | | power. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Maximum allowed UL | isNullable: False | | | TX power\" in | | | | TS 25.331 [9]. | | | | | | | | A single integral | | | | value in dBm. Range: | | | | (-50..33). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxi | The maximum | type: Integer | | mumTransmissionPower | transmission power | | | | of a cell. It is the | multiplicity: 1 | | | maximum power for | | | | all downlink | isOrdered: N/A | | | channels added | | | | together, that is | isUnique: N/A | | | allowed to be used | | | | simultaneously in a | defaultValue: None | | | cell, \"Maximum | | | | Transmission Power\" | isNullable: False | | | in TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Maximum | | | | Transmission Power\" | | | | in TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mcc | Mobile Country Code, | type: Integer | | | MCC (part of the | | | | PLMN Identifier\") | multiplicity: 1 | | | in, TS 23.003 [3]. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"MCC\" in \"PLMN | isUnique: N/A | | | identity\" in | | | | TS 25.413 [19]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mnc | Mobile Network Code, | type: Integer | | | \"MNC\" (part of the | | | | PLMN Identity\") in | multiplicity: 1 | | | TS 23.003 [3]. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"MNC\" in \"PLMN | isUnique: N/A | | | identity\" in | | | | TS 25.413 [18]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | numOfHspdschs | In FDD: the number | type: Integer | | | of codes at the | | | | defined spreading | multiplicity: 1 | | | factor(SF=16), | | | | within the complete | isOrdered: N/A | | | code tree. See TS | | | | 25.433 [5]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | In TDD: the number | defaultValue: None | | | of HS-PDSCHs in a | | | | Cell; TS 25.433 | isNullable: False | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | | | | 1. Range: (0..15) | | | | for FDD mode, | | | | | | | | 2. Range: (0..95) | | | | for TDD mode | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | numOfHsscchs | The number of | type: Integer | | | HS-SCCHs for one | | | | cell. See TS 25.433 | multiplicity: 1 | | | [5]. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: 1..32 | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pchPower | The power of PCH | type: Real | | | transport channel in | | | | the cell, \"PCH | multiplicity: 1 | | | Power\" in Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 25.433 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [5]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"DL Power\" in | defaultValue: None | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | penaltyTime | Cell (re)selection | type: Integer | | | for HCS, defined in | | | | 3GPP TS 25.331 (TS | multiplicity: 1 | | | 25.304)\ | | | | This specifies the | isOrdered: N/A | | | time duration for | | | | which the | isUnique: N/A | | | TEMPORARY_OFFSET is | | | | applied for a | defaultValue: None | | | neighbouring cell. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Penalty_time\" in | | | | TS 25.331 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pichPower | The Power of the | type: Real | | | PICH channel in the | | | | cell, \"PICH Power\" | multiplicity: 1 | | | in TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"PICH Power\" in | isUnique: N/A | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | primaryCcpchPower | The power of the | type: Real | | | primary CCPCH | | | | channel in the TDD | multiplicity: 1 | | | cell, \"PCCPCH | | | | Power\" in TS 25.433 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [5]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"PCCPCH Power\" in | defaultValue: None | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | primaryCpichPower | The power of the | type: Real | | | primary CPICH | | | | channel in the FDD | multiplicity: 1 | | | mode cell, \"Primary | | | | CPICH Power\" in | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Primary CPICH | defaultValue: None | | | Power\" in TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | primarySchPower | The power of the | type: Real | | | primary | | | | synchronisation | multiplicity: 1 | | | channel in the FDD | | | | mode cell, \"Primary | isOrdered: N/A | | | SCH Power" in | | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | defaultValue: None | | | \"DL Power\" in | | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | p | The primary DL | type: Real | | rimaryScramblingCode | scrambling code used | | | | by the FDD mode | multiplicity: 1 | | | cell, \"Primary | | | | Scrambling Code\" in | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Primary Scrambling | defaultValue: None | | | Code\" in TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | qhcs | Cell (re)selection | type: Integer | | | for HCS, defined in | | | | TS 25.331 [9].\ | multiplicity: 1 | | | This specifies the | | | | quality threshold | isOrdered: N/A | | | levels for applying | | | | prioritised | isUnique: N/A | | | hierarchical cell | | | | re-selection. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isNullable: False | | | \"Qhcs\" in | | | | TS 25.331 [9] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | qqualMin | Cell (re)selection, | type: Integer | | | defined in TS 25.331 | | | | [9].\ | multiplicity: 1 | | | This specifies the | | | | minimum required | isOrdered: N/A | | | quality level in the | | | | cell in dB. It is | isUnique: N/A | | | only applicable for | | | | FDD cells. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isNullable: False | | | \"QqualMin\" in | | | | TS 25.331 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | qrxlevMin | Cell (re)selection, | type: Integer | | | defined in TS 25.331 | | | | [9].\ | multiplicity: 1 | | | This specifies the | | | | minimum required RX | isOrdered: N/A | | | level in the cell in | | | | dBm. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | defaultValue: None | | | \"QrxlevMin\" in | | | | TS 25.331 [9]. | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rac | Routing Area Code, | type: Integer | | | \"RAC" in TS 23.003 | | | | [3]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | \"RAC\" in TS 25.413 | | | | [18]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | readSFNIndicator | Neighbouring cells | type: Boolean | | | monitoring, defined | | | | in TS 25.331 [9]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | \"Read SFN | | | | indicator\" in | isUnique: N/A | | | TS 25.331 [9] | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reference | Neighbouring cells | type: Integer | | TimeDifferenceToCell | monitoring, defined | | | | in TS 25.331 [9]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | In the System | isOrdered: N/A | | | Information message, | | | | the reference time | isUnique: N/A | | | difference to cell | | | | indicates the timing | defaultValue: None | | | difference between | | | | the primary CCPCH of | isNullable: False | | | the current cell and | | | | the primary CCPCH of | | | | a neighbouring cell. | | | | | | | | In the Measurement | | | | Control message, the | | | | reference time | | | | difference to cell | | | | indicates the timing | | | | difference between | | | | UE uplink | | | | transmission timing | | | | and the primary | | | | CCPCH of a | | | | neighbouring cell. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | | | | 1. See \"Reference | | | | time difference to | | | | cell\" in TS 25.331 | | | | [9]. | | | | | | | | 2. A single | | | | integral value in | | | | chips. Range: | | | | (0..38400) by steps | | | | of 40, 256 or 2560. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | restr | Cell Access Control, | type: | | ictionStateIndicator | defined in TS 25.423 | \> | | | | | | | The Restriction | multiplicity: 1 | | | state indicator is | | | | the identifier | isOrdered: N/A | | | indicates whether | | | | the cell is \"Cell | isUnique: N/A | | | Reserved for | | | | Operator Use\" or | defaultValue: None | | | not. It is provided | | | | by DRNS and reported | isNullable: False | | | to SRNC. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: cell | | | | reserved for | | | | operation, cell | | | | accessible | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rncId | IOC | type: Integer | | | _Exter | | | | nalUTRANGenericCell_ | multiplicity: 1 | | | and | | | | ExternalRncFunction: | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | Unique RNC ID for | isUnique: N/A | | | the associated RNC, | | | | \"RNC Id\" in | defaultValue: None | | | TS 23.003 [3]. | | | | | isNujllable: True | | | IOC RncFunction: | | | | | | | | Unique RNC ID, \"RNC | | | | Id\" in TS 23.003 | | | | [3]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"RNC-ID\" in | | | | TS 25.413 [18]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sac | Service Area Code, | type: Integer | | | \"SAC" in TS 23.003 | | | | [3]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | \"SAC\" in TS 25.413 | | | | [18]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | schPower | The power of the | type: Real | | | synchronisation | | | | channel in 3.84 Mcps | multiplicity: 1 | | | TDD cell. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"DL Power\" in | isUnique: N/A | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | schTimeSlot | The SCH Time Slot IE | type: Integer | | | represents the first | | | | time slot (k) of a | multiplicity: 1 | | | pair of time slots | | | | inside a Radio Frame | isOrdered: N/A | | | that is assigned to | | | | the Physical Channel | isUnique: N/A | | | SCH. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"SCH Time Slot\" in | isNullable: False | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sctdIndicator | This attribute | type: | | | indicates whether | \> | | | SCTD is used, \"SCDT | | | | Indicator\" in | multiplicity: 1 | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | See \"SCDT | | | | Indicator\" in | isUnique: N/A | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: | | | | active, inactive | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | secondarySchPower | The power of the | type: Real | | | secondary | | | | synchronisation | multiplicity: 1 | | | channel in the FDD | | | | mode cell, | isOrdered: N/A | | | \"Secondary SCH | | | | Power in TS 25.433 | isUnique: N/A | | | [5]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"DL Power\" in | isNullable: False | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sharN | This attribute | type: | | etTceMappingInfoList | includes a list of | \> | | | elements. Each | | | | element is a tuple | multiplicity: 1 | | | of shared PLMN Id | | | | (called \"PLMN | isOrdered: N/A | | | Target\"), TCE ID | | | | and the | isUnique: N/A | | | corresponding TCE IP | | | | address. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | In case of network | isNullable: False | | | sharing and Logged | | | | MDT, this attribute | | | | is used to translate | | | | from the TCE IP | | | | Address to TCE ID | | | | when a Logged MDT is | | | | ordered to the UE | | | | and to translate the | | | | TCE ID to TCE IP | | | | address when the UE | | | | has sent the log to | | | | the network. | | | | | | | | Each element is a | | | | tuple of shared PLMN | | | | Id (called \"PLMN | | | | Target\"), TCE ID | | | | and the | | | | corresponding TCE IP | | | | address. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"PLMN | | | | Target\",\"Trace | | | | Collection Entity | | | | Address\" and | | | | \"Trace Collection | | | | Entity Id\" in 3GPP | | | | TS 32.422 [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siptoSupported | This attribute | type: Integer | | | indicates whether | | | | the RNC supports | multiplicity: 1 | | | SIPTO function. A | | | | value of 0 | isOrdered: N/A | | | represents that | | | | SIPTO is not | isUnique: N/A | | | supported and a | | | | value of 1 | defaultValue: None | | | represents that | | | | SIPTO is supported | isNullable: False | | | (by the RNC). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: 0..1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | snaInformation | Shared Networks | type: | | | Access Control, | \> | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 25.423 [5]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | This information | isOrdered: N/A | | | element contains a | | | | list of Shared | isUnique: N/A | | | Network Areas, | | | | identified by the | defaultValue: None | | | Shared Network Area | | | | Code (SNAC) which a | isNullable: False | | | certain cell belongs | | | | to. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | "shared networks | | | | access control" | | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 25.423 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sttdSupportIndicator | Power control, | type: | | | defined in 3GPP TS | \> | | | 25.423. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | The STTD Support | | | | Indicator indicates | isOrdered: N/A | | | whether the STTD can | | | | be applied to DL | isUnique: N/A | | | DPCH and F-DPCH in | | | | the cell or not. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isNullable: False | | | active, inactive | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | syncCase | The SCH and PCCPCH | type: Integer | | | in a TDD cell are | | | | mapped on one or two | multiplicity: 1 | | | downlink slots per | | | | frame. There are two | isOrdered: N/A | | | cases of Sync Case | | | | as follows | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | - SCH and PCCPCH | defaultValue: None | | | allocated in a | | | | single TS#k | isNullable: False | | | | | | | - SCH allocated in | | | | two TS: TS#k and | | | | TS#k+8. PCCPCH | | | | allocated in TS#k | | | | | | | | See \"Synch Case\" | | | | in TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Sync Case\" in | | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tceIDMappingInfoList | This attribute | type: | | | includes a list of | \> | | | TCE ID and the | | | | corresponding TCE IP | multiplicity: 1 | | | address. It is used | | | | in Logged MDT case | isOrdered: N/A | | | to provide the | | | | information to the | isUnique: N/A | | | RNC to get the | | | | corresponding TCE IP | defaultValue: None | | | address when there | | | | is an MDT log | isNullable: False | | | received from the | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | This attribute is | | | | used if only one | | | | PLMN is supported. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | "Trace Collection | | | | Entity Address" and | | | | "Trace Collection | | | | Entity Id" in 3GPP | | | | TS 32.422 [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | temporaryOffset1 | Cell (re)selection | type: Integer | | | for HCS, defined in | | | | 3GPP TS 25.331 (TS | multiplicity: 1 | | | 25.304). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | This specifies the | | | | offset applied to | isUnique: N/A | | | the H and R criteria | | | | for a neighbouring | defaultValue: None | | | cell for the | | | | duration of | isNullable: False | | | PENALTY_TIME. It is | | | | used for TDD and GSM | | | | cells and for FDD | | | | cells in case the | | | | quality measure for | | | | cell selection and | | | | re-selection is set | | | | to CPICH RSCP. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \" | | | | Temporary_offset1\" | | | | in TS 25.331 [9]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | temporaryOffset2 | Cell (re)selection | type: Integer | | | for HCS, defined in | | | | 3GPP TS 25.331 (TS | multiplicity: 1 | | | 25.304). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | This specifies the | | | | offset applied to | isUnique: N/A | | | the H and R criteria | | | | for a neighbouring | defaultValue: None | | | cell for the | | | | duration of | isNullable: False | | | PENALTY_TIME. It is | | | | used for FDD cells | | | | in case the quality | | | | measure for cell | | | | selection and | | | | re-selection is set | | | | to CPICH Ec/No. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \" | | | | Temporary_offset2\" | | | | in TS 25.331 [9.] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | timeSlotForSch | The Time Slot | type: Integer | | | represents the time | | | | interval assigned to | multiplicity: 1 | | | a Physical Channel | | | | referred to the | isOrdered: N/A | | | start of a Radio | | | | Frame, | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | defaultValue: None | | | \"SCH Time Slot\" in | | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | timeSlotHcrList | This attribute | type: | | | defines the time | \ | | | slot configuration | | | | information in the | multiplicity: 15 | | | TDD cell. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | It is a list which | | | | contains 15 (for | isUnique: True | | | 3.84 or 7.68 Mcps | | | | TDD cell) items. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isNullable: False | | | | | | | An item has three | | | | parts: timeSlotId, | | | | timeSlotDirection, | | | | timeSlotStatus. ( TS | | | | 25.433 \\[5\\]) where: | | | | | | | | > timeSlotId: | | | | > | | | | > type: Integer | | | | > | | | | > allowedValues: | | | | > 0..14; | | | | > | | | | > timeSlotDirection: | | | | > | | | | > type: | | | | > | | | | \ | | | | > | | | | > allowedValues: Ul, | | | | > Dl; | | | | > | | | | > timeSlotStatus: | | | | > | | | | > type: | | | | > | | | | \ | | | | > | | | | > allowedValues: | | | | > Active, Not | | | | > active; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | timeSlotLcrList | This attribute | type: | | | defines the time | \ | | | slot configuration | | | | information in the | multiplicity: 7 | | | TDD cell. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | It is a list which | | | | contains 7 (for 1.28 | isUnique: True | | | Mcps TDD cell) | | | | items. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues:\ | isNullable: False | | | An item has three | | | | parts: timeSlotId, | | | | timeSlotDirection, | | | | timeSlotStatus, | | | | corresponding to | | | | Time Slot LCR, Time | | | | Slot Direction, Time | | | | Slot Status ( TS | | | | 25.433 \\[5\\]). | | | | | | | | If multiple | | | | frequencies exist | | | | within the cell, the | | | | timeSlotList | | | | indicates the Time | | | | Slot configuration | | | | of Primary | | | | Frequency. | | | | | | | | > timeSlotId: | | | | > | | | | > type: Integer | | | | > | | | | > allowedValues: | | | | > 0..6; | | | | > | | | | > timeSlotDirection: | | | | > | | | | > type: | | | | > | | | | \ | | | | > | | | | > allowedValues: Ul, | | | | > Dl; | | | | > | | | | > timeSlotStatus: | | | | > | | | | > Type: | | | | > | | | | \ | | | | > | | | | > allowedValues: | | | | > Active, Not | | | | > active; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaFunctionList | This is a | type: DN | | | referential | | | | attribute to list | multiplicity: 1..* | | | the DNs of | | | | TmaFunction(s) that | isOrdered: False | | | support the | | | | _UTRANGenericCell_. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | defaultValue: None | | | TS 32.300 [13] for | | | | definition of DN. | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tstdIndicator | This attribute | type: | | | indicates whether | \> | | | TSTD is used. See | | | | \"TSDT Indicator\" | multiplicity: 1 | | | in TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: | | | | active, inactive | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | txDiversityIndicator | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: | | | 25.331 (25.423)\ | \> | | | This attribute | | | | indicates whether | multiplicity: 1 | | | following conditions | | | | are satisfied: | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | Primary CPICH is | isUnique: N/A | | | broadcast from two | | | | antennas | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | STTD is applied to | isNullable: False | | | Primary CCPCH | | | | | | | | TSTD is applied to | | | | Primary SCH and | | | | Secondary SCH | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"TX Diversity | | | | Indicator\" in | | | | TS 25.331 [9] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uarfcn | The UTRA absolute | type: Integer | | | Radio Frequency | | | | Channel number for | multiplicity: 1 | | | TDD mode cell, | | | | UARFCN ( TS 25.433 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [5]). For 1.28Mcps | | | | TDD, if multiple | isUnique: N/A | | | frequencies exist | | | | within the cell, the | defaultValue: None | | | uarfcn indicates the | | | | frequency of Primary | isNullable: False | | | Frequency. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | 0..16383 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uarfcnLCRList | For 1.28 Mcps TDD, | type: See note. | | | if multiple | | | | frequencies exist | multiplicity: 1..* | | | within the cell, | | | | this is a list of | isOrdered: False | | | items (the UARFCN | | | | and Time Slot | isUnique: True | | | configuration | | | | information of the | defaultValue: None | | | Secondary | | | | Frequencies). | isNullable: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | | | | 1. An item has two | | | | parts: uarfcn and | | | | timeSlotListLcr. The | | | | second part is a | | | | list of elements | | | | which have the | | | | sub-elements: | | | | timeSlotId, | | | | timeSlotDirection, | | | | timeSlotStatus. | | | | | | | | 2. These attributes | | | | correspond to | | | | "UARFCN, Time Slot | | | | LCR, Time Slot | | | | Direction, Time Slot | | | | Status" (TS 25.433 | | | | [5]). | | | | | | | | 3. For "uarfcn, | | | | timeSlotId, | | | | timeSlotDirection, | | | | timeSlotStatus", see | | | | "UARFCN, Time Slot | | | | LCR, Time Slot | | | | Direction, Time Slot | | | | Status" in TS 25.433 | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | 4. For maximum | | | | number of the | | | | Secondary | | | | Frequencies per | | | | cell, see | | | | \"ma | | | | xFrequencyinCell-1\" | | | | in TS 25.433 [5]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uarfcnDl | The DL UTRA absolute | type: Integer | | | Radio Frequency | | | | Channel number for | multiplicity: 1 | | | FDD mode cell. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"UARFCN\" in | isUnique: N/A | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uarfcnUl | The UL UTRA absolute | type: Integer | | | Radio Frequency | | | | Channel number for | multiplicity: 1 | | | FDD mode cell. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"UARFCN\" in | isUnique: N/A | | | TS 25.433 [5]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uraList | A list of UTRAN | type: Integer | | | Registration Area | | | | identities that an | multiplicity: 1..* | | | UtranCell can belong | | | | to. | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isUnique: True | | | | | | | 1. For URA, see | defaultValue: None | | | \"URA identity\" in | | | | TS 25.331[9], | isNullable: True | | | subclause 10.3.2.6. | | | | | | | | 2. For maximum | | | | number of URAs per | | | | cell, see \"maxURA\" | | | | in TS 25.331 [9], | | | | subclause 10.3.10. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute related | | | | to role** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iubLink | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries a IubLink | | | | DN. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aTMCha | This attribute | type: DN | | nnelTerminationPoint | carries the set of | | | | ATMChann | multiplicity: 1..* | | | elTerminationPoint's | | | | DN(s). | isOrdered: F | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: T | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nodeBFunction | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries a | | | | NodeBFunction DN. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uTRANGenericCell | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries the set of | | | | related | multiplicity: 1..* | | | _UTRANGenericCell_ | | | | derivatives' DN(s). | isOrdered: F | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: T | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | adjacentCell | It carries the DN of | type: DN | | | the UtranGenericCell | | | | or the | multiplicity: 1 | | | _Extern | | | | alUTRANGenericCell_. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | controlledCellList | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries a set of DNs | | | | of derivatives of | multiplicity: 1..* | | | _Extern | | | | alUTRANGenericCell_. | isOrdered: F | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: T | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedAntennaList | This is an attribute | type: DN | | | to list the DNs of | | | | AntennaFunction(s) | multiplicity: 1 | | | (see TS 28.662 | | | | [17]) that support | isOrdered: N/A | | | the | | | | _UTRANGenericCell_. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | See | defaultValue: None | | | "relatedAntennaList" | | | | in TS 28.662 [17] | isNullable: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | re | This is an attribute | type: DN | | latedSectorEquipment | to the DN of | | | | SectorEquipment (see | multiplicity: 1 | | | TS 28.662 [17]) | | | | that supports the | isOrdered: N/A | | | _UTRANGenericCell_). | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | See | | | | "rel | defaultValue: None | | | atedSectorEquipment" | | | | TS 28.662 [17]. | isNullable: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedTMAList | This is an attribute | type: DN | | | to list the DNs of | | | | TmaFunction(s) (see | multiplicity: 1 | | | TS 28.662 [17]) | | | | that support the | isOrdered: N/A | | | _UTRANGenericCell_. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | See "relatedTmaList" | | | | TS 28.662 [17]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iubLink | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries a IubLink | | | | DN. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | controllingRNC | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries one | | | | ExternalRNCFunction | multiplicity: 1 | | | DN. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints {#constraints .Style-Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
None.
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications {#alarm-notifications .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
This subclause presents a list of notifications, defined in [11], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [7], would capture the DN of an
instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
### 4.5.2 Configuration notifications {#configuration-notifications .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
This subclause presents a list of notifications, defined in [10], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [7], would capture the DN of an
instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): RET Control Architecture
The Itf-N provides an abstraction of resources to allow the monitor and
control of physical resource from the network level management systems. For
RET, the antenna tilt is controlled via a control unit which is located within
the NodeB (from a management perspective). The control unit sends commands to
actuators located at the tower top, in order to read, and to adjust antenna
tilt values.
The AntennaFunction class will report failures and malfunctions of either the
control unit, or the tilt.
There are several configurations of antennae. Some support the transmission of
several frequencies from a single radome while others are deployed as an array
in order to provide effective coverage.
Hence in the UTRAN model there is an N:M relationship between the UtranCell
class and the AntennaFunction class, permitting the model to support all
possibilities. The figure B.1 below illustrates the RET architecture.
Figure B.1: Overall RET architecture
#