# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document defines the application test specification.
The aim of the present document is to ensure interoperability between an UICC
and a terminal independently of the respective manufacturer, card issuer or
operator. The present document does not define any aspects related to the
administrative management phase of the UICC. Any internal technical
realisation of either the UICC or the Terminal is only specified where these
are reflected over the interface.
Application specific details for applications residing on an UICC are
specified in the respective application specific documents. The logical and
physical Characteristics of the UICC Terminal interface is specified in
document ETSI TS 102 221 [5]. The Universal Subscriber Identity Module
(USIM)-application for 3G telecommunication networks is specified in document
TS 31.102 [4].
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the UICC --Terminal Interface Conformance Test
Specification between a 2G, 3G or 3G E-UTRAN terminal and the USIM (Universal
Subscriber Identity Module) as an application on the UICC and the Terminal for
a 2G, 3G or 3G E-UTRAN network operation:
\- the default setting of the USIM;
\- the applicability of each test case;
\- the test configurations;
\- the conformance requirement and reference to the core specifications;
\- the test purposes; and
\- a brief description of the test procedure and the specific acceptance
criteria.
For the avoidance of doubt, references to clauses of ETSI TS 102 221 [5]
include all the subclauses of that clause, unless specifically mentioned.
ETSI TS 102 221 [5] contains material that is outside of the scope of 3GPP
requirements. A 3GPP ME may support functionality that is not required by
3GPP, but the requirements to do so are outside of the scope of 3GPP. Thus the
present document does not contain tests for features defined in ETSI TS 102
221 [5] which are out of scope of 3GPP.
In the present document, unless explicitly stated otherwise, for Rel-13
onwards the term E-UTRAN implicitly refers to E-UTRAN in WB-S1 mode. E-UTRAN
in NB-S1 mode is always explicitly referred to as NB-IoT.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version in same release as the
implementation release of the terminal under test applies.
[1] - [4] Void
[5] If the device under test is a
  * R99 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v3.18.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical > and logical characteristics\",
  * Rel-4 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v4.16.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; > Physical and logical characteristics\",
  * Rel-5 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v5.10.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; > Physical and logical characteristics\",
  * Rel-6 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v6.15.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; > Physical and logical characteristics\",
  * Rel-7 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v7.17.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; > Physical and logical characteristics\",
  * Rel-8 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v8.5.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; > Physical and logical characteristics\",
  * Rel-9 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v9.2.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; > Physical and logical characteristics\"\",
  * Rel-10 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v10.0.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; > Physical and logical characteristics\",
  * Rel-11 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v11.1.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; > Physical and logical characteristics\",
  * Rel-12 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v12.1.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; > Physical and logical characteristics\".
  * Rel-13 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v13.2.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; > Physical and logical characteristics\".
[6] - [38] Void[39] 3GPP TS 31.121, Rel-14 \"UICC-terminal interface;
Universal Subscriber Identity Module (USIM) application test specification\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and coding
Void
# 4 Requirements
> The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 31.121
> [39].
#