# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
32.421: Subscriber and equipment trace: Trace concepts and requirements
32.422: Subscriber and equipment trace: Trace control and configuration
management
32.423: Subscriber and equipment trace: Trace data definition and management
**52.008: GSM subscriber and equipment trace**
The trace facility enables customer administration and network management to
trace the activities of various entities when specific events occur within the
PLMN. This facility should also enable the tracing of all the information that
is available to the PLMN concerning the call path used by the associated
entity. Examples of information that could be in a trace record are:
\- the identity of the originating and terminating equipment of the mobile or
fixed subscriber;
\- the identity of the incoming and outgoing circuits of the nodes involved;
\- supplementary Services invoked;
\- all A-Interface messages.
The trace facility is a useful maintenance aid and development tool, which can
be used during system testing and proving. In particular it may be used in
conjunction with test-MSs to ascertain the digital cell \"footprint\", the
network integrity and also the network QOS as perceived by the PLMN customers.
The facility may be used by subscriber administration and network management
for subscriber observation, e.g. following a customer complaint or on
suspicion of equipment malfunction by the operator or at the request of the
police.
As the amount of information that can be collected for a single call is very
large, Network Elements can limit the number of simultaneous traces by either
rejecting a trace request or by only producing a sub-set of the information
required
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Trace facility for GSM where it refers to:
\- subscriber tracing (tracing of International Mobile Subscriber Identity
(IMSI));
\- equipment tracing (tracing of International Mobile station Equipment
Identity (IMEI)).
It does not cover:
\- types of trace which relate more to network elements than to individual
subscribers e.g. tracing events within a Base Station System (BSS), and so on;
\- tracing of all possible parties in e.g. a multi-party call, (although
multiple calls related to the IMSI specified in the trace type field are
traceable).
It also refers only to tracing activated from the OSF and not to that
activated by means of local Man Machine Interface (MMI).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void.
[3] 3GPP TS 48.006: \"Signalling transport mechanism specification for the
Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre (BSS - MSC)
interface\".
[4] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile Switching Centre - Base Station System (MSC-BSS)
interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 48.058: \"Base Station Controller - Base Transceiver Station (BSC
- BTS) interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[7] GSM 12.00 (ETS 300 612-1): \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2); Objectives and structure of Network Management (NM)\".
[8] GSM 12.01 (ETS 300 612-2): \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2); Common Aspects of GSM Network Management (NM)\".
[9] Void.
[10] 3GPP TS 32.250: \"Circuit Switched (CS) domain charging\".
[11] GSM 12.20 (ETS 300 622): \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2); BSS Management Information\".
[12] CCITT Recommendation X.227 - ISO 8650: \"Information technology - Open
Systems Interconnection -- Connection-oriented protocol for the association
control service element: Protocol specification\".
[13] CCITT Recommendation X.721 (ITU-T \| ISO/IEC 10165-1): \"Information
technology - Open Systems Interconnection - Structure of management
information: Definition of management information\".
[14] CCITT Recommendation X.734 (ITU-T \| ISO/IEC 10164-5): \"Information
technology - Open Systems Interconnection - Systems Management: Event report
management function\".
[15] CCITT Recommendation X.735 (ITU-T \| ISO/IEC 10164-6): \"Information
technology - Open Systems Interconnection - Systems Management: Log control
function\".
[16] CCITT Recommendation X.731 (ITU-T \| ISO/IEC 10164-2): \"Information
technology - Open Systems Interconnection - Systems Management: State
management function\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.079: \"Support of Optimal Routeing (SOR); Technical
realization\"
[18] Void.
[19] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Core network protocols; Stage 3\".
[20] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the current TS, the following definitions apply:
**activation of a trace** : An action taken at the OSF through MMI commands to
allow a trace record to be produced for a particular IMSI or IMEI when an
Invocation Event occurs. This equates to \"activation of a trace\" in TS
29.002 [6].
**active pending** : The state of an activated trace is called Active Pending
in a particular NE when the subscriber or equipment being traced is not
registered in that NE.
**invocation of a trace** : An event relating to a particular IMSI or IMEI
that occurs in the network that causes data to be collected in a trace record
in circumstances where trace has been activated for that IMSI or IMEI. This
equates to \"tracing subscriber activity\" in TS 29.002 [6] and \"Trace
Invocation\" in TS 48.008 [4]. It is possible that an event relating to the
IMSI/IMEI may still be active when another event or events relating to the
same IMSI/IMEI occurs which requires additional information to be collected.
These additional events are termed parallel events. This additional trace
information for parallel events is collected in the same trace record as the
first event.
**trace record** : In the NEF a trace record is a set of traceable data
collected as determined by the trace type. The trace record is collected under
the trace record criteria specified by the OSF and transferred to the OSF.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For all abbreviations used in the current TS, refer to TS 21.905 [1].
# 4 Trace Overview
Figure 1, together with explanations in the text below the figure, gives an
outline of the subscriber and equipment tracing and shows the relationship
between the inputs on activation and deactivation and the trace record
outputs.
Figure 1: Subscriber and Equipment Trace
The inputs on activation and deactivation in figure 1 are as follows:
1) Trace Activation, specified in the present document, containing the
following:
a) IMSI;
b) Trace Reference;
c) OMC Destination;
d) Trace Type;
e) HLR Trace Type.
2a) Trace Activation, specified in the present document, containing the
following:
a) IMSI;
b) Trace Reference;
c) OMC Destination;
d) Trace Type.
2b) Trace Activation, specified in the present document, containing the
following:
a) IMEI;
b) Trace Reference;
c) OMC Destination;
d) Trace Type.
3a) MAP-ACTIVATE-TRACE-MODE, specified in TS 29.002, containing the following:
a) IMSI;
b) Trace Reference;
c) OMC Id;
d) Trace Type.
3b) MAP-DEACTIVATE-TRACE-MODE, specified in TS 29.002, containing the
following:
a) IMSI;
b) Trace Reference.
4) MAP-PREPARE-HANDOVER, specified in TS 29.002, containing the following:
a) the MSC_INVOKE_TRACE_MESSAGE.
5) MSC-INVOKE-TRACE, specified in TS 48.008, containing the following:
a) Message Type;
b) IMSI or IMEI;
c) Trace Reference;
d) Trigger Id;
e) OMC Id;
f) Trace Type;
g) Transaction Id.
The generated trace records in figure 1 are as follows:
A) Trace information from HLR containing
a) Trace Record Header;
b) HLR Trace Record.
B) Trace information from MSC containing
a) Trace Record Header;
b) MSC Trace Record.
C) Trace information from BSS containing
a) Trace Record Header;
b) BSS Trace Record.
Trace Activation and Deactivation are described in clause 5.
The Trace Types are defined in clause 6.
The Trace Records are defined in clause 7.
The following events may invoke a MSC or BSS trace:
\- Call set-up within MSC (MOC, MTC) (incl. attempts);
\- SS-Action;
\- Location Update (Normal and Periodic);
\- SMS-MO;
\- SMS-MT;
\- IMSI attach and detach;
\- PDS-MO;
\- PDS-MT.
Additionally, the following event may invoke a BSS trace:
\- Handover.
An HLR Trace may be invoked by one of the following:
\- Location updates/cancellations;
\- Insert/delete subscriber data;
\- Routing enquiry (speech and SM);
\- Provide roaming number;
\- SS activity;
\- SMS: Alert service centre/Ready for SM.
Trace records are generated within the managed elements by the trace control
function according to the trace type. Once a trace has been invoked and a
trace record is being compiled, subsequent invoking events relating to that
IMSI (parallel events) will not cause new records to be compiled
simultaneously but will be contained in the same trace record as the first
event.
For operator defined trace types the events on which trace records are
generated and their contents are defined within the trace record generation
control.
These records are then transferred to the OSF (as defined by OMC-Id of the
Destination OMC or forwarded by the EFD) either as notifications (CMISE), or
with bulk transfer (FTAM).
# 5 Trace activation and deactivation
## 5.1 General
This document is only concerned with the activation of a trace from an OSF
(OMC), and the OSF shall keep a log of all trace activations and their
deactivations. All entries in the log shall be date and time stamped.
In the case of an OSF (OMC) failure, it may be possible to activate and
deactivate the trace at a particular network element by means of local MMI,
but the procedures for doing this are not covered by the present document.
Facilities shall exist to allow unsolicited trace data to be received by an
OSF. This permits the collection of trace data if the triggering entity (i.e.
OSF or network element) is different to the collecting OSF.
## 5.2 Subscriber Tracing (Tracing of IMSI)
### 5.2.1 General
The tracing of both home and foreign roaming subscribers can be handled with
this function.
If implemented, then the way the trace facility is used and organized,
including restrictions due to national laws and regulations, will be a matter
for the PLMN Operator.
All trace records created in the HLR, MSC \"A\", MSC \"B\" and BSS are
forwarded to the OSF either as notifications and/or with bulk transfer, as
defined in the trace parameters.
The following scenarios are identified from the HPLMN operation viewpoint:
a) HPLMN Operator traces its own (home) IMSI within the HPLMN;
b) HPLMN Operator traces the HLR activities of its own (home) IMSI while they
are roaming in a VPLMN;
c) HPLMN Operator wishes to trace foreign roaming subscribers (IMSI) within
its own HPLMN.
### 5.2.2 HPLMN Operator Traces Home Subscriber within the HPLMN
The Operator may activate a trace for a home subscriber (IMSI) from any OSF by
invoking the management function **Activate Home Subscriber Trace** in the HLR
where the IMSI is contained. This request includes the trace parameters in the
following list:
a) IMSI to be traced;
b) Trace Reference;
c) OMC-Id of the destination OMC;
d) Trace Type;
e) HLR Trace Type.
For each IMSI, only one HPLMN subscriber trace can be active, subsequent
requests being rejected.
If the IMSI is roaming within its HPLMN, then the trace request is forwarded
to the VLR where the subscriber is registered via a MAP message (MAP-ACTIVATE-
TRACE-MODE).
When the HPLMN subscriber trace is activated, a trace record will be created
by MSC \"A\", MSC \"B\", HLR or BSS when certain invoking events occur i.e.
MOC, MTC, SS-Action, SMS-MO, SMS-MT, Location Update, IMSI attach and detach.
The trace action and record layout is defined by the trace type parameters.
A trace may be invoked in the BSS when an Invoking Event, specified in the
Invoking Event sub-field in the Trace Type, occurs and the BSS Record Type is
set to a value other than \"No BSS Trace\". A Trace is invoked by sending a
BSSMAP MSC_INVOKE_TRACE message from the MSC to the BSS. When the BSS receives
this message it starts tracing the necessary fields as specified in the BSS
Record associated with the specified BSS Record Type.
If the subscriber is roaming in a foreign PLMN then the HPLMN subscriber trace
request is stored in the HLR, but the trace is not active in the HPLMN VLRs.
The trace is deactivated by using the management function **Deactivate Home
Subscriber Trace** in the HLR. This request includes the trace parameters in
the following list:
a) IMSI;
b) Trace Reference.
If the IMSI is roaming within its HPLMN then the trace deactivation request is
forwarded to the VLR where the subscriber is registered via a MAP message
(MAP-DEACTIVATE-TRACE-MODE).
The trace shall be deactivated in the BSS by the MSC sending a BSSMAP
MSC_INVOKE_TRACE message from the MSC to the BSS with the BSS Record Type set
to \"No BSS Trace\". When the BSS receives this message it shall stop tracing
activity related to that IMSI.
The following TMN Management Functions are required for trace activation (in
HLR):
**\- Activate Home Subscriber Trace;**
**\- Deactivate Home Subscriber Trace.**
### 5.2.3 HPLMN Operator traces the HLR activities of own IMSI roaming in a
VPLMN
This scenario is identical to the previous scenario with the exception that
the only records generated come from the HLR.
### 5.2.4 PLMN Operator wishes to trace foreign subscribers (IMSI) in own PLMN
In order to trace the IMSIs of roaming subscribers in own PLMN, a list of
those IMSIs plus the associated subscriber trace parameters must be stored in
the VLR. No HLR trace records are produced for foreign subscriber traces.
The operator may activate a trace for any foreign roaming IMSI from an OSF by
invoking the management function **Activate Foreign Subscriber Trace** in one
or more VLRs within their own PLMN. If the location of the subscriber is not
known it is necessary to activate the trace in all VLRs where the subscriber
may be located.
The following trace parameters are sent with this request:
a) IMSI to be traced;
b) Trace Reference;
c) OMC-Id of the destination OMC;
d) Trace Type.
The trace request is stored in the VLR. If the subscriber subsequently roams
into the VLR area the VPLMN subscriber trace will be activated.
For each IMSI only one foreign subscriber trace can be active in a particular
VLR, subsequent requests being rejected.
A trace may be invoked in the BSS when an Invoking Event, specified in the
Invoking Event sub-field in the Trace Type, occurs and the BSS Record Type is
set to a value other than \"No BSS Trace\". A Trace is invoked by sending a
BSSMAP MSC_INVOKE_TRACE message from the MSC to the BSS. When the BSS receives
this message it starts tracing the necessary fields as specified in the BSS
Record associated with the specified BSS Record Type.
The VPLMN subscriber trace is deactivated by invoking **Deactivate Foreign
Subscriber Trace** in the VLR. This request includes the trace parameters in
the following list:
a) IMSI;
b) Trace Reference.
The trace shall be deactivated in the BSS by the MSC sending a BSSMAP
MSC_INVOKE_TRACE message from the MSC to the BSS with the BSS Record Type set
to \"No BSS Trace\". When the BSS receives this message it shall stop tracing
activity related to that IMSI.
The following TMN Management Functions are required for trace activation (in
VLR):
**\- Activate Foreign Subscriber Trace;**
**\- Deactivate Foreign Subscriber Trace.**
## 5.3 Equipment Tracing (Tracing of IMEI)
### 5.3.1 General
If the tracing of IMEIs is implemented then the way the trace facility is used
and organized, including restrictions due to national laws and regulations,
will be a matter for the PLMN Operator.
An IMEI may be traced in order to find out the current IMSI, or the location
or behaviour of faulty or stolen equipment reported via the EIR.
This TS describes one method of handling IMEI tracing i.e. tracing of IMEI via
the VLR.
### 5.3.2 Tracing of IMEI via VLR
The operator may activate an equipment trace for any subscriber\'s equipment
(IMEI) from an OSF by invoking the management function **Activate Equipment
Trace** in one or more VLR in the HPLMN. The trace must be activated in all
VLRs controlling areas where it is required to trace the target IMEI. The
trace parameters are transmitted with the activation request.
The following trace parameters are sent with this request:
a) IMEI to be traced;
b) Trace reference;
c) OMC-Id of the destination OMC;
d) Trace Type.
For GSM Phase 2 Mobile Stations the IMEI will be available to the Network as
it can be included in the BSS-MAP message CIPHER-MODE-COMPLETE. If IMEI trace
is required, it is the responsibility of the network operator to specify that
CIPHER-MODE-COMPLETE contains IMEIs, or optionally the IMEI is called for in
connection with MOC, location update etc. Alternatively the network can ask
the MS for the IMEI by sending a TS 24.008 [19] IDENTITY REQUEST message to
the MS, indicating that the IMEI is required.
When a subscriber arrives at a VLR using equipment with an IMEI for which
trace has been activated (but is in pending state) at that VLR then the IMEI
trace will become.
For each IMEI only one equipment trace can be active in a particular VLR at
any one time, subsequent requests being rejected, although both the IMSI trace
(home subscriber tracing and foreign subscriber tracing) and the IMEI trace
can be active at the same time.
This equipment trace is deactivated by invoking the management function
**Deactivate Equipment Trace** in the VLR. This request includes the trace
parameters in the following list:
a) IMEI;
b) Trace Reference.
The following TMN Management Functions are required for trace activation (in
VLR):
\- **Activate Equipment Trace** ;
\- **Deactivate Equipment Trace**.
## 5.4 TMN Management Functions for Activation and Deactivation
### 5.4.1 List of Functions
#### 5.4.1.1 HLR
The following functions are used for activation and deactivation in the HLR:
\- Activate Home Subscriber Trace;
\- Deactivate Home Subscriber Trace.
#### 5.4.1.2 MSC/VLR
The following functions are used for activation and deactivation in the
MSC/VLR:
\- Activate Foreign Subscriber Trace;
\- Deactivate Foreign Subscriber Trace;
\- Activate Equipment Trace;
\- Deactivate Equipment Trace.
### 5.4.2 Activate Home Subscriber Trace
This function is equivalent to the OM_Subscriber_Tracing_Activation_req in TS
29.002 [6].
The subscriber tracing procedures are used for the management of the trace
status and the type of trace.
The subscriber tracing activation procedure operates as follows:
a) The OSF creates a _tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr_ object instance in the HLR of
the subscriber to be traced.
b) If the subscriber is roaming outside of the HPLMN or not currently
registered, then the trace is in active pending state. The home subscriber
trace for the subscriber is activated in the HLR on a subsequent location
update. This activation is shown as an attribute value change in the attribute
traceActivatedInVlr.
c) If the subscriber is already registered then the home subscriber trace
becomes immediately active in the HLR (after positive confirmation from the
VLR).
When the trace is first activated then the status of the trace indicator
attribute traceActivatedInVlr in the _tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr_ object
instance is set to **False**.
If the subscriber is **registered and is roaming in the home PLMN area** then
the HLR will initiate the request primitive MAP-ACTIVATE-TRACE-MODE and the
trace indicator status will be set to **True** only in the case of a positive
confirmation of the MAP-ACTIVATE-TRACE-MODE. In case of an error, the trace
indicator status remains **False**.
If the MAP-ACTIVATE-TRACE-MODE confirm primitive is received indicating an
error situation then this is recorded in an error attribute in the
_tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr_ object instance.
If the subscriber roams to an area outside that where tracing is possible then
the status in the _tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr_ object instance is updated to
**False**.
The trace records are sent from the recording NEF to the OSF by the deployed
event reporting mechanism (see chapter Trace Record Transfer). The Trace Type
attribute indicates the type of trace records to be produced and the way in
which they will be reported i.e. each event record being either directly sent
to the OSF in real-time, or being collected in a file for later transfer.
All attribute value changes will be reported with a notification to the OSF.
The required system management functions are:
\- Create tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr;
\- Get Attribute.
The required notifications are:
\- objectCreation;
\- attributeValueChange.
### 5.4.3 Deactivate Home Subscriber Trace
This function is equivalent to the OM_Subscriber_Tracing_Deactivation_req in
TS 29.002 [6].
The subscriber trace is deactivated by the OSF deleting the
_tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr_ object instance in the HLR.
If the trace status is **True** then the HLR will send the MAP-DEACTIVATE-
TRACE-MODE message to VLR.
If the MAP-DEACTIVATE-TRACE-MODE confirm primitive is received indicating an
error situation then this is indicated to the OSF via an error attribute in
the _tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr_ object instance and the object is not deleted.
The home subscriber trace deactivation can be indicated with a notification to
the initiating OSF.
The required system management functions are:
\- Delete tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr;
\- Get Attribute.
The required notifications are:
\- objectDeletion;
\- attributeValueChange.
### 5.4.4 Activate Foreign Subscriber Trace
This function is analogous to the OM_Subscriber_Tracing_Activation_req in TS
29.002 [6], but the trace activation is performed directly in the VLR.
The foreign subscriber trace is activated by the OSF executing the system
management function Create _tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr_ in the VLR.
THE OSF creates a _tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr_ object instance in the VLR(s)
in which the network operator wishes to trace the subscriber.
The tracing continues as follows:
a) If the subscriber is not currently registered, then the foreign subscriber
trace for the subscriber is active pending. It is activated (i.e. status
attribute value is set to **True**) in the VLR on a subsequent location
update. The activation is notified to the OSF as an attribute value change in
the attribute foreignSubscriberRegisteredInVlr.
b) If the subscriber is already registered then the foreign subscriber trace
becomes immediately active in the VLR.
When the trace is first activated then the status of the attribute
foreignSubscriberRegisteredInVlr is set to **False**. When the traced
subscriber registers in the VLR the attribute status of
foreignSubscriberRegisteredInVlr is set to **True**.
All attribute value changes will be reported with a notification to the OSF.
The trace records are sent from the corresponding MSC to the OSF by the
deployed event reporting mechanism (see chapter Trace Record Transfer). The
Trace Type attribute indicates the type of trace records to be produced and
the method by which they will be reported.
The required system management functions are:
\- Create tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr;
\- Get Attribute.
The required notifications are:
\- objectCreation;
\- attributeValueChange.
### 5.4.5 Deactivate Foreign Subscriber Trace
This function is analogous to the OM_Subscriber_Tracing_Deactivation_req in
29.002 [6], but the trace deactivation is performed.
The OSF deactivates subscriber trace by deleting the
_tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr_ object instance in the VLR(s) in which the
object instance had previously been created.
The foreign subscriber trace is deactivated by the OSF executing the system
management function Delete _tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr_ in the VLR.
The required system management functions are:
\- Delete tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr.
The required notifications are:
\- objectDeletion;
\- attributeValueChange.
### 5.4.6 Activate Equipment Trace
This function is analogous to the OM_Subscriber_Tracing_Activation_req in TS
29.002 [6], but the trace activation is performed directly in the VLR.
The equipment trace is activated by the OSF executing the system management
function Create _tracedEquipmentInVlr_.
The OSF creates a _traceEquipmentInVlr_ object instance in the VLR(s) for the
areas to be monitored.
The tracing continues as follows:
a) If the equipment is not currently registered, then the equipment trace for
the equipment is active pending. It is activated (i.e. status attribute value
is set to **True**) in the VLR on a subsequent location update or IMSI attach.
The activation is notified to the OSF as an attribute value change in the
attribute equipmentRegisteredInVlr.
b) If the equipment is already registered then the equipment trace becomes
immediately active in the VLR.
When the trace is first activated then the status of the attribute
equipmentRegisteredInVlr is set to **False**. When the equipment registers in
the VLR the attribute status of equipmentRegisteredInVlr is set to **True**.
All attribute value changes will be reported with a notification to the OSF.
The trace records are sent from the corresponding MSC to the OSF by the
deployed event reporting mechanism (see chapter Trace Record Transfer). The
Trace Type attribute indicates the type of trace records to be produced and
the method by which they will be reported.
The required system management functions are:
\- Create tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr;
\- Get Attribute.
The required notifications are:
\- objectCreation;
\- attributeValueChange.
### 5.4.7 Deactivate Equipment Trace
This function is analogous to the OM_Subscriber_Tracing_Deactivation_req in TS
29.002 [6], but the trace deactivation is performed in the VLR.
The equipment trace is deactivated by the OSF executing the system management
function Delete _tracedEquipmentInVlr_.
The OSF deactivates equipment trace by deleting the _tracedEquipmentInVlr_
object instance in the VLR(s) in which the object instance had previously been
created.
The required system management functions are:
\- Delete tracedEquipmentInVlr.
The required notifications are:
\- objectDeletion;
\- attributeValueChange.
This function is analogous to the OM_Subscriber_Tracing_Deactivation_req in TS
29.002 [6], but the trace deactivation is performed in the VLR.
## 5.5 HLR Functional Entities
Figure 2 shows that part of the Subscriber Administration Containment Tree for
the HLR relevant to Trace activation and deactivation.
Figure 2: Subscriber Trace Containment Tree for the HLR
### 5.5.1 Managed Object Classes in HLR
#### 5.5.1.1 tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr
This object class controls the home subscriber trace facility. Each instance
of this object represents an IMSI of a home subscriber to be traced i.e. if an
instance for an IMSI exists then that means that the trace has been activated
for that IMSI.
* * *
Name M/O Value‑Set IMSI RDN Single traceActivatedInVlr M Single traceReference
M Single traceType M Single hlrTraceType M Single operationSystemId O Single
mapErrorOnTrace M Single
* * *
#### 5.5.1.2 Attributes
##### 5.5.1.2.1 tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr
**IMSI**
This attribute is the RDN of the object _tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr_ and
defines an IMSI to be traced. It will be an IMSI of a home subscriber for whom
tracing is required.
The syntax is defined in MAP‑CommonDataTypes IMSI.
**traceActivatedInVlr**
This attribute is single valued and gives an indication of the status of the
Trace. Possible values of this attribute are **True** and **False**.
On creation this attribute is set to **False**.
If the subscriber is registered and roaming within the HPLMN (see TS 29.002
[6]) then the attribute is set to **TRUE** (in case of positive confirmation
from VLR).
If the subscriber roams to an area which is outside that where tracing is
possible the attribute is set to **FALSE**.
Each status change triggers an attributeValueChange notification.
**traceReference**
This attribute is a unique reference for a particular trace associated with a
particular IMSI and is allocated by the OSF.
**traceType**
This attribute describes the invoking events for which the operator wishes to
collect a trace record for a particular IMSI in an MSC or BSS. It also
describes the type of record to be collected and indicates whether or not this
is a priority trace.
**hlrTraceType**
This attribute describes the type of trace record (if any) the operator wishes
to be collected in the HLR for a particular IMSI. It is assumed for all
invoking events.
**operationSystemId**
This attribute contains the address of the OSF to which the operator wishes
the trace records associated with this particular IMSI to be sent.
If EFDs are used then trace records are sent to OSFs defined in EFD.
**mapErrorOnTrace**
This attribute is single valued and read only.
It is set by MAP and contains the MAP‑Errors that may be returned in the
confirm primitives of the ActivateTraceMode and DeactivateTraceMode
Operations.
If there are MAP‑Errors in case of activation of trace, the
traceActivatedInVlr parameter is set to **False**.
If there are Map‑Errors in case of deactivation of trace (deleting
tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr), the deleting is not completed successfully.
Possible error values are defined in MAP‑OperationAndMaintenance Operations
and in MAP‑Errors.
#### 5.5.1.3 Notifications
The notifications (for each object) are:
\- objectCreation;
\- objectDeletion;
\- AttributeValueChange.
## 5.6 VLR Functional Entities
Figure 3 shows that part of the Subscriber Administration Containment Tree for
the VLR relevant to Trace.
Figure 3: Subscriber Trace Containment Tree for the VLR
### 5.6.1 Managed Object Classes in VLR
#### 5.6.1.1 tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr
This object class controls the foreign subscriber trace facility. Each
instance of this object represents an IMSI of a foreign subscriber to be
traced i.e. if an instance for an IMSI exists then that means that the trace
has been activated for that IMSI.
* * *
Name M/O Value‑Set IMSI RDN Single foreignSubscriberRegisteredInVlr M Single
traceReference M Single traceType M Single operationSystemId O Single
* * *
#### 5.6.1.2 tracedEquipmentInVlr
This object class controls the equipment trace facility. Each instance of this
object represents an IMEI to be traced i.e. if an instance for an IMEI exists
then that means that the trace has been activated for that IMEI.
* * *
Name M/O Value‑Set IMEI RDN Single equipmentRegisteredInVlr M Single
traceReference M Single traceType M Single operationSystemId O Single
* * *
#### 5.6.1.3 Attributes
##### 5.6.1.3.1 tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr
**IMSI**
This attribute is the RDN of the object _tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr_ and
defines an IMSI to be traced. It will be an IMSI of a foreign subscriber for
whom tracing is required.
The syntax is defined in MAP‑CommonDataTypes IMSI.
**foreignSubscriberRegisteredInVlr**
This attribute is single valued and gives an indication of the status of the
Trace. Possible values of this attribute are **True** and **False**.
On creation this attribute is set to **False**.
If the foreign subscriber is currently registered in the VLR then the
attribute is set to **TRUE**.
If the foreign subscriber is not registered in the VLR then the attribute is
set to **FALSE**.
Each status change triggers an attributeValueChange notification.
**traceReference**
This attribute is a unique reference for a particular trace associated with a
particular IMSI and is allocated by the OSF.
**traceType**
This attribute describes the invoking events that the operator wishes to
collect a trace record for a particular IMSI in an MSC or BSS. It also
describes the type of record to be collected and indicates whether or not this
is a priority trace.
**operationSystemId**
This attribute contains the address of the OSF to which the operator wishes
the trace records associated with this particular IMSI to be sent.
If EFDs are used, then trace records are sent to OSFs defined in EFD.
##### 5.6.1.3.2 tracedEquipmentInVlr
**IMEI**
This attribute is the RDN of the object _tracedEquipmentInVlr_ and defines an
IMEI to be traced. It will be an IMEI for the equipment for which tracing is
required.
The syntax is defined in MAP‑CommonDataTypes IMEI.
**equipmentRegisteredInVlr**
This attribute is single valued and gives an indication of the status of the
Trace. Possible values of this attribute are **True** and **False**.
On creation this attribute is set to **False**.
If the equipment is registered in the VLR then the attribute is set to
**TRUE**.
If the equipment is not registered in the VLR then the attribute is set to
**FALSE**.
Each status change triggers an attributeValueChange notification.
**traceReference**
This attribute is a unique reference for a particular trace associated with a
particular IMSI and is allocated by the OSF.
**traceType**
This attribute describes the invoking events for which the operator wishes to
collect a trace record for a particular IMSI in an MSC or BSS. It also
describes the type of record to be collected and indicates whether or not this
is a priority trace.
**operationSystemId**
This attribute contains the address of the OSF to which the operator wishes
the trace records associated with this particular IMSI to be sent.
If EFDs are used, then trace records are sent to OSFs defined in EFD.
#### 5.6.1.4 Notifications
The notifications are:
\- objectCreation;
\- objectDeletion;
\- attributeValueChange.
# 6 Trace Types
## 6.1 MSC/BSS Trace Type
The Trace Type field contains the type of trace activated in the MSC or BSS.
The trace type consists of the following components.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---+---+---+ | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---+---+---+ | P | For | BSS | MSC | I | | | | | riority | future | Record | Record | nvoking | | | | | | ex | Type | Type | Event | | | | | Ind | pansion | | | | | | | | ication | (Set to | | | | | | | | | 0) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---+---+---+
Table 1: Invoking Events
* * *
Bits Invoking Events  
2 1  
0 0 MOC, MTC, SMS MO, SMS MT, PDS MO, PDS MT, SS, Location Updates, IMSI
attach, IMSI detach 0 1 MOC, MTC, SMS_MO, SMS_MT, PDS MO, PDS MT, SS only 1 0
Location updates, IMSI attach IMSI detach only 1 1 Operator definable
* * *
If the \"operator definable\" option is selected, all subsequent Trace Record
Types are deemed to be \"operator definable\". In this case the significance
of bits 3‑6 are operator defined, however the significance of bit 8 remains
\"Priority Indication\". In all cases, for GSM Phase 2 Network Elements the
setting of the 7 shall not affect trace record generation.
> Table 2: MSC Record Type
* * *
Bits Record Type  
4 3  
0 0 Basic 0 1 Detailed (Optional) 1 0 Spare 1 1 No MSC Trace
* * *
[]{.underline}
Table 3: BSS Record Type
* * *
Bits Record Type  
6 5  
0 0 Basic 0 1 Handover 1 0 Radio 1 1 No BSS Trace
* * *
## 6.2 HLR Trace Type
The HLR Trace Type field contains the type of trace activated in the HLR. The
trace type consists of the following components.
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+---+---+---+ | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+---+---+---+ | Priority | For | HLR | Invoking | | | | | | | future | Record | Event | | | | | | I | expansion | Type | | | | | | | ndication | (Set to | | | | | | | | | 0) | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+---+---+---+
Table 4: Invoking Events
* * *
Bits Invoking Events  
2 1  
0 0 All HLR Interactions 0 1 Spare 1 0 Spare 1 1 Operator definable
* * *
If the \"operator definable\" option is selected, all subsequent Trace Record
Types are deemed to be \"operator definable\". In this case the significance
of bits 3 and 4 are operator defined, however the significance of bit 8
remains \"Priority Indication\". In all cases, for GSM Phase 2 Network
Elements the setting of bits 5‑7 shall not affect trace record generation.
> Table 5: HLR Record Type
* * *
Bits Record Type  
4 3  
0 0 Basic 0 1 Detailed 1 0 Spare 1 1 No HLR Trace
* * *
[]{.underline}
Table 6: Priority Indication
* * *
Bit Priority 8  
0 No priority 1 Priority
* * *
This bitmap of the Trace Type is only required in the HLR and is not required
to be mapped onto any TS 29.002 [6] or other Trace Types.
Table 7: Priority Indication
* * *
Bit Priority 8  
0 No priority 1 Priority
* * *
This bitmap of the Trace Type is required to map onto the Trace Type as
defined in TS 29.002 as an Integer with 256 possible values. This is achieved
by a binary to decimal conversion of the bitmap, where bit 8 has weight 128
and bit 1 has weight 1.
# 7 Trace Record Contents
## 7.1 General
Table 9, table 10 and table 11 illustrate the structure of a trace record.
Table 8 illustrates the structure of the Trace Record header. This header is
used at the start of all trace records.
In the case where trace data is distributed over several records, linkage
between the records is provided in the record header. If parallel events are
also being traced, additional linkage for the traced data relating to each
event is provided in the trace record content. Parallel events are not
applicable to BSS trace records.
The trace reference, trace type and operation system identification are all
provided on trace activation. Each record may contain an MSC, BSS or HLR event
record. A key is included in the table indicating whether or not the field is
mandatory. In this table and throughout this document the key field has the
following meaning:
* * *
**M** This field must appear in at least one trace record associated with the
invoking event. Any exceptions to this rule are explicitly described. **C**
This field is only available under certain conditions. If available this field
must be present in at least one trace record associated with the invoking
event. The conditions under which this field is available are individually
described. **O** This field is optional and its support is a matter for
agreement between equipment manufacturer and network operator. Equipment
manufacturers do not have to be capable of providing all these fields to claim
conformance with the present document. **X** This field is not required in
this instance.
* * *
Table 8: Trace Record Header
+-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | Field | Type | Description | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | IMSI or IMEI | M | IMSI or IMEI of | | | | subscriber/equipment being | | | | traced. See TS 32.250 for | | | | Served IMSI and Served IMEI. | | | | The BSS shall include this | | | | field in the reace record | | | | header only if available in | | | | the A-interface MSC INVOKE | | | | TRACE message. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | Trace Reference | M | An identifier assigned by | | | | the OSF at Trace Activation | | | | which may be used by the OSF | | | | in conjunction with the | | | | IMSI/IMEI and the | | | | Transaction ID to uniquely | | | | identify a record or | | | | collection of records for | | | | one particular trace. This | | | | must always appear in every | | | | trace record. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | Transaction id | C | An identifier of a | | | | particular transaction, | | | | described in TS 48.008. It | | | | shall be included if | | | | available in the A‑Interface | | | | message | | | | **MSC_INVOKE_TRACE**. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | Omc‑Id | O | The address of the OS entity | | | | that the OSF activating the | | | | trace requires priority | | | | trace records to be sent to | | | | by the NE performing the | | | | trace (see also clause 9 | | | | Trace Record Transfer). | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | MSC/BSS Trace Type | C | This field contains the | | | | MSC/BSS trace type as | | | | provided in the trace | | | | activation message (see | | | | subclause 6.1 MSC/BSS Trace | | | | Type). It must always appear | | | | in the first record header. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | HLR Trace Type | C | This field contains the HLR | | | | trace type as provided in | | | | the trace activation message | | | | (see subclause 6.2 HLR Trace | | | | Type). It must always appear | | | | in the first record header. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | MSC/BSS Trace Type Used | O | This field contains the | | | | MCS/BSS trace type which has | | | | been applied. This trace | | | | type may be different to the | | | | one provided in the trace | | | | activation message due to | | | | manufacturer constraints. It | | | | must always appear in the | | | | first record header. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | HLR Trace Type Used | O | This field contains the HLR | | | | trace type which has been | | | | applied. This trace type may | | | | be different to the one | | | | provided in the trace | | | | activation message due to | | | | manufacturer constraints. It | | | | must always appear in the | | | | first record header. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | Start Time | M | The time the compilation of | | | | the Trace Record was | | | | started. It must always | | | | appear in the first record | | | | header. All timestamps used | | | | in the TraceEvent Record are | | | | relative to this time. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | End Time | M | The time the compilation of | | | | the Trace Record was | | | | completed. It must always | | | | appear in the last record | | | | header. It may be used by | | | | the OSF as an indication | | | | that the trace in that | | | | particular Network Element | | | | is completed. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | Recording Entity | M | For MSC/HLR ‑ the E.164 | | | | number of the recording | | | | entity. | | | | | | | | For BSS ‑ the BSC_ID as | | | | given in GSM 12.20 [11]. | | | | | | | | Alternatively the recording | | | | entity may be expressed as a | | | | graphic string. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | Trace Event Record | M | This field contains either | | | | an MSC, HLR or BSS trace | | | | record as described in | | | | subclauses 7.2 to 7.4 below. | | | | This must always appear in | | | | every trace record. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | Sequence Number | C | This field is used to | | | | identify the sequence of | | | | records from a particular | | | | recording entity when more | | | | than one trace record is | | | | produced for the invoking | | | | event. | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+ | Reason For Record | C | This specifies why the | | | | record was generated by the | | | | NE (see subclause 8.2). In | | | | addition to these reasons, | | | | other manufacturer specific | | | | reasons may be specified | | | | (see subclause 8.2.3). | +-------------------------+------+------------------------------+
## 7.2 MSC Trace Record Content
The following types of fields are supported in the 2 MSC trace types.
Table 9: MSC Trace Record Content
+-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Field | MSC Trace Type | Description | | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | | Basic | Detailed | | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Invoking Event | M | M | Event invoking | | | | | trace (Not | | | | | available at | | | | | the non‑anchor | | | | | MSC on | | | | | Inter‑MSC | | | | | Handover). | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Served IMSI | C | C | IMSI of the | | | | | calling party | | | | | in the case of | | | | | MOC or the | | | | | called party in | | | | | the event of | | | | | MTC. Not | | | | | available in | | | | | case of | | | | | emergency call | | | | | without SIM. | | | | | This field is | | | | | only required | | | | | for IMEI trace. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Served IMEI | C | C | IMEI of the | | | | | calling ME in | | | | | the case of MOC | | | | | or the called | | | | | party in the | | | | | event of MTC. | | | | | This field is | | | | | only required | | | | | for IMSI trace. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Served MSISDN | C | C | Primary MSISDN | | | | | of the party | | | | | being traced. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Calling/Called | C | C | The MSISDN of | | Number | | | the calling | | | | | party in case | | | | | of MTC. The | | | | | MSISDN of the | | | | | called party in | | | | | case of MOC. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Calling | C | C | The subaddress | | Subaddress | | | of the calling | | | | | party (for both | | | | | MOC and MTC). | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Called | C | C | The subaddress | | Subaddress | | | of the called | | | | | party (for both | | | | | MOC and MTC). | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Translated | C | C | The called | | Number | | | number of the | | | | | party not being | | | | | traced after | | | | | digit | | | | | translation | | | | | within the MSC | | | | | (if applicable) | | | | | (i.e. applies | | | | | to MOC only). | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Connected | C | C | The number of | | Number | | | the party not | | | | | being traced | | | | | (applies to MOC | | | | | only). | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Forwarded‑to | C | C | The number to | | | | | which the call | | Number | | | will be | | | | | forwarded | | | | | (applies to MTC | | | | | only). | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Forwarded‑to | C | C | The subaddress | | | | | to which the | | Subaddress | | | call will be | | | | | forwarded | | | | | (applies to MTC | | | | | only). | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Redirecting | C | C | The number from | | Number | | | which the call | | | | | was last | | | | | redirected | | | | | (applies to MTC | | | | | only). | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Original Called | C | C | The number of | | | | | the original | | Number | | | called party | | | | | | | | | | (applies to MTC | | | | | only). | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Roaming Number | C | C | The MSRN of the | | | | | traced | | | | | subscriber in | | | | | the case of | | | | | MTC, or the | | | | | MSRN of the | | | | | called | | | | | subscriber in | | | | | case of MOC, if | | | | | available. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Network Trunk | C | C | In case of a | | | | | MOC the | | Group Point | | | outgoing trunk | | | | | on which the | | | | | call leaves the | | | | | MSC. In case of | | | | | an MTC the | | | | | incoming trunk | | | | | on which the | | | | | call originates | | | | | as seen from | | | | | the MSC. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Basic Service | C | C | The bearer‑ or | | | | | teleservice | | | | | employed. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Radio Channel | O | C | A list of radio | | types | | | channel types | | | | | used during the | | | | | compilation of | | | | | the trace | | | | | record, each | | | | | timestamped. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | BSS Handover | O | C | A list of the | | Trunk | | | in | | | | | coming/outgoing | | | | | trunk group and | | | | | member used to | | | | | connect the MSC | | | | | to BSS | | | | | (including the | | | | | original and | | | | | each intra‑MSC | | | | | BSS handover) | | | | | each | | | | | time‑stamped. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | MSC Handover | O | C | A list of the | | Trunk | | | trunk group and | | | | | member used to | | | | | connect two | | | | | MSCs (including | | | | | the original | | | | | and each | | | | | inter‑MSC | | | | | handover) each | | | | | time‑stamped. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | C | C | A list of | | | | | Location Area | | | | | Codes / Cell | | | | | Ids used during | | | | | the compilation | | | | | of the trace | | | | | record starting | | | | | with the | | | | | identity of the | | | | | cell in which | | | | | the invoking | | | | | event | | | | | originated or | | | | | terminated, | | | | | each time | | | | | stamped. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | SS Information | C | C | A list of | | | | | information | | | | | related to any | | | | | SS actions | | | | | carried out | | | | | during the | | | | | period of the | | | | | trace. | | | | | | | | | | The SS | | | | | Information | | | | | contains the SS | | | | | Code for each | | | | | SS Action, the | | | | | Basic Services | | | | | for which each | | | | | SS action was | | | | | carried out, | | | | | the type of | | | | | each SS action | | | | | carried out, a | | | | | list of SS | | | | | parameters | | | | | associated with | | | | | each SS action, | | | | | the result of | | | | | each SS action | | | | | and the Invoke | | | | | Id allocated | | | | | for each SS | | | | | Action. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | AOC Parameters | O | C | A list of the | | | | | charge advice | | | | | parameters sent | | | | | to the MS | | | | | (including on | | | | | call set‑up and | | | | | on changes as a | | | | | result of a | | | | | tariff switch | | | | | over), each | | | | | timestamped. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | MS Classmark 2 | C | C | A list of the | | | | | mobile station | | | | | classmark 2 | | | | | information | | | | | (starting with | | | | | on call | | | | | set‑up), each | | | | | timestamped. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Call | C | C | A detailed | | Termination | | | reason for the | | Diagnostics | | | release of the | | | | | connection. See | | | | | TS 32.250 ‑ | | | | | Diagnostics. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | A‑Interface | X | C | A sequential | | Messages | | | list of all | | | | | DTAP and BSSMAP | | | | | messages passed | | | | | on the | | | | | A‑Interface. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | C‑Interface | X | C | A sequential | | Messages | | | list of all MAP | | | | | messages passed | | | | | between the | | | | | Tracing MSC and | | | | | the HLR/AUC. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | D‑Interface | X | C | A sequential | | Messages | | | list of all MAP | | | | | messages passed | | | | | between the | | | | | Tracing VLR and | | | | | the HLR/AUC. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | E‑Interface | X | C | A sequential | | Messages | | | list of all MAP | | | | | messages passed | | | | | between the | | | | | Tracing MSC and | | | | | the subsequent | | | | | MSC. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | F‑Interface | X | C | A sequential | | Messages | | | list of all MAP | | | | | messages passed | | | | | between the | | | | | Tracing MSC and | | | | | the EIR. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | G‑Interface | X | C | A sequential | | Messages | | | list of all MAP | | | | | messages passed | | | | | between the | | | | | Tracing VLR and | | | | | another VLR. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Network | X | C | A sequential | | Signalling | | | list of all | | Messages | | | user part | | | | | messages e.g. | | | | | ISUP, TUP | | | | | messages. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Event Start | C | C | The time the | | Time | | | event was | | | | | started. | | | | | | | | | | It must always | | | | | appear in case | | | | | the trace | | | | | record is | | | | | already being | | | | | compiled and | | | | | the event | | | | | belonging to | | | | | this event | | | | | record for this | | | | | same subscriber | | | | | occurs. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Event Stop Time | C | C | The time the | | | | | event was | | | | | finished. | | | | | | | | | | It must always | | | | | appear in case | | | | | the trace | | | | | record is still | | | | | being compiled | | | | | due to an | | | | | ongoing event | | | | | and the event | | | | | belonging to | | | | | this event | | | | | record | | | | | finishes. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Event Number | M | M | The Event | | | | | Number is used | | | | | to identify | | | | | tracing data | | | | | belonging to | | | | | the same event. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Record | O | O | A set of | | extensions | | | network/ | | | | | manufacturer | | | | | specific | | | | | extensions to | | | | | the record. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | OR information | C | C | Information | | | | | about the use | | | | | of optimal | | | | | routeing shall | | | | | be present in | | | | | the MSC Trace | | | | | Record (applies | | | | | to MTC only) if | | | | | optimal | | | | | routeing was | | | | | tried otherwise | | | | | it shall be | | | | | absent. OR | | | | | information | | | | | contains: E.164 | | | | | address of the | | | | | GMSC, Call | | | | | reference | | | | | number used by | | | | | the GMSC for | | | | | Optimal | | | | | Routeing of | | | | | this call and | | | | | reason for | | | | | failure of | | | | | optimisation. | | | | | Error | | | | | situations | | | | | which lead to | | | | | failure of the | | | | | call, rather | | | | | than | | | | | non-optimal | | | | | routeing, are | | | | | not described | | | | | here. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | MS Classmark 3 | C | C | The MS | | | | | Classmark 3 | | | | | indicated | | | | | during the | | | | | period of the | | | | | trace | | | | | invocation, | | | | | each | | | | | timestamped. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+
## 7.3 BSS Trace Record Content
The following types of fields are supported in the 3 BSS trace record types:
Table 10: BSS Trace Record Content
+--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Field | BSS Trace | Description | | | | | Type | | | | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | | Basic | Hand-over | Radio | | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Invocation | M | M | M | TS | | Message | | | | 48.008 [4] | | | | | | invocation | | | | | | message | | | | | | which | | | | | | started the | | | | | | trace | | | | | | action. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | BTS ID | M | M | M | The ids of | | | | | | all BTSs | | | | | | accessed by | | | | | | the traced | | | | | | party during | | | | | | the period | | | | | | of the trace | | | | | | invocation | | | | | | (as per | | | | | | GSM 12 | | | | | | .20 [11]), | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | TRX ID | M | M | M | The ids of | | | | | | all TRXs | | | | | | accessed by | | | | | | the traced | | | | | | party during | | | | | | the period | | | | | | of the trace | | | | | | invocation | | | | | | (as per | | | | | | GSM 12 | | | | | | .20 [11]), | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | TRAU ID | O | O | O | The ids of | | | | | | all TRAUs | | | | | | accessed by | | | | | | the traced | | | | | | party during | | | | | | the period | | | | | | of the trace | | | | | | invocation | | | | | | (as per | | | | | | GSM 12 | | | | | | .20 [11]), | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Radio | M | M | M | The radio | | Channel | | | | channel | | Info. | | | | types and | | | | | | descriptions | | | | | | used during | | | | | | the period | | | | | | of the trace | | | | | | invocation, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | | | | | | If the trace | | | | | | record | | | | | | relates to a | | | | | | HSCSD call | | | | | | then the | | | | | | field Radio | | | | | | Channel Info | | | | | | 96 shall be | | | | | | used | | | | | | instead. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Request type | C | C | C | The reasons | | | | | | for channel | | | | | | seizure | | | | | | ( | | | | | | originating, | | | | | | terminating, | | | | | | re‑es | | | | | | tablishment, | | | | | | handover) | | | | | | (see TS | | | | | | 24. | | | | | | 008 [19]), | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | End | C | C | C | The reasons | | Indication | | | | for channel | | | | | | release (see | | | | | | TS | | | | | | 24. | | | | | | 008 [19]), | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | MS Power | X | C | C | The last MS | | | | | | power used | | | | | | before a | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | released | | | | | | (see | | | | | | GSM 12 | | | | | | .20 [11]), | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | BS Power | X | C | C | The last BS | | | | | | power used | | | | | | before a | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | released | | | | | | (see | | | | | | GSM 12 | | | | | | .20 [11]), | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Timing | X | C | C | The last | | advance | | | | timing | | | | | | advance used | | | | | | before a | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | released | | | | | | (see | | | | | | GSM 12 | | | | | | .20 [11]), | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | MS Classmark | C | C | C | The MS | | 1 | | | | Classmark 1 | | | | | | indicated | | | | | | during the | | | | | | period of | | | | | | the trace | | | | | | invocation, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | MS Classmark | C | C | C | The MS | | 2 | | | | Classmark 2 | | | | | | indicated | | | | | | during the | | | | | | period of | | | | | | the trace | | | | | | invocation, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | MS Classmark | C | C | C | The MS | | 3 | | | | Classmark 3 | | | | | | indicated | | | | | | during the | | | | | | period of | | | | | | the trace | | | | | | invocation, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | BSIC | M | M | M | This field | | | | | | is the | | | | | | combination | | | | | | of Network | | | | | | Colour Code | | | | | | and Base | | | | | | station | | | | | | Colour Code | | | | | | (see | | | | | | GSM 12 | | | | | | .20 [11]). | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | CIC | C | C | C | The | | | | | | terrestrial | | | | | | circuit | | | | | | id | | | | | | entification | | | | | | codes used | | | | | | for the call | | | | | | on which the | | | | | | trace is | | | | | | being | | | | | | performed, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped | | | | | | (see TS | | | | | | 48 | | | | | | .008 [4]). | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Handover | O | C | C | The results | | result | | | | of each | | | | | | handover | | | | | | occurring | | | | | | during the | | | | | | period of | | | | | | the trace | | | | | | invocation | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Handover | O | C | C | The reasons | | cause | | | | for starting | | | | | | each | | | | | | handover | | | | | | attempt | | | | | | during the | | | | | | period of | | | | | | the trace | | | | | | invocation | | | | | | (see TS | | | | | | 48 | | | | | | .008 [4]), | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Handover | O | C | C | The times | | duration | | | | taken | | | | | | between | | | | | | sending the | | | | | | handover | | | | | | command and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | the handover | | | | | | complete for | | | | | | each | | | | | | successful | | | | | | handover, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Target Cell | X | C | C | The target | | list | | | | cells at the | | | | | | start of | | | | | | each | | | | | | handover | | | | | | attempt, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Syn | X | C | C | The | | chronization | | | | syn | | information | | | | chronization | | | | | | values for | | | | | | each | | | | | | handover | | | | | | attempt, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | SCCP | X | O | O | Each SCCP | | connection | | | | connection | | event | | | | event used | | | | | | during the | | | | | | period of | | | | | | the trace | | | | | | invocation | | | | | | (Connection | | | | | | Request, | | | | | | Confirm, | | | | | | Refuse, | | | | | | Released, | | | | | | Released | | | | | | Complete), | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | BSSMAP | X | C | C | L3 Message | | message | | | | contents, | | | | | | during the | | | | | | period of | | | | | | the trace | | | | | | invocation, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped, | | | | | | see TS | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | 8.008 [4]. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | DTAP message | X | O | O | L3 Message | | | | | | contents, | | | | | | during the | | | | | | period of | | | | | | the trace | | | | | | invocation | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped, | | | | | | see TS | | | | | | 24 | | | | | | .008 [19]. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | RR message | X | C | C | L3 Message | | | | | | contents, | | | | | | during the | | | | | | period of | | | | | | the trace | | | | | | invocation, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped, | | | | | | see TS | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | .018 [20]. | | | | | | Only applies | | | | | | to those | | | | | | parts of the | | | | | | message | | | | | | between the | | | | | | BSC and the | | | | | | MS. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | A‑bis | X | X | C | All Abis | | Messages | | | | messages | | | | | | except | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | reports and | | | | | | power | | | | | | control, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped, | | | | | | see TS | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | 8.058 [5]. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Timed A‑bis | X | C | X | X Abis | | Messages | | | | messages | | | | | | (except | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | reports and | | | | | | power | | | | | | control) | | | | | | received | | | | | | before and Y | | | | | | Abis | | | | | | messages | | | | | | received | | | | | | after a | | | | | | handover, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | | | | | | X & Y are | | | | | | operator | | | | | | configurable | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | via MMI and | | | | | | are local to | | | | | | the BSS. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Measurement | X | X | C | All uplink | | Reports | | | | and downlink | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | reports, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped, | | | | | | see TS | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | 8.058 [5]. | | | | | | | | | | | | As a | | | | | | manufacturer | | | | | | option, the | | | | | | list of the | | | | | | ARFCN | | | | | | c | | | | | | orresponding | | | | | | to frequency | | | | | | indexes | | | | | | indicated in | | | | | | MEASUREMENT | | | | | | REPORT | | | | | | message (see | | | | | | TS 44.018 | | | | | | [20]) can | | | | | | be included | | | | | | in order to | | | | | | ease | | | | | | in | | | | | | terpretation | | | | | | of the | | | | | | measurements | | | | | | relating to | | | | | | neighbour | | | | | | cells. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Timed | X | C | X | X uplink and | | Measurement | | | | downlink | | Reports | | | | measurement | | | | | | reports | | | | | | received | | | | | | before and Y | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | reports | | | | | | received | | | | | | after a | | | | | | handover, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | | | | | | X & Y are | | | | | | operator | | | | | | configurable | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | via MMI and | | | | | | are local to | | | | | | the BSS. | | | | | | | | | | | | As a | | | | | | manufacturer | | | | | | option, the | | | | | | list of the | | | | | | ARFCN | | | | | | c | | | | | | orresponding | | | | | | to frequency | | | | | | indexes | | | | | | indicated in | | | | | | MEASUREMENT | | | | | | REPORT | | | | | | message (see | | | | | | TS 44.018 | | | | | | [20]) can | | | | | | be included | | | | | | in order to | | | | | | ease | | | | | | in | | | | | | terpretation | | | | | | of the | | | | | | measurements | | | | | | relating to | | | | | | neighbour | | | | | | cells. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Power | X | X | C | All power | | Control | | | | control | | Messages | | | | messages, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped, | | | | | | see TS | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | 8.058 [5]. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Timed Power | X | C | X | X power | | Control | | | | control | | Message | | | | messages | | | | | | received | | | | | | before and Y | | | | | | power | | | | | | control | | | | | | messages | | | | | | received | | | | | | after a | | | | | | handover, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | | | | | | X & Y are | | | | | | operator | | | | | | configurable | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | via MMI and | | | | | | are local to | | | | | | the BSS. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Record | O | O | O | A set of | | extensions | | | | network/ | | | | | | manufacturer | | | | | | specific | | | | | | extensions | | | | | | to the | | | | | | record. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+ | Radio | C | C | C | The radio | | Channel Info | | | | channel | | 96 | | | | types and | | | | | | descriptions | | | | | | used during | | | | | | multislot | | | | | | calls for | | | | | | the period | | | | | | of the trace | | | | | | invocation, | | | | | | each | | | | | | timestamped. | | | | | | If this | | | | | | field is | | | | | | present, the | | | | | | field Radio | | | | | | Channel Info | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | ignored. | +--------------+--------------+-------------+-------+--------------+
## 7.4 HLR Trace Record Content
The following types of fields are supported in the 2 HLR trace record types:
Table 11: HLR Trace Record Content
+-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Field | HLR Trace Type | Description | | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | | Basic | Detailed | | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Invoking Event | M | M | Event invoking | | | | | trace. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Served MSISDN | C | C | Primary MSISDN | | | | | of the party | | | | | being traced. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | MSC Address | C | C | Entity number | | | | | of the serving | | | | | MSC (TS | | | | | 32.250 [10]). | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | VLR number | C | C | Entity number | | | | | of the serving | | | | | VLR. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | SS Information | C | C | A list of | | | | | information | | | | | related to any | | | | | SS actions | | | | | carried out | | | | | during the | | | | | period of the | | | | | trace. | | | | | | | | | | The SS | | | | | Information | | | | | contains the SS | | | | | Code for each | | | | | SS Action, the | | | | | Basic Services | | | | | for which each | | | | | SS action was | | | | | carried out, | | | | | the type of | | | | | each SS action | | | | | carried out, a | | | | | list of SS | | | | | parameters | | | | | associated with | | | | | each SS action, | | | | | the result of | | | | | each SS action | | | | | and the Invoke | | | | | Id allocated | | | | | for each SS | | | | | Action. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Subscriber data | O | C | The subscriber | | | | | data sent to | | | | | the VLR after a | | | | | location | | | | | update. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Roaming number | C | C | The roaming | | | | | number returned | | | | | from the | | | | | serving VLR. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | SM Delivery | C | C | The outcome of | | outcome | | | a MT SM | | | | | delivery. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Alert reason | C | C | Indicates the | | | | | reason why the | | | | | SM service | | | | | centre was | | | | | alerted. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Service Centre | C | C | The address of | | address | | | the SM service | | | | | centre. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | MAP interface | X | C | A sequential | | messages | | | list of all MAP | | | | | messages passed | | | | | to and from the | | | | | Tracing HLR. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Event Start | C | C | The time the | | Time | | | event was | | | | | started. | | | | | | | | | | It must always | | | | | appear in case | | | | | the trace | | | | | record is | | | | | already being | | | | | compiled and | | | | | the event | | | | | belonging to | | | | | this event | | | | | record for this | | | | | same subscriber | | | | | occurs. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Event Stop Time | C | C | The time the | | | | | event was | | | | | finished. | | | | | | | | | | It must always | | | | | appear in case | | | | | the trace | | | | | record is still | | | | | being compiled | | | | | due to an | | | | | ongoing event | | | | | and the event | | | | | belonging to | | | | | this event | | | | | record | | | | | finishes. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Event Number | M | M | The Event | | | | | Number is used | | | | | to identify | | | | | tracing data | | | | | belonging to | | | | | the same event. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Record | O | O | A set of | | extensions | | | network/ | | | | | manufacturer | | | | | specific | | | | | extensions to | | | | | the record. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | OR information | C | C | Information | | | | | about the use | | | | | of optimal | | | | | routeing shall | | | | | be present in | | | | | the HLR Trace | | | | | Record if | | | | | optimal | | | | | routeing was | | | | | tried, | | | | | otherwise it | | | | | shall be | | | | | absent. OR | | | | | information | | | | | contains: E.164 | | | | | address of the | | | | | GMSC, Call | | | | | reference | | | | | number used by | | | | | the GMSC for | | | | | Optimal | | | | | Routeing of | | | | | this call and | | | | | reason for | | | | | failure of | | | | | optimisation. | | | | | Error | | | | | situations | | | | | which lead to | | | | | failure of the | | | | | call, rather | | | | | than | | | | | non-optimal | | | | | routeing, are | | | | | not described | | | | | here. | +-----------------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+
## 7.5 Trace Record Fields
Only those fields which are not defined in TS 32.250 [10] or are named
differently from an identical field in TS 32.250 [10] are included here. Only
supplementary information is included in this clause; where a description in
tables 9 ‑ 11 is sufficient, no additional information is provided.
### 7.5.1 Radio Channel Information
When instructing the mobile to move to a new channel during procedures like
Assignment, Immediate Assignment and Handover, the BSS must give the mobile
all the necessary information such as frequency (frequencies if hopping),
timeslot number, channel type etc. This is done using the Channel Description
or Channel Description 2 IE types defined in TS 44.018 [20]. The structure of
the Channel Description or Channel Description 2 depends on whether or not
frequency hopping is in use. These two cases are described below:
**No Frequency Hopping**
Channel Description (or Channel Description 2) IE type (TS 44.018 [20]),
contains the following:
\- Channel Type (TCH, SDCCH etc.);
\- Timeslot Number (0 to 7);
\- TDMA Offset (0 to 7, used to identify SDCCH etc. within a timeslot);
\- Training sequence number;
\- Absolute Radio Carrier Frequency number.
**Frequency Hopping**
Channel Description (or Channel Description 2) IE type (TS 44.018 [20]),
contains the following:
\- Channel Type (TCH, SDCCH etc.);
\- Timeslot Number (0 to 7);
\- TDMA Offset (0 to 7, used to identify SDCCH etc. within a timeslot);
\- Training sequence number;
\- Hopping Sequence Number;
\- Mobile Allocation Index Offset.
In this case, the channel description does not contain the list of frequencies
to be used for hopping and an additional field indicating the mobile
allocation is required. The mobile allocation is the set of frequencies to be
used for hopping and is obtained from any of the following:
a) Cell Channel Description and Mobile Allocation;
b) Frequency Channel sequence;
c) Frequency List;
d) Frequency Short List.
In summary, to identify a GSM channel unambiguously the \"Channel
Description\" field is sufficient on its own when frequency hopping is not
used but mobile allocation is also required when hopping is in use.
In case of multislot call (HSCSD), when a procedure like Assignment, Handover
or Configuration Change occurs, the BSS provides the mobile with the
description of the whole set of timeslots allocated to it. In some specific
cases, this is done by using the Channel Description 2 defined in TS 44.018
[20]. In other cases this is done by using the Multislot Allocation defined in
TS 44.018 [20]. For this reason, both of these IEs may be included in the
trace record.
### 7.5.2 OR information
TS 23.079 [17] defines three logically distinct PLMNs, which are involved in
the handling of an optimally routed call:
\- The Interrogating PLMN (IPLMN, which is also the VPLMN of the A subscriber)
which interrogates the HPLMN of the B subscriber to obtain information to
route the call to that subscriber or to the forwarded-to destination defined
by the called mobile subscriber;
\- the HPLMN of the called mobile subscriber (HPLMNB);
\- the VPLMN of the called mobile subscriber (VPLMNB).
For the communicating Network Elements in the IPLMN, HPLMNB and VPLMNB for an
optimally routed call and for all the messages and call scenarios see TS
23.079 [17]. The Trace Record contents described below apply for all call
cases described in TS 23.079 [17].
Information about the use of optimal routing shall be present in HLRB, if HLRB
receives Send Routing Information message containing OR interrogation
indicator. OR interrogation indicator is present when the interrogation is
from a GMSC not in the same PLMN as the HLR.
In this case the HLR trace record shall contain the following information:
\- the E.164 address of the interrogating GMSC;
\- Call reference number used by the GMSC for Optimal Routing of the call;
\- indication that OR was applied or the reason for failure of optimisation.
The reasons for failure that can be stated in HLR are as follows:
\- OR was not allowed in HLRB;
\- OR was not allowed for a subscriber;
\- the charging requirements for OR are contravened;
\- OR was not allowed in VLRB.
Error situations which lead to failure of the call, rather than non-optimal
routing, are not described in the OR information part of the Trace Record.
Information about the use of optimal routing shall be present in VMSCB if
VMSCB receives Provide Roaming Number including an indication that this is a
request for an OR call.
In this case the MSC trace record of VMSCB shall contain the following
information:
\- the E.164 address of the interrogating GMSC;
\- Call reference number used by the GMSC for Optimal Routing of the call;
\- indication that OR was applied or the reason for failure of optimisation.
The reasons for failure that can be stated in VMSCB are as follows:
\- (In late call forwarding) Resume Call Handling negative response was
received from GMSCA and the call will be forwarded at VMSCB.
\- OR was not allowed in VLRB.
Error situations which lead to failure of the call, rather than non-optimal
routing, are not described in the OR information part of the Trace Record.
There is no tracing in GMSCA. OR information is not available in the MSC trace
record produced in VMSCA.
# 8 Creation of Trace Records
As has already been stated, the sequence of events for the creation of a trace
record is as follows:
1) Trace is activated for a particular IMSI or IMEI.
2) The subscriber undertakes such action as to cause an invoking event to
start.
3) The compilation of a trace record commences in the NEF as described in the
Trace Type and under the control of the traceRecord attribute recordCriteria.
This allows trace records to be produced at times other than when the invoking
event ends, e.g. after a specific event has occurred.
4) If a further invoking event occurs trace data related to this event is
collected in the same trace record.
5) All invoking events end or the recordCriteria attribute is satisfied, (see
3) above), or for the BSS only, an MSC INVOKE TRACE message is received with
the BSS record type field set to \"No BSS Trace\" and the message relates to
an ongoing trace.
6) The record is forwarded to the OSF or local filestore (depending on
priority).
In certain circumstances it may be undesirable for the invoking event to have
to end before the record is forwarded to the OSF or local filestore. Examples
of these circumstances may be:
1) The operator requires to know a subscriber\'s whereabouts at the moment he
starts making a call.
2) The operator requires to know when a handover occurs, as soon as it occurs.
3) The buffer in the NEF may be too full to contain any more trace record
data.
This is resolved through the use of the attribute recordCriteria in the
traceControl object. When this attribute is set to anything other than
noCriteria, records are forwarded to either the filestore or the OSF as soon
as the specified criteria is satisfied.
## 8.1 Trace Record Control
### 8.1.1 General
The trace record collection and generation processes are controlled by the
**traceControl** managed object class. There shall be one, and only one,
instance of this object class for each NEF that supports the trace function.
This object carries out the following functions:
1) to cause the data to be collected in the NEF as defined by the Trace Type;
2) to define the criteria by which records are generated;
3) to generate the trace record notifications.
The system management functions are:
\- Create traceControl;
\- Delete traceControl;
\- Get Attribute;
\- Set Attribute.
The notifications are:
\- stateChange;
\- objectCreation;
\- objectDeletion;
\- attributeValueChange;
\- traceReport.
### 8.1.2 Attributes
There is one instance of this object class in each NEF that supports the trace
function. It contains the following attributes:
* * *
Name M/O Value‑Set traceControlId RDN Single administrativeState M Single
operationalState M Single recordCriteria M Single eventTypes O Single
* * *
**traceControlId**
This attribute is a unique identifier for the traceControl MOI in the NEF and
is used as an RDN.
**administrativeState**
This attribute defines the administrative state of the traceControl MOI in the
NEF (Recommendation X.731 [16]).
**operationalState**
This attribute defines the operational status of the traceControl MOI in the
NEF (Recommendation X.731 [16]).
**recordCriteria**
This attribute, if set, defines the criteria by which trace records are
generated in the NEF. It may have one or more of the following values:
* * *
**noCriteria** The NEF will not output trace records of the event type.
**event** The NEF will output a trace record every time a particular
recordable event occurs, the nature of that event being defined in the
attribute eventTypes.
* * *
In all cases, a trace record will be produced at the end of the invoking
event, or if other criteria are set by the manufacturer, when these criteria
are met.
**eventTypes**
This attribute defines a set of recordable events, the appearance of any will
trigger a trace record to be output, assuming the \"event\" value is set in
the recordCriteria attribute.
### 8.1.3 Other Trace Record Criteria
Regardless of the trace record criteria set by the operator, there are
circumstances under which a trace record may be generated, with the criteria
being set by the manufacturer. These will usually be due to a lack of
resources such as \"Buffer Full\" or \"Processor Overload\".
# 9 Trace Record Transfer
## 9.1 General
This clause is concerned solely with the management of the trace record
collection process. This service component controls the transfer of the trace
records from the NEFs to the OSF. The conceptual model is illustrated in
figure 5, which employs both the event report function (CCITT X.734 [14]) and
the log control function (CCITT X.735 [15]).
The trace control function collects traceable events within the NEF and
formats them into trace records. These trace records may be stored locally
within the NEF filestore or transferred to the OSF in the form of event
reports. This is controlled by means of the \"priority\" indicator, which is a
part of the trace type. If the \"priority\" indicator is not set then the
trace records shall stored within the local filestore and subsequently
transferred to the OSF in bulk via FTAM.
If a trace is activated with the \"priority\" indicator set then the trace
records shall be sent to the OSF either direct by the trace control function
or through Event Forwarding Discriminators (EFDs).
If EFDs are used then all trace records are offered to the EFDs. The EFDs
determine which of the records are to be transmitted to the OSF in the form of
event reports and the Operation System Id field in the header is ignored. The
EDFs have complex filter constructs, which allow the operator to define the
criteria for destinations and filters.
If EFDs are not used then all priority records are forwarded to the OSF whose
address is given in the Operation System Id field. The NEF is required to
supply additional information to provide the OS management application entity
title.
Finally, the trace records may also be stored in the form of log entries
within the log of the NEF. It is up to the operator to decide if the log
function is needed in parallel with the event reporting and file store. Once
stored, the log records may be individually accessed by the OSF via the
appropriate object management functions. Care should be taken of filter
criteria for log records to avoid unnecessary overheads.
Figure 5: Data collection model
This service component contains the following groups of TMN management
functions:
\- bulk record transfer;
\- event reporting;
\- log control;
\- log access.
## 9.2 Transfer of Records
### 9.2.1 Bulk record transfer
This group of TMN functions is concerned with the bulk transfer of trace
records from the NEF record filestore to the OSF.
The trace records shall be transferred from the NEF to the OSF by the use of
FTAM services. For further details of the use of FTAM see GSM 12.01 [8].
In addition to the simple file transfer services provided by FTAM,
peer‑to‑peer application process communication may also be supported. The use
of CMIS services for the uploading of files from the NEF to the OSF is
specified in the GSM 12.00 [7].
When the procedure defined in GSM 12.00 [7] and GSM 12.01 [8] are used to
transfer the trace records, the file type shall be traceRecords and the format
of the file is given by the type TraceFileFormat.
### 9.2.2 Log control
This function permits the trace record to be stored and retrieved from logs
within the NEF. The logging of these records is performed in accordance with
the log control function specified in CCITT X.735 [15] and no additional
management functions are required.
### 9.2.3 Log access
This TMN function controls the access to the log described above. Each log
defined may contain one or more log entries. Each log entry contains a single
trace record.
NOTE: The term log entry has been used instead of the term log record to avoid
confusion between records contained within the local filestore and the records
stored within logs.
For further details concerning the use of logs, see CCITT X.735 [15].
The following system management functions are required:
\- Get/Delete traceLogEntry.
### 9.2.4 Event Reporting
#### 9.2.4.1 Event Forwarding Discriminators
For short‑term recording of tracing events and for more complicated filter
conditions the event forwarding discriminator construct defined in CCITT X.734
[14] and CCITT X.721 [13] can be employed. The event forwarding discriminator
construct is extremely flexible permitting the combination of a number of
fields and logical operations with a wide variety of scheduling options. The
EFD also controls the destinations to which the event reports are sent.
Several such filters may be defined and scheduled for operation at different
times and for different time periods.
The following system management functions are required:
\- Create/Set/Get/Delete eventForwardingDiscrimator.
#### 9.2.4.2 Direct Transfer by Trace Control Function
This function permits the NEF to transmit trace records direct to the OSF. In
general the trace record shall be sent on completion of the call or the
traceable event. This function is controlled by means of the \"priority\"
indicator, which is contained in the trace type. If the priority indicator is
not set, then the trace records shall be stored on file within the NE
filestore. These records may be subsequently collected via bulk record
transfer as described in subclause 9.2.1. If the trace type specified on
activation includes the \"priority\" indicator then all of the records shall
be sent via trace reports to the OSF specified by the operation system id.
NOTE: As the operations system id. provided is an AddressString (e.g. CCITT
E.164 number) some form of translation or directory service may be required
within the NE in order to provide the appropriate OS management application
entity title.
The following system management functions are required:
\- Notification traceReport.
# 10 Managed Object Model
## 10.1 Naming Hierarchy
The naming (containment) tree for the objects defined within this clause is
illustrated in figure 6. It should be noted that the GSM 12.08 object classes
are shown relative to the \"managedElement\". The MO traceControl is contained
in every NEF (mscFunction, hlrFunction and bssFunction from GSM 12.00 [7])
that supports trace functionality. For further details of the upper layers of
the containment tree see GSM 12.00 [7]. For further details concerning the log
class see CCITT X.721 [13].
Figure 6: Trace Record Transfer Containment Tree
## 10.2 Inheritance
The inheritance tree for the present document is illustrated in figure 7
below. The object classes \"log\", \"logRecord\", \"eventLogRecord\" and
\"eventForwardingDiscriminator\" are defined in CCITT X.721 [13].
Figure 7: Trace Record Transfer Inheritance Tree
## 10.3
## Object Classes
### 10.3.1 tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr
tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr MANAGED OBJECT CLASS
DERIVED FROM
\"CCITT Rec. X.721: 1992\":top;
CHARACTERIZED BY
tracedHomeSubscriberInHlrPackage,
\"CCITT Rec. M.3100: 1992\": createDeleteNotificationsPackage,
\"CCITT Rec. M.3100: 1992\": attributeValueChangeNotificationPackage;
CONDITIONAL PACKAGES
operationSystemIdPackage PRESENT IF \"an instance supports it\";
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑objectClass 100};
tracedHomeSubscriberInHlrPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
tracedHomeSubscriberInHlrBehaviour;
ATTRIBUTES
imsi GET,
traceActivatedInVlr GET,
traceReference GET,
traceType GET,
hlrTraceType GET,
mapErrorOnTrace GET
;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 100};
tracedHomeSubscriberInHlrBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.5.1.1\";
operationSystemIdPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
operationSystemIdBehaviour;
ATTRIBUTES
operationSystemId GET
;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 200};
operationSystemIdBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This package provides the attribute to specify destination operation system.
The use of this attribute is described in chapter Trace record transfer. The
package is conditional to allow the attribute operationSystemId to be
optional.\";
### 10.3.2 tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr
tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr MANAGED OBJECT CLASS
DERIVED FROM
\"CCITT Rec. X.721: 1992\":top;
CHARACTERIZED BY
tracedForeignSubscriberInVlrPackage,
\"CCITT Rec. M.3100: 1992\": createDeleteNotificationsPackage,
\"CCITT Rec. M.3100: 1992\": attributeValueChangeNotificationPackage;
CONDITIONAL PACKAGES
operationSystemIdPackage PRESENT IF \"an instance supports it\";
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑objectClass 200};
tracedForeignSubscriberInVlrPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
tracedForeignSubscriberInVlrBehaviour;
ATTRIBUTES
imsi GET,
foreignSubscriberRegisteredInVlr GET,
traceReference GET,
traceType GET
;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 300};
tracedForeignSubscriberInVlrBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.6.1.1\";
### 10.3.3 tracedEquipmentInVlr
tracedEquipmentInVlr MANAGED OBJECT CLASS
DERIVED FROM
\"CCITT Rec. X.721: 1992\":top;
CHARACTERIZED BY
tracedEquipmentInVlrPackage,
\"CCITT Rec. M.3100: 1992\": createDeleteNotificationsPackage,
\"CCITT Rec. M.3100: 1992\": attributeValueChangeNotificationPackage;
CONDITIONAL PACKAGES
operationSystemIdPackage PRESENT IF \"an instance supports it\";
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑objectClass 300};
tracedEquipmentInVlrPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
tracedEquipmentInVlrBehaviour;
ATTRIBUTES
imei GET,
equipmentRegisteredInVlr GET,
traceReference GET,
traceType GET
;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 400};
tracedEquipmentInVlrBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.6.1.2\";
### 10.3.4 Trace control
This managed object class represents the trace collection process and
generates the trace report notifications. There shall be one, and only one,
instance of this object class for each NEF that supports the trace function.
traceControl MANAGED OBJECT CLASS
DERIVED FROM \"CCITT Rec. X.721: 1992\":top;
CHARACTERIZED BY
traceControlPackage,
\"CCITT Rec. M.3100: 1992\": attributeValueChangeNotificationPackage,
\"CCITT Rec. M.3100: 1992\": createDeleteNotificationsPackage,
\"CCITT Rec. M.3100: 1992\": stateChangeNotificationPackage;
CONDITIONAL PACKAGES
eventTypeCriteriaPackage PRESENT IF \"an instance supports it\"
;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑objectClass 400};
traceControlPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
traceControlBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This managed object class is employed to generate trace report
notifications. There can be only one instance of this object class in each NEF
that supports trace functionality.\ For the administrativeState, the value
LOCKED causes all tracing activity in the NEF to cease. The value UNLOCKED
allows tracing activity. The value SHUTTING‑DOWN prevents any new invocation
of a trace. Current invocations will continue until they are finished. When
all current invocations finish, the state will automatically transit to
LOCKED.\";;
ATTRIBUTES
traceControlId GET,
\"CCITT Rec. X.721: 1992\": administrativeState GET‑REPLACE,
\"CCITT Rec. X.721: 1992\": operationalState GET,
recordCriteria GET‑REPLACE ADD‑REMOVE;
NOTIFICATIONS
traceReport;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 500};
eventTypeCriteriaPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
eventTypeCriteriaBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This package provides the attribute to specify eventType record generation
criteria. The use of this attribute is described in clause 8.2.2. The package
is conditional to allow the attribute to be optional.\";;
ATTRIBUTES
eventTypes GET‑REPLACE ADD‑REMOVE;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 520};
### 10.3.5 Trace log record
This managed object class is a subclass of the \"eventLogRecord\" class
described in CCITT X.735 and defined in CCITT X.721 and therefore inherits all
of the properties of both the \"logRecord\" and \"eventLogRecord\" classes.
This includes the name binding \"logRecord‑log\" defined in CCITT X.721.
traceLogRecord MANAGED OBJECT CLASS
DERIVED FROM \"CCITT Rec. X.721: 1992\":eventLogRecord;
CHARACTERIZED BY
traceLogRecordPackage;
CONDITIONAL PACKAGES
traceReferenceLogPackage PRESENT IF \"an instance supports it\",
mscBssTraceTypeLogPackage PRESENT IF \"an instance supports it\",
hlrTraceTypeLogPackage PRESENT IF \"an instance supports it\",
mscBssTraceTypeUsedLogPackage PRESENT IF \"an instance supports it\",
hlrTraceTypeUsedLogPackage PRESENT IF \"an instance supports it\";
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑objectClass 500};
traceLogRecordPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
traceLogRecordBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS \"This managed object is used to store a single trace record.\";;
ATTRIBUTES
traceRecordContent GET;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 600};
traceReferenceLogPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
traceReferenceLogBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This package provides the attribute to specify traceReference for trace
report searching criteria in the Log. Optional.\";;
ATTRIBUTES
traceReference GET;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 610};
mscBssTraceTypeLogPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
mscBssTraceTypeLogBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This package provides the attribute to specify searching criteria to be
mscBssTraceType of trace report in the Log. Optional.\";;
ATTRIBUTES
mscBssTraceType GET;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 620};
hlrTraceTypeLogPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
hlrTraceTypeLogBehaviour BEHAVIOR
DEFINED AS
\"This package provides the attribute to specify searching criteria to be
hlrTraceType of trace report in the Log. Optional.\";;
ATTRIBUTES
hlrTraceType GET;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 630};
mscBssTraceTypeUsedLogPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
mscBssTraceTypeUsedLogBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This package provides the attribute to specify searching criteria to be
mscBssTraceTypeUsed of trace report in the Log. Optional.\";;
ATTRIBUTES
mscBssTraceTypeUsed GET;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 640};
hlrTraceTypeUsedLogPackage PACKAGE
BEHAVIOUR
hlrTraceTypeUsedLogBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This package provides the attribute to specify searching criteria to be
hlrTraceTypeUsed of trace report in the Log. Optional.\";;
ATTRIBUTES
hlrTraceTypeUsed GET;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑package 650};
### 10.3.6 Log
This managed object class is described in CCITT X.735 and defined in CCITT
X.721.
### 10.3.7 Event Forwarding Discriminators
The use of event forwarding discriminators (EFDs) is described in detail in
CCITT X.734. The object class itself is a subclass of the \"discriminator\"
object class. Both discriminator and event forwarding discriminator classes
are defined in CCITT X.721.
## 10.4 Attributes
### 10.4.1 traceActivatedInVlr
traceActivatedInVlr ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
Trace‑DataTypes.TraceStatus;
MATCHES FOR
EQUALITY;
BEHAVIOUR
traceActivatedInVlrBehaviour;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 10};
traceActivatedInVlrBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.5.1.2.1\";
### 10.4.2 foreignSubscriberRegisteredInVlr
foreignSubscriberRegisteredInVlr ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
Trace‑DataTypes.TraceStatus;
MATCHES FOR
EQUALITY;
BEHAVIOUR
foreignSubscriberRegisteredInVlrBehaviour;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 20};
foreignSubscriberRegisteredInVlrBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.6.1.3.1\";
### 10.4.3 equipmentRegisteredInVlr
equipmentRegisteredInVlr ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
Trace‑DataTypes.TraceStatus;
MATCHES FOR
EQUALITY;
BEHAVIOUR
equipmentRegisteredInVlrBehaviour;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 30};
equipmentRegisteredInVlrBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.6.1.3.2\";
### 10.4.4 mapErrorOnTrace
mapErrorOnTrace ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
Trace‑DataTypes.MapErrorOnTrace;
MATCHES FOR
EQUALITY, ORDERING;
BEHAVIOUR
mapErrorOnTraceBehaviour;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 40};
mapErrorOnTraceBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.5.1.2.1\";
### 10.4.5 IMEI
imei ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
MAP‑CommonDataTypes.IMEI;
MATCHES FOR
EQUALITY, ORDERING;
BEHAVIOUR
imeiBehaviour;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 50};
imeiBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.6.1.3.2\";
### 10.4.6 IMSI
imsi ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
MAP‑CommonDataTypes.IMSI;
MATCHES FOR
EQUALITY, ORDERING;
BEHAVIOUR
imsiBehaviour;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 60};
imsiBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.6.1.3.1\";
### 10.4.7 Trace record content
traceRecordContent ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.TraceRecord;
BEHAVIOUR
traceRecordContentBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This attribute contains the contents of a trace record.\";;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 70};
### 10.4.8 Trace control id.
traceControlId ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.TraceControlId;
MATCHES FOR EQUALITY;
BEHAVIOUR
traceControlIdBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This attribute uniquely identifies a trace control object.\";;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 80};
### 10.4.9 HLR Trace type
hlrTraceType ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.TraceType;
MATCHES FOR EQUALITY;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 90};
### 10.4.10 Trace reference
traceReference ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.TraceReference;
MATCHES FOR EQUALITY, ORDERING;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 100};
### 10.4.11 Trace type
traceType ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.TraceType;
MATCHES FOR EQUALITY;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 110};
### 10.4.12 Record criteria
recordCriteria ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.RecordCriteria;
MATCHES FOR EQUALITY;
BEHAVIOUR
recordCriteriaBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This attribute specifies the criteria for the generation of a trace record
by the network element.\";;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 120};
### 10.4.13 Event types
eventTypes ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.EventTypes;
MATCHES FOR EQUALITY;
BEHAVIOUR
eventTypeBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This attribute specifies the type of event triggering the generation of a
trace record by the network element.\";;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 140};
### 10.4.14 Operation system ID
operationSystemId ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.OmcId;
MATCHES FOR EQUALITY;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 160};
### 10.4.15 Operational State
This attribute is described in Recommendation X.731 and the syntax is defined
in X.721.
### 10.4.16 Administrative State
This attribute is described in Recommendation X.731 and the syntax is defined
in X.721.
### 10.4.17 MSC BSS trace type used
mscBssTraceTypeUsed ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.TraceType;
MATCHES FOR EQUALITY;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 170};
### 10.4.18 HLR trace type used
hlrTraceTypeUsed ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.TraceType;
MATCHES FOR EQUALITY;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 180};
### 10.4.19 MSC BSS trace type
mscBssTraceType ATTRIBUTE
WITH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.TraceType;
MATCHES FOR EQUALITY;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑attribute 190};
## 10.5 Notifications
### 10.5.1 General
All notifications listed below are defined in CCITT X.721:
\- attributeValueChange;
\- objectCreation;
\- objectDeletion;
\- stateChange.
### 10.5.2 Trace report
traceReport NOTIFICATION
BEHAVIOUR
traceReportBehaviour;
WITH INFORMATION SYNTAX Trace‑DataTypes.TraceRecord
AND ATTRIBUTE IDS
traceReference traceReference,
mscBssTraceType mscBssTraceType,
hlrTraceType hlrTraceType,
mscBssTraceTypeUsed mscBssTraceTypeUsed,
hlrTraceTypeUsed hlrTraceTypeUsed;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑notification 100};
traceReportBehaviour BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"This notification is issued by the trace control function to transmit a
trace report to the OS. The attribute Ids may be used by Event Forwarding
Discriminators to specify additional filter conditions.\";
## 10.6 Name Bindings
### 10.6.1 tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr‑hlrFunction Name Binding
tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr‑hlrFunction NAME BINDING
SUBORDINATE OBJECT CLASS tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr;
NAMED BY
SUPERIOR OBJECT CLASS \"prETS 300 612‑1:1995\":hlrFunction;
WITH ATTRIBUTE imsi;
BEHAVIOUR tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr‑hlrFunctionBhv;
CREATE;
DELETE;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑nameBinding 100};
tracedHomeSubscriberInHlr‑hlrFunctionBhv BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.5\";
### 10.6.2 tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr‑vlrFunction Name Binding
tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr‑vlrFunction NAME BINDING
SUBORDINATE OBJECT CLASS tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr;
NAMED BY
SUPERIOR OBJECT CLASS \"prETS 300 612‑1:1995\":vlrFunction;
WITH ATTRIBUTE imsi;
BEHAVIOUR tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr‑vlrFunctionBhv;
CREATE;
DELETE;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑nameBinding 200};
tracedForeignSubscriberInVlr‑vlrFunctionBhv BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.6\";
### 10.6.3 tracedEquipmentInVlr‑vlrFunction Name Binding
tracedEquipmentInVlr‑vlrFunction NAME BINDING
SUBORDINATE OBJECT CLASS tracedEquipmentInVlr;
NAMED BY
SUPERIOR OBJECT CLASS \"prETS 300 612‑1:1995\":vlrFunction;
WITH ATTRIBUTE imei;
BEHAVIOUR tracedEquipmentInVlr‑vlrFunctionBhv;
CREATE;
DELETE;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑nameBinding 300};
tracedEquipmentInVlr‑vlrFunctionBhv BEHAVIOUR
DEFINED AS
\"see TS 52.008 clause 5.6\";
### 10.6.4 traceLogRecord‑Log Name Binding
traceLogRecord‑Log NAME BINDING
SUBORDINATE OBJECT CLASS traceLogRecord;
NAMED BY SUPERIOR OBJECT CLASS \"CCITT Rec. X.721: 1992\":log;
WITH ATTRIBUTE \"CCITT Rec. X.721: 1992\":logRecordId;
DELETE;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑nameBinding 400};
### 10.6.5 traceControl‑hlrFunction Name Binding
traceControl‑hlrFunction NAME BINDING
SUBORDINATE OBJECT CLASS traceControl;
NAMED BY
SUPERIOR OBJECT CLASS \"prETS 300 612‑1:1995\":hlrFunction;
WITH ATTRIBUTE traceControlId;
CREATE;
DELETE;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑nameBinding 500};
### 10.6.6 traceControl‑mscFunction Name Binding
traceControl‑mscFunction NAME BINDING
SUBORDINATE OBJECT CLASS traceControl;
NAMED BY
SUPERIOR OBJECT CLASS \"prETS 300 612‑1:1995\":mscFunction;
WITH ATTRIBUTE traceControlId;
CREATE;
DELETE;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑nameBinding 600};
### 10.6.7 traceControl‑bssFunction Name Binding
traceControl‑bssFunction NAME BINDING
SUBORDINATE OBJECT CLASS traceControl;
NAMED BY
SUPERIOR OBJECT CLASS \"prETS 300 612‑1:1995\":bssFunction;
WITH ATTRIBUTE traceControlId;
CREATE;
DELETE;
REGISTERED AS {Trace‑DataTypes.gsm‑1208‑nameBinding 700};
# 11 Syntax
Trace-DataTypes {ccitt (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain
(0) gsm-Operation-Maintenance (3) gsm‑12‑08 (8) informationModel (0)
asn1Module (2)}
DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- EXPORTS everything
IMPORTS
gsm‑12‑08
FROM GSM-DomainDefinitions {ccitt (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0)
mobileDomain (0) gsm-Operation-Maintenance (3) gsm‑12‑30 (30) informationModel
(0) asn1Module (2) gsm-OM-DomainDefinitions (0) version (1)}
SS-Info,
InterrogateSS-Res,
SS-UserData,
Password,
RegisterSS-Arg,
SS-ForBS-Code,
USSD-Arg,
USSD-Res,
GuidanceInfo
FROM MAP-SS-DataTypes {ccitt (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0)
mobileDomain (0) gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-SS-DataTypes (14) version2
(2)}
AddressString, ISDN-AddressString, ISDN-SubaddressString, BasicServiceCode,
IMSI, IMEI
FROM MAP-CommonDataTypes { ccitt identified-organization (4) etsi(0)
mobileDomain (0) gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-CommonDataTypes (18) version2
(2) }
BearerServiceCode
FROM MAP-BS-Code { ccitt identified-organization (4) etsi(0) mobileDomain (0)
gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-BS-Code (20) version2 (2) }
CallReferenceNumber
FROM MAP-CH-DataTypes { ccitt identified-organization (4) etsi (0)
mobileDomain (0) gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-CH-DataTypes (13) version3
(3)}
TeleserviceCode
FROM MAP-TS-Code { ccitt identified-organization (4) etsi(0) mobileDomain (0)
gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-TS-Code (19) version2 (2) }
SS-Code
FROM MAP-SS-Code { ccitt identified-organization (4) etsi(0) mobileDomain (0)
gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-SS-Code (15) version2 (2) }
SubscriberData
FROM MAP-MS-DataTypes { ccitt identified-organization (4) etsi(0) mobileDomain
(0) gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-MS-DataTypes (11) version2 (2) }
SM-DeliveryOutcome,
AlertReason
FROM MAP-SM-DataTypes { ccitt identified-organization (4) etsi(0) mobileDomain
(0) gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-SM-DataTypes (16) version2 (2) }
ERROR
FROM TCAPMessages {ccitt recommendation q 773 modules (2) messages (1)
version2 (2)}
ObjectInstance
FROM CMIP‑1 {joint-iso-ccitt ms(9) cmip(1) modules (0) protocol (3)}
ManagementExtension
FROM Attribute-ASN1Module {joint-iso-ccitt ms(9) smi(3) part2 (2)
asn1Module(2) 1}
AOCParameters, Diagnostics, LocationAreaAndCell, IMSIorIMEI
FROM GSM1205-DataTypes { ccitt (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0)
mobileDomain (0) gsm-Operation-Maintenance (3) gsm‑12‑05 (5) informationModel
(0) asn1Module (2) 1 }
AbsoluteRFChannelNo
FROM GSM1220TypeModule {ccitt (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0)
mobileDomain (0) gsm-Operation-Maintenance (3) gsm-12-20 (20) informationModel
(0) asn1Module (2) asn1TypeModule (0)};
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\-- OBJECT IDENTIFIERS
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
gsm‑1208-informationModel OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {gsm‑12‑08 informationModel
(0)}
gsm‑1208-objectClass OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {gsm‑1208-informationModel
managedObjectClass (3)}
gsm‑1208-package OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {gsm‑1208-informationModel
package (4)}
gsm‑1208-nameBinding OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {gsm‑1208-informationModel
nameBinding (6)}
gsm‑1208-attribute OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {gsm‑1208-informationModel
attribute (7)}
gsm‑1208-notification OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {gsm‑1208-informationModel
notification (10)}
\--these values are based on ETR 128 June 1994 (GSM 12.30, ETSI object
\--identifier tree; Common domain Mobile domain O&M managed object
\--registration definition.
\--Resulting values are e.g. {0 4 0 0 3 8 0 3 zzz} for gsm‑1208-objectClass.
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\-- TRACE ACTIVATION
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TraceStatus ::= BOOLEAN
\-- TRUE = active
\-- FALSE = active pending
TraceType ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))
\-- see TS 52.008 subclause 6.1 for encoding of mscBssTraceType
\-- see TS 52.008 subclause 6.2 for encoding of hlrTraceType
MapErrorOnTrace ::= ENUMERATED
{
noError (0),
systemFailure (1),
dataMissing (2),
unexpectedDataValue (3),
facilityNotSupported (4),
unidentifiedSubscriber (5),
tracingBufferFull (6)
}
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\-- TRACE RECORD
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TraceRecord ::= SET
{
tracedParty [0] IMSIorIMEI,
traceReference [1] TraceReference,
transactionID [2] TransactionID OPTIONAL,
omcID [3] OmcId OPTIONAL,
mscBssTraceType [4] TraceType OPTIONAL,
hlrTraceType [5] TraceType OPTIONAL,
mscBsstraceTypeUsed [6] TraceType OPTIONAL,
hlrTraceTypeUsed [7] TraceType OPTIONAL,
startTime [8] StartTime OPTIONAL,
endTime [9] EndTime OPTIONAL,
recordingEntity [10] RecordingEntity,
traceEventRecords [11] SET OF TraceEventRecord,
sequenceNumber [12] INTEGER OPTIONAL,
recordReason [13] ReasonForRecord OPTIONAL
}
ReasonForRecord ::= SEQUENCE
{
recordCriteria [0] RecordCriterionUsed, OPTIONAL,
eventType [1] EventTypeUsed OPTIONAL
}
RecordingEntity ::= CHOICE
{
number [0] ISDN-AddressString,
name [1] GraphicString,
bssIdentifier [2] ObjectInstance
}
EndTime ::= GeneralizedTime
StartTime ::= GeneralizedTime
TraceReference ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 48.008
TransactionID ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 48.008
OmcId ::= AddressString
\-- see TS 48.008
TraceEventRecord ::= CHOICE
{
mscEventRecord [0] MSCEventRecord,
bssEventRecord [1] BSSEventRecord,
hlrEventRecord [2] HLREventRecord
}
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\-- BSS TRACE RECORD CONTENTS
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BSSEventRecord ::= SET
{
invokingEvent [0] BSCInvokingEvent OPTIONAL,
btsId [1] SEQUENCE OF Btsld OPTIONAL,
trxId [2] SEQUENCE OF TRXID OPTIONAL,
trauId [3] SEQUENCE OF TranscoderID OPTIONAL,
radioChannelInfo [4] SEQUENCE OF RadioChannelInfo OPTIONAL,
requestType [5] SEQUENCE OF TimedEstablishmentCause OPTIONAL,
endIndication [6] SEQUENCE OF EndIndication OPTIONAL,
msPower [7] SEQUENCE OF MsTxPower OPTIONAL,
bsPower [8] SEQUENCE OF BsTxPower OPTIONAL,
timingAdvance [9] SEQUENCE OF TimedTimingAdvance OPTIONAL,
msClassmark1 [10] SEQUENCE OF TimedMsClassmark1 OPTIONAL,
msClassmark2 [11] SEQUENCE OF TimedMsClassmark2 OPTIONAL,
msClassmark3 [12] SEQUENCE OF TimedMsClassmark3 OPTIONAL,
bsic [13] SEQUENCE OF BSIdentityCode OPTIONAL,
cic [14] SEQUENCE OF CIC OPTIONAL,
handoverResult [15] SEQUENCE OF TimedHandoverResult OPTIONAL,
handoverCause [16] SEQUENCE OF Cause OPTIONAL,
handoverDuration [17] SEQUENCE OF TimedHandoverDuration OPTIONAL,
targetCellList [18] SEQUENCE OF TimedTargetCellList OPTIONAL,
synchInfo [19] SEQUENCE OF SynchInfo OPTIONAL,
sccpConnectionEvent [20] SEQUENCE OF TimedTraceSCCPEvent OPTIONAL,
bssmapEvent [21] SEQUENCE OF TimedBSSMAPEvent OPTIONAL,
dtapEvent [22] SEQUENCE OF TimedDTAPEvent OPTIONAL,
rrEvent [23] SEQUENCE OF TimedRREvent OPTIONAL,
abisEvent [24] SEQUENCE OF TimedABISEvent OPTIONAL,
timedAbisEvent [25] SEQUENCE OF TimedABISEvent OPTIONAL,
measurementReport [26] SEQUENCE OF TimedMeasurementEvent OPTIONAL,
timedMeasurementReport [27] SEQUENCE OF TimedMeasurementEvent OPTIONAL,
powerControlEvent [28] SEQUENCE OF TimedPowerControlEvent OPTIONAL,
timedPowerControlEvent [29] SEQUENCE OF TimedPowerControlEvent OPTIONAL,
additionalExtensions [30] SET OF ManagementExtension OPTIONAL,
radioChannelInfo96 [31] SEQUENCE OF RadioChannelInfo96 OPTIONAL
}
ABISEvent ::= OCTET STRING
\-- this type contains an Abis message other than measurement
\-- reports and power control
\-- see TS 48.058 for encoding.
BcchChannelList ::= SEQUENCE SIZE(0..6) OF AbsoluteRFChannelNo
\-- the size of this list is equal to the number of measurements on neighbour
cell
\-- frequencies reported by the MS in the MEASUREMENT REPORT message
\-- (see TS 44.018).
\-- The first element of the list contains the ARFCN corresponding to the
first reported
\-- frequency index (\"BCCH-FREQ-NCELL 1\" field), the second element of the
list contains
\-- the ARFCN corresponding to the second reported frequency index (\"BCCH-
FREQ-NCELL 2\"
\-- field), etc.
BSIdentityCode ::= SEQUENCE
{
ncc [0] NetworkColourCode,
bcc [1] BTSColourCode
}
BSSMAPEvent ::= OCTET STRING
\-- This type contains a BSSMAP layer 3 message contents,
\-- see TS 48.008 for encoding
BsTxPower ::= SEQUENCE
{
txPower [0] TxPower,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
BTSColourCode ::= INTEGER (0..7)
Btsld ::= SEQUENCE
{
relatedBts [0] ObjectInstance,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
BSCInvokingEvent ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 48.008 for encoding
Cause ::= SEQUENCE
{
cause [0] OCTET STRING,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
\-- see TS 48.008 for encoding
ChanDesc ::= CHOICE
{
channelDescription [0] ChannelDescription,
channelDescription2 [1] ChannelDescription2
}
ChannelDescription ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 44.018
ChannelDescription2 ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 44.018
ChannelType ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 48.008
CIC ::= SEQUENCE
{
circuitIdentityCode [0] CircuitIdentityCode,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
CircuitIdentityCode ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 48.008 for encoding
DTAPEvent ::= OCTET STRING
\-- This type contains a DTAP layer 3 message contents,
\-- see TS 24.008 for encoding
EndIndication ::= SEQUENCE
{
rrCause [0] RRCause,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
EstablishmentCause ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 44.018 for encoding
FHSFrequencyList ::= SET OF AbsoluteRFChannelNo
HandoverResult ::= ENUMERATED
{
successful (0),
fail (1)
}
HandoverDuration ::= INTEGER
\-- in milliseconds
MeasurementEvent ::= OCTET STRING
\-- This type contains uplink and downlink measurement
\-- reports,
\-- see TS 48.058 for encoding
MobileStationClassmark1 ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 24.008 for encoding
MobileStationClassmark2 ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 24.008 for encoding
MobileStationClassmark3 ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 24.008 for encoding
MsTxPower ::= SEQUENCE
{
txPower [0] TxPower,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
MultislotAllocation ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 44.018 for encoding
NetworkColourCode ::= INTEGER (0..7)
PowerControlEvent ::= OCTET STRING
\-- This type contains power control messages,
\-- see TS 48.058 for encoding
RadioChannelInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
channelType [0] ChannelType,
channelDescription [1] ChannelDescription,
changeTime [2] TimerData,
fHSFrequencyList [3] FHSFrequencyList OPTIONAL
}
RadioChannelInfo96 ::= SEQUENCE
{
channelType [0] ChannelType OPTIONAL,
chanDesc [1] ChanDesc OPTIONAL,
multislotAllocation [2] MultislotAllocation OPTIONAL,
changeTime [3] TimerData
}
RRCause ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 44.018 for encoding
RREvent ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 44.018 for encoding
SynchInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
syncChannelInfo [0] SynchronisationChannelInformation,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
SynchronisationChannelInformation ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 44.018 for encoding
TargetCellList ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 48.008 for encoding
TimedABISEvent ::= SEQUENCE
{
abisEvent [0] ABISEvent,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedBSSMAPEvent ::= SEQUENCE
{
bssmapEvent [0] BSSMAPEvent,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedDTAPEvent ::= SEQUENCE
{
dtapEvent [0] DTAPEvent,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedEstablishmentCause ::= SEQUENCE
{
establishmentCause [0] EstablishmentCause,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedHandoverDuration ::= SEQUENCE
{
handoverDuration [0] HandoverDuration,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedHandoverResult ::= SEQUENCE
{
handoverResult [0] HandoverResult,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedMeasurementEvent ::= SEQUENCE
{
measurementEvent [0] MeasurementEvent,
changeTime [1] TimerData,
bcchChannelList [2] BcchChannelList OPTIONAL
}
TimedMsClassmark1 ::= SEQUENCE
{
mobileStationClassmark1 [0] MobileStationClassmark1,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedMsClassmark2 ::= SEQUENCE
{
mobileStationClassmark2 [0] MobileStationClassmark2,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedMsClassmark3 ::= SEQUENCE
{
mobileStationClassmark3 [0] MobileStationClassmark3,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedPowerControlEvent ::= SEQUENCE
{
powerControlEvent [0] PowerControlEvent,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedRREvent ::= SEQUENCE
{
rrEvent [0] RREvent,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedTargetCellList ::= SEQUENCE
{
targetCellList [0] TargetCellList,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimedTimingAdvance ::= SEQUENCE
{
timingAdvance [0] TimingAdvance,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimingAdvance ::= OCTET STRING
\-- see TS 44.018 for encoding
TraceSCCPEvent ::= OCTET STRING
\-- This type contains an BSSMAP message,
\-- see TS 48.006 for encoding
TimedTraceSCCPEvent ::= SEQUENCE
{
traceSCCPEvent [0] TraceSCCPEvent,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TimerData ::= SEQUENCE
{
timeUnit [0] TimeUnit,
timeValue [1] INTEGER
}
TimeUnit ::= ENUMERATED
{
mSec (0),
sec (1),
min (2),
noOfTDMAFrames (3),
noOfSlots (4),
factor (5)
}
TranscoderID ::= SEQUENCE
{
relatedTranscoderID [0] ObjectInstance,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
TRXID ::= SEQUENCE
{
relatedBasebandTransceiverID [0] ObjectInstance,
relatedRadioCarrierID [1] ObjectInstance,
changeTime [2] TimerData
}
TxPower ::= INTEGER
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\-- MSC TRACE RECORD CONTENTS
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MSCEventRecord ::= SET
{
invokingEvent [0] MSCInvokingEvent OPTIONAL,
servedIMSI [1] IMSI OPTIONAL,
servedIMEI [2] IMEI OPTIONAL,
servedMSISDN [3] ISDN-AddressString OPTIONAL,
callingcalledNumber [4] ISDN-AddressString OPTIONAL,
callingSubaddress [5] ISDN-SubaddressString OPTIONAL,
calledSubaddress [6] ISDN-SubaddressString OPTIONAL,
translatedNumber [7] ISDN-AddressString OPTIONAL,
connectedNumber [8] ISDN-AddressString OPTIONAL,
forwardedToNumber [9] ISDN-AddressString OPTIONAL,
forwardedToSubaddress [10] ISDN-SubaddressString OPTIONAL,
redirectingNumber [11] ISDN-AddressString OPTIONAL,
originalCalledNumber [12] ISDN-AdressString OPTIONAL,
roamingNumber [13] ISDN-AddressString OPTIONAL,
networkTKGP [14] TrunkGroup OPTIONAL,
basicService [15] BasicServiceCode OPTIONAL,
radioChannelTypes [16] SEQUENCE OF RadioChanneTypes OPTIONAL,
bssHandoverTrunk [17] SEQUENCE OF BSSTrunkInfo OPTIONAL,
mscHandoverTrunk [18] SEQUENCE OF MSCTrunkInfo OPTIONAL,
location [19] SEQUENCE OF TimedLocation OPTIONAL,
ssInformation [20] SEQUENCE OF SSInformation OPTIONAL,
aocParameters [21] SEQUENCE OF AOCParameters OPTIONAL,
msClassmark2 [22] SEQUENCE OF TimedMsClassmark2 OPTIONAL,
callTermDiagnostics [23] Diagnostics OPTIONAL,
aIntMess [24] SEQUENCE OF AINTMess OPTIONAL,
cIntMess [25] SEQUENCE OF CINTMess OPTIONAL,
dIntMess [26] SEQUENCE OF DINTMess OPTIONAL,
eIntMess [27] SEQUENCE OF EINTMess OPTIONAL,
fIntMess [28] SEQUENCE OF FINTMess OPTIONAL,
gIntMess [29] SEQUENCE OF GINTMess OPTIONAL,
netSigMess [30] SEQUENCE OF NetSigMess OPTIONAL,
eventStartTime [31] TimerData OPTIONAL,
eventStopTime [32] TimerData OPTIONAL,
eventNumber [33] INTEGER,
recordExtensions [34] SET OF ManagementExtension OPTIONAL,
msClassmark3 [35] SEQUENCE OF TimedMsClassmark3 OPTIONAL,
orInformation [36] ORInformation OPTIONAL,
bearerCapability [37] SEQUENCE OF TimedBCIE OPTIONAL
}
TimedBCIE ::= SEQUENCE
{
bcie [0] OCTET STRING,
\-- see TS 24.008 for encoding of bearer capability information element (BCIE)
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
BSSTrunkInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
changeTime [0] TimerData,
bssTrunkInfo [1] TrunkInfo
}
ORInformation ::= SEQUENCE
{
or-Info [0] OR-Info,
gmscAddress [1] AddressString OPTIONAL,
callReferenceNumber [2] CallReferenceNumber OPTIONAL
}
OR-Info ::= INTEGER
{
orUsed (0), -- Optimal Routeing was applied
orNotAllowedForSubs (1), -- Optimal Routeing not allowed for a subscriber
orNotAllowedInHLRB (2), -- HLRB does not support OR
orNotAllowedInVMSCB (3), -- VMSCB/VLRB does not support OR
chargingReqsContravened (4), -- OR charging requirements contravened
rchNackFromGMSCA (5) -- Resume Call Handling negative response received
\-- from GMSCA and the call will be forwarded at VMSCB
\-- values 6-20...are reserved for phase 1 of Optimal Routeing
\-- values 21-...are reserved for phase 2 of Optimal Routeing
}
TimedLocation ::= SEQUENCE
{
locationAreaAndCell [0] LocationAreaAndCell,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
MSCInvokingEvent ::= ENUMERATED
{
moc (0),
mtc (1),
ssAction (2),
locationUpdate (3),
sms-mo (4),
sms-mt (5),
imsiAttach (6),
imsiDetach (7),
pds-mo (8),
pds-mt (9)
}
NetSigMess ::= SEQUENCE
{
userPartMess [0] OCTET STRING,
changeTime [1] TimerData
}
MSCTrunkInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
changeTime [0] TimerData,
interMSCTrunkInfo [1] TrunkInfo
}
RadioChannelTypes ::= SEQUENCE
{
channelType [0] ChannelType,
channelTime [1] TimerData
}
SSInformation ::= SEQUENCE
{
supplServicesUsed [1] SS-Code OPTIONAL,
basicServices [2] BasicServiceCode OPTIONAL,
ssAction [3] SSActionType OPTIONAL,
ssParameters [4] SSParameters OPTIONAL,
ssActionResult [5] SSActionResult OPTIONAL,
ssInvokeId [6] INTEGER OPTIONAL,
changeTime [7] TimerData
}
TrunkInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
trunkGroup [0] TrunkGroup,
trunkMember [1] INTEGER OPTIONAL
}
TrunkGroup ::= CHOICE
{
tkgpNumber [0] INTEGER,
tkgpName [1] GraphicString,
tkgpString [2] IA5STRING (SIZE(1..7))
}
SSActionType ::= ENUMERATED
{
registration (0),
erasure (1),
activation (2),
deactivation (3),
interrogation (4),
invocation (5),
processUnstructuredSS-Data (6),
processUnstructuredSS-Request (7),
unstructuredSS-Request (8),
unstructuredNotifySS (9),
registerPassword (10),
getPassword (11)
}
SSParameters ::= CHOICE
{
registerSS-Arg [0] RegisterSS-Arg,
ss-ForBS [1] SS-ForBS-Code,
ss-UserData [2] SS-UserData,
ussd-Arg [3] USSD-Arg,
ss-Code [4] SS-Code,
guidanceInfo [5] GuidanceInfo
}
SSActionResult ::= CHOICE
{
ss-Info [0] SS-Info,
interrogateSS-Res [1] InterrogateSS-Res,
ss-UserData [2] SS-UserData,
ussd-Res [3] USSD-Res,
password [4] Password,
error [5] ERROR
}
AINTMess ::= SEQUENCE
{
changeTime TimerData,
aIntEvent AINTEvent
}
AINTEvent ::= CHOICE
{
bssMapEvent [0] BSSMAPEvent,
dtapEvent [1] DTAPEvent
}
CINTMess ::= SEQUENCE
{
changeTime TimerData,
cIntMess OCTET STRING
}
DINTMess ::= SEQUENCE
{
changeTime TimerData,
dIntMess OCTET STRING
}
EINTMess ::= SEQUENCE
{
changeTime TimerData,
eIntMess OCTET STRING
}
FINTMess ::= SEQUENCE
{
changeTime TimerData,
fIntMess OCTET STRING
}
GINTMess ::= SEQUENCE
{
changeTime TimerData,
gIntMess OCTET STRING
}
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\-- HLR TRACE RECORD CONTENTS
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HLREventRecord ::= SET
{
invokingEvent [0] HLRInvokingEvent OPTIONAL,
servedMSISDN [2] ISDN-AddressString OPTIONAL,
mscAddress [3] AddressString OPTIONAL,
vlrNumber [4] AddressString OPTIONAL,
ssInformation [5] SEQUENCE OF SSInformation OPTIONAL,
subscriberData [7] SEQUENCE OF SubscriberData OPTIONAL,
roamingNumber [8] ISDN-AddressString OPTIONAL,
smDeliveryOutcome [9] SEQUENCE OF SM-DeliveryOutcome OPTIONAL,
alertReason [10] SEQUENCE OF AlertReason OPTIONAL,
serviceCentreAddress [11] SEQUENCE OF AddressString OPTIONAL,
mapInterfaceMessages [12] SEQUENCE OF MAPIntMess OPTIONAL,
eventStartTime [13] TimerData OPTIONAL,
eventStopTime [14] TimerData OPTIONAL,
eventNumber [15] INTEGER,
recordExtensions [16] SET OF ManagementExtension OPTIONAL,
orInformation [17] ORInformation OPTIONAL
}
HLRInvokingEvent ::= ENUMERATED
{
locationChange (0),
subscriberDataChange (1),
routingEnquiry (2),
provideRoamingNumber (3),
ssActivity (4),
password (5),
sms (6)
}
MAPIntMess ::= SEQUENCE
{
changeTime TimerData,
mapIntMess OCTET STRING
}
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\-- TRACE RECORD CONTROL
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TraceControlId ::= INTEGER
RecordCriteria ::= SET OF ENUMERATED
{
noCriteria (0),
eventType (1)
}
EventTypes ::= SET OF INTEGER
{
handOver (0),
ss-action (1),
sms (2),
setup (3),
release (4),
\-- values 5‑100 are reserved
\-- values 101‑200 are manufacturer specific
\-- values 201-... are reserved
}
TraceFileFormat ::= SET OF TraceRecord
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\-- TRACE RECORD OUTPUT
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------
RecordCriterionUsed ::= ENUMERATED
{
noCriterion (0),
event (1),
manufSpecificCriterion (2),
deactivation (3)
}
EventTypeUsed ::= INTEGER
{
handOver (0),
ss-action (1),
sms (2),
setup (3),
release (4)
\-- values 5‑100 are reserved
\-- values 101‑200 are manufacturer specific
\-- values 201-... are reserved
}
#