# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
3GPP TS 32.581: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB) Operations,
Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Concepts and
requirements for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
3GPP TS 32.582: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB) Operations,
Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Information model for
Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
3GPP TS 32.583: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB) Operations,
Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Procedure flows for Type
1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
3GPP TS 32.584: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB) Operations,
Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); XML definitions for Type
1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the concepts and requirements of OAM for Home
NodeB (HNB). The requirements captured in this document shall be met via Type
1 interface between HNB and HMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 32.821: \"Study of Self-Organizing Network (SON) related OAM for
Home NodeB\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.467: \"UTRAN architecture for 3G Home NodeB, stage 2\".
[3] TR-069 Amendment 2, CPE WAN Management Protocol v1.1, Broadband Forum
[4] TR-106 Amendment 2 Data Model template for TR-069-Enabled Devices v1.1,
Broadband Forum.
[5] TR-196 FAP Access Point Service Data Model v1.00, Broadband Forum.
[6] 3GPP TS 32.435: \"Performance Measurement, eXtensible Markup Language
(XML) file format definition\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Alarm
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) \".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[10] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.220: \"Service requirements for Home Node B (HNB) and Home
eNode B (HeNB)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.320: \"Security of Home Node B (HNB) / Home evolved Node B
(HeNB)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [8], TS 32.102 [9] and TS 21.905 [10] and the following apply. A
term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of
the same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [8], TS 32.102 [9] and TS 21.905 [10], in
that order.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [10] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[10].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
HMS Home NodeB Management System
HNB Home NodeB
# 4 Concepts and background
Home NodeB has the following characteristics:
\- The quantity of Home NodeBs is likely to be large
\- There may be many Home NodeB vendors
\- Home NodeB may be purchased easily by end users in market
\- The location of Home NodeB could be in a private residence which may not be
accessible for frequent on-site maintenance
Based on the above characteristics, this specification defines the
functionalities needed for the management of Home NodeB over a Type 1
interface.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
**REQ-OAMP-CON-001** The HNB shall be able to be managed in all management
domain aspects defined below as Configuration management, Security management,
Performance management and Fault management, without the use of vendor-
specific or operator-specific extension capability.
### 5.1.1 Configuration Management
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-001** The HNB shall be able to automatically, i.e. without
human operator on-line interaction or attention, configure itself to be ready
for service when powered up and connected to HMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-002** The HNB shall be able to automatically, i.e. without
human operator on-line interaction or attention, configure itself to be in
service when powered up and connected to HMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-003** The HNB shall be able to automatically, i.e. without
human operator on-line interaction or attention, upgrade its software/firmware
and configuration.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-004** The HNB auto-configuration shall be done in such way
that the performance of the surrounding macro cells is not adversely affected.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-005** The HNB auto-configuration function should be adaptive
to react to change in the network and changes in the radio environment.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-006** The operator shall be able to remotely reboot the HNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-007** The operator shall be able to remotely start/stop the
radio transmission of the HNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-008** In case IPsec is used, the system should be engineered
to ensure that the HNB IP address changes as minimally as possible.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-009** The operator shall be able to remotely reconfigure the
HNB to adapt to changes in the radio environment.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-010** The HNB should allow configuration of the IPsec or
non-IPsec usage option based on the operator\'s policy TS 33.320 [12].
### 5.1.2 Performance Management
**REQ-OAMP_PM-CON-001** The HNB may have the capability to collect its
performance related data.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-CON-002** The HNB shall send performance data based on operator
configured policy.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-CON-003** Operator shall be able to retrieve performance data
file from the HNB.
### 5.1.3 Fault Management
**REQ-OAMP_FM-CON-001** The HNB shall support Fault Management to enable the
operator to monitor and manage the HNB.
**REQ-OAMP_FM-CON-002** The HNB shall provide alarm related information only
on demand by the operator or based on operator configured policy.
### 5.1.4 Security Management
**REQ-OAMP_SM-CON-001** The HNB shall have the capability to protect itself
against Denial of Service attack over the Type 1 interface.
## 5.2 Actor roles
Not defined in this version.
## 5.3 Telecommunications resources
Not defined in this version.
## 5.4 High level use cases
Not defined in this version.
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Configuration Management
The requirements for configuration management are as follows:
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-001** The HNB configuration shall be administered by the HMS
utilising the TR-069 CWMP Protocol, reference [3].
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-002** The HNB Information Model used by the HMS for
Configuration Management shall be based on the following:
> a. Broadband Forum TR-106 Amendment 2 Data Model [4]
>
> b. FAP Access Point Service Data Model [5]
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-003** HMS shall be able to reboot the HNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-004** HMS shall have remote access to the HNB to start/stop
the radio transmission.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-005** HMS shall have remote access to the HNB to start/stop
the radio transmission on the frequencies specified by HMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-006** HMS shall maintain the configuration data of the HNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-007** When the HNB is initially powered up and connected to
the HMS, HMS shall send the initially needed configuration data to the HNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-008** If the inner IPsec tunnel IP address of the HNB
changes and HNB is connected to HMS via IPsec Tunnel then the HNB shall notify
the HMS using TR-069.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-009** The HMS shall specify which parameters it needs to be
notified of when the HNB changes their values through auto-configuration. The
HNB shall notify the HMS of changes in the values of any such auto-configured
parameters.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-010** The HNB shall inform the HMS of its ability to auto-
configure parameters or groups of parameters that are relevant to the HMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-011** HMS shall be able to specify a value, or a valid range
of values, for any parameter that is auto-configurable by the HNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-012** Configuration management capability for the HNB shall
be supported by means of TR-069 RPCs SetParameterValues, AddObject and
DeleteObject. Optionally a bulk configuration management file may be
supported. In this case the TR-069 manager uses the RPC download method to
trigger a CM file download from a file server.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-013** The HNB shall be able to inform the HMS of the changes
in radio environment.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-014** The HNB shall provide a capability allowing the HMS to
manage downloading of HNB software/firmware image files and provide mechanisms
for version identification and notification to the HMS of the success or
failure of a file download.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-015** The HNB shall support capabilities to inform the HMS
about the results of specific actions triggered by the HMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-016** It shall be possible to initiate a management
connection at the request of either the HNB or the HMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-017** If the HNB is unable to offer service for an operator
configured time period it will deactivate the air interfac.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-018** The HNB shall support a capability to allow the HMS to
activate Local IP Access.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-019** The HNB shall support a capability to allow the HMS to
deactivate Local IP Access.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-020** The HMS should be able to securely configure the HNB
according to the operator\'s policy, whether or not to use IPsec for
subsequent connections.
### 6.1.2 Performance Management
The HNB may support Performance Management to enable the operator to monitor
the HNB Network based on the business level requirements (see clause 5.1.2).
The requirements for performance management are as follows.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-001** The HNB may have the Performance Management
capabilities administered by the HMS.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-002** The HNB shall support the retrieval of the Performance
Information from the HNB utilising the file transfer option of TR-069 CWMP
Protocol, reference [3].
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-003** The HNB shall be configurable by the HMS to produce an
XML File at regular intervals which contains the HNB performance Information
and then upload the XML File.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-004** The XML File Formats produced by the HNB shall adhere
to the 3GPP XML Performance Management File Formats, reference [6].
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-005** The HNB shall upload PM files using TR-069 compliant
file transfer protocols.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-006** The HMS shall have the capability to initiate HNB
diagnostic testing
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-007** HMS shall have the ability to configure policies for
the HNB performance data file upload.
### 6.1.3 Fault Management
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-001** The HNB shall have the Fault Management capabilities
administered through the HMS.
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-002** The HNB shall have the ability to send alarm related
information to HMS according to operator configured policy.
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-003** The HNB shall be able to send alarm related
information to the HMS using TR-069 RPC Methods, reference [3].
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-004** The alarm related information to be sent to the HMS by
the HNB shall support the inclusion of the appropriate Information attributes,
as defined in 3GPP TS.32.111-2, reference [7].
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-005** The HNB shall maintain the following information:
> a. Alarm Management Information -- which contains the alarm management and
> reporting parameters configurable by the HMS
>
> b. Alarms List -- Alarms currently active on the HNB
>
> c. Alarm History -- contains the alarms previously created by the HNB.
>
> d. Pending Delivery Queue -- contains the alarms queued to be sent to the
> HMS on the next management connection
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-006**.The HNB shall support the following ways of alarm
handling:
> a. Expedited handling-- the HNB connects to the HMS immediately to raise the
> alarm and logs the alarm in the Alarm History.
>
> b. Queued handling -- the HNB queues the alarm internally pending connection
> to the HMS, logs the alarm in the Alarm History, and delivers the alarm on
> the next connection to the HMS
>
> c. Logged handling -- the HNB does not send the alarm to the HMS and logs
> the alarm in the Alarm History.
>
> d. Disabled handling-- the HNB does not send the alarm to the HMS and will
> not log the alarm in the Alarm History
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-007** The HMS may configure the alarm handling for each type
of HNB alarm according to the HNB alarm handling capabilities and the default
handling if not specified by the HMS shall be "Logged handling".
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-008** The HMS shall have the ability to throttle the sending
of alarms from the HNB to the HMS
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-009** The HMS shall have the capability to retrieve alarm
related information from the HNB using TR-069 RPC Method Calls.
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-010** The HMS shall have the capability to completely purge
on the HNB the Alarms List and the Pending Delivery Queue and may have the
capability to completely purge on the HNB the history of Alarms.
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-011** The HMS shall have the capability to _**activate and
deactivate** the alarm reporting by the HNB._
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-012** The _HMS shall be able to define the frequency of
passive reporting._
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-013** The _HMS shall be informed immediately of alarms
(raised, changed, cleared) classified as expedited notifications only._
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN--014** The HNB shall provide a capability allowing the HMS
to access information that it may use to diagnose and resolve connectivity or
service issues.
### 6.1.4 Security Management
**REQ-OAMP_SM-FUN-001**.The HNB shall have the capability to communicate with
the HMS via TR-069 CWMP, reference [3], through the support of one of the two
security mechanisms determined by the Network Operator's Security Policies:
\- utilising SSL/TLS outside the IPsec Tunnel
-within the IPsec Tunnel with the option to utilise SSL/TLS within the IPsec Tunnel for additional end-to-end security
TR-069 CPE devices are currently factory programmed with a Bootstrap HMS URL
only and therefore the HNB capable CPEs requiring to utilise IPsec for
connection to the HMS either require to be factory programmed with Bootstrap
Security Gateway/IPsec Information or this information is supplied outside of
the IPsec tunnel before tunnel establishment utilising SSL/TLS.
**REQ-OAMP_SM-FUN--002** The HNB shall provide a capability to prevent
tampering with the interactions that take place between the HNB and the HMS as
well as management functions of a HNB.
**REQ-OAMP_SM-FUN--003** The HNB shall provide a capability allowing the HMS
to authenticate the HNBs.
**REQ-OAMP_SM-FUN--004** The HNB shall be able to authenticate the HMS prior
to responding to interactions triggered by the HMS.
**REQ-OAMP_SM-FUN--005** The HNB shall provide a capability supporting
confidentiality for interactionstaking place between the HNB and the HMS.
## 6.2 Actor roles
Not defined in this version.
## 6.3 Telecommunications resources
Not defined in this version.
## 6.4 Use cases
Not defined in this version.
#