# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.611: \"Configuration Management (CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Requirements\".**
32.612: \"Configuration Management (CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
32.616: \"Configuration Management (CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Solution Set (SS) defintions\".
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the Bulk Configuration Management (CM)
requirements for managing a 3G network. This is described from the management
perspective in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
The Itf‑N for CM is built up by a number of Integration Reference Points
(IRPs) and a related Name Convention 3GPP TS 32.300 [3], which realise the
functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure of the IRPs
is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]. For CM, a number of
IRPs (and a Name Convention) are defined, used by this as well as by other
specifications for Telecom Management produced by 3GPP. These IRPs are defined
in separate 3GPP specifications, and listed in the table in the Introduction
clause above. This document defines the requirements for the Bulk CM IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Data:** is any information or set of information required to give software
or equipment or combinations thereof a specific state of functionality.
**Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of Network Elements (NEs). These
functions can be divided into two main categories:
  * _Element Management Functions_ for management of NEs on an > individual basis. These are basically the same functions as > supported by the corresponding local terminals.
  * _Sub-Network Management Functions_ that are related to a network > model for a set of NEs constituting a clearly defined sub-network, > which may include relations between the NEs. This model enables > additional functions on the sub-network level (typically in the > areas of network topology presentation, alarm correlation, service > impact analysis and circuit provisioning).
**Firmware:** is a term used in contrast to software to identify the hard-
coded program, which is not downloadable on the system.
**Hardware:** is each and every tangible item.
**IRP Information Model:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRP Information Service:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRP Solution Set:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**Managed Object (MO):** an abstract entity, which may be accessed through an
open interface between two or more systems, and representing a Network
Resource (NR) for the purpose of management. The Managed Object (MO) is an
instance of a Managed Object Class (MOC) as defined in a Management
Information Model (MIM). The MIM does not define how the MO or NR is
implemented; only what can be seen in the interface.
**Management Information Base (MIB):** the set of existing managed objects in
a management domain, together with their attributes, constitutes that
management domain\'s MIB. The MIB may be distributed over several OS/NEs.
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below. There is a slight difference between the meaning of MIM and
NRM -- the term MIM is generic and can be used to denote any type of
management model, while NRM denotes the model of the actual managed
telecommunications Network Resources (NRs).
**Network Element (NE):** is a discrete telecommunications entity, which can
be, managed over a specific interface e.g. the RNC.
**Network Manager (NM)** : provides a package of end-user functions with the
responsibility for the management of a network, mainly as supported by the
EM(s) but it may also involve direct access to the NEs. All communication with
the network is based on open and well-standardised interfaces supporting
management of multi-vendor and multi-technology NEs.
**Network Resource (NR):** is a component of a NE, which can be identified as
a discrete separate entity and is in an object oriented environment for the
purpose of management represented by an abstract entity called Managed Object
(MO).
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : a model representing the actual managed
telecommunications Network Resources (NRs) that a System is providing through
the subject IRP. An NRM describes Managed Object Classes (MOC), their
associations, attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as
\"MIM\" (see above) which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
**Object Management Group (OMG):** see http://www.omg.org.
**Operations System (OS):** indicates a generic management system, independent
of its location level within the management hierarchy.
**Operator:** is either
  * a human being controlling and managing the network; or
  * a company running a network (the 3G network operator).
**Optimisation:** of the network is each up-date or modification to improve
the network handling and/or to enhance subscriber satisfaction. The aim is to
maximise the performance of the system.
**Re-configuration:** is the re-arrangement of the parts, hardware and/or
software that make up the 3G network. A re-configuration can be of the parts
of a single NE or can be the re-arrangement of the NEs themselves, as the
parts of the 3G network. A re-configuration may be triggered by a human
operator or by the system itself.
**Reversion:** is a procedure by which a configuration, which existed before
changes were made, is restored.
**Software** : is a term used in contrast to firmware to refer to all programs
which can be loaded to and used in a particular system.
**Up-Dates:** generally consist of software, firmware, equipment and hardware,
designed only to consolidate one or more modifications to counter-act errors.
As such, they do not offer new facilities or features and only apply to
existing NEs.
**Up-Grades:** can be of the following types:
  * enhancement - the addition of new features or facilities to the 3G > network;
  * extension - the addition of replicas of existing entities.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
FW Firmware
HW Hardware
IRP Integration Reference Point
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union, Telecommunication Standardisation
Sector
MIB Management Information Base
MIM Management Information Model
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
OS Operations System
OSF Operations System Function
PM Performance Management
RNC Radio Network Controller
SW Software
TM Telecom Management
TRX Transceiver
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 Bulk CM and Itf‑N Interface
## 4.1 Bulk CM principles
The Itf‑N (see ref. 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]) is an object oriented interface, i.e.
all resources of the 3G network (functional and physical resources) whose
management is standardised by the present document are represented as Managed
Object Instances (MOI) of a Network Resource Model (NRM).
The NRM shall be highly simplified for the purpose of the NM, based on the
assumption that all of the detailed CM actions are performed by an Element
Manager (EM), which knows the vendor-specific NRM and configuration.
There are two types of CM functions - _Passive_ CM and _Active_ CM (see 3GPP
TS 32.600 [4] for definitions).
There are also at least two approaches to CM - _Basic CM_ and _Bulk CM._ Refer
to 3GPP TS 32.600 [4] for Basic CM.
_Bulk CM_ is characterised by
  * Bulk (file-oriented) data retrieval (configuration parameters) over Interface-N from single NEs, a collection of NEs or the whole network. (The passive aspect of Bulk CM.)
  * Bulk (file-oriented) data download of configuration parameters to EM/NEs over Interface-N. (An active aspect of Bulk CM.)
  * The network-wide activation of those parameters through a single operation. (An active aspect of Bulk CM.)
  * The ability to fallback to a previous stable configuration through a single operation. (An active aspect of Bulk CM.)
This document describes the specific functional requirements related to Bulk
CM of Network Resources (NRs) on the Itf‑N.
## 4.2 Overview of IRPs related to Bulk CM
The Itf‑N for CM is built up by a number of Integration Reference Points
(IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which realise the functional
capabilities over this interface. The basic structure of the IRPs is defined
in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]. For CM, a number of IRPs (and a
Name Convention) are defined, used by this as well as other specifications For
Telecom Management (TM) produced by 3GPP. All these IRPs are defined in
separate 3GPP specifications, and listed in the Introduction clause.
## 4.3 Bulk CM Requirements
Interface-N shall provide efficient mechanisms to upload current CM data from
the IRP Agent and download new CM data to the IRP Agent.
It shall be possible to transfer a CM file containing parameters for any
specified Network Resource Model (e.g. radio network, Core Network) from the
NM to the IRP Agent using a standardised file format and transfer mechanism.
The IRP Agent shall also be capable of making the necessary configuration
changes in its managed NEs, using the parameters and information contained in
the transferred CM file.
The following requirements have been identified regarding the file format and
transfer control mechanism over Interface-N.
  1. It shall be possible to initiate the upload (IRP Agent to NM) of CM data over Interface-N.
  2. It shall be possible to scope the Objects to be uploaded from the IRP Agent, e.g. parameters for a Cell, an RNC, or all the NEs managed by the IRP Agent.
  3. It shall be possible to initiate the download (NM to IRP Agent) of CM data over Interface-N.
  4. The parameters in the file for downloading to the IRP Agent may relate to creating Managed Objects, deleting Managed Objects or changing some or all modifiable attributes of existing Managed Objects. These parameters may be applicable to some or all the Managed Objects controlled by the IRP Agent, e.g. a Cell, an RNC, or all NEs managed by the IRP Agent.
  5. The IRP Agent should check the consistency, syntax and semantic of the downloaded file to ensure that the configuration changes contained in the file can be implemented in the network.
  6. It shall be possible to activate a previously downloaded configuration file in the EM/NE via a control facility.
  7. Two activation modes may be defined for this IRP, distinguishable by their impact on network services in a live network. In the first activation mode the IRP Agent shall attempt to keep impact on service to a minimum, e.g. by the IRP Agent executing only one command or configuration change at a time in a NE. In the second activation mode all configuration changes contained in the file shall be implemented in the network in the minimum possible time, regardless of impact on service.
  8. Activation shall employ a best effort mechanism, i.e. if parts of the activation cannot be successfully completed, the remainder shall still be attempted, where possible. Optionally, other activation strategies may also be supported.
  9. The Bulk CM IRP shall specify an optional capability to achieve as near an "all or none" activation strategy as possible. This strategy may be achieved by the use of a pre-activation operation that provides the maximum possible verification that the subsequent activate operation will succeed.
  10. The activation of the new configuration in the NEs shall be logged, the objective being to enable an operator (if necessary) to analyse the log (e.g. analyse failed commands) and to subsequently achieve a full activation. Note that "activation" means execution of each command in the downloaded file, and the result of each command execution shall be logged, whether successful or unsuccessful.
  11. It shall be possible to selectively retrieve the information contained in the log, e.g. only unsuccessful operations.
  12. It shall be possible to check the status of a configuration file operation.
  13. It shall be possible for the IRP Agent to fallback to a previously known working configuration, initiated by the IRP Manager.
  14. Interface-N shall support notifications, e.g. to indicate completion of an operation, error cases.
  15. The file format shall be flexible enough to include all possible CM parameter types, i.e. standard parameters as well as vendor specific parameters. The meaning, syntax, units, etc. of standard parameters shall be specified. The representation of vendor specific parameters will be proprietary. A uniform mechanism for handling vendor specific parameters shall be specified.
  16. Since the files are transferred via a machine-machine interface, the file format shall be machine readable using industry standard tools, e.g. XML parser.
  17. Moreover, the files shall be formatted in a human readable way, i.e. to allow manual editing of its contents by the IRPManager before downloading.
  18. The file format shall be specified by using a standardised language, e.g. the Extensible Mark-up Language (XML), in order to provide the possibility of visualisation in a web browser.
  19. The same file format shall be used for the upload and download to the IRP Agent.
  20. The file format shall be independent of the data transfer protocol used to carry the file from one system to another.
  21. The file transfer facility shall be implemented using a commonly available protocol, e.g. FTP.
  22. The Managed Object Class identifiers used in the file shall be the same as those used for Basic CM, Fault Management and Performance Management.
  23. Bulk CM IRP shall be sufficient to configure a complete radio network, including vendor specific parameters of the UTRAN.
  24. For security considerations, notifications should be generated by the IRPAgent whenever download, activate or fallback operations are initiated during a Bulk CM session. These notifications shall be available to any IRPManager that has subscribed to Bulk CM IRP notifications and shall include the session id, the identity of the IRPManager invoking the operation, and the type of operation.
  25. For security considerations, the IRPAgent shall ensure that only the IRPManager that started a Bulk CM session is subsequently allowed to send commands related to that session. This check shall be made for each command issued during the session. If the IRPManager is not the same, the command shall not be performed and the session state shall not be changed, and a security alarm issued.
  26. For security considerations, if the IRPAgent has the information that a downloaded file has been changed during a session before pre-activation or activation, the pre-activation or activation command shall not be performed and the session state shall not be changed and a security alarm shall be issued.
  27. For security considerations, the IRPAgent should maintain a log of sessions, i.e. identity of IRPManager initiating a session, session start and end times, Bulk CM operations (e.g. activate, fallback) performed during a session including their start and end times. This requirement may be partially satisfied by Notification Log IRP.
#