# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.621: Configuration Management (CM); Generic network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
**32.622: Configuration Management (CM); Generic network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Network Resource Model (NRM)**
**32.626:** Configuration Management (CM); **Generic network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**
The interface Itf-N, defined in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], is built up by a number of
Integration Reference Points (IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which
realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure
of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Generic network resource information that
can be communicated between an IRPAgent and one or several IRPManagers for
network management purposes.
This document specifies the semantics of information object class attributes
and relations visible across the reference point in a protocol and technology
neutral way. It does not define their syntax and encoding.
The document specifies the information in a generic manner in that the
information specified is a base from which all other NRM IRP ISs such as GERAN
NRM IRP IS [20] can inherit or have associations with.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and Definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[6] Void.
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.710 (1991): \"Common Management Information Service
Definition for CCITT Applications\".
[8] - [10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[15] - [16] Void.
[17] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 32.152: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) Unified Modelling Language (UML)
repertoire\".
[19] 3GPP TS 32.532: "Telecommunication management; Software Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)"
[20] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [14].
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) [name bindings]{.underline},
(2) [reference attributes]{.underline}, and
(3) [association objects]{.underline}.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams). Currently however, all (non-containment)
associations are modelled by means of reference attributes of the
participating MOs.
**Information Object Class (IOC): Within the context of all IRP IS
specifications, IOC is the term used instead of MOC for a managed object
class. MOC is used on the SS level. See also the definition of Managed
Object.**
**Managed Element (ME)** : An instance of the Managed Object Class
ManagedElement.
**Managed Object (MO)** : In the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. See also the
def. of MO in TS 32.101 [1]. The MO is instance of a MO class (MOC) defined in
a MIM/NRM. This class, within the context of this Information Service
specification called **Information Object Class (IOC),** has
[attributes]{.underline} that provide information used to characterize the
objects that belong to the class (the term \"attribute\" is taken from TMN and
corresponds to a \"property\" according to CIM). Furthermore, an MO class can
have [operations]{.underline} that represent the behaviour relevant for that
class (the term \"operation\" is taken from TMN and corresponds to a
\"method\" according to CIM). An MO class may support
[notifications]{.underline} that provide information about an event occurrence
within a network resource.
**Management Information Base (MIB)** : A MIB is an instance of an NRM and has
some values on the defined attributes and associations specific for that
instance. In the context of the present document, an MIB consists of:
(1) a Name space (describing the MO containment hierarchy in the MIB through
Distinguished Names),
(2) a number of Managed Objects with their attributes and
(3) a number of Associations between these MOs. Also note that TMN (ITU-T
Recommendation X.710 [7]) defines a concept of a [Management Information
Tree]{.underline} (also known as a Naming Tree) that corresponds to the name
space (containment hierarchy) portion of this MIB definition. Figure 3.1
depicts the relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs (the shown association is of a non-containment type)
Figure 3.1: Relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : Also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below.
**Name space** : A name space is a collection of names. The IRP name
convention (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13]) restricts the name space to a
hierarchical containment structure, including its simplest form - the one-
level, flat name space.\ All Managed Objects in a MIB shall be included in the
corresponding name space and the MIB/name space shall only support a strict
hierarchical containment structure (with one root object). A Managed Object
that contains another is said to be the superior (parent); the contained
Managed Object is referred to as the subordinate (child). The parent of all
MOs in a single name space is called a Local Root. The ultimate parent of all
MOs of all managed systems is called the Global Root.
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : A model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP. An NRM describes Managed Object Classes, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
**Node B:** A logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment.\ It terminates the Iub interface
towards the RNC.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AUC AUthentication Centre
BG Border Gateway
CIM Common Information Model
CN Core Network
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
GMSC Gateway MSC
GPRS General Packet Radio System
HLR Home Location Register
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
Iub Interface between RNC and Node B
LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
ME Managed Element
MIB Management Information Base
MIM Management Information Model
MIT Management Information Tree (or Naming Tree)
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
MSC Mobile Services Switching Centre
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
OSI Open Systems Interconnection
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
RNC Radio Network Controller
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SMI Structure of Management Information
SMS Short Message Service
SMS-GMSC SMS Gateway MSC
SMS-IWMSC SMS Interworking MSC
SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol
SS Solution Set
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
VLR Visitor Location Register
WBEM Web-Based Enterprise Management
XML eXtensible Mark-up Language
# 4 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP IS defined by the
present document:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional managed object classes, attributes, associations,
operations, parameters and notifications without requiring the IRPManager to
have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist,
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] clause 10.
# 6 Information Object Class (IOC) definitions
## 6.1 Information Object Classes
### 6.1.1 Imported Information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11], notification,
notifyAckStateChanged notifyAckStateChanged 3GPP TS 32.662 [17], notification,
notifyAttributeValueChanged notifyAttributeValueChanged 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyChangedAlarm notifyChangedAlarm 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyClearedAlarm notifyClearedAlarm 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyComments notifyComments 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyNewAlarm notifyNewAlarm 3GPP TS 32.662 [17], notification,
notifyObjectCreation notifyObjectCreation 3GPP TS 32.662 [17], notification,
notifyObjectDeletion notifyObjectDeletion 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11], notification,
notifyAlarmListRebuilt notifyAlarmListRebuilt 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList
3GPP TS 32.532 [19], notification, notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged
notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged 3GPP TS 32.532 [19], notification,
notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged 3GPP TS 32.532
[19], notification, notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged
notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged 3GPP TS 32.312 [5], Support IOC,
ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP
* * *
### 6.1.2 Class diagram
#### 6.1.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the
information relevant for this IRP. This clause provides an overview of the
relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes. Figure 6.1 shows
the containment/naming hierarchy and the associations of the classes defined
in the present document.
{width="6.559027777777778in" height="6.123611111111111in"}
NOTE 1: ManagedElement may be contained in either a SubNetwork or a MeContext
instance, or have no parent instance at all.
NOTE 2: MeContext may either be contained in a SubNetwork instance or have no
parent instance at all.
NOTE 3: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC instance. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other
NRM IRPs.
NOTE 4: If the configuration contains several instances of SubNetwork, exactly
one SubNetwork instance shall directly or indirectly contain all the other
SubNetwork instances.
NOTE 5: The SubNetwork instance not contained in any other instance of
SubNetwork is referred to as \"the root SubNetwork instance\".
NOTE 6: ManagementNode shall be contained in the root SubNetwork instance.
NOTE 7: If contained in a SubNetwork instance, IRPAgent shall be contained in
the root SubNetwork instance.
NOTE 8: For a clarification on the choice of containment of the IRPAgent
(since it has three possible parents), see the def. of IRPAgent.
Figure 6.1: Generic NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram
Each Managed Object is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [13] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example,
the DN of a ManagedElement instance could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden,MeContext=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="4.398611111111111in"}
NOTE 1: Void
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs by
virtue of inheritance from the GENERIC NRM.
Figure 6.2: VsDataContainer Containment/Naming and Association in GENERIC NRM
diagram
The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
#### 6.1.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between
information object classes.
Figure 6.3 shows the inheritance diagram.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="4.5784722222222225in"}
Figure 6.3: Generic Network Resource Model IRP Inheritance Hierarchy
### 6.1.3 Information object class definitions
#### 6.1.3.1 Any
##### 6.1.3.1.1 Definition
This class represents the classes (e.g. IOC or SupportIOC) that are not
defined in this specification but are or will be defined in other IRP
specification(s).
#### 6.1.3.2 IRPAgent
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents the functionality of an IRPAgent. It shall be present. For
a definition of IRPAgent, see 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
The IRPAgent will be contained under an IOC as follows (only one of the
options shall be used):
  1. ManagementNode, if the configuration contains a ManagementNode;
  2. SubNetwork, if the configuration contains a SubNetwork and no ManagementNode;
  3. ManagedElement, if the configuration contains no ManagementNode or SubNetwork.
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Attributes
Attributes of IRPAgent
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier iRPAgentId M M
- systemDN C M -
* * *
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Void
##### 6.1.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.1.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
#### 6.1.3.3 ManagedElement
##### 6.1.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents telecommunications equipment or TMN entities within the
telecommunications network that performs Managed Element (ME) functions, i.e.
provides support and/or service to the subscriber.\ An ME communicates with a
manager (directly or indirectly) over one or more interfaces for the purpose
of being monitored and/or controlled. MEs may or may not additionally perform
element management functionality.\ An ME contains equipment that may or may
not be geographically distributed. An ME is often referred to as a \"Network
Element\".
A ManagedElement may be contained in either a SubNetwork or in a MeContext
instance. A single ManagedElement seen over the Itf-N may also exist stand-
alone with no parent at all.
The ManagedElement IOC may be used to represent combined ME functionality (as
indicated by the managedElementType attribute and the contained instances of
different functional IOCs).
Single function ManagedElement IOC instances will have a 1..1 containment
relationship to a function IOC instance (in this context a function IOC
instance is an instance of an IOC derived from the ManagedFunction IOC).
Multiple function ManagedElement instances will have a 1..N containment
relationship to function IOC instances.
NOTE: For some specific functional IOCs a 1..N containment relationship is
permitted. The specific functional entities are identified in the NRMs that
define subclasses of ManagedFunction.
##### 6.1.3.3.2 Attributes
Attributes of ManagedElement
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
managedElementId M M - dnPrefix M M - managedElementType M M - userLabel M M M
vendorName M M - userDefinedState M M M locationName M M - swVersion M M -
managedBy M M -
* * *
##### 6.1.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
Attribute constrains for dnPrefix: The attribute dnPrefix shall be supported
if an instance of ManagedElement is the local root instance of the MIB.
Otherwise the attribute shall be absent or carry no information.
##### 6.1.3.3.4 Void
##### 6.1.3.3.5 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.1.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
In addition, the following notifications are specific to only ManagedElement
IOC.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged See Software Management
IRP (3GPP TS 32.532 [19])  
notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged See Software Management IRP (3GPP TS 32.532
[19])  
notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged See Software Management IRP (3GPP TS 32.532
[19])
* * *
#### 6.1.3.4 ManagedFunction
##### 6.1.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. It provides attribute(s) that are
common to functional IOCs. Note that a ManagedElement may contain several
managed functions. The ManagedFunction may be extended in the future if more
common characteristics to functional objects are identified.
##### 6.1.3.4.2 Attributes
Attributes of ManagedFunction
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier userLabel M M
M
* * *
#### 6.1.3.5 ManagementNode
##### 6.1.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents a telecommunications management system (EM) within the TMN
that contains functionality for managing a number of ManagedElements (MEs).
The management system communicates with the MEs directly or indirectly over
one or more interfaces for the purpose of monitoring and/or controlling these
MEs.
This class has similar characteristics as the ManagedElement. The main
difference between these two classes is that the ManagementNode has a special
association to the managed elements that it is responsible for managing.
##### 6.1.3.5.2 Attributes
Attributes of ManagementNode
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
managementNodeId M M - userLabel M M M vendorName M M - userDefinedState M M M
locationName M M - swVersion M M - managedElements M M -
* * *
##### 6.1.3.5.3 Void
##### 6.1.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.1.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
#### 6.1.3.6 MeContext
##### 6.1.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC is introduced for naming purposes. It may support creation of unique
DNs in scenarios when some MEs have the same RDNs due to the fact that they
have been manufacturer pre-configured.\ If some MEs have the same RDNs (for
the above mentioned reason) and they are contained in the same SubNetwork
instance, some measure shall be taken in order to assure the global uniqueness
of DNs for all IOC instances under those MEs. One way could be to set
different dnPrefix for those NEs, but that would require either that:
a) all LDNs or DNs are locally modified using the new dnPrefix for the upper
portion of the DNs, or
b) a mapping (translation) of the old LDNs or DNs to the new DNs every time
they are used externally, e.g. in alarm notifications.
As both the two alternatives above may involve unacceptable drawbacks (as the
old RDNs for the MEs then would have to be changed or mapped to new values),
using MeContext offers a new alternative to resolve the DN creation. Using
MeContext as part of the naming tree (and thus the DN) means that the
dnPrefix, including a unique MeContext for each ME, may be directly
concatenated with the LDNs, without any need to change or map the existing ME
RDNs to new values.
MeContext have 0..N instances. It may exist even if no SubNetwork exists.
Every instance of MeContext contains exactly one ManagedElement during steady-
state operations.
##### 6.1.3.6.2 Attributes
Attributes of MeContext
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier meContextId M
M - dnPrefix M M -
* * *
##### 6.1.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
Attribute constrains for dnPrefix: The attribute dnPrefix shall be supported
if an instance of MeContext is the local root instance of the MIB. Otherwise
the attribute shall be absent or carry no information.
##### 6.1.3.6.4 Void
##### 6.1.3.6.5 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.1.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
#### 6.1.3.7 SubNetwork
##### 6.1.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents a set of managed entities as seen over the Itf-N.
There may be zero or more instances of a SubNetwork. It shall be present if
either a ManagementNode or multiple ManagedElements are present (i.e.
ManagementNode and multiple ManagedElement instances shall have SubNetwork as
parent).
The SubNetwork instance not contained in any other instance of SubNetwork is
referred to as \"the root SubNetwork instance\".
##### 6.1.3.7.2 Attributes
Attributes of SubNetwork
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier subNetworkId M
M - dnPrefix M M - userLabel M M M userDefinedNetworkType M M - setOfMcc M M -
* * *
##### 6.1.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
Attribute constrains for dnPrefix: The attribute dnPrefix shall be supported
if an instance of SubNetwork is the local root instance of the MIB. Otherwise
the attribute shall be absent or carry no information.
Attribute constrains for setOfMcc: If there may be more than one MCC value in
the SubNetwork instance, the attribute setOfMcc is mandatory. Otherwise it is
optional.
##### 6.1.3.7.4 Void
##### 6.1.3.7.5 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.1.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
#### 6.1.3.8 Top
##### 6.1.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC is introduced for generalisation purposes. All information object
classes defined in all TS that claim to be conformant to 32.102 [2] shall
inherit from Top.
##### 6.1.3.8.2 Attributes
Attributes of Top
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier objectClass M
M - objectInstance M M -
* * *
#### 6.1.3.9 VsDataContainer
##### 6.1.3.9.1 Definition
The VsDataContainer managed object is a container for vendor specific data.
The number of instances of the VsDataContainer can differ from vendor to
vendor. This IOC shall only be used by the Bulk CM IRP for all the NRMs.
##### 6.1.3.9.2 Attributes
Attributes of VsDataContainer
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
vsDataContainerId M M - vsDataType M M - vsData M M O vsDataFormatVersion M M
-
* * *
#### 6.1.3.10 Link
##### 6.1.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC represents a communication link or reference point between two
network entities. The Link IOC does not indicate whether the represented
communication link or reference point is a physical or logical entity.
This IOC cannot be instantiated. It is defined for sub-classing purposes.
For the subclasses of Link, the following rules apply:
  1. The subclass names shall have the form "Link_\_\", where \ is a string that represents the IOC at one end of the association related to the particular Link subclass, and \ is a string that represents the IOC at the other end of the association. For the order of the two strings, \ shall come alphabetically before \.
  2. In case \ and \ are YyyFunction IOCs (inheriting from ManagedFunction and on first level below ManagedElement), the \ and \ strings shall have the same form as the legal values of the managedElementType attribute (see clause 6.5.1), e.g. "Auc". Otherwise \ and \ shall be the full IOC names.
Thus, two valid examples of Link subclass names would be: **Link_As_Cscf** and
**Link_Mrfc_Mrfp.**
##### 6.1.3.10.2 Attributes
Attributes of Link
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier linkId M M -
userLabel M M M aEnd M M - zEnd M M - linkType O M - protocolName O M -
protocolVersion O M -
* * *
##### 6.1.3.10.3 Void
##### 6.1.3.10.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.1.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
#### 6.1.3.11 EP_RP
##### 6.1.3.11.1 Definition
This IOC represents an end point of a link used across a reference point
between two network entities.
This IOC cannot be instantiated. It is defined for sub-classing purposes. The
detailed subclassed IOC, e.g. EP_X2, will be defined in E-UTRAN NRM IRP, by
inheriting from this EP_RP.
For naming the subclasses of **EP_RP** , the following rules shall apply:
  * The name of the subclassed IOC shall have the form "EP_\", where \ is a string that represents the name of the reference point.
Thus, two valid examples of EP_RP subclassed IOC names would be: EP_S1 and
EP_X2.
##### 6.1.3.11.2 Attributes
Attributes of EP_RP
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
farEndEntity O M - userLabel O M M
* * *
### 6.1.4 Information relationship definitions
#### 6.1.4.1 ManagementScope **(M)**
##### 6.1.4.1.1 Definition
This association is used to represent relationships between one or more MEs
and the ManagementNode that is responsible for managing the MEs. It has two
roles, named Manager and Subordinate. The role Manager models the fact that a
ManagementNode is responsible for managing zero or more MEs, and the role
Subordinate models the fact that an ME is managed by zero or one
ManagementNode. Each role is in the IOC definition mapped to a reference
attribute with the same name.
##### 6.1.4.1.2 Roles
The roles involved in the relation ManagementScope are listed in the following
table.
Roles of the relation ManagementScope
* * *
Name Definition Manager This role represents the ManagementNode's capability
to identify the set of related ManagedElements. This role is modelled by a
reference attribute named managedElements. ManagementNode.managedElements
shall carry the set of ManagedElement DN(s). Subordinate This role represents
the ManagedElement's capability to identify the set of related
managementNode(s). This role is modelled by a reference attribute named
managedBy. ManagedElement.managedBy shall carry the set of ManagementNode
DN(s).
* * *
##### 6.1.4.1.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.1.5 Information attribute definitions
#### 6.1.5.1 Definitions and legal values
The following table defines the attributes that are present in several
information object classes of the present document.
Attributes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aEnd | The value of this | Single DN string as | | | attribute shall be | defined in TS 32.300 | | | the Distinguished | [13] | | | Name of the | | | | alphabetically first | | | | instance in the Link | | | | subclass name to | | | | which this | | | | link/relation is | | | | associated (i.e., | | | | pointing to the | | | | instance of \ as | | | | described in the | | | | definition of Link | | | | IOC in the present | | | | document).\ | | | | As an example, with | | | | Link_As_Slf, aEnd | | | | would contain the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the AsFunction | | | | instance, and the | | | | zEnd would contain | | | | the Distinguished | | | | Name of SlfFunction | | | | instance.\ | | | | Note that if the | | | | \ and \ | | | | substrings as part | | | | of the Link subclass | | | | name are the same | | | | (e.g., | | | | Link_Bgcf_Bgcf), | | | | no ordering can be | | | | implied. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dnPrefix | It carries the DN | | | | Prefix information | | | | as defined in Annex | | | | C of 32.300 [13] | | | | or no information. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndEntity | The value of this | | | | attribute shall be | | | | the Distinguished | | | | Name of the far end | | | | network entity to | | | | which the reference | | | | point is related. | | | | | | | | As an example, with | | | | EP_Iucs, if the | | | | instance of EP_Iucs | | | | is contained by one | | | | RncFunction | | | | instance, the | | | | farEndEntity is the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the | | | | MscServerFunction | | | | instance to which | | | | this Iucs reference | | | | point is related. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | when naming an | | | | instance of the | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | linkId | An attribute whose | Values to be | | | 'name+value' can be | conformant with TS | | | used as an RDN when | 32.300 [13] | | | naming an instance | | | | of the link object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | managedElementId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the | | | | ManagedElement | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | managedElementType | The type of managed | The legal values of | | | element. It is a | this attribute are | | | multi-valued | the names of the | | | attribute with one | IOC(s) that are (a) | | | or more unique | derived/subclassed | | | elements. Thus, it | from ManagedFunction | | | may represent one ME | and (b) directly | | | functionality or a | name-contained by | | | combination of more | ManagedElement IOC | | | than one | (on the first level | | | functionality. | below | | | | ManagedElement), but | | | The actual syntax | with the string | | | and encoding of this | "Function" excluded. | | | attribute is | | | | Solution Set | If a ManagedElement | | | specific. | contains multiple | | | | instances of a | | | | ManagedFunction this | | | | attribute will not | | | | contain repeated | | | | values. | | | | | | | | The capitalisation | | | | (usage of | | | | upper/lower case) of | | | | characters in this | | | | attribute is | | | | insignificant. Thus, | | | | the IRPManager | | | | should be case | | | | insensitive when | | | | reading these | | | | values. | | | | | | | | Two examples of | | | | legal values are: | | | | | | | | - NodeB; | | | | | | | | - HLR,VLR. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | irpAgentId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iRPId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | linkType | This attribute | Signalling, Bearer, | | | defines the type of | OAM&P, Other or | | | the link. | multiple | | | | combinations of the | | | | above types. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | locationName | The physical | | | | location of this | | | | entity (e.g. an | | | | address). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | managedElements | Models the role | | | | Manager -- see | | | | clause 6.1.4.1.2. | | | | This attribute | | | | contains a list of | | | | the DN(s) of the | | | | related | | | | ManagedElement | | | | instance(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | managementNodeId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | managedBy | Models the role | | | | Subordinate -- see | | | | clause 6.1.4.1.2. | | | | This attribute | | | | contains a list of | | | | the DN(s) of the | | | | related | | | | ManagementNode | | | | instance(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | meContextId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectClass | An attribute which | | | | captures the name of | | | | the class from which | | | | the object instance | | | | is an occurrence of. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectInstance | An information which | | | | captures the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of any object. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | protocolName | Name(s) and | | | | additional | | | | descriptive | | | | information for the | | | | protocol(s) used for | | | | the associated | | | | communication link. | | | | Syntax and semantic | | | | is not specified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | protocolVersion | Versions(s) and | | | | additional | | | | descriptive | | | | information for the | | | | protocol(s) used for | | | | the associated | | | | communication link. | | | | Syntax and semantic | | | | is not specified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | setOfMcc | Set of Mobile | | | | Country Code (MCC). | | | | The MCC uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | country of domicile | | | | of the mobile | | | | subscriber. MCC is | | | | part of the IMSI | | | | (Ref. 3GPP TS | | | | 23.003). | | | | | | | | This list contains | | | | all the MCC values | | | | in subordinate | | | | object instances to | | | | this SubNetwork | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | Every unique value | | | | of MCC shall only | | | | appear once in the | | | | list. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | subNetworkId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the SubNetwork | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swVersion | The software version | | | | of the | | | | ManagementNode or | | | | ManagedElement (this | | | | is used for | | | | determining which | | | | version of the | | | | vendor specific | | | | information is valid | | | | for the | | | | ManagementNode or | | | | ManagedElement). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | systemDN | The Distinguished | | | | Name (DN) of | | | | IRPAgent. Defined in | | | | 3GPP TS 32.300. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | us | Textual information | | | erDefinedNetworkType | regarding the type | | | | of network, e.g. | | | | UTRAN. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | userDefinedState | An operator defined | | | | state for operator | | | | specific usage. (See | | | | also Note below) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | userLabel | A user-friendly (and | | | | user assignable) | | | | name of this object. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | The name of the | | | | vendor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vsData | Vendor specific | | | | attributes of the | | | | type vsDataType. The | | | | attribute | | | | definitions | | | | including | | | | constraints (value | | | | ranges, data types, | | | | etc.) are specified | | | | in a vendor specific | | | | data format file. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vsDataContainerId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vsDataFormatVersion | Name of the data | | | | format file, | | | | including version. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vsDataType | Type of vendor | | | | specific data | | | | contained by this | | | | instance, e.g. | | | | relation specific | | | | algorithm | | | | parameters, cell | | | | specific parameters | | | | for power control or | | | | re-selection or a | | | | timer. The type | | | | itself is also | | | | vendor specific. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | zEnd | The value of this | Single DN string as | | | attribute shall be | defined in TS 32.300 | | | the Distinguished | [13] | | | Name of the | | | | alphabetically | | | | second instance in | | | | the Link subclass | | | | name to which this | | | | link/relation is | | | | associated (i.e., | | | | pointing to the | | | | instance of \ as | | | | described in the | | | | definition of Link | | | | IOC in the present | | | | document).\ | | | | As an example, with | | | | Link_As_Slf, aEnd | | | | would contain the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the AsFunction | | | | instance, and the | | | | zEnd would contain | | | | the Distinguished | | | | Name of SlfFunction | | | | instance.\ | | | | Note that if the | | | | \ and \ | | | | substrings as part | | | | of the Link subclass | | | | name are the same | | | | (e.g., | | | | Link_Bgcf_Bgcf), | | | | no ordering can be | | | | implied. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.1.5.2 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.1.6 Common Notifications
This subclause presents a list of notifications that can be referred to by any
IOC defined by this IRP specification.\ These notifications are only
applicable to IOCs referring to this subclause.
Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
### 6.1.7 Particular information configurations
Not applicable.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
#