# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.671: Configuration Management (CM); State Management Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Requirements**
32.672: Configuration Management (CM); State Management Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)
**32.676:** Configuration Management (CM); **State Management Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in 3GPP
TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [3], the requirements for
the present IRP: State Management.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.632: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Core Network Resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM): UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.652: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.731: \"Information technology, Open Systems
Interconnection, Systems Management: State management function\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [3] apply.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see 3GPP TS 32.101 [1])
ITU‑T International Telecommunication Union, Telecommunication Standardisation
Sector
NE Network Element
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
OS Operations System
QoS Quality of Service
# 4 Requirements for the State Management IRP
## 4.1 Introduction to requirements
The management state of a managed object represents the instantaneous
condition of availability and operability of the associated resource from the
point of view of management. Different classes of managed object have a
variety of state attributes that express and control aspects of the operation
of their associated resource that are peculiar to each class. However, the
management state is expected to be common to a large number of resources and
for this reason is to be standardized; it expresses key aspects of their
usability at any given time. Its purpose is to control the general
availability of a resource and to make visible information about that general
availability.
State Management IRP is defined to specify and to standardise the generic
attributes for modelling and managing the resources of 3G networks at the
Itf‑N. There are a variety of managed objects and the related network
resources. It is the task of designers of specific managed object classes to
model the state conditions of the associated network resources using the
generic attributes provided in the State Management IRP. Different managed
objects and the network resources they model may require different subsets of
the attributes defined in the State Management IRP. Examples of network
resource models can be found in 3GPP TS 32.622 [4], 3GPP TS 32.632 [5], 3GPP
TS 32.642 [6] and 3GPP TS 32.652 [7].
## 4.2 Requirements
The following requirements apply for the State Management IRP:
A. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
B. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
C. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements apply:
1\. The State Management IRP IS shall specify state attributes, modelling
operability, usage and administration related to 3G network resources.
\- operability: whether or not the resource is physically installed and
working, if applicable.
\- usage: whether or not the resource is actively in use at a specific
instant, and if so, whether or not it has spare capacity for additional users
at that instant. A resource is said to be \"in use\" when it has received one
or more requests for service that it has not yet completed or otherwise
discharged, or when some part of its capacity has been allocated, and not yet
reclaimed, as a result of a previous service request.
\- administration: permission to use or prohibition against using the
resource, imposed through the management services.
> The semantics and the value ranges of these state attributes shall be based
> on ITU-T Recommendation X.731 [8] while extensions and omissions may be
> made.
2\. The State Management IRP IS shall specify status attributes, modelling
more detailed information about other aspects of the state of the
corresponding 3G network resources that may affect their operability and
usage. The status attributes also contain more detailed information about the
administrative constraints on its operation that are controlled by a manager.
The semantics and the value ranges of these status attributes shall be based
on ITU‑T Recommendation X.731 [8] while extensions and omissions may be made.
#