# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.721: Configuration Management (CM); Repeater network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
32.722: Configuration Management (CM); Repeater network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)
**32.726: Configuration Management (CM); Repeater network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions**
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
CM, in general, provides the operator with the ability to assure correct and
effective operation of the 3G network as it evolves. CM actions have the
objective to control and monitor the actual configuration on the NEs and NRs,
and they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the OSs or NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present specifies the Solution Set definitions for the IRP whose semantics
are specified in the Repeater Network Resources IRP NRM Information Service
(3GPP TS 32.722 [1]).
This Solution Set specification is related to TS 32.722 v11.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.722: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Repeater Network Resources Model (NRM):Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.616: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
[4] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\"..
[7] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[8] OMG Notification Service, Version 1.0.
[9] OMG CORBA services: Common Object Services Specification, Update: November
22, 1996.
[10] The Common Object Request Broker: Architecture and Specification (for
specification of valid version, see [1]).
[11] 3GPP TS 32.306: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions \".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.111-6: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
3: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions \".
[13] W3C REC-xml-20001006: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second
Edition)\".
[14] W3C REC-xmlschema-0-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 0: Primer\".
[15] W3C REC-xmlschema-1-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 1: Structures\".
[16] W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
[17] W3C REC-xml-names-19990114: \"Namespaces in XML\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For terms and definitions please refer to 3GPP TS 32.101 [4], 3GPP TS 32.102
[5], 3GPP TS 32.600 [6] and 3GPP TS 32.722 [1]，the following terms and
definitions apply:
**XML file:** file containing an XML document
**XML document:** composed of the succession of an optional XML declaration
followed by a root XML element
NOTE: See [13]; in the scope of the present document.
**XML declaration:** it specifies the version of XML being used
NOTE: See [13].
**XML element:** has a type, is identified by a name, may have a set of XML
attribute specifications and is either composed of the succession of an XML
start-tag followed by the XML content of the XML element followed by an XML
end-tag, or composed simply of an XML empty-element tag; each XML element may
contain other XML elements
NOTE: See [13].
**empty XML element:** having an empty XML content; an empty XML element still
possibly has a set of XML attribute specifications; an empty XML element is
either composed of the succession of an XML start-tag directly followed by an
XML end-tag, or composed simply of an XML empty-element tag
NOTE: See [13].
**XML content (of an XML element):** empty if the XML element is simply
composed of an XML empty-element tag; otherwise the part, possibly empty, of
the XML element between its XML start-tag and its XML end-tag
**XML start-tag:** the beginning of a non-empty XML element is marked by an
XML start-tag containing the name and the set of XML attribute specifications
of the XML element
NOTE: See [13].
**XML end-tag:** the end of a non-empty XML element is marked by an XML end-
tag containing the name of the XML element
NOTE: See [13].
**XML empty-element tag:** composed simply of an empty-element tag containing
the name and the set of XML attribute specifications of the XML element
NOTE: See [13].
**XML attribute specification:** has a name and a value
NOTE: See [13].
**DTD:** defines structure and content constraints to be respected by an XML
document to be valid with regard to this DTD
NOTE: See [13].
**XML schema:** more powerful than a DTD, an XML schema defines structure and
content constraints to be respected by an XML document to conform with this
XML schema; through the use of XML namespaces several XML schemas can be used
together by a single XML document; an XML schema is itself also an XML
document that shall conform with the XML schema for XML schemas
NOTE: See [14], [15] and [16].
**XML namespace:** enables qualifying element and attribute names used in XML
documents by associating them with namespaces identified by different XML
schemas
NOTE: See [17], in the scope of the present document.
**XML complex type:** defined in an XML schema; cannot be directly used in an
XML document; can be the concrete type or the derivation base type for an XML
element type or for another XML complex type; ultimately defines constraints
for an XML element on its XML attribute specifications and/or its XML content
NOTE: See [14], [15] and [16].
**XML element type:** declared by an XML schema; can be directly used in an
XML document; as the concrete type of an XML element, directly or indirectly
defines constraints on its XML attribute specifications and/or its XML
content; can also be the concrete type or the derivation base type for another
XML element type
NOTE: See [14], [15] and [16].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
DTD Document Type Definition
EDGE Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IS Information Service
IDL Interface Definition Language (OMG)
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
SS Solution Set
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Solution Set definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP Repeater NRM IRP Solution Set
definitions:
  * 3GPP Repeater NRM IRP CORBA SS (Annex A)
  * 3GPP Repeater NRM IRP XML definitions (Annex B)
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in Repeater NRM IRP: Information Service (TS 32.722 [1]).
# A.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of Repeater Network Resources IRP is
specified in 3GPP TS 32.722 [1].\ This clause specifies features that are
specific to the CORBA SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [7].
## A.1.2 Notifications
Notifications are sent according to the Notification IRP: CORBA SS (see 3GPP
TS 32.306 [11]).
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 General mappings
Attributes modelling associations as defined in the NRM (here also called
"reference attributes") are in this SS mapped to attributes. The names of the
reference attributes in the NRM are mapped to the corresponding attribute
names in the MOC. When the cardinality for an association is 0..1 or 1..1 the
datatype for the reference attribute is defined as a MOReference. The value of
an MO reference contains the distinguished name of the associated MO. When the
cardinality for an association allows more than one referred MO, the reference
attribute will be of type MOReferenceSet, which contains a sequence of MO
references.
## A.2.2 Repeater NRM Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
### A.2.2.1 IOC RepeaterFunction
Mapping from NRM IOC RepeaterFunction attributes to SS equivalent MOC
RepeaterFunction attributes
* * *
NRM Attributes of IOC RepeaterFunction in 3GPP TS 32.722 [1] SS Attributes SS
Type Support Qualifier Read Write repeaterFunctionId repeaterFunctionId string
M M - userLabel userLabel string M M M priority priority long M M M latitude
latitude float M M O Longitude longitude float M M O ctrlConnMode ctrlConnMode
ctrlConnMode M M M environmentInfo environmentInfo string M M - powerSwitch
powerSwitch powerSwitch M M M ulAttenuation ulAttenuation long M M M
dlAttenuation dlAttenuation long M M M firmwareVer firmwareVer string M M -
repeaterType repeaterType repeaterType M M - repeaterFunction-
ExternalUtranCell repeaterFunctionExternalUtranCell
GenericNetworkResourcesIRPSystem::AttributeTypes::MOReference M M -
* * *
# A.3 Rules for management information model extensions
This clause discusses how the models and IDL definitions provided the present
document can be extended for a particular implementation and still remains
compliant with 3GPP SA5\'s specifications.
## A.3.1 Allowed extensions
Vendor-specific IOCs may be supported. The vendor-specific IOCs may support
new types of attributes. The 3GPP SA5-specified notifications may be issued
referring to the vendor-specific IOCs and vendor-specific attributes. New IOCs
shall be distinguishable from 3GPP SA5 IOCs by name. 3GPP SA5-specified and
vendor-specific attributes may be used in vendor-specific IOCs. Vendor-
specific attribute names shall be distinguishable from existing attribute
names.
NRM IOCs may be subclassed. Subclassed IOCs shall maintain the specified
behaviour of the 3GPP SA5\'s superior classes. They may add vendor-specific
behaviour with vendor-specific attributes. When subclassing, naming attributes
cannot be changed. The subclassed IOC shall support all attributes of its
superior class. Vendor-specific attributes cannot be added to 3GPP SA5 NRM
IOCs without subclassing.
When subclassing, the 3GPP SA5-specified containment rules and their specified
cardinality shall still be followed.\ As an example, ManagementNode (or its
subclasses) shall be contained under SubNetwork (or its subclasses).
Managed Object Instances may be instantiated as CORBA objects. This requires
that the IOCs be represented in IDL. 3GPP SA5\'s NRM IOCs are not currently
specified in IDL, but may be specified in IDL for instantiation or subclassing
purposes. However, management information models should not require that
IRPManagers access the instantiated managed objects other than through
supported methods in the present document.
Extension rules related to notifications (Notification categories, Event
Types, Extended Event Types etc.) are for further study.
## A.3.2 Extensions not allowed
The IDL specifications in the present document cannot be edited or altered.
Any additional IDL specifications shall be specified in separate IDL files.
IDL interfaces (note: not IOCs) specified in the present document may not be
subclassed or extended. New interfaces may be defined with vendor-specific
methods.
# A.4 Solution Set definitions
## A.4.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.4.2 defines the MO classes for the **Repeater NRM IRP**
## A.4.2 IDL specification (file name \"RepeaterNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl\")
//File:RepeaterNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl
#ifndef _REPEATERNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS_IDL_
#define _REPEATERNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS_IDL_
#include \"GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs.idl\"
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/**
* This module defines constants for each MO class name and
* the attribute names for each defined MO class.
*/
module RepeaterNetworkResourcesNRMDefs
{
/**
* Definitions for MO class RepeaterFunction
*/
interface RepeaterFunction : GenericNetworkResourcesNRMDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"RepeaterFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string repeaterFunctionId = \"repeaterFunctionId\";
const string priority = \"priority\";
const string latitude = \"latitude\";
const string longitude = \"longitude\";
const string ctrlConnMode = \"ctrlConnMode\";
const string environmentInfo = \"environmentInfo\";
const string powerSwitch = \"powerSwitch\";
const string dLAttenuation = \"dLAttenuation\";
const string uLAttenuation = \"uLAttenuation\";
const string firmwareVer = \"firmwareVer\";
const string repeaterType = \"repeaterType\";
const string repeaterFunctionExternalUtranCell =
\"repeaterFunctionExternalUtranCell\";
};
enum ctrlConnMode
{
GSM_SMS,
WCDMA_SMS,
CIRCLE_SWITCH_DATA_CSD,
PACKAGE_SWITCH_DATA_IP,
SERIAL_PORT
};
enum powerSwitch {ON,OFF};
enum repeaterType
{
WIDE_BAND_REPT_FUNCTION,
FREQ_SEL_REPT_FUNCTION,
FIBER_REPT_FUNCTION,
INDOOR_REPT_FUNCTION,
FREQ_SHIFT_REPT_FUNCTION
};
};
#endif //_REPEATERNETWORKRESOURCESNRMDEFS_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML definitions
This annex provides the NRM-specific part related to the Repeater NRM IRP [1]
of the XML file format definition for the Bulk Configuration Management IRP IS
[2].
The main part of this XML file format definition is provided by 3GPP TS 32.616
[3].
Bulk CM XML file formats are based on XML [13], XML Schema [14] [15] [16] and
XML Namespace [17] standards.
# B.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of IMS NRM IRP is specified in 3GPP TS
32.722 [1].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the XML Schema
definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [7].
# B.2 Mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
The overall description of the file format of configuration data XML files is
provided by 3GPP TS 32.616 [3].
Annex B.3.2 of the present document defines the NRM-specific XML schema
RepeaterNrm.xsd for the Repeater Network Resources IRP NRM defined in 3GPP TS
32.722 [1].
XML schema RepeaterNrm.xsd explicitly declares NRM-specific XML element types
for the related NRM.
The definition of those NRM-specific XML element types complies with the
generic mapping rules defined in 3GPP TS 32.616 [3].
## B.3.2 XML schema (file name \"RepeaterNrm.xsd\")
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#