# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**TS 32.761 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements**
TS 32.762 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)
TS 32.766 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in [1],
[2] and [3], the Requirements for the E‑UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM)
IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
> [6] 3GPP TS 32.511: \"Telecommunication management; Automatic Neighbour
> Relation (ANR) management; Concepts and requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.150 [4], TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [5] and the
following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same term, if any, in TS 32.150 [4], TS 32.101 [1], TS
32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [5], in this order.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS 32.150
[4], TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [5] and the following apply.
An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TS 32.150 [4], TS 32.101 [1],
TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [5], in this order.
CM Configuration Management
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
IRP Integration Reference Point
NRM Network Resource Model
# 4 Requirements
The following general and high-level requirement applies for the present IRP:
A. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
B. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
C. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
D. ANR management related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.511 [6]
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements apply:
**REQ-EUTRAN_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall contain E-UTRAN
specific IOCs and related definitions, supporting E-UTRAN network entities.
**REQ-EUTRAN_NRM-CON-002:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall support
management of inter-system handover between EPS and UMTS, between EPS and GSM,
and between EPS and CDMA2000.
**REQ-EUTRAN_NRM-CON-003:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall support
management of Inter-Radio Access Technology Automatic Neighbour Relation (IRAT
ANR) from E-UTRAN to UTRAN, from E-UTRAN to GERAN, and from E-UTRAN to
CDMA2000.
**REQ-EUTRAN_NRM-CON-004:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall support
management of Intra-E-UTRAN handover.
**REQ-EUTRAN_NRM-CON-005:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall support
management of Intra-E-UTRAN Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR).
**REQ-EUTRAN_NRM-CON-006:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall support
management of E-UTRAN relaying by having a Relay Node (RN) wirelessly connect
to an Donor eNB (DeNB).
**REQ-EUTRAN_NRM-CON-007:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall support the
management of designation of individual cells as reserved for special use,
i.e. such that only UEs with an operator-specified subset of Access Classes 10
to 15 can use those cells.
#