# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
32.771: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
**32.772: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)**
32.773: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
32.775: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) file format definition
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor 3G-system.
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimization programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
During the lifetime of a 3G network, its logical and physical configuration
will undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise
the utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed
through network configuration management activities and/or network
engineering, see 3GPP TS 32.600 [5].
# 1 Scope
The present document is an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named \"Home Node
B Subsystem (HNS) network resources IRP \", through which an \'IRPAgent\'
(typically an Element Manager or Network Element) can communicate
Configuration Management information to one or several \'IRPManagers\'
(typically Network Managers) concerning HNS resources.
The present document specifies the protocol neutral HNS Network Resources IRP:
Network Resource Model. It reuses relevant parts of the generic NRM in 3GPP TS
32.622 [6], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition to that
defines HNS specific Information Object Classes.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an IRP IS is needed,
such as the Basic CM IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.602 [7]) or the Bulk CM IRP IS (3GPP
TS 32.612 [8]). However, which IS that is applicable is outside the scope of
the present document.
The present document (NRM specification) is related to the IS in 3GPP TS
32.672 [9]
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.467: \" Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network
(UTRAN); UTRAN Architecture for 3G HNB\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic Configuration Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] Void.
[10] 3GPP TS 32.632: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Core network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects"
[12] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling\".
[14] IETF RFC 4293: \"SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the Internet
Protocol using SMIv2\".
[15] IETF RFC3873: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Management
Information Base (MIB)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.583: "Home Node B (HNB) Operations, Administration,
Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Procedure flows for Type 1 Interface HNB
to HNB Management System (HMS)"
[17] 3GPP TS 23.002: "Technical Specification Group Services and Systems
Aspects; Network architecture"
[18] 3GPP TS 22.220: "Service requirements for Home Node B (HNB) and Home
eNode B (HeNB)"
[19] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description;Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.401 \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [5].
**Association:** In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) name bindings;
(2) reference attributes; and
(3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams).
**Managed Element (ME):** an instance of the Information Object Class
ManagedElement defined in 3GPP TS 32.622 [6].
**Managed Object (MO):** in the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is
instance of a MO class defined in a MIM/NRM. This class, called **Information
Object Class (IOC)** has _attributes_ that provide information used to
characterize the objects that belong to the class (the term \"attribute\" is
taken from TMN and corresponds to a \"property\" according to CIM).
Furthermore, the IOC can have _operations_ that represent the behaviour
relevant for that class (the term \"operation\" is taken from TMN and
corresponds to a \"method\" according to CIM). The IOC may support the
emission of _notifications_ that provide information about an event occurrence
within a network resource.
**Management Information Model (MIM):** also referred to as NRM - see the
definition below.
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** a model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP\ An NRM identifies and describes IOCs, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
**Home Node B Management System (HMS):** See TS 32.583 [16].
**HNB GW:** See TS 25.467 [4].
**Home Node B Subsystem (HNS):** See TS 23.002 [17].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DN Distinguished Name
GW Gateway
HNB Home Node B
HNS Home Node B Subsystem
IOCs Information Object Classes
IRP Integration Reference Point
ME Managed Element
NRM Network Resource Model
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# System Overview
## 4.1 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP defined by the present
document:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional information object classes, attributes and associations
without requiring the IRPManager to have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist,
It is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
The modelling approach adopted and used in this IRP is described in TS 32.622
[6].
# 6 Information Object Classes
## 6.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP
TS 32.622 [6], IOC, ManagementNode ManagementNode 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC,
Subnetwork Subnetwork 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [6],
IOC, VsDataContainer VsDataContainer 3GPP TS 32.632 [10], IOC, IupsLink
IupsLink 3GPP TS 32.632 [10], IOC, IucsLink IucsLink 3GPP TS 32.632 [10], IOC,
IubcLink IubcLink
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="2.5833333333333335in"}
{width="1.19375in" height="1.2256944444444444in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
Figure1: Containment/Naming and Association diagram
{width="3.942361111111111in" height="2.0597222222222222in"}
{width="3.6506944444444445in" height="1.9243055555555555in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
Figure 2: VsDataContainer Containment/Naming and Association
The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
Each IOC is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to 3GPP TS
32.300 [11] that expresses its containment
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
{width="5.8694444444444445in"
height="1.3395833333333333in"}{width="1.4076388888888889in" height="1.5625in"}
Figure 3: Inheritance Hierarchy
NOTE: IuhSignLinkTp is a special definition for the signalling of the EP-Iuh,
and these two IOC inherit from EP-RP.
## 6.3 Information object class definitions
### 6.3.1 HNBGWFunction
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents HNB GW functionality. For more information about the HNB
GW, see 3GPP TS 25.467[4].
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
> Attributes of HNBGWFunction
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
hnbGwId M M - iPConfigInfo M M - maxNbrHNBRegistered M M - maxPacketCapability
M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Notifications
See clause 6.6 Alarm and configuration notifications.
### 6.3.2 IuhSignLinkTp
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents a signaling link on the Iuh interface and inherits from
EP-RP.
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
> Attributes of IuhSignLinkTp
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
sctpAssocLocalAddr M M - sctpAssocRemoteAddr M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Notifications
See clause 6.6 Alarm and configuration notifications.
### 6.3.3 EP_Iuh
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents an end point of the Iuh interface. It inherits from EP-RP.
For more information Iu-h interface, see 3GPP TS 25.467[4].
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
> Attributes of EP_Iuh
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier farEndNEIPAddr
O M CM
* * *
#### 6.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition Condition for farEndNEIPAddr's write qualifier The EP_Iuh
object belongs to the different Domain Manager as the NE pointed by the
farEndNeIpAddr attribute.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.4 Notifications
See clause 6.6 Alarm and configuration notifications.
### 6.3.4 HMSFunction
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC represents HMS functionality. For more information about HMS, see
3GPP TS 32.583 [16].
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
There are no attributes (other than those inherited).
#### 6.3.4.3 Notifications
There are no Notifications (other than those inherited).
### 6.3.5 HNB
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents HNB functionality. For more information about the
HNB, see 3GPP TS 25.467 [4]. For definition of HNB, see 3GPP TS 22.220 [18].
The Home NodeB, represented by the \> HNB, has registered itself
with one node represented by HMSFunction.
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
> Attributes of HNB
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M -- -
* * *
#### 6.3.5.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[19])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])
* * *
### 6.3.6 HNBProfile
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
The HNBProfile is a representation of information that a) identifies a
specific set of HNB devices and b) the related configuration parameters (and
their values) that are required to be configured in those identified HNB
devices during HNB registration procedure.
It contains userLabel, an attribute inherited from ManagedFunction. This is a
user friendly label assigned by operator. Examples can be "VIP configuration",
"Gold Tier configuration", "device vendor XYZ software version 3.4", "camel",
etc
Editor Note: The userLabel is called configurationKind in previous documents
such as in S5-093276 E pCR H(e)NB Profile handling.)
#### Attributes
> Attributes of HNBProfile
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M --
configuration M M -- criterion O M --
* * *
### 6.3.7 LocalGWFunction
#### 6.3.7.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents local Gateway functionality. For more information
about the local getway, see 3GPP TS 23.060 [20] and 3GPP TS 23.401[21].
The Local Gateway, represented by the \> LocalGWFunction, has
registered itself with one node represented by HMSFunction.
#### 6.3.7.2 Attributes
> Attributes of LocalGWFunction
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M -- -
iPAddr M -- - collocationFlag M -- - servedNode M -- -
* * *
#### 6.3.7.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[19])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])
* * *
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 ConnectedTo2 (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the Iucslink and
HNBGWFunction. The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference
attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition IucsLink-HNBGWFunction This role (when present) represents IOC
Iucslink capability to identify one connected HNBGWFunction. When present, it
shall contain one HNBGWFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.2 ConnectedTo3 (M)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the Iupslink and
HNBGWFunction. The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference
attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition IupsLink-HNBGWFunction This role (when present) represents IOC
Iupslink capability to identify one connected HNBGWFunction. When present, it
shall contain one HNBGWFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.3 ConnectedTo4 (M)
#### 6.4.3.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the Iubclink and
HNBGWFunction. The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference
attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition IubcLink-HNBGWFunction This role (when present) represents IOC
Iubclink capability to identify one connected HNBGWFunction. When present, it
shall contain one HNBGWFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.3.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.4 ServesNode (O)
#### 6.4.4.1 Definition
This unidirectional association represents the relation between a Local GW and
served HNB instances.
#### 6.4.4.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition ServedNode This role represents the HNB instance served by a
Local GW instance.
* * *
#### 6.4.4.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 6.5.1.1 defines the attributes that are present in several Information
Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Table 6.5.1.1: Attributes definitions and legal values
+---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > Attribute Name | > Definition | Legal Values | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hnbGwId | Unique HNB GW ID. | See \"RNC-ID\" in | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.467 | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.002 | | | [4] specifies that | [12] and 3GPP TS | | | HNB GW acts as a RNC | 25.413 [13] | | | to the existing core | | | | network using | | | | existing Iu | | | | interface. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iPConfigInfo | The IP address, | | | | subnetwork mask, | | | | default gateway for | | | | HNB GW (Ref. IETF | | | | RFC 4293 [14]). | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxNbrHNBRegistered | Maximum number of | | | | registered HNB means | | | | maximum number of | | | | HNB allowed to be | | | | registered. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxPacketCapability | The HNB GW's ability | | | | of forwarding | | | | packets, such as | | | | maximum number of | | | | forwarded packets | | | | per second. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sCTPAssocLocalAddr | The local port and | | | | IP address of SCTP | | | | association (See | | | | RFC3873 [15]). | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sCTPAssocRemoteAddr | The remote port and | | | | IP address of SCTP | | | | association (See | | | | RFC3873 [15]). | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndEntity | The value of this | | | | attribute shall be | | | | the Distinguished | | | | Name of the far end | | | | network entity to | | | | which the reference | | | | point is related. | | | | | | | | As an example, with | | | | EP_Iucs, if the | | | | instance of EP_Iucs | | | | is contained by one | | | | RncFunction | | | | instance, the | | | | farEndEntity is the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the | | | | MscServerFunction | | | | instance to which | | | | this Iucs reference | | | | point is related. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndNeIpAddr | The IP address(s) of | | | | the far end network | | | | entity to which the | | | | reference point is | | | | related.This is an | | | | IPv4 or an IPv6 | | | | address. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | configuration | It is a location of | | | | a data set. The data | | | | set is a set of HNB | | | | attributes (with | | | | values) needed to be | | | | loaded into the HNB. | | | | | | | | The data set does | | | | not contain all | | | | configuration data | | | | needed for a device | | | | to operate. Some | | | | configuration | | | | parameters are | | | | autonomously and | | | | dynamically | | | | calculated by the | | | | serving HMS. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | criterion | It is a criterion | | | | that determines if a | | | | HNB should or should | | | | not be loaded with a | | | | particular | | | | configuration. | | | | | | | | The syntax and | | | | semantics of | | | | criterion is | | | | vendor-specific. | | | | | | | | Example 1: | | | | | | | | > The syntax and | | | | > semantics can be | | | | > "If the HNB ID | | | | > range is between | | | | > ABC and DEF then | | | | > APPLY the related | | | | > configuration ". | | | | | | | | Example 2: | | | | | | | | > The syntax is a | | | | > list of strings | | | | > where each string | | | | > is an "attribute | | | | > == value" pair. An | | | | > attribute | | | | > represents a | | | | > TR‑196 parameter. | | | | > Its value is the | | | | > corresponding | | | | > attribute value. | | | | > | | | | > The semantics is | | | | > "if all pairs | | | | > found in criterion | | | | > are also found in | | | | > the home devices, | | | | > then the | | | | > determination is | | | | > positive in that | | | | > the home device | | | | > should be loaded | | | | > with information | | | | > of the data set | | | | > identified by | | | | > configuration; | | | | > else not". | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **iPAddr** | The IP address(s) | | | | assigned for the | | | | Local Gateway. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **collocationFlag** | This attribute | Legal values are: | | | indicates whether | collocated, | | | the local gateway is | not-collocated. | | | collocated with the | | | | HNB or HeNB that it | | | | serves (see | | | | ServedNode relation | | | | in 6.2.1 UML class | | | | diagram) or not. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **servedNode** | This attribute | | | | contains the DN of a | | | | HNB or HeNB that is | | | | being served (see | | | | ServedNode relation | | | | in 6.2.1 UML class | | | | diagram). | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 6.6 Common Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[19])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])
* * *
#