# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
On-going industry convergence and pressure to reduce cost is placing ever-
increasing emphasis on the need to rationalize and align various network
management aspects across boundaries of standards/specifications producing
organizations. The cost, resulting from integration and management challenges,
of the lack of a coherent treatment of the whole network is becoming
increasingly apparent to the point where operators of networks are demanding
action.
To drive for action the operators are developing requirements that articulate
aspects of the problem to be tackled. In addition ISV and equipment vendors
are also developing requirements. The intention from these two activities is
to develop a consistent and complete set of requirements to cover the problem
space. Analysis of these requirements led to the identification of a number of
use cases that highlight detailed examples of the problems and enable
solutions to these problems to be explored (noting that during the process
described here the use cases were confirmed appropriate valuable cases to
cover). It is intended that through these on-going explorations:
\- Specific relationships between 3GPP model elements and TM Forum model
elements can be identified
\- Overlaps of the 3GPP and TM Forum models can be highlighted
\- Gaps in modelling, where neither 3GPP nor TM Forum provide suitable
capability, can be plugged
This document:
  * Captures the use cases considered explaining them in the context of:
```{=html}
``` \- The requirements and scenarios that occur as a result of FMC
  * Real application needs described in terms of an operator activity context
```{=html}
``` \- Develops the use cases to the form of detailed scenarios
```{=html}
``` \- Explaining a stylised network diagram
  * Homing in on the critical area of interaction
```{=html}
``` \- Provides pictorial forms for the model interaction
```{=html}
``` \- Showing the essence of the model relationships
  * Offering a familiar and penetrable form
```{=html}
``` \- Provides detailed formal views of the model interactions
```{=html}
``` \- These are in UML form
```{=html}
``` \- Offers a specific solution
```{=html}
``` \- Resulting from an evaluation of various proposals not captured in the
document
```{=html}
``` \- Uses the use cases and requirements to validate the recommendation
  * Provides views of the interrelationship between models to achieve the support for the solution in 3GPP and TM Forum
The work covered by this document was carried out as part of the Umbrella
model activity [2], as there is interplay between these two areas. Both
activities drew from and fed into each other.
Through the progression described above there was close and appropriate
engagement of operator as well as the wider 3GPP and TM Forum community. This
involved engagement in the process of:
  * Choosing the cases for analysis with focus on the relationship to operator requirements
  * Confirming the appropriateness of the detailed scenarios especially in the context of the pictorial form of the model interactions
  * Validating the solution proposals at both a high level and a detailed level especially in the context of the solution phasing
This led to focus on areas of the model for intense alignment and to the
development of mechanisms for model interrelationship. The proposal set out in
this document supports the Objectives set out in [1].
This document proposes some specific structure of model and realisation of
that structure across 3GPP and TM Forum.
The proposal takes advantage of the TM Forum Information Framework (SID) [3]
and the TM Forum Integration Framework (MTNM/MTOSI) [4] and 3GPP SA5 group
work [5] (NRM IRPs etc.).
The proposal provides an initial pragmatic solution for reduction in cost of
integration and improvement of degree of integration for the purpose of End-
to-End management for a specific aspect of the problem.
# 1 Scope
This document sets out a number of independent operator activity contexts
where each context has been chosen to exercise one or more of the operator
requirements and to lead to points of intersection of the network model work
of 3GPP and TM Forum where some degree of harmonisation would consequently
seem valuable.
Each context description focuses on one or more use cases that suitably
describe the relevant details of that operator activity with respect to an
expected area of intersection. The use cases are first explained and then
depicted via one or more stylized network and model diagrams. The model
diagram is then developed to a formal model structure.
Finally the set of changes proposed cumulated from all context analyses are
provided as a coherent recommendation. Respective concrete models must use
this model to support the FMC use cases to claim FMC network management
compliance.
It should be noted that the UIM cannot be used directly for implementation.
Implementation classes must be derived from those in the UIM by Inheritance or
some other appropriate mechanism. Classes derived from those in the UIM (e.g.
for the fixed environment) must use different names from those used in the
UIM.
This content of this document has been jointly developed by 3GPP and TM Forum
as part of the Joint Working Group on Resource Model Alignment [11].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.107: "Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Federated Network
Information Model (FNIM)"
[2] 3GPP TS 28.620: "Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)"
[3] TM Forum GB922: "Information Framework (SID) Suite, Release 9.0"
(http://www.tmforum.org/browse.aspx?catID=9285&artf=artf2048)
[4] TM Forum: "MTOSI 2.0"
(http://www.tmforum.org/MTOSIRelease20/MTOSISolutionSuite/35252/article.html)
[5] 3GPP TS 32.622: "Generic network resources IRP: NRM"
[6] 3GPP TS 32.156: "Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Model Repertoire"
[7] NGMN: "NGCOR Next Generation Converged Operations Requirements", V1.3
[8] 3GPP TR 32.833: "Study on Management of Converged Networks"
[9] 3GPP TR 32.853: "3GPP SA5 - TM Forum TIP Fault Management Harmonization
Final report from the Joint Work Group ad hoc"
[10] 3GPP TS 32.712 Transport Network (TN) interface Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [12] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[12]. For definitions, symbols and abbreviations not found here see also [1],
[2] and [6].
## 3.1 Definitions
No specific terms were defined during the generation of this document.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[12] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [12].
**CPE Customer Premises Equipment**
**CTP Connection Termination Point**
**EMS Element Management System**
**Eth Ethernet**
**ME Managed Element**
**NE Network Element**
**NMS Network Management System**
**NOC Network Operations Center**
**NW Network**
**OC Operations Center**
**OSS Operations Support System**
**PTP Physical Termination Point**
**SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy**
**SLA Service Level Agreement**
**TP Termination Point**
**TPE Termination Point Encapsulation\ **
# 4 Assurance -- Fault Location Context
## 4.1 Operator Activity Context description
This operator activity context focuses on the location and repair of a fault.
A number of fault examples are used. Each fault example is chosen at a point
in the network where it will cause an effect in both the wireless and wire-
line part of the network. The examples are used together to demonstrate
improvements in the operations characteristics that could be achieved by
interconnecting and harmonizing the TM Forum and 3GPP models.
The descriptions focus on the detection of the alerting of the presence of a
fault. The descriptions assume a fault location and repair process but do not
impose any particular detail on that process.
The primary focus is on the relating of reports of problems from the two
network fragments (3GPP Concrete Model and TM Forum Concrete Model) rather
than the rationalisation of the specific report details (covered by the other
harmonisation activity [9])**.**
## 4.2 Operator requirements covered
A key focus is quality of alarms and ease of interrelationship of those alarms
(see [8]).
## 4.3 Specific use cases
  * Scenario
> A converged Radio/Transport network is operated from a single Network
> Management System (NMS), being part of a Network Operations Center (NOC).
> The scenario is as follows:
  * Problem occurs in the network
  * Alarms are generated by systems managed via the 3GPP model and the TM Forum model
```{=html}
``` \- Network Context
> The OC manages all Network Elements (NE) of both the radio network and
> transport network. The network is operational
>
> The radio network elements are managed using a 3GPP management approach and
> the transport network is managed using a TM Forum management approach. The
> radio network element includes transport network terminations.
  * Description
```{=html}
``` \- Fault location system in the NMS receives alarms from both the radio NE
and the transport NE and interrelates them using network and temporal
information
  * Fault location system identifies the Primary/Root Cause alarm(s)/event(s)
  * Service impact system identifies degree of impact and criticality of repair
  * Repair action initiated
  * Alarms clear and services are restored
```{=html}
``` \- Implications
> In a normal network there will be several/many simultaneous problems and
> work activities to be balanced. The network operator will want to prioritise
> scarce maintenance resource to fix the problems and to choose the right
> sequence of actions to maximise return. Therefore knowing both the root
> cause and location of the fault and the degree of impact from each fault is
> vital.
>
> In order to solve the root cause for the radio network problem efficiently
> the OC needs to get information on the alarms in the underlying transport
> network and radio networks in a consistent and inter-connected model form so
> as to be able to easily interrelate the alarms.
## 4.4 Stylized network
A basic network has been chosen to simplify the consideration and a simple
fault in the optical network has been chosen to highlight the case.
{width="4.250694444444444in" height="3.567361111111111in"}
Figure 1: Example network configuration -- high level
{width="6.192361111111111in" height="1.8736111111111111in"}
Figure 2: Example network configuration -- detailed -- layered view [9]
As a result of the fault in the optical network delivery there is either:
  * Degradation of service due to errors
```{=html}
``` \- Assumes that the failures are soft so as not to cause the protection
schemes to activate but sufficient to cause errors and low level impact on the
service sufficient to push it outside SLA
```{=html}
``` \- Degradation of service due to reduced capacity
```{=html}
``` \- Where an optical system has failed and although there are other systems
providing alternative feed the network is loaded at peak such that under this
failure scenario there is some degree of overbooking of the network during
peak usage
```{=html}
``` \- Loss of resilience
```{=html}
``` \- Where the network has capacity to carry all necessary traffic even with
the specific optical failure but there is now insufficient capacity to enable
engineering works on other optical systems and the overall network is at risk
of degradation or loss of service if there are any further failures
```{=html}
``` \- Loss of service
```{=html}
``` \- Where there has been a failure in one or more optical systems as a
result of shared risk or misfortune such that the capacity of the network has
dropped to a point where some service is lost.
Based upon the work prioritisation consideration noted in an earlier section
the operator will need to understand both the location of a fault and its
impact for each of the above cases. Clearly any ambiguity especially the
appearance of two separate faults where there is actually one fault and a
consequence will waste valuable maintenance resource. It is therefore vital
that in each case location clarity can be achieved.
## 4.5 Problem statement using stylized network model examples
The position of the fault highlighted on the earlier network diagram is
magnified in the following diagrams. Prior to highlighting the fault
positioning it is important to show an example of the arrangement of
management solution components in the mixed wireless-wire-line solution and
the positioning of some of the key model entities.
{width="4.999305555555556in" height="3.754861111111111in"}
Figure 3: Example of current deployment context using unrelated concrete
models
The figure above shows a deployment scenario using unrelated concrete models.
The figure shows two NEs, one wireless and one wire-line being managed by two
separate management solutions, one based upon 3GPP and one based upon TM
Forum, both feeding to a single OSS where some form of network management is
being performed that includes fault localisation. The figure shows the
unrelated TM Forum and 3GPP classes that would represent aspects of behaviour
of the respective NEs. There would be many other classes in the models for the
NEs but only the classes shown are considered relevant in the following cases.
It should be noted that the TM Forum Physical Termination Point and Connection
Termination Point combination represents the optical port, its
layers/protocols and its flexible connection termination capability.
This scenario can be generalised to emphasise the model differences as below.
The figure intentionally does not show the management structure, as this is
NOT the focus of this document.
{width="4.999305555555556in" height="3.754861111111111in"}
Figure 4: Generalised form of current deployment context using unrelated
concrete models
The next two figures show the location of alarms in the models under two
different fault scenarios. The first is a unidirectional fibre break and the
second is a laser fail.
{width="4.999305555555556in" height="3.754861111111111in"}
Figure 5: Alarm positioning for "Fibre Break" case
NOTE: With respect to the red circle in the eNodeB function it is recognised
that under some conditions there will be no alarm either due to resilience or
due to the alarm on the eNodeB function will be suppressed in the NE with
wireless access by the alarm on the Transport Entities. However there are
often more subtle scenarios where degradations could not be suitably
apportions. In addition the indication may be necessarily exposed not
suppressed to indicate a service impact.
In the fibre break case shown above, one indication of the problem is from the
NE with wireless access. It should be noted that there is no standardised
entity in the 3GPP NRM against which to report the fibre fail.
{width="4.999305555555556in" height="3.754861111111111in"}
Figure 6: Alarm positioning for "Laser Fail" case
In the laser fail case shown above there is an indication of a problem from
the NE with wireless access that is identical to the indication in the fibre
break case, and there is also an indication of a problem from the wire-line NE
that is raised against the port represented by the TM Forum Physical
Termination Point.
Using the current solution as depicted above there is no relationship between
the alarmed IRP Transport entity (of the wireless NE) and the alarmed TM Forum
Physical Termination Point (of the wire-line NE) and as a consequence analysis
(e.g. correlation) of the alarms will prove difficult. Hence it can be argued
that the quality of the alarm reporting in these scenarios can be improved
from the perspective of fault isolation (a primary process of the Management
Environment) by better interrelationship of the model representations of the
two NEs.
## 4.6 Solution proposal
The following solution proposal introduces key model interrelationships that
would better enable fault isolation. This solution description incorporates
further classes from the current models, the 3GPP Link and the TM Forum
Topological Link, and show how they can be interrelated. The solution also
show the introduction of necessary aspects of the Physical Termination Point
concepts and Connection Termination Point concepts into the NE with wireless
access in recognition of the fact that the wire-line protocols terminate in
that NE and hence a representation of those protocol termination is required.
The necessary aspects of these Termination Point concepts support the
capabilities and relationships highlighted by the use case depicted in Figure
7:
  * Topological Link between the two NE\'s with wireless access
```{=html}
``` \- Topological Link between one of the two NE\'s with wireless access to
this edge node of the transport network;
```{=html}
``` \- Where this Topological Link is supporting the Link between the two
NE\'s with wireless access.
```{=html}
``` \- Relationship to physical port
  * Relationship to a function in the NE with wireless access e.g. ENBFunction
  * Place against which to raise transport alarms
In both fault cases shown in the figures below the signal fail alarm on the NE
with wireless access will be raised against enhanced IRP Transport entities
(that have incorporated the Physical Termination Point concept) and in the
Laser Fail case the alarms at both ends of the fibre can be related via an
understanding of the TopologicalLink between the Physical Termination Point
and the enhanced IRP Transport entity. The TopologicalLink between the two NEs
may be discovered from the network if appropriate discovery protocols are
enabled or may be operator provisioned. The specific approach to this is not
considered further here. The adjacency information related to the
TopologicalLink will be conveyed to the Management Environment using the
foreign TP capability (3GPP term for this is ExternalXyz). This will not be
discussed further here as the solutions that are already used in the 3GPP
managed environment [10] and in the core of the wire-line environment [4] are
suitable.
{width="4.980555555555555in" height="3.754861111111111in"}
Figure 7: Alarm positioning for "Fibre Break" case using related concrete
models
{width="4.980555555555555in" height="3.754861111111111in"}
Figure 8: Alarm positioning for "Laser Fail" case using related concrete
models
## 4.7 Potential management environment solution forms
Although, as emphasised earlier, the scope of this document is information
model convergence and resolution of the management environment solution is out
of scope it is considered important to highlight some management environment
deployment considerations that will require further resolution.
It is clear that there are several potential management environment
implementation forms that will cater for the introduction of Physical
Termination Point/Connection Termination Point concepts to describe the wire-
line ports of NEs with wireless access. One potential form is shown in the
following figure where the Physical Termination Point, Connection Termination
Point and TopologicalLink model concepts built into the 3GPP NRM IRPs and
exposed via 3GPP IRP Agent using external references to link the two NEs.
Regardless of the structure of the management environment solution, the
solution proposal in section 5.6 is considered appropriate and sufficient.
{width="4.980555555555555in" height="3.754861111111111in"}
Figure 9: Alarm flow through IRP Agent for NE with wireless access
# 5 Fulfilment -- Service construction context
Editor's note: This section is for future consideration and will provide
details on another context and will be laid out in the same flow as the
Assurance context. It may be considered appropriate to move this into a
separate document.
# 6 Fulfilment -- Engineering works context
Editor's note: This section is for future consideration and will provide
details on another context and will be laid out in the same flow as the
Assurance context. It may be considered appropriate to move this into a
separate document.
# 7 Complete model proposal
Editor's note: This section provides the accumulation of the changes from the
three contexts discussed above. If the contexts are moved into separate
documents this section may be yet another document or may be deemed
unnecessary.
## 7.1 Navigable link from mobile to backhaul network
An alarm correlation Use Case is defined Figure 8 (Alarm positioning for
"Laser Fail" case using related concrete models).
\- One IRPAgent is managing the wireless NE.
\- Another agent is managing the wireline transport network including the edge
node of transport network but excluding the CPE (namely, the wireless NE).
\- These two agents would receive alarms from their managed elements;
\- The two agents forward their received alarms to NMS.
\- NMS can then correlate the alarms (e.g. alarm-1 from a wireless NE, the
CPE, is correlated with alarm-89 from transport network edge node)
In Figure 8, the two agents and NMS are 'lumped' together in a box called
"Management Environment".
The Figure 8 is redrawn below as Figure 10. Figure 10 introduces names
(including Link A and Link B). The named items in the Use Case diagram (Figure
10) identify the objects that would be represented by classes (see Figure 11).
It should also be noted that in Figure 10 the:
\- Link is shown in two possible positions on this and previous diagrams. The
Link is shown between CTPs or eNodeB. The eventual positioning of the Link
will be a 3GPP responsibility.
\- Remote NE has had detailed items added that aid model explanation
{width="4.852777777777778in" height="3.6395833333333334in"}
Figure 10: Introduce names for two objects of Figure 8 and other enhancements
The proposed model solution depicted in Figure 11has the following
characteristics/properties:
\- It supports the alarm correlation Use Cases described in this document.
\- It models wireless nodes that would use IP-based transport services;
\- It supports navigation from modeled elements of wireless node (a customer
premise equipment (CPE) from view of the transport network) to modeled
elements of the edge node of the transport network;
\- It models the link(s) between CPEs; and
\- It models the link between CPE and the transport network edge node.
{width="6.763194444444444in" height="3.2055555555555557in"}Figure 11: Class
diagram for both wireless and wireline cases
Note: A wireless ExternalCTP is intentionally not shown in the class diagram.
Definition of this class is a 3GPP matter.
Using the class diagram above an instance diagram for the network case in
Figure 10 can be constructed as shown in Figure 12 below.
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="2.9805555555555556in"}
Figure 12: Instance diagram for case shown in Figure 10
Figure 13 (below) shows the derivation of the wireless and wireline classes
from the Umbrella classes (where the inheritance relationship between the
Umbrella and the other models is used to depict any appropriate derivation
mechanism).
{width="6.793055555555555in" height="3.2055555555555557in"} Figure 13: Diagram
showing derivation of wireless and wireline classes
#