# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
The present document defines a set of Circuit Bearer Services to be provided
to PLMN subscribers by a PLMN itself and in connection with other networks.
This TS should also be used as a reference for defining the corresponding
required mobile network capabilities.
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] TS 41.004: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] TS 22.001: \" Principles of circuit telecommunication services supported
by a GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[3] TS 22.004: \" General on supplementary services\".
[4] TS 27.001: \" General on Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for Mobile
Stations (MS)\".
[5] TS 27.002: \" Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for services using
asynchronous bearer capabilities\".
[6] TS 27.003: \" Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for services using
synchronous bearer capabilities\".
[7] TS 27.005: \"Use of Data Terminal Equipment - Data Circuit terminating
Equipment (DTE - DCE) interface for Short Message Service (SMS) and Cell
Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[8] TS 29.002: \" Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[9] TS 29.007: \"General requirements on interworking between the Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN) and the Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) or
Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)\".
[10] TS 29.010: \" Information element mapping between Mobile Station \- Base
Station System and BSS ‑ Mobile-services Switching Centre (MS - BSS - MSC)
Signalling procedures and the Mobile Application Part (MAP)\".
[11] TS 29.011: \" Signalling interworking for supplementary services\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation V.120: \"Support by an ISDN of data terminal
equipments with V-series type interface with provision for statistical
multiplexing\".
[13] TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this TS are listed in TS 41.004 [1] and TR 21.905 [13].
# 1 Framework for defining Circuit Bearer Services
Bearer Services are described by attributes, which are intended to be
independent. These attributes are described and defined in TS 22.001 [2]. They
are grouped into four categories:
i) Information transfer attributes, which characterize the network
capabilities for transferring information from a user access point in a PLMN
to a user access point in another network. (Refer to TS 22.001 [2] ).
ii) Access attributes, which describe the means for accessing network
functions or facilities as seen at the access point in the PLMN (see TS 22.001
[2]).
iii) Interworking attributes, which describe properties of the terminating
network and its access point. The terminating network may include another PLMN
or the originating PLMN.
iv) General attributes, which deal with the service in general.
Figure 1 shows the relation between the groups of attributes and their fields
of applicability.
NOTE 1: A transit network may not exist for a Bearer Service.
NOTE 2: Communication may be established from either end.
NOTE 3: The information transfer and access attributes of a Bearer Service
relate to a direct peer-to-peer communication of:
\- TE to TE;
\- TE to a network gateway (supporting, for example, PSTN interworking); or
\- network gateway to a TE.
Figure 1: Relation between the groups of attributes and fields of
applicability
The following table lists the individual attributes in each of the four
groups. The Bearer Service definitions in this specification are based on the
\"Minimal Set\" of attributes.
Table 1: List of Bearer Service attributes
* * *
                                                                      Minimal
                                                                      Set
Information Transfer Attributes  
Information Transfer Mode X Information Transfer Rate X Information Transfer
Capability X Establishment of Communication X Symmetry X Communication
Configuration X Data Compression  
Access Attributes  
Access Channel and Rate  
Signalling Access Protocols  
Information Access Protocols  
Information Access Structure X Information Access Rate X Interworking
Attributes  
General Attributes  
Supplementary Services Provided  
Quality of Service X Operational and Commercial
* * *
Attributes that are not part of the minimal set provide further technical
detail and are required to fully define the use of each Bearer Service.
See specifications [4], [5], [6], [7] for information about the Signalling
Access Protocols, Information Access Protocols and related access attributes.
Supplementary services are defined in TS 22.004 [3].
Intercommunication is required with services in the PSTN, ISDN and other
PLMNs. The capabilities that describe the Interworking Attributes are
described in specifications [8] to [9] and [15].
# 2 Bearer Service categories
All Bearer Service categories provide information transfer between the
reference points and allow the use of sub-rate information streams which are
rate-adapted.
The Bearer Services can be grouped into the following categories:
\- Unrestricted Digital Information (UDI);
Provides the transfer of unrestricted digital information.
\- 3,1 kHz (External to the PLMN);
Used to select a \"3,1 kHz audio\" interworking function at the MSC. This
service category is used when interworking with the ISDN or PSTN \"3,1 kHz
audio\" service and includes the capability to select a modem at the
interworking function. \"External to the PLMN\" indicates that the \"3,1 kHz
audio\" service is only used outside of the PLMN, in the ISDN/PSTN. The
connection within the PLMN, user access point to the interworking function, is
an unrestricted digital connection.
# 3 Bearer Services
This clause provides a list of the existing Bearer Services and indicates the
values for each attribute in the minimal set.
The following attributes have the same value for all Bearer Services. Their
values are as follows:
Information Transfer Mode: \"Circuit\";
Information Transfer Rate: Not applicable (note 1);
Establishment of Communication: \"Demand\";
Symmetry: \"Bi-directional Symmetric\";
Communication Configuration: \"Point to point\".
NOTE 1: The Information Transfer Rate attribute is not applicable because it
depends on the reference point assumed in the PLMN, transit or terminating
network.
All asynchronous NT Bearer Services may support data compression to enhance
user data throughput.
NT Bearer Services 20 may support V.120 interworking, enabling data terminals
connected to an UE to interwork with V.120 [12] terminal adapters on the ISDN
as shown in the figure 2 below.
Figure 2: Model of V.120 Interworking
Table 2 contains the list of the Bearer Services and the values for the
remaining attributes in the minimal set.
Table 2
* * *
Bearer Service Number Bearer Service Name Access Structure Access Rate
Information Transfer Capability QOS Attribute Notes 20 Asynchronous General
Bearer Service Asynch note 1 3.1 kHz , UDI, RDI NT / T  
30 Synchronous General Bearer Service Synch note 1 3.1 kHz , UDI, RDI T  
Note 1: This General Bearer is independent of any nominal rate. It is
elaborated in more detail in subclause 3.1
* * *
## 3.1 General bearer service user data characteristics
The tables below describe the characteristics of the General Bearer Services.
The indicated fixed network user rates are possible, but support of General
Bearer Service does not imply support of all rates.
### 3.1.1 BS 20 (asynchronous services)
#### 3.1.1.1 BS 20 T (transparent asynchronous services)
##### 3.1.1.1.1 BS 20 transparent in regular mode for analogue interworking
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Fixed | A | I | > | QoS | UTRAN | GERAN | GERAN | Notes | | Ne | ccess | nform | Rate | attri | | Iu | A/Gb | | | twork | Stru | ation | > | butes | | mode | mode | | | User | cture | Tra | Adapt | | | | | | | Rate | | nsfer | ation | | | | | | | | | Capab | | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0.3 | A | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | synch | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1.2 | A | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | synch | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2.4 | A | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | synch | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4.8 | A | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | synch | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9.6 | A | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | synch | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14.4 | A | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | synch | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19.2 | A | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | synch | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 28.8 | A | 3, | > \- | T | Supp | Supp | Supp | | | k | synch | 1 kHz | | | orted | orted | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
##### 3.1.1.1.2 BS 20 transparent in regular mode for digital interworking
* * *
Fixed Network User Rate Access Structure Information Transfer Capability Rate
Adaptation QoS Attribute UTRAN GERAN Iu mode GERAN A/Gb mode Notes 0.3 kbit/s
Asynch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
1.2 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
2.4 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
4.8 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
9.6 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
14.4 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
19.2 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
28.8 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
38.4 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 T - - Supported
* * *
#### 3.1.1.2 BS 20 NT (non-transparent asynchronous services)
##### 3.1.1.2.1 BS 20 non-transparent in regular mode for analogue
interworking
* * *
Fixed Network User Rate Access Structure Information Transfer Capability Rate
Adaptation QoS attributes UTRAN GERAN Iu mode GERAN A/Gb mode Note 0.3 kbit/s
Asynch 3,1 kHz - NT Supported Supported Supported Note 2 1.2 kbit/s Asynch 3,1
kHz - NT Supported Supported Supported Note 2 2.4 kbit/s Asynch 3,1 kHz - NT
Supported Supported Supported Note 2 4.8 kbit/s Asynch 3,1 kHz - NT Supported
Supported Supported Note 2 9.6 kbit/s Asynch 3,1 kHz - NT Supported Supported
Supported  
14.4 kbit/s Asynch 3,1 kHz - NT Supported Supported Supported  
19.2 kbit/s Asynch 3,1 kHz - NT Supported Supported Supported  
28.8 kbit/s Asynch 3,1 kHz - NT Supported Supported Supported
                            Asynch             3,1 kHz                           \-                NT               Supported   Supported       Supported         Note 1
* * *
NOTE 1: This is used with high speed modems such as V.90 (56kbit/s). Modem
type = \'Autobauding Type 1\' is selected. FNUR has no meaning in this case.
NOTE 2: In case of UTRAN and in GERAN Iu mode the FNURs 300, 1200, 2400 and
4800 bit/s towards the fixed network can be provided only with modem type =
\'Autobauding Type 1\' is selected.
##### 3.1.1.2.2 BS 20 non-transparent in regular mode for digital interworking
* * *
Fixed Network User Rate Access Structure Information Transfer Capability Rate
Adaptation QoS Attribute UTRAN GERAN Iu mode GERAN A/Gb mode Notes 0.3 kbit/s
Asynch UDI V.110 NT Supported Supported Supported Note 1 1.2 kbit/s Asynch UDI
V.110 NT Supported Supported Supported Note 1 2.4 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 NT
Supported Supported Supported Note 1 4.8 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 NT Supported
Supported Supported Note 1 9.6 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 NT Supported Supported
Supported  
14.4 kbit/s Asynch, UDI V.110 NT Supported Supported Supported  
19.2 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 NT Supported Supported Supported  
28.8 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 NT Supported Supported Supported  
38.4 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.110 NT Supported Supported Supported
* * *
NOTE 1: In case of UTRAN and in GERAN Iu mode the user rates 300, 1200, 2400
and 4800 bit/s towards the fixed network can be provided only for mobile
terminated calls.
* * *
Fixed Network User Rate Access Structure Information Transfer Capability Rate
Adaptation QoS Attribute UTRAN GERAN Iu mode GERAN A/Gb mode Notes 1.2 kbit/s
Asynch UDI / RDI V.120 NT Supported Supported Supported Note 2 2.4 kbit/s
Asynch UDI / RDI V.120 NT Supported Supported Supported Note 2 4.8 kbit/s
Asynch UDI / RDI V.120 NT Supported Supported Supported Note 2 9.6 kbit/s
Asynch UDI / RDI V.120 NT Supported Supported Supported  
14.4 kbit/s Asynch UDI / RDI V.120 NT Supported Supported Supported  
19.2 kbit/s Asynch UDI / RDI V.120 NT Supported Supported Supported  
28.8 kbit/s Asynch UDI / RDI V.120 NT Supported Supported Supported Note 1
38.4 kbit/s Asynch UDI / RDI V.120 NT Supported Supported Supported  
48 kbit/s Asynch UDI / RDI V.120 NT Supported Supported Supported  
56 kbit/s Asynch UDI V.120 NT
* * *
NOTE 1: Requires a new code point in V.120 specification to be defined.
NOTE 2: In case of UTRAN and in GERAN Iu mode the user rates 1200, 2400 and
4800 bit/s toward the fixed network can be provided only for mobile terminated
calls.
##### 3.1.1.2.3 BS 20 non-transparent for PIAFS
* * *
Fixed Network User Rate Access Structure Information Transfer Capability Rate
Adaptation QoS Attribute UTRAN GERAN Iu mode GERAN A/Gb mode Notes 32 kbit/s
Asynch UDI PIAFS NT Supported - -  
64 kbit/s Asynch UDI PIAFS NT Supported - -
* * *
##### 3.1.1.2.4 BS 20 non-transparent for Frame Tunnelling Mode
* * *
Fixed Network User Rate Access Structure Information Transfer Capability Rate
Adaptation QoS Attribute UTRAN GERAN Iu mode GERAN A/Gb mode Notes 56kbit/s
Asynch RDI X.31 flag stuffing NT Supported Supported Supported  
64 kbit/s Asynch UDI X.31 flag stuffing NT **Supported** **Supported**
**Supported**
* * *
### 3.1.2 BS 30 (synchronous services)
#### 3.1.2.1 BS 30 T (transparent synchronous services)
##### 3.1.2.1.1 BS 30 transparent in regular mode for analogue interworking
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Fixed | A | I | > | QoS | UTRAN | GERAN | GERAN | Notes | | Ne | ccess | nform | Rate | attri | | Iu | A/Gb | | | twork | Stru | ation | > | butes | | mode | | | | User | cture | Tra | Adapt | | | | | | | Rate | | nsfer | ation | | | | | | | | | Capab | | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1.2 | Synch | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2.4 | Synch | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4.8 | Synch | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9.6 | Synch | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14.4 | Synch | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19.2 | Synch | 3, | > \- | T | - | - | Supp | | | k | | 1 kHz | | | | | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 28.8 | Synch | 3, | > \- | T | Supp | Supp | Supp | | | k | | 1 kHz | | | orted | orted | orted | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
##### 3.1.2.1.2 BS 30 transparent in regular mode for digital interworking
* * *
Fixed Network User Rate Access Structure Information Transfer Capability Rate
Adaptation QoS Attribute UTRAN GERAN Iu mode GERAN A/Gb mode Notes 1.2 kbit/s
Synch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
2.4 kbit/s Synch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
4.8 kbit/s Synch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
9.6 kbit/s Synch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
14.4 kbit/s Synch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
19.2 kbit/s Synch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
28.8 kbit/s Synch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
38.4 kbit/s Synch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
48 kbit/s Synch UDI V.110 T - - Supported  
56 kbit/s Synch UDI V.110 T Supported Supported Supported  
56 kbit/s Synch RDI - T Supported Supported Supported  
64 kbit/s Synch UDI - T Supported Supported Supported
* * *
##### 3.1.2.1.3 BS 30 transparent for Multimedia
* * *
Fixed Network User Rate Access Structure Information Transfer Capability Rate
Adaptation QoS Attribute UTRAN GERAN Iu mode GERAN A/Gb mode Notes 28.8 kbit/s
Synch 3.1kHz Audio H.223 & H.245 T Supported Supported Supported  
32.0 kbit/s Synch UDI H.223 & H.245 T Supported Supported Supported  
33.6 kbit/s Synch 3.1kHz Audio H.223 & H.245 T Supported Supported Supported
Note 1 56 kbit/s Synch RDI H.223 & H.245 T Supported Supported Supported  
64 kbit/s Synch UDI H.223 & H.245 T Supported Supported Supported
* * *
NOTE 1: 33.6kbit/s FNURs is applicable only for UTRAN.
#