# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification specifies the stage 1 description of the
Immediate Service Termination (IST) service which provides the means for the
HPLMN to terminate all the activities of an HPLMN subscriber in a VPLMN.
The purpose of this network feature is to enable the HPLMN to control the
activities of its subscribers, particularly while they are roaming. If the
HPLMN decides (based upon information received via Fraud Information Gathering
System (FIGS) or other systems) that a roaming subscriber is behaving in a
fraudulent or suspicious manner, the HPLMN can terminate all activities of the
subscriber, including calls (including transferred and diverted calls) that
are in progress.
This procedure can also be used to terminate all the activities of a
subscriber when the subscription has ended.
The primary aim is to enable service providers/network operators to use IST to
reduce the amount of money that they lose because of roaming fraud.
# 2 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this specification the following definitions apply:
**subscriber activities:** subscriber activities that must be terminated.
These can be call related events (e.g. call set-up, call termination) or the
invocation of call related and call independent supplementary services (e.g.
Call Hold, Call Waiting, Call Transfer, Call Forwarding, Unstructured
Supplementary Service Data (USSD)).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following abbreviations apply:
**IST** Immediate Service Termination
**FIGS** Fraud Information Gathering System
# 4 Immediate Service Termination (IST)
## 4.1 Description
It shall be possible for the Home Public Land Mobile Network (HPLMN) to
instruct any PLMN to terminate immediately all the activities of a specified
HPLMN subscriber.
Immediate Service Termination (IST) is controlled by the HPLMN and can be
triggered by the HPLMN only.
A subscriber shall be specified by the International Mobile Subscriber
Identity (IMSI).
For subscribers that are marked as subscribed to a CAMEL-based service, IST
shall be possible using Customised Application for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL).
IST shall also be possible for subscribers who are not marked as subscribed to
any CAMEL-based service (see Annex A).
## 4.2 Applicability
This network feature applies to all subscribed Bearer Services and
Teleservices of the subscriber, except for emergency calls.
## 4.3 Normal procedure
The HPLMN will normally direct a request for IST for a particular subscriber
to the current Visited PLMN (VPLMN) of that subscriber and the PLMN visited by
the subscriber immediately prior to visiting the current VPLMN
NOTE: In practice, the IST command will be sent to individual Mobile-services
Switching Centres (MSCs), and not to \"VPLMNs\" as a whole (but such detail is
for Stage 2 and not Stage 1). IST will therefore be sent to all MSCs in which
the subscriber has (or may have) an active call, as logged by the HPLMN. These
MSCs may be confined to the current VPLMN or may include MSC(s) in the PLMN
visited by the subscriber immediately prior to visiting the current VPLMN (or
PLMNs visited even earlier).
The VPLMN shall confirm receipt of the IST command.
The VPLMN shall then terminate all activities of that subscriber in the VPLMN
including ongoing calls and forwarded, deflected and transferred calls. The
call records of calls terminated by the operation of IST shall contain a field
indicating that the call terminated because of the operation of IST.
The VPLMN shall then confirm to the HPLMN that all subscriber activities in
that VPLMN have been terminated.
If the specified subscriber has no activities in the VPLMN then the VPLMN
shall inform the HPLMN of this.
## 4.4 Exception procedures
If after sending an IST command to a VPLMN, the HPLMN does not receive a
positive acknowledgement from the VPLMN indicating receipt and comprehension
of the IST command, the HPLMN should assume that the VPLMN does not support
IST.
# 5 Security requirements between HPLMN and VPLMN
It is expected that there will be a need for authentication and
confidentiality of the communication made between PLMNs.
These issues are for study under other work items within the SMG10 work
programme.
###### ## Annex A (Informative): Normal procedure
IST has been defined to work in co-ordination with existing GSM facilities.
1) The HPLMN changes the subscriber\'s entry in the HLR to prevent the
resumption of activity in the HPLMN and VPLMN after IST has terminated all
subscriber activity.
2) The HPLMN sends a MAP \"Cancel Location\" command to the VLR to prevent the
resumption of activity by the subscriber within the VPLMN without reference to
the HPLMN.
3) The HPLMN sends an IST command to the VPLMN, (possibly a specific MAP
message).
4) The VPLMN confirms receipt and comprehension of the command.
5) The VPLMN terminates all activities of the subscriber indicated by the
command.
6) The VPLMN confirms to the HPLMN that all subscriber activities have been
terminated.
#