# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of this document are subject to continuing work within the TSG
and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This document provides the Stage One description of Location Services (LCS). A
Stage One description provides an overall service description, primarily from
the service subscriber\'s and user\'s points of view, but not dealing with the
details of the Man Machine Interface (MMI). This TS includes information
applicable to network operators, service providers and terminal, base station
system, switch, and data base manufacturers.
NOTE: Location Services may be considered as a network provided enabling
technology consisting of standardized service capabilities which enable the
provision of location-based applications. These applications may be service
provider specific. The description of the numerous and varied possible
location applications which are enabled by this technology are outside the
scope of this specification. However, clarifying examples of how the
functionality being specified may be used to provide specific location
services is included in various sections of the specification.
This document provides core requirements to an extent sufficient to derive a
complete definition of location services at the service level. However, the
present document also provides additional requirements which may suggest in a
non-normative manner certain ways the system may be implemented to support
location services.
LCS can be offered without subscription to basic telecommunication services.
LCS is available to the following categories of LCS clients:
• Value Added Services LCS Clients -- use LCS to support various value-added
services. These clients can include UE subscribers as well as non-subscribers
to other services.
• PLMN Operator LCS Clients -- use LCS to enhance or support certain O&M
related tasks, supplementary services, IN related services and bearer services
and teleservices.
• Emergency Services LCS Clients -- use LCS to enhance support for emergency
calls from subscribers.
• Lawful Intercept LCS Clients -- use LCS to support various legally required
or sanctioned services.
LCS is applicable to any target UE whether or not the UE supports LCS, but
with restrictions on choice of positioning method or notification of a
location request to the UE user when LCS or individual positioning methods,
respectively, are not supported by the UE.
LCS is being developed in phases with enhancements added in 3GPP releases.
# 2\. References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative references
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service principles\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services and Service Capabilities\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Charging and Billing\"
[6] Open Mobile Alliance (OMA): OMA-RD-Parlay_Service_Access-V1_0-20100427-A
[7] 3GPP TS 23.110: \" UMTS Access Stratum; Services and Functions\".
## 2.2 Informative references
[8] 3GPP TR 25.923: \"Report on Location Services (LCS)\".
[9] PD 30.lcs: \"Project Plan for location services in UMTS\".
[10] Third generation (3G) mobile communication system; Technical study report
on the location services and technologies, ARIB ST9 December 1998.
[11] The North American Interest Group of the GSM MoU ASSOCIATION: Location
Based Services, Service Requirements Document of the Services Working Group
[12] FCC, Fourth Report and Order: Wireless E911 Location Accuracy
Requirements, February 3, 2015, https://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-adopts-new-
wireless-indoor-e911-location-accuracy-requirements-0
[13] FCC, Erratum, Wireless E911 Location Accuracy Requirements, March 3,
2015, https://apps.fcc.gov/edocs_public/index.do?document=332342
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, in addition to 3GPP TR.21.905, the
following abbreviations apply:
BDS BeiDou Navigation Satellite System
BLE Bluetooth Low Energy
EGNOS European Geographic Navigation Overlay System
E-OTD Enhanced Observed Time Difference
GAGAN **GPS Aided Geo Augmented Navigation (or GPS and Geo Augmented
Navigation)**
GLONASS GLObal NAvigation Satellite System
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
IPDL-OTDOA Idle Period Downlink- Observed Time Difference Of Arrival
LCS Location Service
MSAS Multi-functional Satellite Augmentation System
NA-ESRD North American Emergency Services Routing Digits
NA-ESRK North American Emergency Services Routing Key
NANP North American Numbering Plan
PSAP Public Safety Answering Point
QZSS Quasi Zenith Satellite System
SBAS Satellite Based Augmentation Systems
TBS Terrestrial Beacon Systems
U-TDOA Uplink Time Difference of Arrival
WAAS Wide Area Augmentation System
NOTE: In the present document, acronyms are used in the text as if they are
read either in their fully expanded form or in their alphabet names with no
consistent principle.
## 3.2 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document the following definitions apply:
**Change of Area** : is one event supported for deferred Location Requests.
Change of Area means that the network is required to report the location or
the occurrence of the event of the requested subscriber in triggered fashion
immediately after the network (MSC/SGSN) processes the mobility event for the
new location of the subscriber. Usually new location is noticed after the
Location Update, Tracking Area Update, Handover, RAU, Registration or RANAP
Location Report, e.g. when the SAI changes.
**Codeword:** access code, which is used by a Requestor or LCS Client in order
to gain acceptance of a location request for a Target UE. The codeword is part
of the privacy information that may be registered by a Target UE user.
**Current Location** : after a location attempt has successfully delivered a
location estimate or Dispatchable Location and its associated time stamp, the
location estimate or Dispatchable Location and time stamp are referred to as
the 'current location' at that point in time.
**Deferred location request:** a location request where the location response
(responses) is (are) required after specific event has occurred. Event may or
may not occur immediately. In addition, event may occur many times.
**Dispatchable Location:** The civic location of a UE and/or a valid Mobile
Equipment (ME), expressed as civic data (e.g. floor, street number, city.) The
Dispatchable Location shall be represented in a well-defined universal format.
Regional regulations may specify the mandatory and optional elements in this
universal format to be included in a Dispatchable Location.
**Immediate location request:** a location request where a single location
response only is required immediately.
**Initial Location** : in the context of an originating emergency call the
location estimate or Dispatchable Location and the associated time stamp at
the commencement of the call set-up is referred to as 'initial location'.
**Last Known Location** : The current location estimate or Dispatchable
Location and the associated time stamp for Target UE stored in the LCS Server
is referred to as the 'last known location' and until replaced by a later
location estimate or Dispatchable Location and a new time stamp is referred to
as the 'last known location'.
**LCS Client:** a software and/or hardware entity that interacts with an LCS
Server for the purpose of obtaining location information for one or more
Mobile Stations. LCS Clients subscribe to LCS in order to obtain location
information. LCS Clients may or may not interact with human users. The LCS
Client is responsible for formatting and presenting data and managing the user
interface (dialogue). The LCS Client is identified by a unique international
identification, e.g. E.164.
NOTE: The LCS Client may reside inside or outside the PLMN.
**LCS Client Access barring list:** an optional list of MSISDNs per LCS Client
where the LCS Client is not allowed to locate any MSISDN therein.
**LCS Client Subscription Profile:** a collection of subscription attributes
of LCS related parameters that have been agreed for a contractual period of
time between the LCS client and the service provider.
**LCS Feature** : the capability of a PLMN to support LCS Client/server
interactions for locating Target UEs.
**LCS Server:** a software and/or hardware entity offering LCS capabilities.
The LCS Server accepts requests, services requests, and sends back responses
to the received requests. The LCS server consists of LCS components which are
distributed to one or more PLMN and/or service provider.
**Location Estimate:** the geographic location of a UE and/or a valid Mobile
Equipment (ME), expressed in latitude and longitude data. The Location
Estimate shall be represented in a well-defined universal format. Translation
from this universal format to another geographic location system may be
supported, although the details are considered outside the scope of the
primitive services.
**NG-RAN:** a radio access network connecting to the 5G core network which
uses NR, E-UTRA, or both.
**North American Emergency Services Routing Digits (NA-ESRD):** a telephone
number in the North American Numbering Plan (NANP) that can be used to
identify a North American emergency services provider and its associated LCS
client. The ESRD also identifies the base station, cell site or sector from
which a North American emergency call originates.
**North American Emergency Services Routing Key (NA-ESRK):** a telephone
number in the North American Numbering Plan (NANP) assigned to an emergency
services call by a North American VPLMN for the duration of the call. The NA-
ESRK is used to identify (e.g. route to) both the emergency services provider
and the switch in the VPLMN currently serving the emergency caller. During the
lifetime of an emergency services call, the NA-ESRK also identifies the
calling mobile subscriber.
**PLMN Access barring list:** an optional list of MSISDN per PLMN where any
LCS Client is not allowed to locate any MSISDN therein except for certain
exceptional cases.
**Privacy Class:** list of LCS Clients defined within a privacy exception
class to which permission may be granted to locate the target UE. The
permission shall be granted either on activation by the target UE or
permanently for a contractual period of time agreed between the target UE and
the service provider.
**Service Identifier:** A service provided by an LCS Client is identified by a
Service Identifier. One LCS client may have one or more services. The
combination of the LCS client Identifier and the Service Identifier
constitutes a unique identification of a service.
**Privacy Exception List** : a list consisting of various types of privacy
classes (i.e. operator related, personal etc.). Certain types of classes may
require agreement between the service provider and the target UE.
**Requestor** : an originating entity, which has requested the location of the
target UE from the LCS client.
**Target UE:** The UE being positioned.
**Target UE Subscription Profile** : the profile detailing the subscription to
various types of privacy classes.
**UE available:** deferred Location Request event in which the MSC/SGSN has
established a contact with the UE. Note, this event is considered to be
applicable when the UE is temporarily unavailable due to inaction by the UE
user, temporarily loss of radio connectivity or IMSI detach and so on. Note
that IMSI detach is only applicable in the case UE has previously been
registered and information is still kept in the node.
# 4 Functional Requirements
## 4.0 General
3GPP standards shall support location service features, to allow new and
innovative location-based services to be developed. It shall be possible to
identify and report in a standard format (e.g. geographical co-ordinates) the
current location of the user's terminal and to make the information available
to the user, ME, network operator, service provider, value added service
providers and for PLMN internal operations.
The location is provided to identify the likely location of specific MEs. This
is meant to be used for charging, location-based services, lawful
interception, emergency calls, etc., as well as the positioning services.
The standard shall support NG-RAN, E-UTRAN, GERAN and UTRAN to facilitate
determination of the location of a mobile station.
The following subsections provide general descriptions of attributes that can
be used to describe or characterize various location services.
The relative importance of these attributes varies from service to service.
However, accuracy, coverage, privacy and transaction rate may be considered
the primary distinguishing attributes that define a value-added service.
Briefly:
  * accuracy is the difference between actual location and estimated > location,
  * coverage is an expression of the geographic area in which the UE > user will receive an adequate perceived quality of service,
  * privacy describes the user's perception of confidentiality of the > location information, and
  * transaction rate indicates how frequently network messaging is > required to support the service.
A general comparison of the specific attributes of various location-based
services is provided in Annex C of this document.
## 4.1 High Level Requirements
The following high-level requirements are applicable:
1 The supporting mechanisms should incorporate flexible modular components
with open interfaces that facilitate equipment interoperability and the
evolution of service providing capabilities.
2 The network should be sufficiently flexible to accommodate evolving enabling
mechanisms and service requirements to provide new and improved services.
3 It shall be possible to provide multiple layers of permissions to comply
with local, national, and regional privacy requirements.
4 Multiple positioning methods should be supported in the different Access
Networks, including (but not limited to):
> \- Modernized GPS;
>
> \- SBAS (Satellite Based Augmentation Systems: EGNOS, WAAS, GAGAN, MSAS);
>
> \- QZSS (Quasi Zenith Satellite System);
>
> \- GLONASS
>
> \- BDS
>
> \- Galileo
>
> \- U-TDOA
>
> \- E-OTD
>
> \- IPDL-OTDOA
>
> \- Network Assisted GNSS (e.g. Network Assisted GPS or Network Assisted
> GALILEO)
>
> \- UE ambient condition sensors-based positioning
>
> \- Motion sensors (e.g. accelerometers, gyroscopes)
>
> \- Environmental sensors (e.g. barometer)
>
> \- Position sensors (e.g. magnetometers, orientation sensors)
>
> \- TBS
>
> \- Beacon identity for location lookup (e.g. WiFi access points or BLE
> beacons)
>
> \- RF Pattern Matching
>
> \- Methods using cell site or sector information and Timing Advance or
> RoundTrip Time measurements.
5 The location determining process should be able to combine diverse
positioning techniques and local knowledge when considering quality of service
parameters to provide an optimal positioning request response.
6 It should be possible to provide position information to location services
applications existing within the PLMN, external to the PLMN, or in Mobile
Equipment;
7 Support should be provided for networks based on Intelligent Network
architecture (i.e. with specific support for CAMEL based Location Services).
8 Support may optionally be provided to enable the routing of emergency calls
based on the geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) of the calling
party.
9 It shall be possible to provide the originating party's serving cell id to
the LCS client.
## 4.2 Location Information
Location Information consists of Geographic Location, Velocity, Civic Location
and Quality of Service information, as described in the subsequent sections.
### 4.2.1 Geographic Location
Provision of the geographic location of a target UE is applicable to all LCS
services.
Note: For services other than LCS the network may also determine within which
Cell, Service Area, or Tracking Area the Target UE is located (\"Service
Area\" and \"Tracking Area\" are UTRAN and E-UTRAN concepts respectively and
both may consist of one (in R99) or more than one cell). The Service or
Tracking Area information or Cell ID may be used for routing of calls or for
CAMEL applications, if supported.
It should be noted that the Service and Tracking Area concepts are different
from the Localized Service Area concept used for SoLSA.
### 4.2.2 Velocity
Velocity is the combination of speed and direction of a Target UE. It shall be
possible for a UE to provide its velocity to the LCS server.
Note: This requirement only applies to satellite-based positioning systems.
For Value Added Services and PLMN Operator Services, the following is
applicable:
> Provision of the velocity of a target UE is application driven. Location
> Services may allow an LCS Client to request or negotiate the provision of
> velocity.
For Emergency Services there is no requirement to provide velocity.
### 4.2.3 Dispatchable Location
Provision of the Dispatchable Location of a target UE in civic form is
applicable to Emergency Services based on regional regulatory requirements.
An example of Dispatchable Location regional regulatory requirements for the
United States can be found in [12] and [13].
## 4.3 Quality of Service
### 4.3.1 Horizontal Accuracy
The accuracy that can be provided with various positioning technologies
depends on a number of factors, many of which are dynamic in nature. As such
the accuracy that will be realistically achievable in an operational system
will vary due to such factors as the dynamically varying radio environments
(considering signal attenuation and multipath propagation), network topography
in terms of base station density and geography, and positioning equipment
available.
The accuracy for location services can be expressed in terms of a range of
values that reflect the general accuracy level needed for the application.
Different services require different levels of positioning accuracy. The range
may vary from tens of meters (navigation services) to perhaps kilometers
(fleet management).
The majority of attractive value-added location services are enabled when
location accuracies of between 25m and 200m can be provided.
Based on decreasing accuracy requirement some examples of location services
are provided in table 4.1. The LCS service shall provide techniques that allow
operators to deploy networks that can provide at least the level of accuracy
required by the regional regulatory bodies (e.g. Annex A).
Table 4.1; Example of location services with decreasing accuracy requirement
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | · Location-independent | Most existing cellular services, Stock | | | prices, sports reports | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | · PLMN or country | Services that are restricted to one | | | country or one PLMN | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | · Regional (up to 200km) | Weather reports, localized weather | | | warnings, traffic information (pre-trip) | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | · District (up to 20km) | Local news, traffic reports | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | · Up to 1 km | Vehicle asset management, targeted | | | congestion avoidance advice | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | · 500m to 1km | Rural and suburban emergency services, | | | manpower planning, information services | | | (where are?) | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | · 100m (67%) | U.S. FCC mandate (99-245) for wireless | | | emergency calls using network-based | | · 300m (95%) | positioning methods | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | · 75m-125m | Urban SOS, localized advertising, home | | | zone pricing, network maintenance, | | | network demand monitoring, asset | | | tracking, information services (where is | | | the nearest?) | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | · 50m (80%) | U.S. FCC mandate [12] and [13] for | | | wireless emergency calls | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | · 10m-50m | Asset Location, route guidance, | | | navigation | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
Accuracy may be independently considered with respect to horizontal and
vertical positioning estimates. Some location services may not require both,
others may require both, but with different degrees of accuracy.
Given that the location estimate is the best possible within the bounds of
required response time, the location estimates of a fixed position UE
(assuming several estimates are made) will reveal a 'spread' of estimates
around the actual UE position. The distribution of locations can be described
by normal statistical parameters and suggests that a small proportion of
location estimates may lie outside of the acceptable Quality of Service (QoS)
parameters for specific services (as determined by the network operator).
It may be possible to provide information on the confidence that can be
associated with a location estimate. This may be used by location services to
decide if a position update should be requested, for example, if the reported
accuracy falls below a threshold determined by the LCS Client or Network
Operator for a specific service.
It may also be possible to determine velocity (speed and heading) information
from a location request.
When delivered with a location estimate, the confidence region parameters,
speed and heading may allow an application to improve the service delivered to
the UE user. Some examples are given below:
a) Confidence Region: Simple measure of uncertainty that specifies the size
and orientation of the ellipse in which an UE is likely to lie with a
predetermined confidence (e.g. 67%). The size of the confidence region may be
used by the network operator or the LCS Client to request an updated location
estimate.
b) Speed: enables e.g. congestion monitoring, and average travel time
estimates between locations.
c) Heading: the location estimate of a vehicle may be improved to identify the
appropriate side of the highway. This may enable the provision of traffic
information that relates only to the user\'s direction of travel.
For Value Added Services and PLMN Operator Services, the following is
applicable:
Accuracy is application driven and is one of the negotiable Quality of Service
(QoS) parameters.
The precision of the location shall be network design dependent, i.e., should
be an operator's choice. This precision requirement may vary from one part of
a network to another.
The LCS shall allow an LCS Client to specify or negotiate the required
horizontal accuracy. The LCS shall normally attempt to satisfy or approach as
closely as possible the requested or negotiated accuracy when other quality of
service parameters are not in conflict. The achieved accuracy level of
location information shall be indicated using the shapes and uncertainty areas
defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [2].
For Emergency Services (where required by local regulatory requirements) the
following requirements shall be met:
\- When providing a Location Estimate, the LCS Server shall attempt to obtain
the horizontal location of the calling UE, in terms of universal latitude and
longitude coordinates, and shall provide this to an Emergency Service
Provider. The accuracy shall be defined by local regulatory requirements.
Annex A shows such requirements as exist in the United States.
\- For Emergency Services within some countries, a network may be allowed to
report accuracy at the cell id level. If the UE and the serving network are
capable of delivering a more accurate location, indication of this capability
may, as a national option, be supplied to the authorities along with the
location. This indication will notify the authorities that they are able to
request location with a high accuracy QoS.
NOTE: The LCS Server provides the location service capabilities but the
mechanism by which location is reported to an emergency service provider is
outside the scope of this service.
### 4.3.2 Vertical Accuracy
For Value Added Services, and PLMN Operator Services, the following is
applicable:
\- When providing a Location Estimate, the LCS Server may provide the vertical
location of a UE in terms of either absolute height/depth or relative
height/depth to local ground level. The LCS Server shall allow an LCS Client
to specify or negotiate the required vertical accuracy. The LCS Server shall
normally attempt to satisfy or approach as closely as possible the requested
or negotiated accuracy when other quality of service parameters are not in
conflict.
\- The vertical accuracy may range from about three metres (e.g. to resolve
within 1 floor of a building) to hundreds of metres.
For Emergency Services (where vertical location is required by local
regulatory requirements) the following is applicable:
\- The LCS Server shall attempt to obtain the vertical location or elevation
of the calling UE and shall provide this to an Emergency Service Provider.
\- The vertical location of the UE shall be expressed in terms defined by
local regulatory requirements which may include absolute height/depth or
relative height/depth to ground level.
\- The vertical location accuracy shall be defined by local regulatory
requirements. Annex A shows such requirements that exist in the United States.
NOTE 1: The LCS Server provides the location service capabilities but the
mechanism by which location is reported to an emergency service provider is
outside the scope of this service.
NOTE 2: The only known regulations for vertical accuracy for Emergency
Services is in the United States (see Annex A.) The vertical accuracy
requirements in these regulations only apply to Emergency Services usage over
E-UTRAN and later defined access.
### 4.3.3 Response Time
Different location-based services, or different LCS Clients, may have
different requirements (depending on the urgency of the positioning request)
for obtaining a response. The location server may need to make trade-offs
between requirements for positioning accuracy and response time.
For Value Added Services, and PLMN Operator Services, the following is
applicable:
Response Time is one of the negotiable QoS parameters. Support of response
time by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) is optional. The LCS Server may
allow a LCS Client to specify or negotiate the required response time (in the
context of immediate location request, see table 1) either at provisioning or
when the request is made. The LCS Server may optionally ignore any response
time specified by the LCS Client that was not negotiated. If response time is
not ignored, the LCS Server shall attempt to satisfy or approach it as closely
as possible when other quality of service parameters are not in conflict.
For immediate location request response time options are as follows:
a) "no delay": the server should immediately return any location estimate or
Dispatchable Location that it currently has. The LCS Server shall return
either the Initial or Last Known Location of the Target UE. If no location
estimate or Dispatchable Location is available, the LCS Server shall return
the failure indication and may optionally initiate procedures to obtain a
location estimate or Dispatchable Location (e.g. to be available for a later
request).
b) "low delay": fulfilment of the response time requirement takes precedence
over fulfilment of the accuracy requirement. The LCS Server shall return the
Current Location with minimum delay. The LCS shall attempt to fulfil any
accuracy requirement, but in doing so shall not add any additional delay (i.e.
a quick response with lower accuracy is more desirable than waiting for a more
accurate response).
c) "delay tolerant": fulfilment of the accuracy requirement takes precedence
over fulfilment of the response time requirement. If necessary, the server
should delay providing a response until the accuracy requirement of the
requesting application is met. The LCS Server shall obtain a Current Location
with regard to fulfilling the accuracy requirement.
For Emergency Services (where required by local regulatory requirements) there
may be no requirement to support negotiation of response time. The network
shall then provide a response as quickly as possible with minimum delay.
Response time supervision is implementation dependent.
### 4.3.4 LCS QoS Class
The LCS QoS Class defines the degree of adherence by the Location Service to
the quality of service parameters (Accuracy and Response Time).
For Value Added Services and PLMN Operator Services, the following is
applicable:
LCS QoS Class is a non-negotiable QoS parameter. Support of QoS Class by a
Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) is optional. The LCS Service may allow a LCS
Client to specify the required QoS Class (in the context of immediate location
request) either at provisioning or when the request is made. The LCS Service
shall attempt to satisfy as closely as possible the other quality of service
parameters regardless of the use of QoS Class.
For immediate location request response, LCS QoS Class options are:
a) "Assured": The other QoS parameters shall be adhered to strictly. The LCS
Service shall obtain a Current Location with regard to fulfilling the
requirements set by the other QoS parameters. If the location request response
does not satisfy the other QoS parameters, the response shall be discarded by
the LCS Service.
b) "Best Effort": The other QoS parameters do not have to be adhered to
strictly. The LCS Service shall obtain a Current Location, using only one
attempt with a single technology, with regard to fulfilling the requirements
set by the other QoS parameters. Even if the location request response does
not satisfy the other QoS parameters, the response may be forwarded to the LCS
Client.
### 4.3.5 Dispatchable Location accuracy
Dispatchable Location accuracy can be expressed in terms of civic location
granularity.
Dispatchable Location granularity refers to the specificity of the elements of
civic location obtained. For example, a civic address with a street number,
street name, city, state and country provides a less specific civic location
than apartment number, floor, street number, street name, city, state and
country. The expression of civic location granularity is in terms of the
mandatory civic location elements such as:
  * City or Town
  * Street number and name
  * Floor number within a building
  * Apartment, Suite, or Room number within a building
An example of regional regulatory requirements for Dispatchable Location
granularity applicable to Emergency Services can be found in [12] and [13].
For Emergency Services (where required by local regulatory requirements) the
following requirements shall be met:
\- When providing a Dispatchable Location, the LCS Server shall attempt to
obtain the civic location of the calling UE in terms of civic information
elements (i.e. country, street name, floor), and shall provide this to an
Emergency Service Provider. The accuracy (granularity) shall be defined by
local regulatory requirements. Annex A shows such requirements as exist in the
United States.
## 4.4 Reliability
Reliability provides a measure of how often positioning requests that satisfy
QoS requirements are successful. For some applications, such as cross-country
vehicle tracking, this may not be especially critical. If a positioning
attempt fails, due to lack of coverage or transient radio conditions, etc,
another positioning attempt may be made. This attempt should be specified in
Location Service Request. (see the section 5.3.1.1). However, for other
services, perhaps such as child tracking, reliability may be more important.
The network shall provide statistical reporting of reliability (QoS
parameters) data.
## 4.5 Priority
Location requests for different services may be processed with different
levels of priority.
For Value Added Services, and PLMN Operator Services, the following is
applicable:
The LCS Server may allow different location requests to be assigned different
levels of priority. A location request with a higher priority may be accorded
faster access to resources than one with a lower priority and may receive a
faster, more reliable and/or more accurate location estimate.
For Emergency Services (where required by local regulatory requirements) the
location request shall be processed with the highest priority level.
## 4.6 Timestamp
For Value Added Services, and PLMN Operator Services, and Emergency Services
(where required by local regulatory requirements), the LCS Server shall
timestamp all location estimates or Dispatchable Location provided to a LCS
Client indicating the time at which the estimate was obtained.
## 4.7 Security
Specific local, national, and regional security regulations must be complied
with.
Position information should be safeguarded against unapproved disclosure or
usage. Position information should also be provided in a secure and reliable
manner that ensures the information is neither lost nor corrupted. Audit
records should be maintained of positioning requests and responses to
facilitate resolution of security violations.
The LCS Client may be authorized by the LCS Server. Existing security
mechanisms as well as security mechanisms of the LCS Server shall be used for
authorizing the LCS Client and its request for location information.
The target UE user shall be authenticated before being allowed to access (to
modify/query) her personal data or query/cancel an LCS request.
For Value Added Services, the following is applicable:
Only authorized LCS Clients shall be able to access the LCS Server. Before
providing the location of a Target UE to any authorized LCS Client, the LCS
Server shall verify both the identity and authorization privileges of the LCS
Client .
Once the LCS Server has verified that a particular LCS Client is authorized to
locate a particular Target UE, any location estimate or Dispatchable Location
requested shall be provided to the LCS Client in a secure and reliable manner,
such that the location information is neither lost, corrupted nor made
available to any unauthorized third party.
For PLMN operator services, location information shall be provided in a secure
and reliable manner. The ability to obtain location information shall depend
on local regulatory laws and requirements in conjunction with requirements for
UE privacy.
For Emergency Services (where required by local regulatory requirements) the
following requirements shall be met:
Position information shall be provided to the Emergency Services Network as an
authorized LCS client. Target UE authorization checks normally performed for
value added services are not applicable (privacy is over-ridden). The position
information shall be provided to the Emergency Services Network in a secure
and reliable manner, such that the location information is neither lost,
corrupted, nor made available to any unauthorized third party.
## 4.8 Privacy
Specific local, national, and regional privacy regulations must be complied
with, and multiple layers of permissions may be required.
Location information must always be available to the network service provider.
Means shall be provided for the UE subscriber to control privacy for value
added services.
The user shall be able to change the setting of the Privacy exception list at
any time.
Unless required by local regulatory requirements, or overridden by the target
UE User, the target UE may be positioned only if allowed in the UE
subscription profile. In general, for valued added location services, the
target UE being positioned should be afforded the maximum possible privacy,
and should not be positioned unless the positioning attempt is explicitly
authorized. In the absence of specific permission to position the target UE,
the target UE should not be positioned.
It may also be possible for a target UE to authorize positioning attempts
after the target UE is notified of a positioning request and the target UE
grants permission for positioning. It shall also be possible to make the
notification conditional on the current location of the target UE. In this
case the notification shall be performed after the target UE is positioned but
before reporting the location of target UE to LCS Client. This notification
condition (notification with privacy verification) shall be specified in the
Target UE Subscription Profile. (See the subsequent \"target subscriber
notification\" section of this document for charging and billing aspects.) The
operator shall be able to determine the location of the target UE (e.g. for
lawful interception or emergency call).
The privacy of an inanimate asset for an embedded target UE may be completely
defined by the UE subscriber.
Additionally, specific privacy exceptions may exist for compliance with
mandated location-based services (such as for emergency services or lawful
intercept) which are required by national or local regulatory requirements.
For Value Added Services, the following is applicable:
The Target UE Subscriber shall be able to restrict access to the Location
Information (permanently or on a per attempt basis). The LCS Client access
shall be restricted unless otherwise stated in the Target UE Subscription
Profile. The home network shall have the capability of defining the default
circumstances in which the Target UE's Location Information is allowed to be
provided - as required by various administrations and/or network requirements.
The privacy check shall be performed in the Home Environment of the target UE
subscriber. This makes it possible for operators to ensure the privacy of
their own subscribers i.e. the privacy settings that are used for privacy
checks are always up to date and as specified by the Home Environment of the
target UE subscriber. It shall be possible for privacy check to take into
account Home Environment specific information such as time of day, subscriber
location. It shall be possible to ensure that privacy checks are performed
according to the latest information as available in the Home Environment.
It shall be possible for location services to support conditional positioning.
Under these conditions, an application that is granted conditional positioning
authorization must notify and obtain positioning authorization from the user
of the target UE prior to performing the positioning process. Thus, the user
of the target UE shall be able to accept or reject the positioning attempt.
It shall be possible for location services to support conditional reporting if
the target UE is within specified geographical areas. Under these conditions,
an application that is granted conditional positioning authorization must
notify and obtain positioning authorization from the user of the target UE
after the positioning process is preformed but before reporting the location
of the target UE to the LCS Client
The default treatment, which is applicable in the absence of a response from
the Target UE, shall be specified in the Target UE Subscription Profile. Thus,
for some location services the default treatment may be to accept the
positioning request, whereas for other location services the default treatment
may be to reject the positioning attempt.
However, considering that in general, users shall be afforded the maximum
possible privacy, and shall not be positioned unless the target subscriber
authorizes the requesting location application to perform positioning, the
default condition shall normally be to deny the positioning attempt.
For PLMN operator services, the target UE subscriber may be able to restrict
access to location information used to enhance or support particular types of
service. The LCS client access shall be restricted unless stated otherwise in
the Target UE subscription profile. The target UE user shall not be notified
of any authorized location attempt.
For Emergency Services (where required by local regulatory requirements)
Target UEs making an emergency call may be positioned regardless of the
privacy attribute value of the subscriber associated with the Target UE (or
ME) making the call.
For Lawful Interception Services (where required by local regulatory
requirements), target UEs may be positioned under all circumstances required
by local regulatory requirements. The target UE user shall not be notified of
any location attempt.
All location requests (LRs) shall be done with a privacy check except for the
following:
\- LRs relating to lawful interception
\- LRs related to emergency calls
\- LRs from the serving network related to anonymous tracking for statistical
and O&M purposes
\- LRs from the home network as requested by the home network operator for its
own internal purposes. The **home network operator should not use the UE
location information, which was obtained from the visited network without
privacy checks, for value added services or to forward such location
information to any third party (except for the cases of lawful interception or
emergency calls).**
### 4.8.1 Service Type Privacy
The user may wish to differentiate between privacy requirements even with one
LCS Client, depending on which service the user requests from this LCS client
or which service the LCS client offers to the user.
The users shall be able to allow or deny their location information to be
given to LCS clients providing an indicated type of service. The user could
e.g. allow all dating type services to get location information but decline
other types of services to get the user's location. The location request
message issued by the LCS client may include a service identity, and the LCS
Server may interpret that the indicated service belongs to a certain Service
Type. The subscriber shall be able to define and set privacy rules based on
service type, so that services belonging to that service type shall be handled
according to the corresponding service type privacy setting.
It shall be possible to verify that the service type indicated by the LCS
client is correct. The service type privacy check may be done by the LCS
server or by the user of the target mobile.
The LCS Server shall be aware of what service types a certain LCS Client
supports. The LCS Server shall map the service identity given by the LCS
client to a service type, as described below. The PLMN operator defines to
what service type the given service identity belongs to.
#### 4.8.1.1 Standardized Service Types
Annex C lists the attributes of specific location-based services as determined
by the GSM Alliance Services Working Group. The standardized Service Types to
be used in privacy checking are listed in table 4.2 and are based on the
services listed in Annex C. It is noted that not all services listed in Annex
C need belong to a standardized service type.
It should be noted that only the names and identities (number) of the Service
Types are standardized.
It shall be possible for the network operator/service provider to define
additional, non-standardised service types that need not be globally unique.
Table 4.2, Standardized Service Types
* * *
Location based services categories Standardized\ Service Types
Public Safety Services Emergency Services
                                         Emergency Alert Services
Location Sensitive Charging
Tracking Services Person Tracking
                                         Fleet Management.
                                         Asset Management
Traffic Monitoring Traffic Congestion Reporting
Enhanced Call Routing Roadside Assistance
                                         Routing to Nearest Commercial Enterprise
Location Based\ Traffic and public transportation information Information
Services
                                         City Sightseeing
                                         Localized Advertising
                                         Mobile Yellow Pages
                                         Weather
                                         Asset and Service Finding
Entertainment and Community Services Gaming
                                         Find Your Friend
                                         Dating
                                         Chatting
                                         Route Finding
                                         Where-am-I
Service Provider\  
Specific Services
* * *
Note: It should not be possible for the target UE subscriber to block the
emergency services Service Type, so maybe this Service Type is not needed,
this is FFS.
## 4.9 Service Authorization
Requests for positioning information should be processed only if the
requesting application is authorized. The identity and authorization
privileges of the requesting application should be verified prior to
processing positioning requests.
## 4.10 Service Activation and De-Activation
To maximize the adoption of location services, the service activation process
must be simple. Three types of service package, may be distinguished, each of
which may require a different service activation process:
1 On Demand: the user accesses services only when required.
2 Period Subscription: the subscriber requires periodic availability of the
service
3 Mixed: some services provided on subscription and the remainder on-demand.
The process of activation + service delivery + deactivation may be provided in
a single transaction. It may be possible for a subscriber to activate a
location service on one occasion before deactivating an existing invocation.
Furthermore, a location service may be 'enabled' at the point of sale as part
of the service package purchased by the UE subscriber. The use of Over-The-Air
(OTA) provisioning may allow the location feature to be enabled for UE-based
positioning methods.
## 4.11 Coverage
In general a UE user should be able to access a location service anywhere
within the operator's coverage area, or within the roaming area. Three levels
of coverage may be considered:
1 Home Network - Complete
2 Home Network - Partial
3 Roaming Networks
Considering network topography and dynamically varying environmental factors,
a network operator may not be able to guarantee homogeneous service quality
across the entire home network geographic area, or roaming partners\'
networks. Even within those areas where service is offered, the provided
quality of service may vary due to dynamic environmental (i.e. radio)
conditions. Additionally, the location method may have an accuracy that
depends on the UE location, for example due to varying radio conditions, cell
configuration and cell density in different areas, and geometric dilution of
precision.
Furthermore, the roaming partner\'s network may not accept a similar location
method to that experienced by the user in the home network.
Finally, the service may not be available in a roaming partner's network
despite technical interoperability between the location method supported by
the UE and the network.
Therefore, coverage may be considered not only to be a technical attribute,
but may also be related to roaming contracts between network operators. In
general, provided that a roaming agreement exists, any properly authorized
location-based service may position a Target UE in either the Home PLMN
(HPLMN) or a Visited PLMN (VPLMN). It may also be noteworthy that some
location-based services (such as location-based information services) may be
especially attractive to subscribers roaming outside their home networks.
## 4.12 Roaming Target UE
With respect to roaming, specific local, national, and regional privacy
regulations must be complied with, and multiple layers of permissions may be
required.
Many location-based services may be especially attractive to subscribers
roaming outside their home PLMN. As such, support should be provided for the
transparent and consistent provision of location-based services to the fullest
extent possible. Consideration for roaming support should be provided with the
following priorities:
1\. Roaming between 3GPP networks.
2\. Roaming between 3GPP systems and IMT 2000 family networks.
3\. Roaming between 3GPP and ANSI-41 or other systems.
If the location capability in the VPLMN is compatible with that provided in
the HPLMN, the same parameters must be provided to the location server in the
VPLMN that would be provided to the server in the HPLMN to enable provision of
the same services.
For Value Added Services, the following is applicable:
Provided that a roaming agreement exists, the LCS feature shall allow any
properly authorized LCS client to request and receive the location of a
particular Target UE when the Target UE is either located in its Home PLMN
(HPLMN) or Visited PLMN (VPLMN). The LCS client shall be authorised by the
HPLMN of the subscriber whose UE is the target of the location attempt. Any
PLMN not supporting the LCS feature shall return a suitable error response to
any other PLMN from which an LCS request is received. The requesting PLMN
shall then infer that the LCS feature is not supported and provide a suitable
error response in turn to the requesting LCS Client.
For PLMN Operator Services, location of any roaming target UE shall be
supported in the VPLMN as allowed by both local regulatory requirements and
considerations, where applicable, of UE privacy.
For Emergency Services (where required by local regulatory requirements) the
Serving PLMN shall support the positioning of all Target UEs including roaming
Target UEs currently serviced by that serving PLMN. There is no requirement
for a HPLMN to position Target UEs that have roamed outside the HPLMN.
## 4.13 Support for all UEs
For value added services, and PLMN operator services, the LCS feature may be
supported for all UEs.
For Emergency Services (where required by local regulatory requirements),
positioning shall be supported for all UEs (i.e. including legacy UEs) where
coverage is provided, and also UEs without a SIM/USIM. In such a case, the
location of the caller may be determined using the identity associated with
the Mobile Equipment (ME) involved in the call.
Both "active" and "idle" UEs shall be capable of being positioned.
## 4.14 Support for Unauthorized UEs
For value added services, support of unauthorized UEs may be provided by the
PLMN.
For PLMN operator services, positioning of unauthorized UEs may be provided by
the PLMN as required by local regulatory requirements.
For Emergency Services (where required by local regulatory requirements), the
PLMN shall support positioning for unauthorized UEs (i.e. including stolen UEs
and UEs without a SIM/USIM).
NOTE: A subscriber is in general identified as a UE containing in it the
SIM/USIM associated with the subscriber. In some exceptional cases (e.g., an
Emergency call), a UE without a valid subscription recognized in the PLMN can
become a Target UE. In such a case, the subscriber may be identified by the
identity associated with the Mobile Equipment (ME) involved in the call.
## 4.15 Periodic Location Reporting
Periodic location reporting is the act of the LCS Server initiating multiple
position locations spread over a period of time.
The periodic reporting function is generally applicable for asset management
services and exists as several variants, each applicable to different value-
added services:
* * *
· Location reporting only within predetermined period e.g. commercial asset
tracking and, subject to provision of privacy, manpower planning. · Periodic
location reporting within specified period and reporting triggered by a
specific event e.g. high value asset security, stolen vehicle monitoring, home
zone charging. · Periodic location reporting triggered by a specific event
e.g. 24hr depot management, transit passenger information systems
* * *
Periodic location determination and reporting increases network traffic.
However, scheduling the periods of location monitoring and reporting will
reduce this. Finally, event-based logic provided by the network operator that
monitors the asset (location and status) and only reports events that meet
conditions agreed with the application may reduce network traffic further
without reducing the QoS.
If this event-based or time-based decision process is the responsibility of
the application and not the network operator then all of the above services
can be regarded as periodic location reporting.
For value added services, and PLMN operator services, support of periodic
location reporting may be provided by the PLMN.
When an LCS client activates Periodic Location Reporting, the LCS server shall
be able to inform the target UE of this activation according to the Privacy
Exception List.
Optionally, it may be possible for the target UE at any time to query the LCS
server about any valid requests activated for that target UE, and/or cancel
the request.
When a request is cancelled by the target UE, the LCS server shall inform the
LCS client of this cancellation.
It should be possible for more than one LCS client to activate requests for
the same target UE.
For Emergency Services (where required by local regulatory requirements),
there is no requirement for the PLMN to support periodic location reporting.
## 4.16 UE-Based Location Calculation
UE-Based Location Calculation may be supported on either a per-request basis
or semi-autonomously whereby a single request from a UE subscriber enables UE
based location calculation over an extended period without further interaction
with the PLMN.
For Commercial Services, the following may be applicable for semi-autonomous
location:
> The network may broadcast location assistance information to mobiles, which
> enables mobiles to calculate their own location. The network may encrypt the
> location assistance information. If the location assistance information is
> encrypted, a single common standardized encryption algorithm shall be used.
>
> The location assistance information may be available to the UE at all times,
> continuously in idle mode and during a call, without additional point to
> point signalling. The network may request location information from the UE
> for operator or for service provider applications. For this purpose, a point
> to point signalling connection must be established.
## 4.17 UE_Assisted LCS Location Calculation
The UE-Assisted Location Calculation is accomplished by network resources
based upon radio ranging measurements provided by the UE.
For Commercial Services, the following may be applicable for UE-Assisted
location services:
> The network may broadcast assistance information to mobiles, which enables
> mobiles to obtain the appropriate radio ranging measurements. The network
> may encrypt the assistance information. If the assistance information is
> encrypted, a single common standardized encryption algorithm shall be used.
>
> The assistance information may be available to the UE at all times,
> continuously in idle mode and during a call, without additional point to
> point signalling. The network may request radio ranging measurement data
> from the UE for operator or for service provider applications. For this
> purpose, a point to point signalling connection must be established.
> Optionally, this point to point connection can be used to deliver the
> resulting location to the UE.
## 4.18 Mobile Originating Location
Mobile Originating Location is the capability of the mobile station to obtain
its own geographical location or have its own geographic location transferred
to another LCS client.
For Value Added Services, the following may be applicable:
There are three classes of mobile originating location:
Basic Self Location - The mobile station needs to interact with the network
for each separate location request
Semi-autonomous Self Location - One interaction with the network assists the
mobile station to obtain multiple location positionings over a predetermined
period of time.
NOTE: Autonomous Self Location -- The mobile needs no interaction with the
network and is therefore considered to be outside the scope of this technical
specification.
Transfer to Third Party -- The location of the mobile station is transferred
by request of the mobile station to another specified LCS client.
## 4.19 Network support for LCS
The provision of location services shall be possible without significantly
adversely impacting the radio transmission or the signalling capabilities of
the network.
# 5 Logical Description
## 5.1 Logical Reference Model
Figure 1 shows the logical reference model for LCS whereby an LCS Client is
enabled to request location information for one or more certain target UEs
from the LCS Server supported by a PLMN. The LCS Server employs a positioning
function to obtain the location information and furnish the information to the
LCS Client. The particular requirements and characteristics of an LCS Client
are made known to the LCS Server by its LCS Client Subscription Profile. The
particular LCS-related restrictions associated with each Target UE are
detailed in the Target UE Subscription Profile. The LCS feature shall allow a
Target UE to be positioned within a specified Quality of Service. The LCS
feature shall allow the location of a Target UE to be determined at any time
whilst the UE is attached.
The LCS feature shall support conveyance of both the location Quality of
Service (QoS) requirements of the LCS Client and the location information
returned to the LCS Client in a universal standard format.
Figure 1. LCS Logical Reference Model
## 5.2 Functional Entities
### 5.2.1 LCS Client
An LCS Client is a logical functional entity that makes a request to the PLMN
LCS server for the location information of one or more than one target UEs
within a specified set of parameters such as QoS. The LCS Client may reside in
an entity (including an UE) within the PLMN or in an entity external to the
PLMN. When the LCS client resides in an entity external to the PLMN, the LCS
client may be connected to several Requestors who originate the location
requests. The specification of the LCS Client's internal logic and its
relationship to any external user (e.g. Requestor) is outside the scope of
this document.
### 5.2.2 LCS Server
An LCS server consists of a number of location service components and bearers
needed to serve the LCS clients. The LCS server shall provide a platform which
will enable the support of location based services in parallel to other
telecommunication services such as speech, data, messaging, other
teleservices, user applications and supplementary services and therefore
enable the market for services to be determined by users and service
providers. The LCS server may respond to a location request from a properly
authorized LCS client with location information for the target UEs specified
by the LCS client if considerations of target UE privacy are satisfied. The
LCS server may enable an LCS client to determine the services provided to it
by the LCS server through a process of provisioning.
### 5.2.3 Positioning Function
_Positioning_ is the basic function that performs the actual positioning of a
specific target UE. The input to this function is a positioning request from a
LCS Client with a set of parameters such as QoS requirements. The end results
of this function are the location information for the positioned target UE.
### 5.2.4 Target UE
The Target UE is the object to be positioned by the LCS Server. For network-
based positioning methods, no support for LCS is required by the target UE.
For mobile assisted and mobile based positioning methods, the target UE
actively supports LCS. For all positioning methods, the ability to control
privacy may be required to be given to the UE user for each location request
and/or to the UE subscriber through the Target UE subscription profile to
satisfy local regulatory requirements (see the previous section on Privacy).
## 5.3 Functional Interfaces
### 5.3.1 LCS Client / LCS Server Interface
The LCS client/server use LCS messages to exchange information. Each LCS
message contains a set of parameters.
In the case of UE Based positioning methods, if the LCS Client is located in
the UE, then an internal LCS Client /LCS Server interface may be supported.
NOTE: Further regional/national specific interfaces between LCS clients and
servers may need to be supported in addition to the interfaces described here.
#### 5.3.1.1 Location Service Request
Using the Location Service Request, an LCS client communicates with the LCS
server to request the location information for one or more target UEs within a
specified set of quality of service parameters.
As shown in Table 1, a location service may be specified as immediate or
deferred.
Table 1: Location Service Requests
* * *
**Request Type** **Response Time** **Number of Responses** **Immediate**
Immediate Single **Deferred** Delayed (event driven) One or More
* * *
If a positioning attempt fails, the LCS server may make another positioning
attempt. This attempt should be made when the target UE can be detected by the
network. It may be possible for the LCS client to set this action as an
option. This optional action should be applied for both request types.
Note: This functionality may be provided using one or more of the existing
toolkits, including but not limited to CAMEL and OSA.
When using the Deferred type (event driven), the LCS client shall be able to
set the following items:
\- Time interval of positioning
\- Number of responses (if needed)
\- Valid period of the request (if needed)
\- Type of event
> Currently following events are introduced:
\- UE available
\- Change of Area
It shall be possible for the LCS client to cancel the pre-arranged request.
It shall be possible for the LCS server to set the minimum time interval of
positioning allowed.
It shall be possible to limit the area where the Change of Area event will be
reported e.g use the OSA messages defined in 3GPP TS 29.198.
For Emergency Services, LCS shall support requests for the initial, the
current (updated), or the last known position of an ME while a voice
connection is established.
#### 5.3.1.2 Location Service Response
The Location Service Response provides the result of a Location Service
Request from the LCS Server to the LCS Client.
A LCS response is either '_immediate'_ or '_deferred'._ The LCS Request
indicates the type of response the LCS Client wishes to receive. The two types
of location response are described in table 2.
Table 2: Types of LCS Response
* * *
Response Description Immediate A Location Response is referred to as
'immediate`, when a response to a request for location information is answered
immediately (within a set time). The response shall be single and not
dependent to any event. Deferred A Location Response is referred to as
'deferred', when a response to a request for location information is returned
after the occurrence of an event specified by the LCS client. The response can
be single or periodic.
* * *
When the location positioning for the target UE has failed, the LCS server may
be able to report the reason for failure and Last Known Location with the
relevant timestamp.
#### 5.3.1.3 Location Service Request Report
The Location Service Request Report provides the result of a deferred Location
Service Request from the LCS Server to the LCS Client. The report is provided
using a dialog between the LCS Client and the LCS Server that is initiated by
the LCS Server.
## 5.4 Location information
### 5.4.1 Sources of location information
It shall be possible for the location determining process to make use of
several sources of information in determining the location. Propagation and
deployment conditions may limit the number or quality of measurements or
additional measurements may be possible. Some ME may also have additional
(independent) sources of position information. The LCS shall be capable of
making use of the restricted or the extra information as appropriate for the
service being requested.
# 6 Service Provision
## 6.1 Identification of a Target UE
For value added services, the following is applicable:
The LCS client shall identify a target UE using the MSISDN or SIP URL.
The LCS Client shall be able to identify the target UE using IP addressing.
For PLMN operator services, the LCS client may identify a target UE using any
of the following:
MSISDN
SIP URL
IMSI
An identifier internal to the PLMN
For emergency services (where required by local regulatory requirements), the
LCS client may identify a target UE using any one of the following:
MSISDN
SIP URL
IMSI
NA-ESRK + (optionally) IMEI, applicable for regions using the ANSI standards
IMEI, applicable for regions using the ETSI standards
> IMEI is used for unauthorized UEs or UEs without SIM/USIM. In regions using
> ETSI standards it shall be indicated that the use of this identification is
> triggered by an emergency call.
It shall be possible for the target mobile's user to hide her true identity
from the requestor and the LCS client and replace it with an alias. The alias
shall be a unique identification that has a one-to-one relationship to the
true identity of the subscriber and may be permanent or temporary. The target
mobile user shall be able to know her own alias so that she can pass the alias
to the LCS client, e.g. when invoking a location-based service.
## 6.2 Location Information Provided to the LCS Client
For value added services, the following is applicable:
The LCS Server shall provide, on request, the current or most recent Location
Information (if available) of the Target UE or, if positioning fails, an error
indication plus optional reason for the failure.
For PLMN operator services (where allowed by local regulatory requirements and
restrictions on UE privacy), Location Information for a particular target UE
may be provided to a PLMN operator LCS client either on request or on the
occurrence of an event in the LCS server that has been defined to equate to
such a request.
For emergency services (where required by local regulatory requirements), the
geographic location or Dispatchable Location may be provided to an emergency
services LCS Client either without any request from the client at certain
points in an emergency services call (e.g. following receipt of the emergency
call request, when the call is answered, when the call is released) or
following an explicit request from the client. The former type of provision is
referred to as a "push" while the latter is known as a "pull". In the case of
a "pull", the emergency service LCS Client shall identify the Target UE as
defined in section 6.1. Table 3 shows the information that may be provided to
the client for either a "push" or a "pull".
Table 3: Location related information provided to an emergency services LCS
Client
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Type of Access | Information Items | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Push | Current Dispatchable Location (if available) | | | | | | Current Geographic Location (if available) | | | | | | MSISDN | | | | | | SIP URL | | | | | | IMSI | | | | | | IMEI | | | | | | NA-ESRK | | | | | | NA-ESRD | | | | | | State of emergency call -- unanswered, answered, | | | released (note 1) | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Pull | Dispatchable Location (note 2), either: | | | | | | Current civic location or | | | | | | Initial civic location at start of emergency call | | | Geographic location (note 2), either: | | | | | | Current location or | | | | | | initial location at start of emergency call | | | | | | Both Dispatchable Location and geographic location | | | (note 2), either: | | | | | | Current location or | | | | | | initial location at start of emergency call | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
NOTE 1: indication of call release means that any NA-ESRK will no longer
identify the calling UE subscriber
NOTE 2: which type of location is required will be indicated by the LCS Client
## 6.3 LCS Client Subscription
It shall be possible for an LCS Client to subscribe to the LCS feature for
third-party location with or without subscription to other services. An LCS
Client may subscribe to one or more service providers' LCS feature in one or
more PLMNs. The LCS Client Subscription Profile of a client may contain the
range of QoS and subscriptions that the LCS Client is allowed to request.
For certain authorized LCS Clients internal to the PLMN, a subscription
profile may be unnecessary. For these LCS Clients subscription to LCS feature
is given implicitly as a result of subscription to an authorized PLMN service
(e.g. supplementary services). These LCS Clients are empowered to access the
LCS Server and request location information for a Target UE.
For emergency services, the subscription requirements to the LCS feature may
not be needed.
## 6.4 Target UE Subscription
### 6.4.1 Privacy Subscription Options
It shall be possible for a Target UE Subscriber to subscribe to various types
of privacy classes. The default treatment in the absence of the information to
the contrary in the Target UE Subscription Profile shall be to assume that
access is restricted to all LCS Clients (unless using privacy overriding, or
otherwise overridden by local regulatory requirements).
Privacy Attributes consist of:
> Codeword: an additional level of security that may be set by a Target UE
> user to determine which Requestors are allowed to request location
> information;
>
> Privacy Exception List: determines which LCS Clients, services and classes
> of LCS Clients may position a Target UE;
>
> Service Type Privacy: determines whether the service type allows the LCS
> Clients to get the position of a Target UE;
>
> Privacy Override Indicator: determines applicability of the Privacy
> Exception List.
### 6.4.2 Codeword
It shall be possible for a Requestor and an LCS client to request location
information by indicating a Codeword associated with the Target UE user. The
codeword shall be either checked by the Target UE/user or by the LCS server in
the home network. In the former case, the codeword supplied by the requestor
and forwarded by the LCS client with the request shall be forwarded to the
Target UE/user for verification and acceptance. In the latter case, the
codeword shall be registered with the LCS server by the Target UE user (or
subscriber) in advance. Optionally, the UE and/or network may have the
capability to generate and/or distribute codewords. The generation of
codewords and the distribution of those codewords are out of scope of this
specification. A comparison of the codeword sent by the Requestor and the
registered codeword shall be performed. A location request shall only be
accepted if this comparison is successful. In the case where the Target
UE/user does not check the codeword, the codeword need not be sent to the
Target UE/user. In the case where the codeword is checked by the Target
UE/user, the Target UE subscriber need not register the codeword in advance.
The other privacy settings should also be checked even when the codeword has
been checked.
The Target UE Subscriber may register multiple codewords for multiple
requestors. Once the codeword has been set and properly distributed, the
Target UE user would be protected against location requests from third
parties, which do not know the appropriate codeword.
It should be possible for a Target UE subscriber to enable and disable
codeword checking for each of the LCS Clients.
The codeword is applicable to the value-added services only.
#### 6.4.2.1 Enhanced codeword
It shall be possible for the target UE/ user to secure the codeword from being
misused. Only the intended requestor or LCS client shall be able to use the
secured codeword.
It shall be possible for the target UE/user to ensure that the secured
codeword can be used only within a specific time period, as determined by the
target UE/user. It shall be possible for the target UE/user to ensure that a
secured codeword can be used only a specific number of times, as determined by
the target UE/user.
The user of the target UE shall not need to be involved in checking the
validity of the secured codeword during the location service request. The
secured codeword shall be checked by the LCS server.
### 6.4.3 Privacy Exception List
To support privacy, the LCS Server shall enable each Target UE Subscriber to
subscribe to a "privacy exception list" containing the LCS Client identifiers,
the service identifiers, classes of LCS Clients, the target subscriber
notification setting (with/without notification) and the default treatment,
which is applicable in the absence of a response from the Target UE for each
LCS Client and service identifiers.
The privacy exception list shall support a minimum of 20 clients. For each
client the privacy exception list shall support a minimum of 10 services. The
maximum number of clients and services shall be determined by implementation
constraints.
If the target subscriber notification is set as "notification with
verification", each positioning request from the LCS Client or the service
shall be notified to the target UE before positioning. If the target
subscriber notification is set as "notification with verification based on
current location", positioning requests from the LCS Client or the service
shall be notified to the target UE after positioning is performed if the
current location of the target UE is within the areas specified to require
notification. The treatment for location request from the LCS Client or
service, which is not registered in the privacy exception list, shall also be
specified in the privacy exception list. An empty privacy exception list shall
signify an intent to withhold location from all LCS Clients.
The classes that can be included are as follows.
\- Universal Class: location services may be provided to all LCS Clients;
\- Call/session-related Class: location services may be provided to any value
added LCS clients or a particular value added LCS client or a particular
service or particular group of value added LCS Clients -- where each LCS
Client, service or group of LCS Clients is identified by a unique
international identification, e.g. E.164 - that currently has a temporary
association with the Target UE in the form of an established voice, data call
or PS session originated by the Target UE. For each identified LCS Client,
service or group of LCS Clients, one of the following geographical
restrictions shall apply:
a) Location request allowed from an LCS Client or service served by identified
PLMN only;
b) Location request allowed from an LCS Client or service served in the home
country only;
c) Location request allowed from any LCS Client or service;
\- Call/session-unrelated Class; location services may be provided to a
particular value added LCS Client or a particular service or particular group
of value added LCS Clients -- where each LCS Client, service or group of LCS
Clients is identified by a unique international identification, e.g. E.164.
For each identified LCS Client, service or group of LCS Clients, one of the
following geographical restrictions shall apply:
a) Location request allowed from an LCS Client or service served by identified
PLMN only;
b) Location request allowed from an LCS Client or service served in the home
country only;
c) Location request allowed from any LCS Client or service;
\- PLMN Operator Class -- location services may be provided by particular
types of LCS clients supported within the HPLMN or VPLMN. The following types
of clients are distinguished (see note):
a) Clients broadcasting location related information to the UEs in a
particular geographic area -- e.g. on weather, traffic, hotels, restaurants;
b) O&M client (e.g. an Operations System) in the HPLMN
c) O&M client (e.g. an Operations System) in the VPLMN
d) Clients recording anonymous location information (i.e. without any UE
identifiers) -- e.g. for traffic engineering and statistical purposes
e) Clients enhancing or supporting any supplementary service, IN service,
bearer service or teleservice subscribed to by the target UE subscriber.
NOTE: The definitions of the various PLMN operator categories may be
supplemented by more precise language in contractual agreements both between
UE subscribers and their home service providers and between individual network
operators with inter-PLMN roaming agreements. Such classification of the PLMN
operator categories is outside the scope of this specification.
### 6.4.4 Privacy Override Indicator
The privacy override indicator is applicable to lawful intercept and emergency
services as allowed by local regulatory requirements. It is not applicable to
value added and PLMN operator services. The Privacy Override Indicator shall
be used to determine whether Subscriber Privacy of the Target UE subscriber
should be overridden or not. This indicator will be set for certain special
LCS Clients when it is justified. Each LCS Client shall be associated with a
particular value of a position privacy override indicator during the LCS
Client provisioning. The privacy override indicator is normally only valid
when the LCS Server for the LCS client is located in the same country of the
Target UE. If agreed by bi-lateral agreements between operators, the privacy
override indicator shall also be valid when the LCS client is not located in
the same country as the Target UE.
### 6.4.5 Subscription to Mobile Originating Location
The UE subscriber may subscribe to the following types of Mobile Originating
Location (as defined in section 4):
A) Basic Self Location
B) Semi-autonomous Self Location
C) Transfer to Third Party
### 6.4.6 Void
## 6.4A Requestor
The Location Request issued by the LCS client to GMLC shall optionally include
also the identity of the originator of the location request, i.e. the
Requestor, not only the identity of the LCS client.
The requestor shall be authenticated by the LCS client and/or the network.
The identity of the Requestor shall be included in the privacy interrogation
request. It may be either checked by an entity in the network, the Target UE
or the user.
It shall be possible for the requestor to use an alias, so that the true
identity of the requestor is unknown to the LCS client. The alias shall be a
unique identification that has a one-to-one relationship to the true identity
of the requestor and may be permanent or temporary. The LCS client shall
indicate the requestor alias instead of the real requestor identity in the
location request. The target mobile user in this case authorizes the requestor
based on the requestor's true identity, after it has been decrypted in the
requestor's operator's network.
## 6.5 Security
The LCS Server may authorize the LCS Client. There may be security mechanisms
to authorize the LCS Client's request for locating a Target UE based on:
LCS Client access barring list(s),
PLMN/SP access barring list,
Point of origin of a location request.
## 6.6 Charging
The LCS Server shall enable a PLMN to charge LCS Clients for the LCS features
that the PLMN provides. . The information that the operator uses to generate a
bill to an LCS Client is operator or service provider specific. The charging
information may be collected both for the LCS Client and for inter-network
revenue sharing.
To support charging and billing for location services, additional information
will need to be provided in call detail records.
Charging for value added location services may be provided on a transaction
basis, periodically, or a mixture of both.
To support transaction-based charging where applicable, service associated
call detail records may need to include (as a minimum) the following
additional information (depending on the specific service):
  * Type and Identity of the LCS Client;
  * Identity of the target UE;
  * Results (e.g. success/failure, method used, position, response time, accuracy)
  * Time Stamp;
```{=html}
``` \- Type of coordinate system used.
## 6.7 LCS Open Service Architecture and Application Programming Interface
Note: LCS information may be accessible through the Open Service Architecture
(OSA) standardized Application Programming Interface (API). OSA service
aspects of LCS are described in 22.127. [6]
# 7 Provisioning and Administration
## 7.1 Procedures for an LCS Client
These procedures are concerned with the LCS client's provisioning and
administration to the LCS feature.
### 7.1.1 Provisioning
Provisioning is an action to make the LCS feature available to a subscriber.
Provisioning may be:
\- General: where the service may be made available to all subscribers without
prior arrangements being made with the service provider (i.e. emergency
calls).
‑ Pre‑arranged: where the service is made available to an individual LCS
Client only after the necessary arrangements have been made with the service
provider.
### 7.1.2 Withdrawal
Withdrawal is an action taken by the service provider to remove an available
LCS feature from a LCS Client's subscription profile.
Withdrawal may be:
‑ General: where the LCS feature is removed from all LCS Clients.
‑ Specific: where the LCS feature is removed on an individual basis per LCS
Client.
### 7.1.3 Invocation
Invocation is an action to invoke the LCS feature, taken by the LCS Client
(e.g. issuing a location request) or automatically by the LCS server as a
result of a particular condition (e.g. periodic location request, mobile
originating emergency call, etc.).
## 7.2 Procedures for a Target UE
These procedures are concerned with a Target UE's privacy exception list. For
emergency services, provisioning and withdrawal for Target UEs may not apply.
### 7.2.1 Provisioning
Provisioning is an an action to make the privacy exception list with its
privacy classes available to a Target UE. The provision may be:
‑ General: where the list is made available to all Target UE's without prior
arrangements being made with the service provider. The list shall contain the
default privacy class.
‑ Pre‑arranged: where any extra privacy permission class (--granting
permission to locate an UE Client) shall be capable of being independently
provisioned for a target UE as agreed with the service provider for a certain
contractual period.
### 7.2.2 Withdrawal
Withdrawal is an action taken by the service provider to remove an available
privacy class from a target UE's PEL. Withdrawal may be:
‑ General: where a privacy class is removed from all target UEs provided with
this privacy class.
‑ Specific: where each of the privacy classes in the privacy exception list
shall be independently withdrawn at the subscriber's request or for
administrative reasons.
### 7.2.3 User Control
The user shall be able to change the following settings in the privacy
exception list:
\- the LCS Client and/or group of LCS Clients list
> \- the codeword
>
> \- the requestor
\- the service types
\- the target subscriber notification setting (with/without notification)
\- the default treatment, which is applicable in the absence of a response
from the Target UE for each LCS Client identifiers.
## 7.3 Barring Capability of the Location Service
It shall be possible for operators to bar the Location Service of a specific
user at any time. i.e. any location requests towards the user's Target UE and
her own location requests towards her own Target UE are barred.
If the LCS request fails due to barring, then an error cause is returned to
the LCS Requestor.
For Emergency Services and other services where required by local regulatory
requirements, and for PLMN operator Services, the location request shall be
processed with the highest priority level regardless of the barring status of
LCS.
# 8 Interactions with Bearer and Teleservices and Other Services
LCS shall support location of any Target UE that is idle or has established
any CS teleservice, bearer service or PS session.
Location of a GPRS terminal or a UE using SMS may be supported.
Provision of location services to assist supplementary services and CAMEL is
outside the scope of this specification. The operation of location services
shall be independent of other services - including Number Portability, private
numbering, CAMEL, supplementary services, teleservices, and bearer services.
# 9 Cross Phase Compatibility between releases
This section details the cross-phase compatibility requirements relating to
the service requirements in this document.
Note: when a change is introduced which affects the 3GPP specifications, it is
said to be \'backward compatible\' if existing equipment can continue to
operate and perform correctly with equipment that conforms to the new
implementation.
## 9.1 Compatibility with existing standards
Where the service and operational requirements in this document relate to a
core network functionality, compatibility is required.
UTRAN, E-UTRAN, and NG-RAN LCS shall be developed to maximise synergies with
earlier LCS phases.
## 9.2 Compatibility with future releases
It is envisaged that 3GPP standards will evolve in future releases, for
example with the addition of new service requirements. The standards which
define the technical implementation of LCS should be developed in such a way
that it is practical to add the requirements in this section in a backward
compatible manner.
Following chapters include requirements that are foreseen for future release.
### 9.2.1 Void
### 9.2.2 Location determination in call or PDP context activation and release
A possible future enhancement in LCS is that location information of a
specific target UE may be obtained at the activation of a Call or PDP Context.
A corresponding mechanism to obtain the location information of a specific
target UE at the release of a Call or PDP Context may also be feasible.
### 9.2.3 Void
### 9.2.4 Defined geographical areas
It shall be possible to specify a geographical area as ellipse to a resolution
that will be limited by the accuracy capability of the part of the serving
network where the user is registered.
It may be possible to identify and report when the user's terminal enters or
leaves a specified geographic area.
In order to enable ME to determine itself if it enters or leaves a defined
geographical area information about the defined geographical area shall be
made available to client. The method is FFS, one alternative is that cells
covering parts of the geographical area broadcasts information about the
geographical area.
### 9.2.5 Continuous check of location
The client may continuously check its current location with or without
requesting signalling support from the network using the Self Location
feature. In this way the client may become aware of entering or leaving a
predefined geographical area, as defined above, and/ or it can supply the user
or an application with real-time tracking information.
### 9.2.6 Identification of a target UE
In future releases usage of IP addresses for UE identification shall be
supported by the standard.
### 9.2.7 Void
### 9.2.8 VHE
LCS shall support VHE 22.121 [6].
###### ## Annex A (informative): USA FCC Wireless E911 Rules
Action was taken by the FCC on January 29, 2015, with respect to E911 location
technology by the Fourth Report and Order (FCC 15-9).The following revisions
to the wireless E911 rules (see [12] and [13] for the specific rules) are
reproduced from the Fourth Report and Order (revisions on compliance,
enforcement, testing, test bed, reporting, submission of plans and reports is
not included):
  * Location Delivery Latency (Time to First Fix) is set at a maximum of 30 seconds from the time the user initiates an emergency service call to the time it is available at the location information center.
  * Defines the following:
    1. Dispatchable location: A location delivered to the PSAP by the network with an emergency service call that consists of the street address of the calling party, plus additional information such as suite, apartment or similar information necessary to adequately identify the location of the calling party. The street address of the calling party must be validated and, to the extent possible, corroborated against other location information prior to delivery of dispatchable location information by the PLMN operator to the PSAP.
    2. National Emergency Address Database (NEAD): A database that utilizes MAC address information to identify a dispatchable location for nearby wireless devices within the PLMN operator\'s coverage area.
    3. Nationwide PLMN operator: a PLMN operator whose service extends to a majority of the population and land area of the United States.
    4. Non-nationwide PLMN operator: Any PLMN operator other than a nationwide PLMN operator.
  * Sets the following indoor location accuracy standards for 911 calls:
    1. For horizontal location
A. Nationwide PLMN operators shall provide either a dispatchable location or
x/y location within 50 meters for the following percentages of wireless
emergency service calls within the following timeframes from the effective
date of the adoption of these rules
    a.  Within 2 years: 40% of all wireless emergency service calls
    b.  Within 3 years: 50% of all wireless emergency service calls
    c.  Within 5 years: 70% of all wireless emergency service calls
    d.  Within 6 years: 80% of all wireless emergency service calls
B. Non-nationwide PLMN operators shall provide either a dispatchable location
or x/y location within 50 meters for the following percentages of wireless
emergency service calls within the following timeframes from the effective
date of the adoption of these rules
    a.  Within 2 years: 40% of all wireless emergency service calls
    b.  Within 3 years: 50% of all wireless emergency service calls
    c.  Within 5 years or within 6 months of deploying VoLTE whichever
        is later: 70% of all wireless service calls
    d.  Within 6 years or within one year of deploying VoLTE, whichever
        is later: 80% of all wireless emergency service calls
        1.  For vertical location, PLMN operators shall provide vertical
            location information with wireless emergency service calls
            within the following timeframes from the effective date of
            the adoption of these rules
```{=html}
``` A. Within 3 years: All PLMN operators shall make uncompensated barometric
data available to PSAPs with respect to any 911 call placed from any UE with
the capability to deliver barometric sensor information
B. Within 3 years: Nationwide PLMN operators shall develop one or more z-axis
metrics validated by an independently administered and transparent test bed
process and shall submit the proposed metrics and testing results to the FCC
for approval.
C. Within 6 years: In each of the top 25 Cellular Market Areas (CMA),
nationwide PLMN operators shall deploy either dispatchable location or z-axis
technology in compliance with any z-axis accuracy metric that has been
approved by the FCC.
    a.  In each CMA where dispatchable location is used: nationwide PLMN
        operators must ensure that the NEAD is populated with a
        sufficient number of total dispatchable location reference
        points to equal 25% of the CMA population.
    b.  In each CMA where z-axis is used: nationwide PLMN operators must
        deploy z-axis technology to cover 80% of the CMA population.
D. Within 8 years: In each of the top 50 CMAs, nationwide PLMN operators shall
deploy either dispatchable location or such z-axis technology in compliance
with any z-axis accuracy metric that has been approved by the FCC.
E. Non-nationwide PLMN operators that serve any of the top 25 or 50 CMAs will
have an additional year to meet the vertical location benchmarks in C & D.
  * Specifies the delivery of location confidence and uncertainty data
    1. PLMN operators shall provide for all wireless emergency service calls, whether from outdoor or indoor locations, x- and y-axis confidence and uncertainty information on a per-call basis upon the request of a PSAP. The data shall specify the caller\'s location with a uniform confidence level of 90 percent and the radius in meters from the reported position at the same confidence level. All entities responsible for transporting confidence and uncertainty between CMRS providers and PSAPs including PLMN operators, owners of E911 networks and emergency service providers, must enable the transmission of confidence and uncertainty data provided by PLMN operators to the requesting PSAP.
    2. Upon meeting the 3 year timeframe for the horizontal location standards, PLMN operators shall provide with emergency service calls that have a dispatchable location the confidence and uncertainty data for the x- and y- axis required in these regulations.
    3. Upon meeting the 6 year timeframe for the horizontal location standards, PLMN operators shall provide with wireless emergency service calls that have a dispatchable location the confidence and uncertainty data for the x- and y- axis required in these regulations.
  * Specifies the live emergency service call data recording requirements
    1. PLMN operators must record information on all live emergency calls including, but not limited to, the positioning source method used to provide a location fix associated with the call. PLMN operators must also record the confidence and uncertainty data they provide. This information must be made available to PSAPs upon request, and shall be retained for a period of two years.
  * Defines when the requirements of the location accuracy regulations apply
    1. The requirements shall be applicable only to the extent that the administrator of the applicable designated PSAP has requested the services required under these regulations and the PSAP is capable of receiving and utilizing the requested data elements and has a mechanism for recovering the PSAP\'s costs associated with them.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Descriptions of possible location based
services
## B1 Public Safety Services
Service providers offer these location-based services for the good of the
public. They are made available without requiring pre-subscription.
### B1.1 Emergency Services
Specific consideration of mandated Emergency Services is outside the scope of
this specification. Such requirements may be regionally or nationally
specific.
#### B1.1.1 Attributes
Specific consideration of the attributes for mandated Emergency Services is
outside the scope of this specification. However, the current requirements
specified by the U.S. FCC [12] and [13] may be useful as examples.
> The FCC\'s Fourth Report and Order (FCC 15-9) in the matter of Wireless E911
> Location Accuracy Requirements (PS Docket No. 07-114), adopted January 29,
> 2015, is reproduced here:
>
> _All CMRS providers must provide (1) dispatchable location, or (2) x/y
> location within 50 meters, for the following percentages of wireless 911
> calls within the following timeframes, measured from the effective date of
> rules adopted in this Order ("Effective Date"):_
>
> _• Within 2 years: 40 percent of all wireless 911 calls._
>
> _• Within 3 years: 50 percent of all wireless 911 calls._
>
> _• Within 5 years: 70 percent of all wireless 911 calls._
>
> _• Within 6 years: 80 percent of all wireless 911 calls._
>
> _Within 6 years: Nationwide CMRS provides must deploy either (1)
> dispatchable location, or (2) z-axis technology that achieves the
> Commission-approved z-axis metric, in each of the top 25 Cellular Market
> Areas_
>
> _Within 8 years: Nationwide CMRS providers must deploy dispatchable location
> or z-axis technology in accordance with the above benchmarks in each of the
> top 50 CMAs._
Note 1: The Fourth Report and Order definition of a dispatchable location as
reproduced here:\ _Dispatchable location is the street address of the calling
party plus additional information such as floor, suite, apartment or similar
information that may be needed to adequately identify the location of the
calling party. See the Report and Order [12] for more information._
The network should be sufficiently flexible to accommodate evolving enabling
mechanisms and service requirements to provide new and improved services.
### B1.1.2 Emergency Alert Services
Emergency Alert Services may be enabled to notify wireless subscribers within
a specific geographic location of emergency alerts. This may include such
alerts as tornado warnings, pending volcano eruptions, etc.
No requirements currently exist for Emergency Alert Services, and they may be
considered for further study.
## B2 Location Based Charging
Location Based Charging allows a subscriber to be charged different rates
depending on the subscriber\'s location or geographic zone, or changes in
location or zone. The rates charged may be applicable to the entire duration
of the call, or to only a part of call\'s duration. This service may be
provided on an individual subscriber basis, or on a group basis.
For example, when provided on an individual basis this service could apply
reduced rates to those areas most often frequented by the subscriber by taking
into consideration the subscriber\'s daily route and lifestyle. Different
rates may be applied at country clubs, golf courses, or shopping malls. For
example, a \"home\" zone may be defined which is centered around a user's
home, an agreed larger area, work or travel corridor or some unrelated zone.
The zone may vary in size and shape from a cell (or sector) coverage area to a
precisely defined polygon completely independent of cell coverage.
Additionally, different rates may be applied in different zones based on the
time of day or week.
In addition to being applicable on an individual basis, this service may be
applicable on a group basis, which may be desirable for example, for business
groups. Locations may be defined for business groups to include corporate
campuses, work zones or business zones with different tiers of charging rates.
Individual and group subscribers should be notified of the zone or billing
rate currently applicable, and be notified when the rate changes. Location
Based Charging may be invoked upon initial registration. A charging zone would
then be associated with the subscriber\'s location. When the subscriber moves
to a different zone, the subscriber would be notified.
This service should be transparently provided to the subscriber (i.e.
independent of existing voice calls, data, or other services being provided).
### B2.1 Attributes
Normal service operation includes invocation upon initial registration,
autonomous registration, call origination, and call termination. Location-
Based Charging should analyze location information to compare against service
zones established for the subscriber. The service would notify the subscriber
of their relative location to the established service zone, indicating either
\"in\" or \"out\" of zone. As the subscriber changes location or predefined
location service area they should be notified of their location-based charging
service opportunity, being \"in\" or \"out\" of a subscribed zone. Except for
subscriber notification, the user should experience transparency in
interaction with other services (Voice, Data, SMS, etc).
This service may, as an option, be activated/de-activated using special
feature codes on a subscriber or business customer basis.
#### B2.1.1 Target Subscriber Notification
The user needs to be informed on an ongoing basis which zone and billing rate
is currently applicable.
Users should be enabled to make an informed decision on expected call charges
and therefore need to be provided charging zone information accurately, and in
a timely manner, being notified which zone they are in when a call is set up.
Notification to the subscriber/user could be provided in several forms
including tone, announcement, or short message.
The billing system will need to consider the following possible scenarios:
1\. For the duration of the call, the subscriber remains in a single charging
zone
2\. During the call, the charging zones may change
2.1. The user may initiate a call in one zone, then move to a different zone
where the call is terminated.
2.2. The user may cross back and forth between zones multiple times during the
duration of a call, and the call may terminate in the zone it was originated
from, or in a different zone.
Notification to the user may be via the UE MMI prior to initiation of the call
and, during the call.
#### B2.1.2 Charging
To support appropriate charging, call detail records may need to include the
following additional information:
1 Location Service (Location Based Charging) Identification
2 Location Information
3 Zone Information
4 Type of Event
5 Duration of Event
#### B2.1.3 Roaming
If a subscriber with active location-based charging roams into a system that
does not support the service, the subscriber may be notified of an \"out of
coverage zone\" notification using the best possible method (UE display, SMS,
etc.).
## B3 Tracking Services
Although Fleet and Asset Management services may be offered as separate
services, within this document they are described as a single service
category. In a similar manner, Person Tracking may be viewed as a form of
personal asset tracking.
### B3.1 Fleet and Asset Management Services
Fleet and Asset Management services allow the tracking of location and status
of specific service group users. Examples may include a supervisor of a
delivery service who needs to know the location and status of employees,
parents who need to know where their children are, animal tracking, and
tracking of assets.
The service may be invoked by the managing entity, or the entity being
managed, depending on the service being provided.
Fleet Management may enable an enterprise or a public organization to track
the location of vehicles (cars, trucks, etc.) and use location information to
optimize services.
Asset management services, for example, may range from asset visualization
(general reporting of position) to stolen vehicle location and geofencing
(reporting of location when an asset leaves or enters a defined zone). The
range of attributes for these services is wide.
For Fleet and Asset Management services, a distinction may be made between the
manager of the fleet/assets in charge of tracking, and the entities being
tracked (service group users, etc). The tracking service may make use of
mobile station handsets with possible specialized functions (Web browsers,
etc) to allow for tracking and specific methods for communicating with the
managing entity. A managing entity would be able to access one or several
managed entities\' location and status information through a specified
communication interface (Internet, Interactive Voice Response, Data service,
etc). The managing entity would be able to access both real-time and recent
location and status results of managed entities.
The network shall provide the capability to provide the last known location
and timestamp. In cases where the service group user\'s mobile station is not
registered (i.e. Inactive, out of coverage) the last known location
information and timestamp may optionally be provided. If this information is
unavailable in real-time, a reason for why the information is unattainable may
be provided. The managing entity may also be able to relay messages to service
group users through the appropriate interface, as well as receive messages
originated by the service group users.
Activation of Fleet and Asset Management services could be performed via
subscriber provisioning by the service provider, as well as by offering
subscriber-based service activation codes to the service group
user/subscriber. The managing entity could also initiate service via requests
to a provisioning system through Interactive Voice Response or Internet
request. A feature code may optionally also be provided to allow for specific
mobile user group subscriber activation by the managing entity (*FC + Mobile
ID). A specific user group mobile could also be able to self-activate through
the use of a feature code.
### B3.2 Traffic Monitoring
Mobiles in automobiles on freeways anonymously sampled to determine average
velocity of vehicles. Congestion detected and reported.
Congestion, average flow rates, vehicle occupancy and related traffic
information can be gathered from a variety of sources including roadside
telematic sensors, roadside assistance organizations and ad-hoc reports from
individual drivers. In addition, average link speeds can be computed through
anonymous random sampling of UE locations.
#### B3.2.1 Attributes
##### B3.2.1.1 Privacy
Anonymous sampling of target UE requires all unique information relating to
the UE location to be retained by the network operator. Depending on the
capabilities of the location method (ref. section 3.4) traffic behavior
described above can only be determined if a UE is sampled at least twice
within a finite predetermined period.
The UE identification must be sufficiently unique to allow time separated
measurements to be paired before discarding the source UE identification.
The level of uniqueness can be a highly truncated form of the UE-IMSI (or
equivalent). For example, maintaining 1000 unattached location estimates for
subsequent pairing with future estimates will only require 3 least significant
digits of the IMSI. Ambiguity in matching will occur but at a low (detectable)
rate. Finally, all unattached estimates can be set to expire after a preset
time.
## B4 Enhanced Call Routing
Enhanced Call Routing (ECR) allows subscriber or user calls to be routed to
the closest service client based on the location of the originating and
terminating calls of the user. The user may optionally dial a feature or
service code to invoke the service (*GAS for closest gas station, etc).
In addition to routing the call based on location, ECR should be capable of
delivering the location information to the associated service client. For
example, this capability may be needed for services such as Emergency Roadside
Service. This could be used for the purpose of dispatching service agents for
ECR service clients that can make use of this information.
ECR services may be offered, for example, through menu driven access allowing
users to interactively select from a variety of services.
## B5 Location-Based Information Services
Location-Based Information services allow subscribers to access information
for which the information is filtered and tailored based on the location of
the requesting user. Service requests may be initiated on demand by
subscribers, or automatically when triggering conditions are met, and may be a
singular request or result in periodic responses.
The following subsections provide some examples of possible location-based
information services.
### B5.1 Navigation
The purpose of the navigation application is to guide the handset user to
his/her destination. The destination can be input to the terminal, which gives
guidance how to reach the destination. The guidance information can be e.g.
plain text, symbols with text information (e.g. turn + distance) or symbols on
the map display. If the handset's velocity is available in addition to its
position, real-time, adaptable turn-by-turn directions can be provided. The
instructions may also be given verbally to the users by using a voice call.
Note: this may involve a service provider giving verbal directions to a lost
motorist or providing periodic short text messages (possibly using SMS), in
addition to, or as an alternative to the provision of a graphic map.
This can be accomplished through carrying a mobile phone that has location
technology capabilities down to a few feet. Less granularity impedes the
applicability of this functionality.
This service can either be menu driven from a handset using SIM Application
Toolkit or a WAP based terminal with a map application running -- similar to a
GPS system. A central server may handle all mapping of locations, and may save
specific locations (i.e., favorite fishing holes).
### B5.2 City Sightseeing
City Sightseeing would enable the delivery of location specific information to
a sightseer. Such information might consist of combinations of the services
described throughout this document to describe historical sites, providing
navigation directions between sites, facilitate finding the nearest
restaurant, bank, airport, bus terminal, restroom facility, etc.
### B5.3 Location Dependent Content Broadcast
The main characteristic of this service category is that the network
automatically broadcasts information to terminals in a certain geographical
area. The information may be broadcast to all terminals in a given area, or
only to members of specific group (perhaps only to members of a specific
organization). The user may disable the functionality totally from the
terminal or select only the information categories that the user is interested
in.
An example of such a service may be localized advertising. For example,
merchants could broadcast advertisements to passersby based on location /
demographic / psychographic information (for example \"today only, 30% off on
blue jeans\").
### B5.4 Mobile Yellow Pages
The internet has also changed how people find phone numbers. Instead of
thumbing through the yellow pages or calling Directory assistance you simply
go online and search the number. The need for paper copy phonebooks is gone.
Wireless takes this one step further by adding the location of the subscriber
to the search. Now the phone number of the nearest location can be ascertained
as opposed to all locations within a 50-mile area.
Mobile Yellow Pages services provide the user with the location of the nearest
service point, e.g. Italian restaurant. The result of the query may be a list
of service points fulfilling the criteria (e.g. Italian restaurants within
three kilometers). The information can be provided to the users in text format
(e.g. name of the restaurant, address and telephone number) or in graphical
format (map showing the location of the user and the restaurants).
### B5.5 Location Sensitive Internet
Location Sensitive Internet is for further study.
## B6 Network Enhancing Services
The Network Enhancing Services described in this section are for further study
and privacy issues will require further consideration.
### B6.1 Applications for Network Planning
The network operator may be able to use location information to aid network
planning. The operator may be able to locate calls in certain areas to
estimate the distribution of calls and user mobility for network planning
purposes. These applications may be used for hot spot detection and user
behavior modeling
### B6.2 Applications for Network QoS Improvements
The network operator may be able to use location services to improve the
Quality of Service of the network. The location system may be used to track
dropped calls to identify problematic areas. The system may also be used to
identify poor quality areas.
### B6.3 Improved Radio Resource Management
The location of the handset may be used for more intelligent handovers and
more efficient channel allocation techniques.
###### ## Annex C (Informative): Attributes of Specific Services
The following table (provided by the GSM Alliance Services Working Group)
depicts ranges of values that may be expected for various attributes of
location based services.
Requirement -> Service Category | Service Authorization | Privacy | Target Subscriber Notification | Horizontal Accuracy | Vertical Accuracy | Response Time | Reliability | Security | Periodic Location Reporting | Service Registration | Service Activation | Service De-Activation | Service Invocation | Roaming | Service Specific Considerations | Interactions With Other Wireless Services  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Public Safety Services** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Emergency Services | None req’d | Implied when dialing 911 info provided to safety organizations | Not required | Network based: 100m (67%) 300m (95%) Handset based: 50m (67%) 150m (95%) | n/a now (5-15m future? | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required Period TBD suggest 1-10 minutes | None req’d | None required | Not Allowed | Keystroke or Dialed string (911) | Required if emergency call can be made |  | Lat and Long. To PSAP  
Emergency Alert Services | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | Not required | 125 m (10 m future?) | n/a now (5-15m future? | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required Period TBD suggest 1-10 minutes | Req’d | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | Automatic | Preferred where roaming is allowed |  | Lat & Long to Service Provider Live, SMS or other data service (WAP,GPRS) return msg.  
**Location Sensitive Charging** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Home-Zone Billing | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to carrier | Not required | Depends on billing zone (5m-300m) | n/a | Depends on increments of billing. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required depends on billing increment and coverage zone | Req’d | Interactive with Carrier | Interactive with Carrier | Automatic | n/a |  | Lat & Long to Carrier  
**Tracking Services** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Fleet Mgment. | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | Not required | 125m-Cell ID | n/a | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required (1-10 minutes) | Req’d | Interactive or live operator | Interactive or live operator | Interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed |  | Lat & Long to Service Provider To requesting customer’s interface (e-mail, Web or live operator  
Asset Mgment | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | Not required | 10m-125m | n/a (5-15m future? | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required (1-10 minutes) | Req’d | Interactive or live operator | Interactive or live operator | Interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed | Special Terminal | Lat & Long to Service Provider To requesting customer’s interface (e-mail, Web or live operator  
Person Tracking | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | May be required (Child versus Employee?) | 10m-125m | n/a (5-15m future? | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required (1-10 minutes) | Req’d | Interactive or live operator | Interactive or live operator | Interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed |  | Lat & Long to Service Provider To requesting customer’s interface (e-mail, Web or live operator  
Pet Tracking | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | Not required | 10m-125m | n/a (5-15m future? | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required (1-10 minutes) | Req’d | Interactive or live operator | Interactive or live operator | Interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed | Special Terminal | Lat & Long to Service Provider To requesting customer’s interface (e-mail, Web or live operator  
**Traffic Monitoring** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Traffic Congestion Reporting | Req’d | No specific Target UE info allowed | Not required | 10-40m Hi- res. req’d muti- near proximity lanes (opposing and adjacent) | May be req’d for over-passes | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required (1-2 minutes) | Req’d | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed | High bandwidth req on network. | Lat & Long to Service Provider Live or SMS return msg.  
**Enhanced Call Routing** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Routing to Nearest Commercial Enterprise | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | Not required | 10m-125m | n/a | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Not required | Req’d | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed |  | Lat & Long to Service Provider  
Roadside Assistance | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | Not required | 10m-125m | n/a | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Not required | Req’d | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed |  | Lat & Long to Service Provider Live or SMS return msg.  
**Location Based Information Services** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Navigation | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | Required | 10m-125m | n/a | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required (1-10 minutes) | Req’d | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed |  | Lat & Long to Service Provider Live, SMS or other data service (WAP,GPRS) return msg.  
City Sightseeing | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | Not required | 10m-125m | n/a | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Not required | Req’d | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed |  | Lat & Long to Service Provider Live, SMS or other data service (WAP,GPRS) return msg.  
Localized Advertising | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | Not required | 125m-Cell ID | n/a | Not sensitive (default to 5 sec.) | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Not required | Req’d | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed |  | Lat & Long to Service Provider SMS return msg.  
Mobile Yellow Pages | Req’d | Info only passed to subscribed to service provider | Not required | 125m-Cell ID | n/a | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Not required | Req’d | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | By menu, keystroke, interactive or live operator | Preferred where roaming is allowed |  | Lat & Long to Service Provider Live, SMS or other data service (WAP,GPRS) return msg.  
**Service Provider Specific Services** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Network Planning | Not Req’d | Specific Target UE info allowed | Not Required | 10m-Cell ID | n/a | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required (1 minute) | Not Req’d | N/a | n/a | n/a | n/a |  | n/a  
Dynamic Network Control | Not Req’d | Specific Target UE info allowed | Not Required | 10m-Cell ID | n/a | 5 sec. | Same as GSM | Same as GSM | Required (1 minute) | Not Req’d | N/a | n/a | n/a | n/a |  | n/a  
#