# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The User-to-User Signalling (UUS) supplementary service allows a mobile
subscriber to send/receive a limited amount of information to/from another
PLMN or ISDN subscriber over the signalling channel in association with a call
to the other subscriber.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services.
[3] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station (MS).
[4] 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this TS, the following definitions apply:
**User-to-User Information (UUI):** The information transferred by using the
UUS supplementary service.
**UUS service:** The UUS services (Service 1, 2 and 3) are components of the
UUS supplementary service. If the UUS supplementary service is provided to a
subscriber, she can handle the UUS services independently within a call.
**Served subscriber:** The subscriber who has a provision of the UUS
supplementary service and who activates the UUS supplementary service. For
service 1 and 2 the served subscriber is always the calling subscriber, for
service 3 either the calling or the called subscriber can be the served
subscriber.
**Remote party:** For service 1 and 2 the remote party is the called party of
a call to which the UUS supplementary service is activated by the served
subscriber. For service 3 the remote party can be either the called or the
calling party of an established call to whom the use of the UUS supplementary
service is requested by the served subscriber.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS the following abbreviations apply.
**UUS** User-to-User Signalling
**UUI** User-to-User Information
Further GSM related abbreviations are listed in TS 21.905 [1].
# 4 Description
## 4.1 Description
The UUS supplementary service allows the served subscriber to send/receive a
limited amount of subscriber generated information to/from another user in
association with a call to the user. This information shall be passed
transparently (i.e. without modification of contents) through the network.
Normally, the network shall not interpret or act upon this information.
The served subscriber can send and receive UUI in different phases of the call
depending on the service(s) to which the subscriber subscribes. These services
are:
Service 1: UUI can be sent and received during the origination and termination
of a call, with UUI embedded within call control messages. The service 1 can
be activated implicit by inserting UUI when set-up a call or explicit with an
appropriate procedure.
Service 2: UUI can be sent and received after the served subscriber has
received an indication that the remote party is being informed of the call and
prior to the establishment of the connection. UUI sent by the served
subscriber prior to receiving the acceptance of the call by the remote party,
may as a network option be delivered to the remote party after the call has
been established. The service 2 shall be activated explicitly.
Service 3: User-to-user-information can be sent and received only while the
connection is established. The service 3 shall be activated explicitly.
Service 1, service 2 and service 3 shall allow the transmission of UUI with
the maximum length of 128 octets per message.
## 4.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in TS 22.004 [2].
# 5 Normal procedures with successful outcome
## 5.1 Provision
The UUS supplementary service shall be provided to the served subscriber after
pre-arrangement with the service provider. The remote party needs no
subscription of the UUS supplementary service.
NOTE: The remote party is able to send UUI without provision of the UUS
supplementary service when the service is activated against her by the served
subscriber.
As a service provider option, one or any combination of the following shall be
provided:
\- service 1 (implicitly requested andexplicitly requested);
\- service 2;
\- service 3.
## 5.2 Withdrawal
The UUS supplementary service and several UUS services shall be withdrawn by
the service provider upon the subscriber\'s request or for service providers
reasons.
The supplementary service UUS shall be withdrawn if all UUS services provided
to the served subscriber are withdrawn.
## 5.3 Registration and Erasure
not applicable.
## 5.4 Activation and Deactivation
The UUS supplementary service shall be activated by the service provider as a
result of provision and deactivated as a result of withdrawal.
## 5.5 Invocation
The UUS supplementary service is invoked if at least one UUS service is
activated by the served subscriber.
## 5.6 Interrogation
not applicable.
## 5.7 Handling of UUS services
### 5.7.1 Activation
UUS service is activated when:
\- activation is implicitly requested (for service 1); or
\- activation is explicitly requested (for service 1, service 2 and service 3)
and is accepted by the remote party.
Depending on the served subscriber subscription to the UUS supplementary
service and the provision of the UUS services by the service provider, service
1 implicit, service 1 explicit, service 2 and service 3 can be activated
individually or in combination. Service 1 implicit and service 1 explicit
cannot be simultaneously active.
Once an UUS service is activated the network shall accept UUI from either
subscriber in the call, according to the service that has been activated.
The network shall confirm the explicit activation of a UUS service (service 1,
2 and 3) to the served subscriber. This confirmation shall be preceded by an
end-to-end check by the network for service availability.
The network shall interrogate the remote party and check for the availability
of the UUS service on the remote party\'s side. The mobile station shall
confirm the requested services if it is able to handle the UUS service. The
remote party shall not have the possibility to confirm or reject the request
for the UUS service on a per call basis. No response from the remote party
shall be taken by the network as a rejection of the request for the UUS
service.
NOTE: Nevertheless the remote party may restrict the use of a UUS service by
pre-programming of the mobile station to reject incoming UUS activation
requests.
The network shall explicitly indicate to the calling mobile subscriber whether
or not the requested service has been successfully activated.
#### 5.7.1.1 Service 1
UUS service 1 shall be activated by the calling mobile subscriber when
originating a call if UUI transfer is desired in either direction.
Service 1 is automatically deactivated when the call is terminated.
Service 1 can be activated by means of an implicit activation request or an
explicit activation request.
Implicit activation:
Service 1 is implicitly activated when UUI is included when originating a
call.
When service 1 is implicitly activated, service 1 is active for the call, i.e.
the remote party is not required to send a response to the implicit activation
request. However, the remote party can include UUI in the call response.
**Explicit activation:**
The UUS service 1 shall be activated explicitly by using of the procedure
defined in TS 22.030 [3].
The served mobile subscriber shall be given an explicit response (acceptance
or rejection) to an explicit activation request. An explicit activation
request can include UUI.
When service 1 is explicitly requested, the remote party can include UUI when
accepting the activation request for the UUS supplementary service.
#### 5.7.1.2 Service 2
The UUS service 2 shall be activated by using of the procedure defined in TS
22.030 [3].
Service 2 shall be activated by the served subscriber when originating a call,
if UUI transfer is desired in either direction.
Service 2 shall be explicitly requested. The served mobile subscriber shall be
given an explicit response (acceptance or rejection) to an explicit activation
request.
Service 2 is automatically deactivated when the called subscriber is no longer
being informed of the call, i.e. if the call is established or released.
#### 5.7.1.3 Service 3
The served subscriber can explicit request the activation of service 3 when a
call is originated or after the connection has been established by using the
procedure defined in TS 22.030 [3]. The request for the UUS service 3 shall be
accepted from the remote party in order to activate the UUS supplementary
service. The served user shall be given an explicit response (acceptance or
rejection) to the explicit activation request.
Service 3 is automatically deactivated when the call is no longer established.
#### 5.7.1.4 \"UUS required\" request
When a call is originated, the calling subscriber can specify whether the
requested UUS service(s) is (are) required for the call, i.e. if the call
should be completed or not if UUI cannot be passed. If the \"UUI-required\"
indication is given by the subscriber, the call shall not be completed if UUI
cannot be passed to the called subscriber. If the \"UUI-not-required\"
indication is given by the subscriber, the call will be completed even if UUI
cannot be passed. If service 1 is implicitly requested or if service 3 is
requested during the call, it cannot be requested as \"UUI-required\".
## 5.7.2 Invocation and operation
If activated by the served subscriber a UUS service shall be invoked when UUI
is sent by either subscriber to the network.
When a subscriber sends UUI the network shall not confirm its delivery to the
subscriber.
For service 2 and 3, when sending a UUI message, the subscriber can indicate
that the subscriber will send further UUI associated with this UUI message.
This indication shall be given to the receiving subscriber.
When sending a UUI message, the subscriber may indicate the use of particular
user protocol associated with the UUI message. This indication shall be given
to the receiving subscriber. The identification of, and the use of, user
protocols is outside of this standard.
#### 5.7.2.1 Service 1
A PLMN subscriber can transfer UUI when originating a call. When service 1 has
been activated, either subscriber can include UUI when accepting, rejecting,
or terminating a call.
Note: It is possible for a calling subscriber to invoke the UUS service 1 with
a call set-up and terminate the call before the connection is established.
#### 5.7.2.2 Service 2
Any time between activation of service 2 and connection is established, either
subscriber can transfer up to 2 UUI messages in each direction to the other
subscriber involved in the call.
#### 5.7.2.3 Service 3
After service 3 has been activated, either subscriber can transfer UUI to the
other subscriber on the call after the connection has been established.
Note: The amount of UUI messages that can be transferred with service 3 shall
be defined.
#### 5.7.2.4 Charging requirements
The served subscriber shall be charged according to the number of UUI messages
transferred in either direction. When charging for UUI the destination (e.g.
international calls, diverted calls) of the related call shall not be
considered.
It shall be possible to charge for the invocation of the UUS supplementary
service even if there are no other call charges.
# 6 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
## 6.1 Provision and Withdrawal
No exceptional procedures.
## 6.2 Registration and Erasure
not applicable.
## 6.3 Handling of UUS services
### 6.3.1 Activation
If the network cannot accept an implicit request for the activation of UUS
service 1, no notification shall be given to the subscriber.
In all other cases, if the network cannot accept a request for the activation
of a UUS service, the network shall reject the activation. In addition, the
network shall indicate which of service 1, service 2 and/or service 3 have
been rejected. For the rejection of the activation request the following
reasons may be possible:
\- service not subscribed to;
\- necessary signalling connectivity does not exist between sending and
receiving subscribers;
\- conflicting situation with other supplementary service (e.g. CUG, incoming
call barring);
\- service is already active;
\- network congestion.
## 6.3.2 Invocation
The subscriber may not be able to interpret incoming UUI. In such situations,
the user can discard this information without disrupting normal call handling.
No specific signalling is provided by the network to accommodate this
situation.
Under circumstances of network congestion or failure, the network may discard
services 2 and 3 UUI.
# 7 Interactions with other supplementary services
## 7.1 Call forwarding unconditional
No impact
NOTE: UUI or an activation request for a UUS service will be forwarded with
the call even in the case the forwarding subscriber has no subscription of the
relevant UUS service.
## 7.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
If call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is invoked as a result of a
network determined user busy condition (NDUB) of the called subscriber, any
UUI and UUS request accompanies the call set-up request shall be forwarded
with the call
If call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is invoked as a result of an user
determined user busy condition (UDUB) the following cases shall be
distinguished:
\- If the UDUB condition is met before alerting any UUI and UUS request
accompanies the call set-up request shall be forwarded with the call.
\- If the UDUB condition is met after alerting the interactions as defined for
call forwarding on no reply shall apply.
UUI included in a UDUB request by the forwarding subscriber shall be ignored
by the network.
NOTE: UUI or an activation request for a UUS service will be forwarded with
the call even in the case the forwarding subscriber has no subscription of the
relevant UUS service.
## 7.3 Call forwarding on no reply
**Service 1:**
If UUS service 1 is implicitly requested to the forwarding subscriber the UUI
shall be transferred to the forwarded-to party after the invocation of CFNRy.
If UUS service 1 is explicitly requested with the option \"UUS required" to a
called subscriber who has CFNRy active and operative and the no-reply
condition timer expires, the call shall be released.
If UUS service 1 is explicitly requested with the option \"UUS not required"
to a called subscriber who has CFNRy active and operative, CFNRy shall be
invoked. If the called subscriber has confirmed the UUS service 1 request
prior to the invocation of CFNRy, the UUI and the UUS request shall be
transferred to the forwarded-to party. Otherwise the UUI and the UUS request
shall not be forwarded with the call.
**Service 2:**
If UUS service 2 is requested with the option \"UUS not required" to a called
subscriber who has CFNRy active and operative, CFNRy shall be invoked but no
UUS activation request will be given to the forwarded-to subscriber.
If UUS service 2 is requested with the option \"UUS required" to a called
subscriber who has CFNRy active and operative, CFNRy shall not be invoked.
**Service 3:**
Any activation request for UUS service 3 that accompanies the call set-up
request shall be forwarded with the call.
NOTE: UUI or an activation request for a UUS service will be forwarded with
the call even in the case the forwarding subscriber has no subscription of the
relevant UUS service.
## 7.4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
No impact
NOTE: UUI or an activation request for a UUS service will be forwarded with
the call even in the case the forwarding subscriber has no subscription of the
relevant UUS service.
## 7.5 Call waiting
UUI for the operation of UUS service 1 included in the call request shall be
delivered with the call waiting indication to the called subscriber.
There are no interactions with service 2 and service 3.
## 7.6 Call hold
A subscriber who has invoked the Call Hold supplementary service may send or
receive UUI to/from both the active and the held party. If the served
subscriber has an active and a held call the mobile station shall indicate
which party has sent a received UUI message.
## 7.7 Completion of calls to busy subscribers
Requests for the activation of a UUS service contained in the original call
request shall be stored with the request for the invocation of the CCBS
supplementary service.
The network shall also store any UUI containing in the original call request
and use this stored UUI in the CCBS call.
## 7.8 Explicit call transfer
When calls are transferred as a result of invocation of the explicit call
transfer supplementary service, UUS services activated on either of the calls
prior to the invocation of the explicit call transfer supplementary service
shall be automatically deactivated by the network.
No specific notification shall be sent to the involved subscribers when the
UUS services are no longer activated.
The subscribers involved in the transferred call may request the activation of
service 3 again, if required.
## 7.9 Multi party service
During a MPTY the MPTY-Manager can send and receive UUI to/from each remote
party separately. The mobile station of the multi party manager shall indicate
from which remote party a received UUI message was sent.
UUI shall not be transferred between remote parties.
## 7.10 Advice of charge
No impact.
NOTE: The Advice of Charge services may not provide any information concerning
charges for the use of the UUS supplementary service.
## 7.11 Barring of outgoing calls
no impact
## 7.12 Barring of outgoing international calls
no impact
## 7.13 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the
home PLMN country
no impact
## 7.14 Barring of incoming calls
no impact.
## 7.15 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country
no impact.
## 7.16 Call Deflection
If Call Deflection is invoked before alerting the same interactions as for
Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy shall apply.
If Call Deflection is invoked after alerting the same interactions as for Call
forwarding on no reply shall apply.
# 8 Interactions with other network features
## 8.1 Support of Optimal Routeing
The invocation of Optimal Routeing in case of late call forwarding shall have
no impact on the interactions of UUS with the call forwarding supplementary
services as defined in section 7.
## 8.2 Multicall
See TS 22.135 [4].
# 9 Interworking considerations
The UUS supplementary service can be delivered only when both subscribers\'
networks provide a means of conveying the UUI.
Some networks may support the transmission of UUI with a maximum length of
only 32 octets per message for service 1. In the interworking case only the
first 32 octets of UUI with more than 32 octets per message shall be
transferred. No notification about the limitation of the UUI shall be given to
any subscriber.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Deviations of the 3GPP UUS supplementary
service from the ISDN service
The ISDN service UUS allows as a network option the transfer of UUI with a
maximum length of 32 octets for service 1. This option shall not be supported
in PLMNs. However there is the possibility that networks using the phase 1 or
phase 2 standard can support the UUS service 1 implicitly requested with 32
octets. These networks shall apply the rules defined in the section 8,
Interworking considerations.
In the 3GPP specification some charging requirement are defined. These
requirements shall allow network operators to charge their subscribers for the
use of and to prevent misuse of the UUS supplementary service.
Because of the different handling of busy states in ISDN the interactions with
call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy are different.
The network option to allow forwarding of UUS requests and UUI only if the
forwarding subscriber has the subscription of the relevant UUS service is not
supported.
The general principle of CCBS to retain all information of the original call
set-up and reusing this information for the CCBS call shall also be valid for
the UUS supplementary service. Therefore the UUI contained in the original
call set-up shall be stored in network and reused in the CCBS call.
#