# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
The present document describes the supplementary services belonging to the
group Call Restriction Supplementary Services.
The general aspects - including definitions and recommended provision - of the
description of the supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS 22.004 [2].
The Call Restriction supplementary services allow the possibility for a mobile
subscriber to have barring of certain categories of outgoing or incoming calls
at the mobile subscribers access.
The group of Call Restriction Services includes two supplementary services:
\- barring of outgoing calls;
\- barring of incoming calls.
By use of subscription options, the mobile subscriber can at provision time
select a set of one or more barring programs to determine the categories of
calls to be barred. The following categories are defined:
\- all outgoing calls;
\- outgoing international calls;
\- outgoing international calls except those directed to the home PLMN
country;
\- all incoming calls;
\- incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country.
NOTE 1: Each category (barring program) is handled as a single supplementary
service.
NOTE 2: The call barring program \"incoming calls when roaming outside the
home PLMN country\" is only relevant if as a general rule the called mobile
subscriber pays the charges for the forwarded part of the call from his home
PLMN country to any other country.
The barring services can be offered to a mobile subscriber with a password
option allowing the activation and deactivation by the subscriber. One
password per mobile subscriber is supported by the network for all barring
services. For the definition of the password, the description of its use and
its management, see 3GPP TS 22.004 [2].
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line Identification supplementary services - Stage 1\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905 [1].
# 1 Barring of outgoing calls
## 1.1 Definition
This service makes it possible for a mobile subscriber to have barring of
certain categories of outgoing calls according to a barring program which is
selected from a set of one or more barring programs chosen at provision time
and is valid for all outgoing calls, or just those associated with a specific
basic service group.
The ability of the served mobile subscriber to receive calls and to set-up
emergency calls remains unaffected.
## 1.2 General description
### 1.2.1 Description
The mobile subscriber may determine by subscription of a set of one or more
unique barring programs what kind of outgoing calls shall be barred.
The following barring programs are defined:
1) Barring of all outgoing calls;
2) Barring of outgoing international calls;
3) Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the home
PLMN country.
The PLMN will ensure that only one of the barring programs is active per basic
service group. The activation of one specific barring program will override an
already active one (i.e. the old one will be permanently deactivated).
Description of contents of barring programs:
**Barring of all outgoing calls:**
With this barring program there are no outgoing set-up possibilities, except
emergency calls.
**Barring of outgoing international calls:**
Outgoing call set-up possibilities exist only to subscribers of the PLMN(s)
and the fixed network(s) of the country where the mobile subscriber is
presently located. So the present PLMN may be the home PLMN or a visited PLMN,
respectively the fixed network may be that of the home PLMN country or that of
a visited PLMN country.
NOTE 1: This definition implies that mobile subscribers, subscribed to a PLMN
in the country in which the served mobile subscriber roams, can be called
irrespective where they roam. On the other hand, mobile subscribers,
subscribed to any PLMN in another country than the one in which the served
mobile subscriber roams, cannot be called even if they roam in the same PLMN
area as the served mobile subscriber.
**Barring of all outgoing international calls except those directed to the
home PLMN country:**
Outgoing call set-up possibilities exist only to subscribers of the PLMN(s)
and the fixed network(s) of the country where the mobile subscriber is
presently located or to mobile subscribers of the home PLMN country of the
served mobile subscriber and to subscribers of the fixed network(s) in the
home PLMN country. So the present PLMN may be the home PLMN or a visited PLMN,
respectively the fixed network may be that of the home PLMN country or that of
a visited PLMN country.
NOTE 2: This definition implies that mobile subscribers, subscribed to a PLMN
in the country in which the served mobile subscriber roams or mobile
subscribers subscribed to any PLMN in the same country as the served mobile
subscriber home PLMN can be called irrespective where they roam. On the other
hand, mobile subscribers, subscribed to any PLMN in another country than the
one in which the served mobile subscriber roams and not belonging to the same
country as the served mobile subscriber, cannot be called even if they roam in
the same PLMN area as the served mobile subscriber or if they roam in the home
PLMN country of the served mobile subscriber.
In the case of SMS, this barring program shall prevent the subscriber from
sending Short Messages using a Service Centre Address that is not part of the
subscriber\'s home PLMN country numbering plan.
### 1.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004
[2].
### 1.2.3 Terminology
A barring program defines the subscribed barring condition and will determine
the categories of calls to be barred.
## 1.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 1.3.1 Provision
The supplementary service will be provided after pre-arrangement with the
service provider. At provision, subscription options should be selected by the
served mobile subscriber.
The service can be offered with two subscription options.
The first subscription option is the definition of the barring condition by a
set of one or more barring programs. This subscription option applies to all
basic services subscribed. Only one value can be selected for the barring
condition.
The second subscription option relates to the control of the call barring
supplementary service(s). The subscriber may choose to have the control of the
service(s) by use of a password, or may leave the control to the service
provider. The value of this subscription option is valid collectively for all
basic services and all call barring supplementary services to which the
subscriber subscribes to.
Subscription options are summarized below:
* * *
Subscription option Value
Barring condition - barring program 1
                                \- barring program 2
                                \- barring program 3
                                \- barring program 1 and
                                barring program 2
                                \- barring program 1 and
                                barring program 3
                                \- barring program 2 and
                                barring program 3
                                \- barring program 1 and
                                barring program 2 and
                                barring program 3
Control of barring services - by subscriber using password \- by the service
provider
* * *
NOTE: A service provider needs not offer the option \"control of barring
services\" to his subscribers. However, the support of the password facility
is mandatory in the network for visiting subscribers.
### 1.3.2 Withdrawal
The service will be withdrawn at the subscriber's request or for
administrative reasons.
### 1.3.3 Registration
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by subscriber using
password\", the service provider has to register a password at provision time.
Furthermore the served mobile subscriber can change the password at any time
by an appropriate control procedure which is described in 3GPP TS 22.004 [2].
### 1.3.4 Erasure
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by subscriber using
password\", a password can be erased as described in 3GPP TS 22.004.
### 1.3.5 Activation
Activation takes place with an appropriate control procedure by the subscriber
or by the service provider. The activation of barring of outgoing calls does
not affect any current communication. Only one barring program may be
activated at a time for one basic service group.. The activation of a barring
program will deactivate an already active one.
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by subscriber using
password\", the supplementary service is activated if the subscriber provides
the following information to the network:
\- password;
\- information as to whether all calls or calls of a specific basic service
group should be barred.
NOTE: If no Basic Service code is inserted by the user this is interpreted as
the group \"All Basic Services\".
\- selected barring program.
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by service provider\", the
supplementary service cannot be activated by the subscriber. The activation
has to be performed by the service provider.
The activation status attached to different basic service groups can be
modified separately.
### 1.3.6 Deactivation
Deactivation takes place by means of an appropriate control procedure by the
subscriber, or by the service provider, or finally by activation of a new
barring program for the same basic service group.
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by subscriber using
password\", the supplementary service is deactivated if the subscriber
provides the following information to the network:
\- password;
\- information as to whether barring of all calls or calls of a specific basic
service group should be deactivated.
NOTE: If no Basic Service code is inserted by the user this is interpreted as
the group \"All Basic Services\".
\- selected barring program (i.e. the code for one specific Outgoing Barring
program given in 3GPP TS 22.030) or selected barring supplementary service
(i.e. the code for Outgoing Barring Service or the code for All Barring
Services given in 3GPP TS 22.030).
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by service provider\", the
supplementary service cannot be deactivated by the subscriber. The
deactivation has to be performed by the service provider.
### 1.3.7 Invocation
The supplementary service is automatically invoked by the network upon a
request for an outgoing call for a basic service not allowed by an active
barring program for the corresponding basic service group. In the case of
Short Message, only the Service Centre Address is relevant for the Call
Barring service.
### 1.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
When barring of outgoing calls is active for a basic service group, each
outgoing call set-up to a number not allowed by the barring program related to
that basic service group will be refused by the network. In this case the
served mobile subscriber will receive an indication that the call is not
permitted and has been barred.
When barring of outgoing calls is active, the ability of the served mobile
subscriber to receive calls is not affected.
When barring of outgoing calls is active, the ability of the served mobile
subscriber to set-up emergency calls is not affected.
### 1.3.11 Interrogation
The subscriber shall by an appropriate control procedure be given the
possibility to get a list of all basic service groups for which the given
barring program is active (irrespective of whether it is operative or
quiescent).
In the situation when a subscriber has activated BOIC-exHC and is roaming in a
PLMN not supporting this supplementary service, the local PLMN will return -
as an answer to interrogation - the status \"not supported\".
This information may be translated by the mobile station to inform the user
about the replacement of BOIC-exHC with BOIC.
If the served mobile subscriber wants to retrieve information from the local
PLMN about the status of BOIC, she has to repeat the interrogation procedure
with the supplementary service code for BOIC.
## 1.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
### 1.4.1 Provision
A PLMN which does not support the barring program \"Barring of Outgoing
International Calls Except Those Directed to the Home PLMN Country\", shall
replace this program with \"Barring of Outgoing International Calls\".
### 1.4.2 Registration
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by service provider\", an
attempt to register a password will be denied and the served mobile subscriber
should receive a notification.
When the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by the subscriber using
password\", the handling of incorrect password entry is described in 3GPP TS
22.004 [2].
### 1.4.4 Activation
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by the service provider\",
an attempt to activate the barring services will be denied and the served
mobile subscriber should receive a notification.
When the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by subscriber using a
password\", the handling of incorrect password entry is described in 3GPP TS
22.0004.
The barring of outgoing calls activation request must specify the basic
service group and the selected barring program. If the subscriber does not
completely specify for which basic service group (individual basic service
group or all basic service groups) barring of outgoing calls is to be
activated and the selected barring program, the network will reject the
activation request with appropriate cause.
NOTE 1: If no basic service group code is inserted by the user this is
interpreted as the group \"All Basic Services\".
NOTE 2: The group \"all basic services\" in the context of barring of outgoing
calls means all except emergency calls.
### 1.4.5 Deactivation
If the served mobile subscriber, at provision time, has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by the service provider\",
an attempt to deactivate will be denied and the served mobile subscriber
should receive a notification.
If the served mobile subscriber, at provision time, has selected the
subscription option \"control of the barring services by the subscriber using
password\", the handling of incorrect password entry is described in 3GPP TS
22.004 [2].
The barring of outgoing calls deactivation request must specify the basic
service group and the selected barring program (i.e. the code for one specific
Outgoing Barring program given in 3GPP TS 22.030) or the selected barring
supplementary service (i.e. the code for Outgoing Barring Service or the code
for All Barring Services given in 3GPP TS 22.030). If the subscriber does not
completely specify for which basic service group (individual basic service
group or all basic service groups) barring of outgoing calls is to be
deactivated and the selected barring program or supplementary service, the
network will reject the deactivation request with appropriate cause.
NOTE: If no basic service group code is inserted by the user this is
interpreted as the group \"All Basic Services\".
## 1.5 Alternate procedures
None identified.
## 1.6 Interactions with other supplementary services
#### 1.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
See 3GPP TS 22.082 [4].
#### 1.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
See 3GPP TS 22.082 [4].
#### 1.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply
See 3GPP TS 22.082 [4].
#### 1.6.82.4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
See 3GPP TS 22.082 [4].
#### 1.6.83.1 Call waiting
The activation of barring of outgoing calls at the calling mobile
subscriber\'s side does not affect any currently waiting calls originated by
the calling mobile subscriber.
#### 1.6.83.2 Call hold
If barring of outgoing calls is activated after a call hold is invoked on an
outgoing call, the held call can be retrieved. Any new outgoing call to a
number not allowed by the barring program is barred.
### 1.6.84 MultiParty service
See 3GPP TS 22.084 [5].
#### 1.6.85.1 Closed user group
Barring of outgoing calls takes precedence over the CUG restrictions. The
activation of barring of outgoing calls during an outgoing call does not
affect any current CUG call.
## 1.7 Interworking considerations
None identified.
# 2 Barring of incoming calls
## 2.1 Definition
This service makes it possible for a mobile subscriber to have barring of
certain categories of incoming calls according to a barring program which is
selected from a set of one or more barring programs chosen at provision time
and is valid for all incoming calls, or just those associated with a specific
basic service group.
The ability of the served mobile subscriber to set-up outgoing calls remains
unaffected.
## 2.2 General description
### 2.2.1 Description
The mobile subscriber may determine by subscription of a set of one or more
barring programs what kind of incoming calls shall be barred.
The following barring programs are defined:
1) Barring of all incoming calls;
2) Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country;
3) Anonymous Call Rejection.
The barring programs 2) and 3) may be active simultaneously per basic service
group, but can not be active simultaneously with the barring program 1) per
basic service group. The PLMN will ensure that exclusive barring programs are
not active simultaneously per basic service group. The activation of one
specific barring program will override an already active exclusive one (i.e.
the old one will be permanently deactivated).
If barring programs 2) and 3) are active simultaneously for a specific basic
service group, the barring program 2) shall apply when the called subscriber
is roaming outside the home PLMN country.
Description of contents of barring programs:
**Barring of all incoming calls:**
With this barring program there will be no set-up of incoming calls to the
served subscriber.
**Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country:**
With this barring program, calls which are terminated for the served
subscriber will be barred if the subscriber is roaming outside the home PLMN
country (i.e. the program is active and operative). The ability to receive
calls in the home PLMN country remains unaffected (i.e. the program is active
and quiescent).
**Anonymous Call Rejection:**
With this barring program, calls which are terminated for the served
subscriber will be barred when the CLI presentation is restricted according to
CLIR. The calls are barred regardless of the current state (e.g. free or busy)
of the served subscriber's access. The calling user will be given an
appropriate indication that the call has been rejected due to the application
of the ACR supplementary service. Calls which are terminated for the served
subscriber without a CLI or when CLI presentation is not available, is
allowed, or is restricted by the network shall be allowed.
### 2.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004
[2].
### 2.2.3 Terminology
A barring program defines the subscribed barring condition and will determine
the categories of calls to be barred.
## 2.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 2.3.1 Provision
The supplementary service will be provided after pre-arrangement with the
service provider. At provision, subscription options should be selected by the
served mobile subscriber.
The service can be offered with two subscription options.
The first subscription option is the definition of the barring condition by a
set of one or more barring programs. This subscription option applies to all
basic services subscribed to. Only one value can be selected for the barring
condition.
The second subscription option relates to the control of the call barring
supplementary service(s). The subscriber may choose to have the control of the
service(s) by use of a password, or may leave the control to the service
provider. The value of this subscription option is valid collectively for all
basic services and all call barring supplementary services to which the
subscriber subscribes to.
Subscription options are summarized below:
* * *
Subscription option Value
Barring condition - barring program 1
                                \- barring program 2
                                \- barring program 1 and
                                barring program 2
Control of barring services - by subscriber using password
                                \- by the service provider
* * *
NOTE: A service provider needs not offer the option \"control of barring
services\" to his subscribers. However, the support of the password facility
is mandatory in the network for visiting subscribers.
### 2.3.2 Withdrawal
The service will be withdrawn at the subscriber's request or for
administrative reasons.
### 2.3.3 Registration
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by subscriber using
password\", the service provider has to register a password at provision time.
Furthermore, the served mobile subscriber can change the password at any time
by an appropriate control procedure which is described in 3GPP TS 22.004 [2].
### 2.3.4 Erasure
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by subscriber using
password\", a password can be erased as described in 3GPP TS 22.004 [2].
### 2.3.5 Activation
Activation takes place with an appropriate control procedure by the subscriber
or by the service provider. The activation of barring of incoming calls does
not affect any current communication. Only one barring program may be
activated at a time for one basic service group. The activation of the barring
program will deactivate an already active one.
If the served mobile subscriber, at provision time, has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by subscriber using
password\", the supplementary service is activated if the subscriber provides
the following information to the network:
\- password;
\- information as to whether all calls or calls of a specific basic service
group should be barred.
NOTE: If no Basic Service code is inserted by the user this is interpreted as
the group \"All Basic Services\".
\- selected barring program.
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by service provider\", the
supplementary service cannot be activated by the subscriber. The activation
has to be performed by the service provider.
The activation status attached to different basic service groups can be
modified separately.
### 2.3.6 Deactivation
Deactivation takes place by means of an appropriate control procedure by the
subscriber, or by the service provider, or finally by activation of a new
barring program for the same basic service group.
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by subscriber using
password\", the supplementary service is deactivated if the subscriber
provides the following information to the network:
\- password;
\- information as to whether barring of all calls or calls of a specific basic
service group should be deactivated.
NOTE: If no Basic Service code is inserted by the user this is interpreted as
the group \"All Basic Services\".
\- selected barring program (i.e. the code for one specific Incoming Barring
program given in 3GPP TS 22.030) or selected barring supplementary service
(i.e. the code for Incoming Barring Service or the code for All Barring
Services given in 3GPP TS 22.030).
If the served mobile subscriber, at provision time, has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by service provider\", the
supplementary service cannot be deactivated by the subscriber. The
deactivation has to be performed by the service provider.
### 2.3.7 Invocation
The supplementary service is automatically invoked by the network upon a
request for an incoming call for a basic service not allowed by an active and
operative barring program for the corresponding basic service group.
### 2.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
When barring of incoming calls is active for a basic service group, each
incoming call set-up not allowed by the barring program related to that basic
service group will be refused by the network. In this case the calling mobile
subscriber will receive an indication that the call is not permitted and has
been barred.
When barring of incoming calls is active, the ability of the served mobile
subscriber to originate calls is not affected.
### 2.3.11 Interrogation
The subscriber shall by an appropriate control procedure be given the
possibility to get a list of all basic service groups for which the given
barring program is active (irrespective of whether it is operative or
quiescent).
## 2.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
### 2.4.2 Registration
If the served mobile subscriber, at provision time, has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by service provider\", an
attempt to register a password will be denied and the served mobile subscriber
should receive a notification.
When the served mobile subscriber, at provision time, has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by subscriber using
password\", the handling of incorrect password entry is as described in 3GPP
TS 22.004 [2].
### 2.4.4 Activation
If the served mobile subscriber, at provision time, has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by the service provider\",
an attempt to activate the barring services will be denied and the served
mobile subscriber should receive a notification.
If the served mobile subscriber, at provision time, has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by the subscriber using
password\", the handling of incorrect password entry is as described in 3GPP
TS 22.004 [2].
The barring of incoming calls activation request must specify the basic
service group and the selected barring program. If the subscriber does not
completely specify for which basic service (individual basic service group or
all basic service groups) barring of incoming calls is to be activated and the
selected barring program, the network will reject the activation request with
appropriate cause.
NOTE: If no Basic Service group code is inserted by the user this is
interpreted as the group \"All Basic Services\".
### 2.4.5 Deactivation
If the served mobile subscriber, at provision time, has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by the service provider\",
an attempt to deactivate will be denied and the served mobile subscriber
should receive a notification.
If the served mobile subscriber, at provision time, has selected the
subscription option \"control of barring services by the subscriber using
password\", the handling of incorrect password entry is as described in 3GPP
TS 22.004 [2].
The barring of incoming calls deactivation request must specify the basic
service group and the selected barring program (i.e. the code for one specific
Incoming Barring program given in 3GPP TS 22.030) or the selected barring
supplementary service (i.e. the code for Incoming Barring Service or the code
for All Barring Services given in 3GPP TS 22.030). If the subscriber does not
completely specify for which basic service group (individual basic service
group or all basic service groups) barring of incoming calls is to be
deactivated and the selected barring program or supplementary service, the
network will reject the deactivation request with appropriate cause.
NOTE: If no Basic Service group code is inserted by the user this is
interpreted as the group \"All Basic Services\".
## 2.5 Alternate procedures
None identified.
## 2.6 Interactions with other supplementary services
#### 2.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
Except for ACR, see 3GPP TS 22.082 [4].
For ACR, if the served (forwarding) user has activated the ACR supplementary
service, then the ACR supplementary service shall take precedence over the
Call forwarding unconditional supplementary service, i.e. , a call which is
terminated for the served subscriber when CLI presentation is restricted shall
be rejected according to the ACR supplementary service.
#### 2.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
Except for ACR, see 3GPP TS 22.082 [4].
For ACR, i f the served (forwarding) user has activated the ACR supplementary
service, then the ACR supplementary service shall take precedence over the
Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy supplementary service i.e. , a call
which is terminated for the served subscriber when CLI is restricted shall be
rejected according to the ACR supplementary service.
#### 2.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply
Except for ACR , see 3GPP TS 22.082 [4].
For ACR, if the served (forwarding) user has activated the ACR supplementary
service, then the ACR supplementary service shall take precedence over the
Call forwarding on no reply supplementary service, i.e., a call which is
terminated for the served subscriber when CLI is restricted shall be rejected
according to the ACR supplementary service.
#### 2.6.82.4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
Except for ACR, see 3GPP TS 22.082 [4].
For ACR, if the served (forwarding) user has activated the ACR supplementary
service, then the ACR supplementary service shall take precedence over the
Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable supplementary service i.e.,
a call which is terminated for the served subscriber when CLI is restricted
shall be rejected according to the ACR supplementary service.
#### 2.6.83.2 Call hold
If barring of incoming calls is activated after a call hold is invoked on an
incoming call, the held call can be retrieved. Any new incoming call not
allowed by the barring program is barred.
#### 2.6.81.1 Calling Line Identification
If the called user has subscribed to the override category according to the
CLIP supplementary service [6], then the CLIP supplementary service shall take
precedence over the ACR supplementary service, i.e., a call which is
terminated for the served subscriber when CLI is restricted shall be offered
to the served subscriber.
### 2.6.84 MultiParty service
See 3GPP TS 22.084 [5].
#### 2.6.85.1 Closed user group
Except for ACR, barring of incoming calls takes precedence over the CUG
restrictions. The activation of barring of incoming calls during an incoming
call does not affect any current CUG call.
If the called user has activated the ACR supplementary service, then if a
closed user group call is offered to a called user belonging to the same
closed user group, the closed user group call shall take precedence over the
ACR supplementary service. If the called user also has the incoming access
capability within the closed user group supplementary service, and if the
offered call to the called user is also a non-closed user group call or a
closed user group call to which the called party does not belong, the ACR
supplementary service shall take precedence over the closed user group
supplementary service.
## 2.7 Interworking considerations
None identified.
#