# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 1 description of Explicit Call
Transfer (ECT) from the service subscriber\'s and user\'s points of view, in
particular:
\- the procedures for normal operation with successful outcome;
\- the action to be taken in exceptional circumstances;
\- the interaction with other supplementary services.
The present document does not deal with the Man-Machine Interface (MMI)
requirements, but makes reference to the appropriate Technical Specifications.
The charging principles applied to ECT are established in the present document
in terms of the charging information required to be collected. Any subsequent
charging implications are outside of the scope of the present document.
Any interactions with other networks not dealt with in Clause 9 are outside
the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.030: \" Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply.
**Alerting state:** the remote subscriber is being informed of the call (i.e.
the connection has not yet been established for that call).
**Answered state:** the connection has been established on the call to the
remote subscriber.
**Subscriber A:** is the served mobile subscriber, the one who has subscribed
to, and invokes the Explicit Call Transfer supplementary service.
**Subscriber B:** is the other party in one of subscribers A\'s calls. By
convention, in the present document it is considered that the connection has
been established on this call.
**Subscriber C:** is the other party in another of subscribers A\'s calls.
**Subscriber D:** is the forwarded-to subscriber of call forwarded by
subscriber C.
NOTE: Each of subscriber B, C and D can be a mobile or a fixed subscriber, and
each of them is referred to as \"remote party\".
**Successful invocation:** The ECT supplementary service is successfully
invoked if the outcome of all checks (e.g. subscription, states of calls,
resources) performed by the network on the received ECT request from the
served subscriber are successful.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
All abbreviations used within the present document are given in 3GPP TS 21.905
[1].
# 4 Description
The ECT supplementary service enables the served mobile subscriber (subscriber
A) who has two calls , each of which can be an incoming or outgoing call, to
connect the other parties in the two calls and release the served mobile
subscribers own connection.
Prior to transfer, the connection shall have been established on the call
between subscriber A and subscriber B. On the call between subscriber A and
subscriber C, either the connection shall have been established prior to
transfer, or, as a network option, transfer can occur while subscriber C is
being informed of the call (i.e. the connection has not yet been established.)
## 4.1 Applicability to telecommunication services
This service is applicable to telephony (TS:11) only.
# 5 Normal operation with successful outcome
## 5.1 Provision
The supplementary service shall be provided after pre-arrangement with the
service provider.
The provision of the Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary service is also required.
## 5.2 Withdrawal
The supplementary service shall be withdrawn at the subscriber request or for
service provider reasons.
## 5.3 Registration
Not applicable.
## 5.4 Erasure
Not applicable.
## 5.5 Activation
The supplementary service shall be activated by the service provider as a
result of provision.
## 5.6 Deactivation
The supplementary service shall be deactivated by the service provider as a
result of withdrawal.
## 5.7 Invocation
ECT shall be invoked by the served mobile subscriber by use of a control
procedure as described in TS 22.030 [2].
## 5.8 Normal operation
The served mobile subscriber (subscriber A) who has two calls (one with
subscriber B and one with subscriber C), each of which can be an incoming call
or an outgoing call, can request the invocation of the ECT supplementary
service with respect to the two calls.
The connection shall have been established on one of the calls (referred to as
the call between subscriber A and subscriber B).
The ECT supplementary service can be invoked after the connection has been
established on the call between subscriber A and subscriber C, and in
addition, as a network option, after subscriber C has been informed of the
call (i.e. an outgoing call from subscriber A to subscriber C, where the
connection has not yet been established).
On successful invocation of the ECT supplementary service, the two calls
between subscriber A and subscriber B and between subscriber A and subscriber
C respectively shall be removed from subscriber A\'s access (i.e. the traffic
channel and the signalling channel towards subscriber A will be released) and
shall be transformed into a normal call between subscriber B and subscriber C
where the state of the previously held party is changed to active without a
subscriber action.
The previously held party will be informed in the normal way of the retrieve
procedure.
If the network option above is supported, then if subscriber C is being
informed of the call from subscriber A at the time of transfer, the call shall
remain in this state at subscriber C (as a network option the ringing tone
will be given to subscriber B), and when the connection is established by
subscriber C, subscriber C shall be connected to subscriber B.
Subscriber A will no longer have any control of the on-going call between B
and C.
The network shall inform (if possible) subscriber B and subscriber C of the
occasion that call transfer has happened including the state (connection
established, or user being informed of the call) of the call to the other
subscriber.
If the network option above is supported, then after connection is established
on a call which was transferred whilst subscriber C was being informed of that
call, subscriber B shall be informed that the connection has been established
on the call to subscriber C.
The line identity of subscriber B shall be indicated to subscriber C as
specified in subclauses 8.1 through 8.4.
The line identity of subscriber C shall be indicated to subscriber B as
specified in subclauses 8.1 through 8.4, either:
\- at the time of transfer, if the connection had been established between
subscriber A and subscriber C; or
\- when subscriber B is informed that the connection has been established to
subscriber C, if this occurs after transfer.
## 5.9 Interrogation
Not applicable.
## 5.10 Charging requirements
The charging principles applicable prior to the served mobile subscribers
invocation of ECT, shall also apply after the ECT supplementary service is
successfully invoked, i.e. the same charging information will continue to be
collected after invocation as before. The charging information for both calls
shall contain an indication of successful invocation of ECT.
NOTE: There is no additional charging requirement on the interchange
signalling capabilities.
# 6 Exception procedures or unsuccessful outcome
If a mobile subscriber tries to invoke the call transfer service while not
subscribed to or the network cannot provide ECT supplementary service for some
other reason, an indication shall be provided to the mobile subscriber to
notify the mobile subscriber with the reason of failure.
The call state is not affected and the established connection shall remain in
the state prior to the request.
In the case where:
\- the two calls are incompatible with the ECT request, i.e. either one of
them or both are not belonging to the service TS:11 (telephony);
\- if the network option is not supported and the call state is not compatible
with the request, e.g. one call is not answered
the request shall be rejected by the network and the subscriber shall be
notified with the reason.
The call state is not affected and the established connection shall remain in
the state prior to the request.
The request for the ECT supplementary service shall be rejected if, as a
network option, the network can determine that the resulting connection would
contain no subscriber who is able to terminate the call.
NOTE: It may not be possible to decide if the resulting connection would have
such a subscriber, e.g. when interworking between different versions of
signalling systems occurs. In such cases, as a network option, the request for
the ECT supplementary service may be accepted, or rejected. If the request for
the ECT supplementary service is accepted in this case, the network may employ
other means to control this situation (e.g. time supervision). The procedures
for this are outside the scope of the present document.
# 7 Alternate procedures
For further study.
# 8 Interaction with other supplementary services
## 8.1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
If subscriber A originated the call between subscribers A and B, and
subscriber B subscribes to CLIP, subscriber C\'s identity shall be presented
to subscriber B, subject to subscriber C\'s line identification restrictions
(see subclauses 8.2 and 8.4). If the connection has been established on the
call between subscribers A and C before ECT is invoked, subscriber C\'s
identity shall be presented when ECT is invoked. If the connection is
established on the call between subscribers A and C after ECT is invoked,
subscriber C\'s identity shall be presented when the connection on that call
is established.
If subscriber A originated the call between subscribers A and C, and
subscriber C subscribes to CLIP, subscriber B\'s identity shall be presented
to subscriber C, subject to subscriber B\'s line identification restrictions
(see subclauses 8.2 and 8.4) when ECT is invoked.
## 8.2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
If subscriber B originated the call between subscribers A and B, and
subscriber B subscribes to CLIR, presentation of subscriber B\'s identity to
subscriber C shall be controlled by that subscription. Subscriber B\'s serving
network may also provide information on the cause of no CLI.
If subscriber C originated the call between subscribers A and C, and
subscriber C subscribes to CLIR, presentation of subscriber C\'s identity to
subscriber B shall be controlled by that subscription. Subscriber C\'s serving
network may also provide information on the cause of no CLI.
## 8.3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
If subscriber B originated the call between subscribers A and B, and
subscriber B subscribes to COLP, subscriber C\'s identity shall be presented
to subscriber B, subject to subscriber C\'s line identification restrictions
(see subclauses 8.2 and 8.4). If the connection has been established on the
call between subscribers A and C before ECT is invoked, subscriber C\'s
identity shall be presented when ECT is invoked. If the connection is
established on the call between subscribers A and C after ECT is invoked,
subscriber C\'s identity shall be presented when the connection on that call
is established.
If subscriber C originated the call between subscribers A and C, and
subscriber C subscribes to COLP, subscriber B\'s identity shall be presented
to subscriber C, subject to subscriber B\'s line identification restrictions
(see subclauses 8.2 and 8.4) when ECT is invoked.
## 8.4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
If subscriber A originated the call between subscribers A and B, and
subscriber B subscribes to COLR, presentation of subscriber B\'s identity to
subscriber C shall be controlled by that subscription.
If subscriber A originated the call between subscribers A and C, and
subscriber C subscribes to COLR, presentation of subscriber C\'s identity to
subscriber B shall be controlled by that subscription.
## 8.5 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
No impact.
## 8.6 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
Where a network supports the option to transfer a call for which the
connection has been established to a subscriber C to which the connection has
not yet been established, the transferred call will be forwarded to a
forwarded-to subscriber D if the CFB condition at subscriber C (i.e. UDUB)
applies.
For a call that is forwarded due to CFB after ECT is invoked, the sending of
line identities to subscriber B and forwarded-to subscriber D respectively
shall correspond to what is specified for the B and C subscribers in
subclauses 8.1 through 8.4, i.e. replacing \'subscriber C\' with \'the
forwarded-to subscriber D\' in the text.
## 8.7 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
The CFNRy timer at C is not restarted after the transfer has taken place.
Where a network supports the option to transfer a call for which the
connection has been established to a subscriber C to which the connection has
not yet been established, the transferred call will be forwarded to a
forwarded-to subscriber D if the call forwarding no reply timer expires.
For a call that is forwarded due to CFNRy after ECT is invoked, the sending of
line identities to subscriber B and forwarded-to subscriber D respectively
shall correspond to what is specified for the B and C subscribers in
subclauses 8.1 through 8.4, i.e. replacing \'subscriber C\' with \'the
forwarded-to subscriber D\' in the text.
## 8.8 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
No impact.
## 8.9 Call Waiting (CW)
No impact, any party may receive a CW indication before, during or after the
calls are transferred.
NOTE: After execution of ECT the served subscribers access is free for
receiving calls without a CW indication.
If subscriber A has one active, one held and one waiting call, then once ECT
of the held and active calls has been successfully completed, subscriber A
shall be offered the normal notification that there is a new call, as for a
normal terminating call.
If the call to subscriber C meets the waiting state at C, the subscriber B
shall be informed after successful transfer about the waiting status at
subscriber C.
## 8.10 Call Hold (HOLD)
No impact, if either subscriber B or C have put their call to the served
subscriber A on hold prior to the transfer, the resulting transferred call
shall remain on hold by that subscriber. In this case the remote parties shall
not be informed of the held state on the call.
## 8.11 Multi-party (MPTY) service
A served mobile subscriber who has invoked MPTY supplementary service is not
allowed to invoke the ECT supplementary service.
This is due to the fact that the MPTY functionality can not be subject to call
transfer at all.
Any of the remote parties is allowed to invoke ECT.
## 8.12 Closed User Group (CUG)
The two calls shall use the same closed user group for the transfer to be
successful.
NOTE: Closed user group restrictions between subscribers will have been
checked when the first call is established. Similarly, closed user group
restrictions between subscribers will have been checked when established the
second call.
## 8.13 Advice of Charge (AoC)
Served mobile subscriber:
\- if call transfer is successfully accepted by the network, subscriber A will
be disconnected, and therefore AoC processing at subscribers A Mobile Station
will be stopped;
\- for the combination AoC charging level and ECT, it is strongly recommended
not to subscribe to both supplementary services at the same time.
Remote mobile subscriber:
\- any AoC service at the remote sides will continue to calculate the charging
information according to the original call.
## 8.14 Barring of All Outgoing Calls (BAOC)
No impact.
## 8.15 Barring of all Outgoing International Calls (BOIC)
No impact.
NOTE: If transfer occurs successfully at subscriber A, the barring programs at
the remote subscribers cannot be checked again.
## 8.16 Barring of all Outgoing International Calls except those direct to the
Home PLMN Country (BOIC-exHC)
No impact.
NOTE: If transfer occurs successfully at subscriber A, the barring programs at
the remote subscribers cannot be checked again.
## 8.17 Barring of All Incoming Calls (BAIC)
No impact.
## 8.18 Barring of Incoming Calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country
(BIC-Roam)
No impact.
## 8.19 Call Transfer (CT)
No impact.
The ECT supplementary service can be invoked simultaneously by the users on a
call for which the connection has been established, but this is not regarded
as a normal situation. The network will not be required to prevent this
occurring, but likewise cannot guarantee that the indications supplied to the
users involved will be sensible to those users. There can be more than one
indication generated due to multiple invocations of the ECT supplementary
service and the arrival of such indications is dependent on the timing of
their invocation by the users involved in the call. The network shall transfer
these indications when they are generated.
Therefore, both mobile subscribers (subscriber A and subscriber B) in a normal
call, who have each subscribed to the ECT supplementary service, can
simultaneous transfer the call. That is, if subscriber A and subscriber B are
involved in a call on which the connection has been established, subscriber A
can transfer the call to user C and subscriber B can transfer the call to user
D.
NOTE: Mechanisms which prevent the ECT supplementary service from resulting in
a connection which contains no subscriber able to terminate the call may
result in rejection of simultaneous requests to invoke the ECT supplementary
service by the subscribers involved in the call.
# 9 Interworking considerations
The operation of this supplementary service is not affected by the nature of
the far end of the connections.
NOTE: In some networks the indication to the remote parties about the
invocation of ECT may not be supported.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Deviations of PLMN ECT to the ISDN
specifications of ECT
# A.1 Subclause 4.1 Applicability to telecommunication services
This service is applicable to Telephony (TS:11) only.
**NA1 states** : applicable to all circuit switched basic telecommunication
services.
# A.2 Subclause 5.8 Normal operation
The NOTE describing the Call Hold scenario is not included in the 3GPP stage 1
specifications.
In 3GPP specifications there a explicit explanation that the previously held
party shall be informed of the retrieve procedure.
**NA1:** there is no explicit description of this procedure.
In 3GPP specifications there is no explicit exchange of the subaddress of the
remote parties after the successful transfer defined.
**NA1 states:** After the successful transfer of the call, the subscriber B
and subscriber C can deliver if supplied their subaddress to the other
subscriber.
# A.3 Subclause 6 Exception procedures or unsuccessful outcome
In the case where:
\- the two calls are incompatible with ECT (either one of them or both are not
Telephony service);
\- the call state is not compatible with the request, e.g. one call is not
answered;
\- etc. (for further study).
the request will be rejected by the network and the subscriber will be
notified of the cause.
**NA1 states** : It is the responsibility of the served user to ensure that
the two calls are compatible.
# A.4 Subclause 8.6 and 8.7
**NA1** : There is no special definition of the impact of the interaction
between CFB and CFNRy and ECT on the line identification supplementary
services.
# A.5 Annexes
Annex A is missing in the ISDN specification.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Cross Phase compatibility
As a operator option it is possible to support also the invocation of ECT by
using Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD).
The USSD string used should be the same as the standardised MMI code (4 SEND)
for ECT.
The network shall send an indication towards the user if ECT was invoked
successfully or unsuccessfully, though the mechanism for this indication is
not specified.
If a remote party uses a non-ECT mobile station they may not receive the ECT
notification.
#