# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes service requirements to enable maritime
communication services to be supported over a 3GPP system. Requirements for MC
services applicable to general maritime usage are specified in 3GPP Technical
Specifications dedicated to MC services [2], [3], [4], [5].
Requirements in the present document are specific to maritime usage.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements (MCCoRe);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT); Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical (MC) video\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical (MC) data\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
(none)
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
(none)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ICT Information and Communication Technologies
IMO International Maritime Organization
MC Mission Critical
MCS Mission Critical Services
NM nautical mile
SOLAS International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea
# 4 Overview
The maritime domain, one of the 5G vertical domains in 3GPP is moving forward
with the digitalisation and mobilisation of commercial as well as safety
fields. Legacy 3GPP-based technologies and solutions can be beneficial to the
digitalisation and mobilisation of the maritime domain though some of the
legacy 3GPP enabling technologies and solutions may not be able to fully
support the performances required by the maritime domain. The maritime radio
environment was not originally considered by 3GPP when the technical
specifications and solutions were standardised for LTE and 5G.
However, most of the legacy mobile services and IoT services based on
capabilities of EPS and 5GS specified in 3GPP specifications are applicable to
maritime usage for the support of mobile broadband services, and for the
support of IoT services or machine-type communication services in a vessel at
sea.
In addition, there are service scenarios and requirements specified in 3GPP
specifications based on requirements of other related vertical domains (e.g.
public safety domain, automotive domain, factory automation domain, and
satellite industrial domain). Some requirements derived from service scenarios
pertaining to these related vertical domains are applicable to the maritime
domain. Thus, it is beneficial to use 3GPP enabling technologies developed to
satisfy those requirements for the maritime domain in terms of economy of
scale.
For example, satellite access is one of the 3GPP radio access networks
supported over the 5G system, so it is possible to provide seamless maritime
mobile services by integrating multiple access technologies including
satellite access depending on the service scenarios. In addition, 5G LAN-type
access that can replace Ethernet-based access is applicable to indoor maritime
mobile services inside a vessel.
MC Services specified in 3GPP specifications are applicable to commercial and
maritime safety fields. Some similarities exist between the public safety
domain and the maritime domain in terms of service scenarios that are
essentially the same. For example, in some situations, mobile communication
services are supported on or amongst UEs while disconnected from their
networks, i.e. off-network mode, or under isolated conditions.
However, the maritime domain also has specific situations that do not pertain
in other vertical domains or in the legacy ICT industrial domain. New 3GPP
enabling technologies dedicated to the maritime domain can be used to address
such specific situations based on requirements derived from maritime use
cases. Other vertical domains may benefit from such new 3GPP enabling
technologies that consider maritime domain scenarios and may need more robust
technologies or solutions than those that currently exist for those vertical
domains.
The present document provides the stage 1 requirements specific to maritime
usage over a 3GPP system for commercial as well as safety purposes. The stage
1 requirements derived from specific maritime usage but also related to MC
services are specified in 3GPP technical specifications dedicated to MC
services.
# 5 Requirements of basic capabilities
## 5.1 Network connection and service continuity
### 5.1.1 Description
General 3GPP procedures of network connection and service continuity are
applicable to maritime usage within 3GPP communication range. For example, a
UE mapped to a vessel needs to perform network reselection when a vessel
arrives at a port where 3GPP networks are available different from the 3GPP
network that a vessel was previously connected to but disconnected from when
the vessel started a voyage and moved out of coverage of that network.
Additional capabilities for the establishment of a 3GPP network connection and
for service continuity could improve user experiences on maritime
communication services over a 3GPP system despite some constraints from the
maritime communication environment including the communication environment
inside a vessel that is usually made of steel.
### 5.1.2 Void
## 5.2 Identification
### 5.2.1 Description
A UE identity specified in 3GPP specifications is applicable to maritime
usage. There are vessel identities for the identification of a vessel as a
unique identity in maritime communication services. Mapping a UE identity with
a vessel identity is needed to support identification procedures based on
vessel identities in maritime domain when a vessel itself plays the role of a
UE in a 3GPP system.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism to associate a UE identity with a
vessel identity.
# 6 Requirements of multi-access and seamless mobility
## 6.1 Seamless mobility
### 6.1.1 Description
Network deployment scenarios are to be taken into account for maritime
communication and these may differ from terrestrial communication in order to
provide seamless mobile services within a vessel at sea or on inland
waterways. The usage of moving networks, isolated networks or satellite access
networks may be more commonly applicable for maritime safety services compared
with general commercial services over 3GPP networks because fixed mobile
network deployments are used for most terrestrial mobile services.
The communication range may depend on a number of factors such as the power
level transmitted, the height of the antenna, the type of vessel, the
particular service scenario and propagation conditions. Thus, it may not be
easy to provide a single value for the communication range between two
vessels, and for a vessel that is applicable for all maritime service
scenarios.
### 6.1.2 Requirements
The minimum communication range between vessels shall be equal to the maximum
line-of-sight range between antennas mounted on two vessels at sea or on
inland waterways.
NOTE: The communication range between vessels is measured in nautical miles
(NMs) and 1 NM equals 1852 metres.
EXAMPLE: In the case of non-SOLAS vessels with antenna heights 4 metres above
sea level, the minimum communication range is 10 NMs when applying the formula
defined in IMO Resolution A.801(19).
# 7 Requirements of warning notification and emergency request
## 7.1 Notification for maritime safety
### 7.1.1 Description
Notifications for maritime safety are transmitted by authorities to maritime
mobile users at sea. Notifications can be used to inform vessels of the
location of a vessel in danger. A vessel that receives notifications relating
to maritime safety needs to be able to relay such notifications to
neighbouring vessels that are not in coverage of the 3GPP system.
### 7.1.2 Requirements
The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism of including the position, heading
and speed of other UEs in a maritime notification transmitted only to a
dedicated UE requesting maritime safety information.
## 7.2 Emergency request for maritime safety
### 7.2.1 Description
Maritime accidents such as \"man overboard\" need to be handled quickly and
effectively by the 3GPP system. 3GPP specifications provides several
mechanisms for reporting emergencies to and requesting assistance from the
appropriate authorities. In addition to legacy emergency request mechanisms,
additional capabilities could make a 3GPP system more powerful for maritime
safety.
### 7.2.2 Requirements
The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism of distributing a maritime emergency
request received from a UE to all UEs on that vessel.
A UE dedicated to a vessel shall support the capability of sending maritime
emergency requests including the vessel-dedicated UE's actual position (e.g.
current position, heading and speed of the vessel and scheduled navigational
routes).
###### ## Annex A (informative): Status of legacy communication methods used
for the navigation
Void
###### ## Annex B (informative): Status of legacy communication methods used
by equipment inside a vessel
Void
#