# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Interest in using cellular connectivity to support Unmanned Aerial Systems
(UAS) is strong, and the 3GPP ecosystem offers excellent benefits for UAS
operation. Ubiquitous coverage, high reliability and QoS, robust security, and
seamless mobility are critical factors to supporting UAS command and control
functions. In parallel, regulators are investigating safety and performance
standards and Registration and licensing programs to develop a well-
functioning private and civil UAS ecosystem which can safely coexist with
commercial air traffic, public and private infrastructure, and the general
population.
The 3GPP system can provide control plane and user plane communication
services for UAS. Examples of services which can be offered to the UAS
ecosystem includes data services for command and control (C2), telematics,
UAS-generated data, remote identification, and authorisation, enforcement, and
regulation of UAS operation.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies the requirements for operation of Unmanned
Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) via the 3GPP system.
This includes requirements for meeting the business, security, and public
safety needs for the remote identification and tracking of UAS linked to a
3GPP subscription.
Note: This specification will not be maintained anymore in Rel-16; please
refer to future Releases of this specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Unmanned Aerial System (UAS):** Composed of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)
and related functionality, including command and control (C2) links between
the UAV and the control station, the UAV and the network, and for remote
identification. An UAS may comprise of a UAV and a UAV controller.
**Unmanned Aerial System Traffic Management (UTM):** a set of functions and
services for managing a range of autonomous vehicle operations.
**UAV controller** : The UAV controller of a UAS enables a drone pilot to
control an UAV. BVLOS Beyond Visual Line of Sight
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Void
# 5 Void
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
#