# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides 3GPP support for V2X service requirements to be
supported by LTE transport. These requirements are identified by taking into
account the V2X service requirements defined in other SDOs, e.g. ETSI ITS, US
SAE. The specification includes requirements of safety and non-safety aspects.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.-
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.885: \"Study on LTE Support for V2X Services\".
[3] ETSI TR 102 638 V1.1.1: \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS); Vehicular
Communications; Basic Set of Applications; Definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Road Side Unit:** A stationary infrastructure entity supporting V2X
applications that can exchange messages with other entities supporting V2X
applications.
NOTE: RSU is a term frequently used in existing ITS specifications, and the
reason for introducing the term in the 3GPP specifications is to make the
documents easier to read for the ITS industry. RSU is a logical entity that
supports V2X application logic using the functionality provided by either a
3GPP network or an UE (referred to as UE-type RSU).
**Pseudonymity** : The condition when the processing of personally
identifiable information is such the data can no longer be attributed to a
specific subscriber without the use of additional information, as long as such
additional information is kept separately and subject to technical and
organisational measures to ensure non-attribution to an identified or
identifiable subscriber.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> RSU Road Side Unit
>
> V2I Vehicle-to-Infrastructure
>
> V2N Vehicle-to-Network
>
> V2P Vehicle-to-Pedestrian
>
> V2V Vehicle-to-Vehicle
>
> V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
# 4 Overview on V2X (informative)
## 4.1 Types of V2X application support in 3GPP
### 4.1.1 General
The V2X applications in the present specification, referred to as Vehicle-to-
Everything (V2X), contain the following four different types:
> \- Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V)
>
> \- Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I)
>
> \- Vehicle-to-Network (V2N)
>
> \- Vehicle-to-Pedestrian (V2P)
{width="4.603472222222222in" height="2.6569444444444446in"}
**Figure 4.1.1-1: Types of V2X applications (V2V, V2P, V2N and V2I)**
These four types of V2X applications can use "co-operative awareness" to
provide more intelligent services for end-users. This means that entities,
such as vehicles, roadside infrastructure, application server and pedestrians,
can collect knowledge of their local environment (e.g., information received
from other vehicles or sensor equipment in proximity) to process and share
that knowledge in order to provide more intelligent services, such as
cooperative collision warning or autonomous driving.
These intelligent transportation services and the associated message sets have
been defined in automotive SDOs outside 3GPP. Three basic classes of
applications for providing ITS services: road safety, traffic efficiency, and
other applications can be found in e.g., [3].
3GPP only handles the transport of these messages to support different types
of V2X applications. The message transport expectations are described in
requirements defined in this specification.
### 4.1.2 Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) application
V2V applications expect UEs that are in proximity of each other to exchange
V2V application information. 3GPP transport of messages containing V2V
application information requires the UE to have a valid subscription and
authorization from a network operator. Transport for a valid subscriber is
provided whether the UE is served or not served by E-UTRAN.
The UE supporting V2V applications transmits messages containing V2V
application information (e.g. location, dynamics, and attributes). The message
payloads may be flexible in order to accommodate varying amount of
information.
3GPP transport of message containing V2V application information is
predominantly broadcast-based as illustrated in Figure 4.1-2. Such 3GPP
transport includes the transport between UEs directly and/or, due to the
limited direct communication range, the transport between UEs via
infrastructure supporting V2X communication, e.g., RSU, application server,
etc.
{width="2.904166666666667in" height="2.904166666666667in"}
Figure 4.1.2-1: Broadcast-based V2V communications
### 4.1.3 Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) application
The UE supporting V2I applications transmits messages containing V2I
application information to an RSU or locally relevant application server. The
RSU and/or the locally relevant application server transmit messages
containing V2I application information to one or more UEs supporting V2I
applications.
A locally relevant application server serves a particular geographic area.
There can be multiple application servers serving overlapping areas, providing
the same or different applications.
### 4.1.4 Vehicle-to-Network (V2N) application
The UE supporting V2N applications communicates with an application server
supporting V2N applications. Both parties communicate with each other via EPS.
### 4.1.5 Vehicle-to-Pedestrian (V2P) application
V2P applications expect UEs that are in proximity of each other to exchange
V2P application information. 3GPP transport of messages containing V2P
application information requires the UE to have a valid subscription and
authorization from a network operator. Transport for a valid subscriber is
provided whether the UE is served or not served by E-UTRAN.
The UE supporting V2P applications transmits messages containing V2P
application information. It is expected that V2P application information can
be transmitted either by a UE supporting V2X application in a vehicle (e.g.,
warning to pedestrian), or by a UE supporting V2X application associated with
a vulnerable road user (e.g., warning to vehicle).
3GPP transport of messages containing V2P application information includes the
transport between UEs directly and/or, due to the limited direct communication
range, the transport between UEs via infrastructure supporting V2X
communication, e.g., RSU, application server, etc.
> NOTE: The main difference between 3GPP transport of messages with V2P and
> V2V application information is due to the properties of the UE. A UE
> supporting V2P applications used by pedestrian might, for example, have
> lower battery capacity, the radio sensitivity might be limited, e.g. due to
> antenna design, and therefore it may not be able to send messages with the
> same periodicity as UEs supporting V2V application, and/or receive messages.
## 4.2 Relative priority of V2X communication
Subject to regional/national regulatory requirements and operator policies,
certain mission critical services (e.g. Public Safety, MPS) can be relatively
prioritized over transport of V2X application information. Transport of
safety-related V2X application information can be prioritized over transport
of non-safety-related V2X application information.
However, in general, it is expected that operator can control relative
priorities of different services.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Overall Requirements
[R-5.1-001] The message transmission shall be under control of the 3GPP
network when the transmitting UE is served by the E-UTRAN.
[R-5.1-002] A UE supporting V2X application shall be able to be pre-configured
by the 3GPP network with parameters to be used for the transmission and
reception of messages when not served by E-UTRAN supporting V2X communication.
[R-5.1-003] A UE supporting V2X application shall be able to transmit and
receive messages when served or not served by E-UTRAN supporting V2X
communication.
[R-5.1-004] An RSU shall be able to transmit/receive messages to/from a UE
supporting V2X application.
[R-5.1-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
UEs when served or not served by the same PLMN supporting V2X communications.
[R-5.1-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to prioritize
message transmission among UEs supporting V2X application
[R-5.1-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to prioritize
transmission of messages according to their type (e.g. safety vs. non-safety).
[R-5.1-008] The 3GPP system shall be able to vary the transmission rate and
range of the V2X communication based on service conditions (e.g., UE speed, UE
density).
[R-5.1-009] The 3GPP system shall be able to distribute information in a
resource efficient way to large numbers of UEs supporting V2X application.
[R-5.1-010] A UE supporting V2X application shall be able to identify whether
E-UTRAN supports V2X communication.
[R-5.1-011] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means for an application
server and the RSU to control the area and the size of the area where the
messages are being distributed.
[R-5.1-011a] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means for distribution
of messages from a UE supporting V2X application to locally relevant
application servers.
[R-5.1-012] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a high density of UEs
supporting V2X application.
[R-5.1-013] Both the HPLMN and VPLMN operators shall be able to charge for
network resource usage when messages are transferred by a UE supporting V2X
application.
[R-5.1-014] For UE supporting V2X application with limited resources (e.g.,
battery), the impact on its resources (e.g., battery consumption) due to
message transfer should be minimized.
[R-5.1-015] The 3GPP network should make available any supported positional
accuracy improvement techniques (e.g., DGPS and/or OTDOA) in a resource
efficient way to a subscribed UE supporting V2X application.
## 5.2 Specific Service Requirements
### 5.2.1 Latency/ Reliability Requirements
[R-5.2.1-001] The E-UTRA(N) shall be capable of transferring messages between
two UEs supporting V2V/P application, directly or via an RSU, with a maximum
latency of 100ms.
[R-5.2.1-002] For particular usage (i.e., pre-crash sensing) only, the
E-UTRA(N) should be capable of transferring messages between two UEs
supporting V2V application with a maximum latency of 20ms.
[R-5.2.1-003] The E-UTRA(N) shall be capable of transferring messages between
a UE supporting V2I application and an RSU with a maximum latency of 100ms.
[R-5.2.1-004] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring messages via 3GPP
network entities between a UE and an application server both supporting V2N
application with an end-to-end delay no longer than 1000 ms.
[R-5.2.1-005] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support high reliability without
requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
### 5.2.2 Message Size Requirements
[R-5.2. 2-001] The E-UTRA(N) shall be capable of transferring periodic
broadcast messages between two UEs supporting V2X application with variable
message payloads of 50-300 bytes, not including security-related message
component.
[R-5.2. 2-002] The E-UTRA(N) shall be capable of transferring event-triggered
messages between two UEs supporting V2X application with variable message
payloads which can be up to 1200 bytes, not including security-related message
component.
> NOTE: 3GPP only handles the transport of messages for V2X
> services/applications based on message characteristics (e.g., latency,
> message size) and is agnostic to message types.
### 5.2.3 Frequency Requirements
[R-5.2.3-001] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum frequency of 10
messages per second per transmitting UE .
> NOTE: It is assumed that V2X application provides messages to 3GPP layer for
> transport either periodically and/or triggered by certain events.
### 5.2.4 Range Requirements
[R-5.2.4-001] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of supporting a communication range
sufficient to give the driver(s) ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds).
### 5.2.5 Speed Requirements
[R-5.2.5-001] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between UEs supporting V2V application, while the maximum relative velocity of
the UEs is 500 km/h, regardless of whether the UE(s) are served or not served
by E-UTRAN supporting V2X communication.
[R-5.2.5-002] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between UEs supporting V2V and V2P application, respectively, while the UE's
maximum absolute velocity is 250 km/h, regardless of whether the UE(s) are
served or not served by E-UTRAN supporting V2X communication.
[R-5.2.5-003] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between a UE and an RSU both supporting V2I application, while the UE's
maximum absolute velocity is 250 km/h, regardless of whether the UE or the RSU
is served or not served by E-UTRAN supporting V2X communication.
## 5.3 Security Requirements
[R.5.3-001] The 3GPP network shall provide a means for the MNO to authorize a
UE supporting V2X application to perform V2X communication when served by
E-UTRAN supporting V2X communication.
[R.5.3-002] The 3GPP network shall provide a means (e.g., pre-authorization)
for the MNO to authorize a UE supporting V2X application to perform V2X
communication when not served by E-UTRAN supporting V2X communication.
[R.5.3-003] The 3GPP network shall provide a means for the MNO to authorize
UEs supporting V2X application separately to perform V2N communication.
[R.5.3-004] The 3GPP system shall support integrity protection of the
transmission for a V2X application.
[R.5.3-005] Subject to regional regulatory requirements and/or operator policy
for a V2X application, the 3GPP system shall support pseudonymity and privacy
of a UE using the V2X application, by ensuring that a UE identity cannot be
tracked or identified by any other UE beyond a certain short time-period
required by the V2X application.
[R.5.3-006] Subject to regional regulatory requirements and/or operator policy
for a V2V/V2I application, the 3GPP system shall support pseudonymity and
privacy of a UE in the use of a V2V/V2I application, such that no single party
(operator or third party) can track a UE identity in that region.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Background Information on Service Requirement
The basic categories of V2X services for V2X decribed in the TR 22.885 can be
grouped into the following main categories based on ITS defintion of basic set
of services [3] :
1) Road Safety Requirements e.g Queue warning use case related requirements
2) Mutual Vehicle Awarness -- Information only e.g forward collision warning
requirements
3) Vehicle Related Application Requirements e.g Automated parking system
requirement
Clause 5.2 refers to specific service requirements which are categoried as:
**_Latency/Reliability Requirements:_** Maximum tolerable elapsed time from
the instant a data packet is generated at the source application to the
instant it is received by the destination application. Low Latency values are
provided to support services in the case of mutual awareness of vehicle or to
send warning messages as defined in the some use cases in TR22.885
**_Reliability_** : Maximum tolerable packet loss rate at the application
layer, a packet is considered lost if it is not received by the destination
application within the maximum tolerable end-to-end latency for that
application.
**_Message Size Requirements:_** Messages sizes are important when multicast
or broadcast messages are being sent to vehicles within range to either warn
them for collision prevention or when an event occurs to inform other vehicle
about an accident.
**_Frequency Requirements:_** Minimum required bit rate for the application to
function correctly. The sending rates i.e frequency of messages is relatively
important especially for critical vehicular safety application.
**_Range Requirements_** : Maximum distance between source and destination(s)
of a radio transmission within which the application should achieve the
specified reliability
**_Speed Requirements:_** Maximum relative and absolute speed under which the
specified reliability should be achieved.
With this brief description of the service categories, the table suggested
below is used to reference the specific requirements in clause 5.2 to some of
the use cases in the TR which makes for easy understanding and for better
clarification of the suggested application of the services:
* * *
**TS requirement** **Requirement** **Potential V2X service** **Use case
Requirement in TR 22.885** **Latency Requirement** [R-5.2.1-001] The E-UTRA(N)
shall be capable of transferring messages between two UEs supporting V2V/P
application, directly or via an RSU, with a maximum latency of 100ms. Typical
use case is for Mutual Vehicle Awareness and Road safety [CPR-014]
[R-5.2.1-002] For particular usage (i.e., pre-crash sensing) only, the
E-UTRA(N) should be capable of transferring messages between two UEs
supporting V2V application with a maximum latency of 20ms. Requirement applies
in Road safety use cases [CPR-015] [R-5.2.1-003] The E-UTRA(N) shall be
capable of transferring messages between a UE supporting V2I application and
an RSU with a maximum latency of 100ms. Requirement applys in Road safety use
cases [CPR-016] [R-5.2.1-004] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring
messages via 3GPP network entities between a UE and an application server both
supporting V2N application with an end-to-end delay no longer than 1000 ms.
Applys to Mutual Vehicle Awareness use case [CPR-017] [R-5.2.1-005] The
E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support high reliability without requiring
application-layer message retransmissions. Mutual Vehicle Awareness and Road
safety cases [CPR-027] **Message Size** [R-5.2. 2-001] The E-UTRA(N) shall be
capable of transferring periodic broadcast messages between two UEs supporting
V2X application with variable message payloads of 50-300 bytes, not including
security-related message component. Supports all three use case categories
[CPR-019] [R-5.2. 2-002] The E-UTRA(N) shall be capable of transferring event-
triggered messages between two UEs supporting V2X application with variable
message payloads which can be up to 1200 bytes, not including security-related
message component. Mostly Road safety applications [CPR-020] Frequency
[R-5.2.3-001] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum frequency of 10
messages per second per UE or per RSU. Road safety and Mutual Vehicle
Awareness [CPR-011] **Range Requirement** [R-5.2.4-001] The E-UTRAN shall be
capable of supporting a communication range sufficient to give the driver(s)
ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds). [CPR-005] **Speed Requirement**
[R-5.2.5-001] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between UEs supporting V2V application, while the maximum relative velocity of
the UEs is 500 km/h, regardless of whether the UE(s) are served or not served
by E-UTRAN supporting V2X communication. Road Safety, Mutual Vehicle Awareness
[CPR-030] [R-5.2.5-002] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring
messages between UEs supporting V2V and V2P application, respectively, while
the UE's maximum absolute velocity is 250 km/h, regardless of whether the
UE(s) are served or not served by E-UTRAN supporting V2X communication. Road
Safety, Mutual Vehicle Awareness [CPR-031] [R-5.2.5-003] The 3GPP system shall
be capable of transferring messages between a UE and an RSU both supporting
V2I application, while the UE's maximum absolute velocity is 250 km/h,
regardless of whether the UE or the RSU is served or not served by E-UTRAN
supporting V2X communication. Road Safety, Mutual Vehicle Awareness [CPR-031]
* * *
#