# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, e.g. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document introduces the requirements and features of a 3GPP
Generic User Profile (GUP). The GUP will help overcome some of the challenges
associated with the introduction of sophisticated user terminals with widely
varying capabilities, hybrid combinations of mobile network domains, the
advent of downloadable applications, and the desire of users to customise
potentially complex services to individual preferences and needs.
The present document for a Generic User Profile will capture requirements that
will allow:
1\. A way to express user preferences in a consistent manner.
2\. Effective management, control ownership and protection of GUP data.
3\. Extensibility to cater for future needs and the simple addition of new
features.
# 1\. Scope
The present document defines the stage one description to the 3GPP Generic
User Profile (GUP). It specifies requirements to the 3GPP Generic User
Profile, seen primarily from the user, home environment, serving network and
value added service provider\'s points of view.
The present document includes information applicable to the home environment,
device- and network manufacturers and value added service providers which are
sufficient to provide complete support of services in 3GPP networks.
While the 3GPP Generic User Profile may contain components that are out of
scope of 3GPP (e.g. for services offered by third parties) the requirements in
the present document pertain only to those components that lie within the 3GPP
system.
# 2\. References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.140: \"Subscription Management Requirements\".
[3] Open Mobile Alliance (OMA): OMA-RD-Parlay_Service_Access-V1_0-20100427-A.
[4] W3C Recommendation \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fifth
Edition)\" http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-xml-20081126/
[5] W3C Recommendation \"XML Schemas, Part 1: Structures Second Edition\"
http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-xmlschema-1-20041028/
[6] W3C Recommendation \"XML Schemas, Part 2: Datatypes Second Edition\"
http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-xmlschema-2-20041028/
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**3GPP Generic User Profile (GUP):** The 3GPP Generic User Profile is the
collection of user related data which affects the way in which an individual
user experiences services and which may be accessed in a standardised manner
as described in this specification. The Generic User Profile is defined using
the W3C XML recommendation [4].
**GUP Component (logical)** : A GUP component is logically an individual part
of the Generic User Profile.
**GUP Component instance (physical)** : a GUP component instance is a physical
representation of a GUP component. To one GUP component (logical) correspond
one or more component instances, i.e. physical copies. Component instances may
be located in the Home Network, in the Value Added Service Provider
Environment and/or the User Equipment.
**GUP Data Element** : the indivisible unit of Generic User Profile
information.
**GUP Data Model:** The data model describing the data structure, the way the
data elements are defined and the relationship to each other.
**Data Description Method:** A method describing how to define the data
contained in the Generic User Profile. The description is defined using the
W3C XML Schemas recommendations [5], [6].
**Master component instance (aka master instance)** : Among the component
instances (physical) associated with a GUP component (logical), one of them is
tagged with the role of \"master instance\". The master component instance is
responsible for the correct value of the corresponding GUP component.
**Public User Identity:** Identity which is used to communicate with other
users.
**User:** for definition see 3GPP TR 21.905 [1]. In addition the present
document assumes, that the user has a unique identity in the 3GPP system (IMSI
or IMS Private ID) and is associated with one 3GPP subscriber. (Note, that a
user may have many addresses though! E.g. the user can have several Public
User IDs). The user is not necessarily identical to the 3GPP subscriber.
Further 3GPP system related definitions are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GUP 3GPP Generic User Profile
IMS IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
MVNO Mobile Virtual Network Operator
OSA Open Service Access
PID Private User Identity
UE User Equipment
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VASP Value Added Service Provider
VHE Virtual Home Environment
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
Further 3GPP system related abbreviations are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 General description
## 4.1 Introduction
The fact of having several domains within the 3GPP mobile system (e.g.
Circuit-Switched, Packet-Switched, IP Multimedia Subsystem ) and access
technologies (e.g. GERAN, UTRAN and WLAN) introduces a wide distribution of
data associated with the user. Further, the new functions both in terminals
and networks mean that the data related to Users, Services and User Equipment
will be increased greatly. This causes difficulties for Users, Subscribers,
network Operators and Value added service providers to create, access and
manage the user-related data located in different entities.
The objective of specifying the 3GPP Generic User Profile is to provide a
means to enable harmonised usage of the user-related information originating
from different entities. The specification of the GUP shall also allow
extensibility to cater for future developments.
The 3GPP Generic User Profile is the collection of User-related data which
affects the way in which an individual user experiences services where a
community of entities share this data. The 3GPP Generic User Profile can be
stored in the home network environment and/or Value Added Service Provider
equipment.
The 3GPP Generic User Profile will be accessed by different stakeholders and
managed either by one (centralised) or by different stakeholders (de-
centralised) such as the user, subscriber, value added service provider and
network operator by a standardised access mechanism. The 3GPP Generic User
Profile allows intra-network usage (i.e. data exchange between applications
within a mobile operator's network) and inter-network usage (between mobile
operator's network and value added service providers) as illustrated in Figure
1.
Note: MVNOs and visited networks are treated as value added service providers
in terms of GUP data exchanges with mobile operator's network.
The 3GPP Generic User Profile may be also be used by different applications in
a standardised way.
The 3GPP Generic User Profile will help to create and manage the user data in
each entity and on the other hand to make it easier to find all user related
data as a whole in the home network environment.
Technically the 3GPP Generic User Profile provides an architecture, data
description and interface with mechanisms to handle the data.
### 4.1.1 Intended Usage of the Generic User Profile
The intended usage of the 3GPP generic user profile is a critical factor
driving its detailed specification, e.g., architecture and data model. In
general, user profile data can be shared between different stakeholders to
facilitate the following:
\- **User preference management** : Enable applications to read and utilize a
limited set of user preference information
\- **User service customization** : Enable applications to read and utilize
personalized service information, i.e., individual settings for a particular
service
\- **Terminal capability management** : Enable applications to access
terminal-related capabilities
\- **User Information sharing** : Enable applications to read and utilize
application level information, e.g. address book information
\- **Profile key access** : Enable applications to use a unique identity as a
key to access profile information, .e.g. any public user identity or an alias.
It is intended that the 3GPP GUP, in particular, will address all of the
above. As can be inferred, a user's identity can serve as the unique common
key into the profile.
### 4.1.2 Benefits of the 3GPP Generic User Profile for individual
stakeholders
The following chapter shows in an exemplary way how stakeholders may benefit
from GUP. The examples given are neither exhaustive nor are they meant to be
part of, or be implemented by GUP. On the contrary, these functions / use-
cases need to be seen distinct from GUP, but capabilities offered through GUP
(e.g. a common data description, data access- and synchronisation mechanisms
...) may be utilised to build these functions.
\- [Subscription Management and Customer Care]{.underline}:\ Subscription
Management [2] benefits from a standardised way to access subscription data of
a user. Already today customer care is a noticeable part of an operator's
expenses, it will grow to be even more expensive as more services and more
terminal types become available for 3GPP system. Unlike the Supplementary
services in GSM new services in 3GPP are not standardised. Therefore content
and format of subscription data as well as the places (repositories) where
subscription data are stored may be different for different new services. GUP
specifies the description of- and access of data in a standardised way. This
will allow:
\- **Service providers** as well as Value Added Service providers to use
standardised GUP mechanisms for Subscription Management and Customer Care by
the operator.
\- Reduce costs for Subscription Management and Customer Care for the
**operator** and/or **service provider** and/or value added service provider
since management tools may rely on this standardised mechanism.
\- [Subscription Check by third party provided services:\ ]{.underline}Third
party provided services may run on application servers outside the 3GPP
system. However subscription information may be kept by the home operator.\ To
find out, whether a service is allowed to be invoked by a particular user the
service needs to check its subscription. Access to this information can be
controlled by means of GUP mechanisms.
\- Benefit for third party **value added service providers** and for
\- **Operators** , who want to keep subscription within their domain
\- [Services Interaction:\ ]{.underline}If personalisation of services
possibly effect other services it may be advantageous, that such
personalisation is visible to these other services. If a service is designed
to permit access to these data through GUP mechanisms:
\- the **user** or **operator** may choose to allow certain services to access
certain user data of other services of the user.
\- [Provision of Terminal Capability information:\ ]{.underline}Services (from
the home- or visited network operator or provided by third parties) may need
to know what capabilities the terminal, that is currently used by the user,
supports. Multiple provisioning protocols are a problem for terminal vendors
since the UE has to support all of them. The GUP data will be described in the
same way and can therefore be used in different protocols without having to
change. GUP mechanisms could provide the basis for retrieval of a user's
terminal capabilities.
\- Benefit for the **value added service provider** , who can rely on a GUP
mechanism to obtain this information.
## 4.2 Conceptual view of the GUP
For each user (characterised by an IMSI or IMS PID) one User Profile exists,
which may consist of several 'components'. These components may be distributed
in the home network and value added service provider's environment. Within the
home network, the components may be distributed in various network nodes.
Figure 1 below provides a conceptual overview of GUP and is as such for
informative purposes only. Only one master of the component exists, but one or
more copies of the master component may exist. The home operator shall be able
to copy master components, which are located outside the home network to the
home network. Within the home network, functionality exists that is able to
locate GUP components, thereby making applications unaware of the actual
location of the components. The administration and management of the data
associated with this functionality is under the control of the home network.
Although GUP does not attempt to provide an actual classification of the data
it may contain, one may consider categorisations such as general user
information, terminal related information, service specific information, etc.
as indicated in clause 4.4.
Figure 1: Conceptual view of GUP
## 4.3 GUP Data Stores and GUP data Users
This clause describes in general terms where the generic user profile data
resides and which entities use that information. A general feature of the user
profile is that the different entities are data consumers for a certain subset
of the generic user profile and are data suppliers for another part. The 3GPP
GUP data are distributed by nature and consequently stored in home network and
Value Added Service Provider Equipment.
Figure 2: Illustration of the scope of 3GPP Generic User Profile
The Generic User Profile provides a generic mechanism to access and manipulate
user related data for suppliers and consumers. Using this mechanism the data
can be retrieved and managed in a uniform way. However the data contents
itself are not described within the Generic User Profile, but only the data
model and a schema shall be defined.
The suppliers and consumers of the data can be divided into the following
groups of applications:
\- Applications in the home network
\- 3^rd^ Party Applications
\- OAM and subscription management applications
Applications in the home network may include those related to call or session
handling as well as messaging or web services. Typically fairly high
requirements are set on the response time.
3^rd^ Party Applications are similar to applications in the home network but
they are non-trusted which means that strict security, access and privacy
procedures shall be carried out.
OAM activities related to user profile are provisioning and administration of
user data by the network operator. These activities are characterised by needs
for high throughput and allow longer response time. In order to allow simple
and centralized administration it should be transparent to the administrator
where the different parts of the user data are stored. As a result, this role
needs a single system image on user profile, or, on functional terms, a common
data access function. As one alternative the user self-service management may
be implemented as part of this function.
## 4.4 Synchronisation model
GUP components instances may be distributed in the home network and value
added service provider's environment. The distribution model is shown in
Figure 1.
A data consumer can request a copy of a GUP component, i.e. the master
instance of the component. This copy may be a **working copy** or a
**synchronised copy**.
**Master instance** : the data supplier holds the master instance of a GUP
component.
Note: During the lifetime of a component, the role of _master instance_ may be
played by different component instances (e.g. in the case of failure). But at
any point in time, there is always one and only one \"master instance\". This
implementation aspect is beyond the scope of GUP.
A **_synchronized copy_** of a GUP component is a component instance that is
kept synchronized with the master instance.
Synchronization here means that changes made to the master instance will be
propagated to the synchronized copy (e.g. update, deletion, etc.) The
synchronized copy is held within the data consumer's local store..
A **_working copy_** of a GUP component is a component instance that
corresponds to a copy (or snapshot) of the master instance at a given point in
time. The working copy is held within the data consumer's local store. Future
changes to the master instance (e.g. update, deletion, etc.) are NOT
propagated to the working copy. The working copy remains unaffected by changes
of the master instance of the GUP component.
If a GUP component is no longer applicable for a given user, the master
instance for this GUP component is deleted and all data stores holding
synchronized copies are notified about this deletion.
If the access rights of the component are changed, a proper notification is
sent to the owner of the synchronized copy.
## 4.5 Contents of GUP
The present document does not mandate any data to be part of the 3GPP Generic
User Profile. However the following kind of data are considered to be useful
for inclusion in GUP.
> [1. Authorised and subscribed services information:]{.underline}
>
> These kind of data are generally owned by the home operator and allow
> management and interrogation of subscription information and would typically
> consist of:
\- authorised services that the subscriber may subscribe to
\- services the subscriber actually has subscribed to
[2. General user information]{.underline}
> Data, owned by the user, which are not specific to individual services, but
> may be useful for any service. These would be data like
\- settings (e.g. name, postal address), preferences (e.g. language)
\- Registered Service Profiles of the user, indicating the currently active
Service Profile of the user.
> [3. PLMN specific user information]{.underline}
>
> Data, owned by the home operator, which are not specific to individual
> services, but may be useful for any service. These typically would be data
> like
\- addresses (e.g. MSISDNs, URLs) of the user.
\- WAP parameters (e.g. standard WAP gateway)
\- GPRS parameters (in UE and HSS)
\- Preferred access technologies (The preferred access technology, second
preferred access technology etc. e.g. UTRAN, GERAN, WLAN etc.)
> [4. Privacy control data of the user]{.underline}
>
> Data, owned by the user, which are specific to individual services and which
> control privacy settings of that service. These could e.g. be
\- Privacy settings for standardised services like the Presence service or
Push service.
\- Privacy settings of non-standardised services.
> [5. Service specific information of the user:]{.underline}
>
> Data, owned by the user or value added service provider, which are specific
> to individual services (standardised or non-standardised). These could e.g.
> be
\- Service customisation data of the user.
\- Service authentication- and authorisation data (for "single sign on") like
keys, certificates, passwords...
> [6. Terminal related data]{.underline}
>
> These are data, which relate in particular to the user's terminals (ME and
> UICC). These could e.g. consist of
\- Terminal capabilities of the terminal currently in use (e.g. User Interface
capabilities, communication capabilities, available services, service
capabilities,...).
\- Data for initial configuration and/or reset of the ME.
\- Backup data for recovery of the ME configuration including service specific
data.
> [7. Charging and billing related data]{.underline}
>
> This data consists of information necessary for the user related charging
> and billing. This data could e.g. consist of:
\- The billing policy
Note: The following data categories are not considered to be useful for the
3GPP Generic User Profile:
\- Run Time Data.\ Data that are created during the initiation of the session,
call or application execution and if they are only available during the
lifetime of such session, call or application execution then they are
considered as Run Time data.
\- Historic/Statistic Data.\ User/system behaviour information (e.g.
statistics on the usage preferred web pages; duration, number of calls, error
rate).
## 4.6 The role of Data Description in GUP
GUP provides a means of supporting access to data for ranges of services and
functions (e.g. MMS, Presence). The support of users\' services and
personalization data may result in manipulating data in a structured manner,
and a standardised way of describing and accessing these data structures,
utilizing a Data Description Method based on XML Schema.
As there may be technologies which have impact on the GUP but could not be
included in the Data Description Method, the Data Description Method should
take this coexistence with other technologies into consideration.
# 5 Stakeholder requirements
These requirements are given from the perspective of the key stakeholders.
The stakeholders within the context of GUP are:
\- the Subscriber
Note: The subscriber may hold subscriptions for one user (e.g. in the case the
subscriber is identical with the user) or several users (e.g. in the case of a
company - the subscriber -- holding subscriptions for it's employees -- the
users)
\- the User
Note: The user may or may not be identical with the Subscriber.
\- the Value Added Service Provider
\- the Home Network Operator
\- the Roamed-to Network Operator
\- the Regulator
## 5.1 Subscriber Requirements
For a subscriber's services, that support and are supported by GUP:
\- The subscriber shall be able to customise her subscribed services and
interrogate customisation settings, subject to limitations by the Home
operator and/or value added service provider. The user interface for
customisation/interrogation is service specific and out of scope of this
specification.
### 5.1.1 User Requirements
For a user's services, that support and are supported by GUP:
\- The user shall be able to customise the services , that have been
subscribed to her by the subscriber and interrogate customisation settings,
subject to limitations by the Home operator and/or value added service
provider and/or subscriber. The user interface for customisation/interrogation
is service specific and out of scope of this specification.
## 5.2 Value Added Service Provider Requirements
VASP services, i.e. services provided by Value Added Service Providers (VASP),
shall -- via mechanisms of the GUP -- be able to:
\- Identify the network, the service and the user in any GUP related operation
\- Check a user's subscription information for the service.
\- Provide access to a user's service specific GUP data stored by the
application (according to the access rights set by the user).
\- Access other GUP data of the user subject to limitations of access rights
VASP services -- standardised and non-standardised -- may be part of the 3GPP
system (as operator supplied services in the home-network or in a different
3GPP network) or may reside outside the 3GPP system.
It shall be possible for VASP services outside the 3GPP domain to access GUP
only via a secure interface to the 3GPP system.
## 5.3 Home Network Operator Requirements
The home network operator shall, via GUP mechanisms, be able to:
\- support On-line Service Registration
> Subscriber service registration can be set up by on-line subscription not
> just by customer care. This will also reduce Customer Relationship
> Management (CRM) workload.
\- access Terminal Capabilities
> Terminal capabilities (e.g. software and hardware information, application
> features, etc) shall be accessible to the network. This information may be
> used to enable any services within network.
\- access Value Added Service Provider Capability Information
> Value Added Service Provider capability information (e.g. Compression
> algorithms, Billing capabilities) should be accessible to the network. This
> information may be used to provide end-to-end service according to UE,
> Network and the Value Added Service Provider's capabilities.
## 5.4 Roamed-to Network Operator Requirements
None yet identified.
## 5.5 Regulatory Requirements
None identified in addition to the considerations in clause 8. Privacy and
Authorisation.
# 6 General Requirements
This clause includes different general technical requirements which are not
from the perspective of a particular stakeholder.
## 6.1 Network Requirements
These requirements are collected from the point of view of technical Network
infrastructure and Elements:
\- The GUP data shall be accessed by standardised GUP interfaces and protocols
which use the generic GUP data model to carry the user profile.
\- The GUP Interface shall be independent of the structure and semantics of
the data.
\- The GUP access mechanism shall support accessing of the whole profile data
or a selected part of it.
\- The GUP access mechanism shall include read, create, modify and delete
access. GUP shall provide these access mechanisms to read, create, modify, and
delete data of GUP components.
Note: This does not include installation and modification of the structure of
GUP components at a specified data store, nor does it imply management of GUP
data stores of GUP component instances.
\- The GUP data shall be transferred in a standardised way.
\- The GUP interface shall include a standardised way for access control.
\- The GUP interface shall enforce the subscriber privacy.
\- The GUP interface shall enforce the user privacy.
\- The GUP shall not cause significant additional load or delays to the
network functions and elements.
## 6.2 UE Requirements
This clause includes different UE specific requirements for the 3GPP GUP.
\- GUP shall provide mechanisms to represent UE data as GUP components in the
network(e.g. terminal capabilities, user preferences, etc).
\- Network based applications should have "read" access to GUP components
representing UE data, irrespective of the connection status of the UE.
\- It shall be possible to back up GUP data to the home network or VASP
network and to restore it to a UE, however, the mechanism used is outside the
scope of GUP.
## 6.3 General Service Requirements
This clause includes different Service aspects and requirements for the 3GPP
Generic User Profile. The following general requirements from the point of
view of different Service Applications apply:
  * It shall be possible for an application to retrieve the whole user profile or selected parts of it in one transaction.
  * There shall be effective means to retrieve individual GUP data elements with acceptable delay for real-time services.
One typical use case for the latter requirement is a call control application
that would take advantage of subscriber's preferences or charging related
information.
Third party applications may take advantage of the features specified e.g. for
Open Service Access (see OMA Parlay Service Access Requirements [3]) to access
GUP data.
The description of GUP data shall be easily extensible for new, proprietary
uses without any problems caused for the existing or standard applications.
## 6.4 Management Requirements
This clause includes different technical Management aspects for the 3GPP
Generic User Profile based on the needs of e.g. Self-Service Management,
Subscription Management, Service Management, Network Element Management,
Network Management and Customer Relationship Management.
In 3G networks it is expected that user profile data is not only distributed
over different network elements but belongs to different administrative
domains. These administrative domains may be closed against external access.
However, in order to enable a seamless service experience for the user a
controlled transparency to exchange user profile data is needed.
There exist two main cases to be addressed:
**Domain borders in the home network:**
Already in the network of the subscriber\'s home network operator there may
exist different domains. Potential examples are application of 3^rd^ party
value added service providers which are loosely coupled with the network
provider, e.g. their applications run under the brand of the network operator
but their data are stored and maintained apart from the network operator\'s
entities.
**Domain borders between different network operators:**
This is the well-known roaming scenario where a user is served by another
network than his home one. Roaming is already addressed by mobile networks but
in the case of 3G networks there is an important additional requirement: The
assumed frequent changes of applications induces a need to handle frequent
changes of data sources/consumers.
The user profile data access architecture shall enable the transparent and
flexible usage of the user profile data. It shall provide transparent access
to distributed data fulfilling the needs of the different roles described
above. Furthermore, the architecture shall address the fact that parts of the
user profile data are potentially located in different administrative domains.
Possible means are negotiation capabilities and proxy functionality at the
domain borders.
**Management of GUP data components:**
Making a particular data store available for GUP is not in the scope of GUP
and needs to be administered by other means.
The administration (installation and modification) of the structure of GUP
components at a specified data store is not in the scope of GUP and needs to
be administered by other means.
## 6.5 Synchronization Requirements
To avoid unnecessary duplicated data storage an application should be able to
access parts of the user's GUP data.
The following requirements are applicable to the synchronization model:
1\. GUP shall offer a mechanism to define _synchronized copies_ , i.e.
instances that are kept synchronized with the master instance.
2\. GUP shall offer a mechanism to define _working copies_ , i.e. instances
that do not require any synchronization.
3\. GUP shall make sure that synchronized copies do not conflict with the
access right of the corresponding GUP components. For example, if the access
rights to some parts of the GUP component change such that the data consumer
no longer has access rights, then those parts of the GUP component would no
longer be synchronised.
## 6.6 Data Description Requirements
The Generic User Profile is a generic, extensible profile data collection with
mechanisms to e.g. create, retrieve, delete and modify the data. GUP shall
define a standardised way of data description. This allows for a standardised
access and handling of these data, not excluding the possibility of
proprietary extensions.
Only part of the data contents are standardised within 3GPP specifications,
whereas application specific data is outside the scope of the 3GPP
standardisation. This specification does not mandate any 3GPP service specific
data to be part of the 3GPP Generic User Profile. However the common data
types shall be specified to facilitate the separate work on the service
specific definitions (e.g. for the user profile in HSS).
The common data shall contain data types for at least:
\- Private IDs (IMSI and IMS Private User Identity)
\- Public IDs (MSISDN and SIP URL)
\- Other address types, that are supported by 3GPP (e.g. e-mail)
\- Service identifications
\- Generic privacy control data
\- Date and time
\- Service Subscription state (e.g. \"active\", \"not subscribed\",
\"dormant\" ...)
# 7 Security
Secure mechanisms shall be available for the transfer of User Profile data to,
from or between authorised entities. Access to User Profile data shall only be
permitted in an authorised and secure manner. The secure mechanisms to be
applied shall be appropriate to the level of confidentiality of the data, the
endpoints of the transfer and the routes that are available for the transfer
of the data. The owner of the data, normally the body storing the master copy
of the data, shall be responsible for applying the appropriate level of
security to the transfer of the data.
The secure mechanisms available shall include the following:
1\. Authentication of consumer
> Before any user data transfer takes place, it shall be possible for the
> supplier of the data to verify the identity of the consumer.
2\. Authentication of supplier
> It shall be possible for the consumer of data to identify the supplier.
3\. It is permissible for either the supplier or consumer of data to employ
the services of a third party, known to, and trusted by, both in order to
provide authentication of identity.
4\. The validity of an authentication of identity shall, if required, be
subject to a maximum time limit.
5\. It shall be possible for the supplier of data to render the data to be
unreadable by any party not authorised to receive it.
6\. It shall be possible for the consumer of data to detect whether the data
have been tampered with during transmission. .
7\. The security mechanisms shall provide verification that the data has been
sent by the supplier and received by the consumer (non-repudiation).
8\. It shall be possible for the supplier and/or the consumer to create an
audit log of all GUP data transfer transactions of a specified type, provided
that this requirement is made known before any transfer takes place
9\. User profile data in general is proprietary data. This data may not be
shared with unauthorized entities. _Access control_ to the data is required.
This access control must also apply to data which is located at legacy
systems, currently without own access control functionality.
10\. Correct setting of data values in the user profile may be critical for
the integrity of certain network services. Therefore, _consistency checks_ are
needed to minimise the risk.
11\. Transaction security for the change of data should be available in order
to ensure the consistent change of data at different locations.
# 8 Privacy and Authorisation
This clause describes the requirements for the authorization of access to the
user profile data. The Privacy can be provided by the means of authorization
mechanism.
## 8.1 General Requirements
It shall be possible for the user to define privacy requirements for
components of the 3GPP Generic User Profile to determine access rights.
It is agreed in the subscription agreement between the home network operator
and the subscriber how the access and privacy control is carried out e.g. who
is able to control different parts of the user profile including the privacy
settings. The GUP shall provide means to implement access and privacy control
according to the different agreements.
The GUP authorization shall be independent of who has set the privacy rules
for each part of the GUP data. A generic mechanism shall be provided to ensure
that only such data for which there is a valid authority can be created, read,
modified or deleted.
The privacy requirements shall fulfill local privacy regulations. Lawful
interception and other regulator requirements may imply that GUP data is
delivered to authorities despite the privacy settings.
## 8.2 Authorisation Rules
Authorisation of the requested action (create, read, modify or delete) on the
user profile data depends on the following information:
\- identification of the requesting application
\- identification of the requesting subscriber (if delivered in the request)
\- identification of the targeted user
\- identification of the targeted user profile data
The disclosure of the user profile data must be considered based on the
identification of the application requesting access to the data. The possible
identities of the applications will not be standardized but are implementation
specific.
Regarding trusted applications involving other subscribers or comparable
entities it shall be possible also to check the access rights of the
subscriber being served by the application. This requires that the
identification of the served subscriber is passed via the GUP mechanism in
addition to the application identification. The access is first defined per
applications and secondly per served subscriber. The access may be granted
also to the public, some group or a list of subscribers.
The identity of targeted user will be based on the 3GPP network identities
(Private and Public User Identities). Public User Identities would be normally
applied, but especially within the operator domain the Private Identity could
be used as well.
The targeted user profile data will be controlled as per the whole user
profile and/or per different GUP components and/or per different GUP data
elements.
Depending on the service the privacy of the requested GUP data can
additionally be managed in the service level e.g. in Presence or IMS group
management. The privacy rules for these services are specified in the
corresponding 3GPP specifications.
The GUP shall also support the possibility that the privacy of specific GUP
data is queried from other privacy control system. Existing privacy solutions
should be considered and adopted if applicable (e.g. LCS).
# 9 Charging
It shall be possible to support charging for the management, access and
synchronization of the 3GPP Generic User Profile. (e.g. for capability
negotiation or remote diagnostic information gathering).
Note: There might be legislative restrictions on charging. This is FFS.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example 3GPP Generic User Profile use cases
  1. **Setting up a Subscription for a new customer**
  2. Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- A person has just purchased a new device, and requires new >
subscription data to be initiated in the shop.
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- Subscription data is input by the shop personnel by means of a >
Subscription Management application.
  * Subscription Management application stores the data in Generic User > Profile in the Home Network.
```{=html}
``` \- Post-condition
```{=html}
``` \- The user can leave the shop. Her subscription is ready to use.
**2\. Application Access to User Profile Data using OSA (Pull Scenario)**
  * Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- The application is registered with the OSA framework
  * The application is authorised to access the user profile management > Service Control Function and use methods which permit read/write > data in user profiles
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- The application uses OSA to read/write data in the user profile of >
the user
  * The network provides the requested data or modifies the data as > requested
```{=html}
``` \- Post-condition
```{=html}
``` \- Consistency of the user profile data
**3\. Notification of user subscription to an HE-VASP application using OSA
(Push Scenario)**
  * Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- The OSA application from the HE-VASP is registered with the OSA >
framework
  * The OSA application is authorized to receive > subscription/unsubscription notifications
  * The OSA application has subscribed to the notification permitting to > it to know when new users have subscribed to the service > implemented by the OSA application
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- A new user subscribes to the service implemented by the OSA >
application
  * The Home Environment notifies the OSA application about a new > subscription and provides it with relevant information (e.g. > identity of the user)
  * Possibly the OSA application provides the home environment with a > link (e.g. URL) to a location where the user can customize the > service
```{=html}
``` \- Post-conditions
```{=html}
``` \- The OSA application can now have access to home environment -owned >
user profile information for this user, provided that it is > granted the
related access rights
  * The user can customize service data for the service implemented by > the OSA application
**4\. Customization of service specific data for a VHE service provided by a
HE-VASP**
  * Preconditions
```{=html}
``` \- The user has a VHE subscription
  * The user is subscribed to the service provided by the HE-VASP
  * There is a link from the user Personal Service Environment (PSE) to > the HE-VASP for service customization
  * The user has access to her PSE and has successfully been logged to > it
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- The user accesses her PSE and decides to customize the service >
provided by the HE-VASP
  * She transparently access a service customization interface provided > by the HE-VASP (possibly via a hyperlink)
  * She defines/modifies service customization data, which are managed > and stored by the HE-VASP
```{=html}
``` \- Post-condition
```{=html}
``` \- Next time she uses the service, new customization data will be used
###### ## Annex B (informative): Additional Information
Note: The following use cases are currently not in the scope of 3GPP Generic
User Profile Stage 1 but they are still considered to be useful information
(e.g. for future work) and therefore included in this Annex.
**1\. Setting up a Subscription for a new customer**
  * Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- A person has just purchased a new device, and requires a new >
subscription to be initiated in the shop.
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- The user preferences for services are established.
  * Information about the terminal capabilities are received from the > UE.
  * User Profile content is created for the Subscriber, and downloaded > over the air, via local link or similar
```{=html}
``` \- Post-condition
```{=html}
``` \- The user can leave the shop. Her phone/device is ready to use. Basic >
settings needed to start and run initial applications ready.
**2\. Initial Service Configuration (Bootstrap)**
  * Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- No settings made, user with a subscription
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- Settings, partly based on user profile downloaded over the air, via >
local link or similar
  * The download initiated by the value added service provider, network > operator, 3^rd^ party or user
```{=html}
``` \- User Data
```{=html}
``` \- Setting received could include basic connectivity configuration >
parameters and the user's security policy
```{=html}
``` \- Post-condition
```{=html}
``` \- The user\'s phone/device ready to use. Basic settings needed to > start
and run initial applications ready
**3\. Backup/Restore of User Profile Components stored in the UE**
  * Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- Backup
```{=html}
``` \- The phone is configured, all the user preferences are set.
  * The settings include user profile parameters such as generic > parameters, service personalisation parameters, user's security > policy and other user preferences
```{=html}
``` \- Restore
```{=html}
``` \- The phone\'s initial configuration enables download of configuration >
and user data at least via local link.
  * A backup of phone configuration and user preferences is available in > the network.
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- The user wishes to backup or restore the current version, or parts > of
the current user profile to the network, or to another UE.
  * The backup/restore is performed via local link or remotely towards > the network
  * The backup/restore can be initiated by the user, the value added > service provider, 3rd parties or the network operator
```{=html}
``` \- User Profile Storage
```{=html}
``` \- Secure area of the (U)SIM or ME or retained in the network by the >
value added service provider. User private data is only stored in > the
network with the user permission.
**4\. Content Negotiation**
  * Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- The user has set her preferences in the UE
  * Terminal type capability information is stored in "internet"
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- The user initiates request for content. The request contains:
```{=html}
``` \- User preference fetched from the UP
  * Reference to the capability information is stored in "internet"
  * Deviating capability information
```{=html}
``` \- Returned content selected or tailored according to User preferences >
and capability information
    **5. Terminal Management -- Manual Helpdesk**
```{=html}
``` \- Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- A user is complaining because her pocket web browser does not work. >
He calls the helpdesk
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- The UE capabilities are established by the helpdesk person
  * A helpdesk person at an operator, value added service provider or > enterprise verifies that the correct operating parameters are set > on the device of a complaining user
```{=html}
``` \- Post-condition
```{=html}
``` \- The user\'s is happy. The pocket web browser is running correctly
    **6. Terminal Management -- Automated Self Fixing**
```{=html}
``` \- Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- A software agent on the user's device identifies an error.
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- It contacts the helpdesk software entity to fix the problem.
  * The UE capabilities are established by the automated self-fixing > solution.
  * The self-fixing solution correctly diagnoses the error and > provisions a bug fix.
```{=html}
``` \- Post-condition
```{=html}
``` \- The user\'s device software executes correctly (and is happy)
**7\. Automatic Access Selection based on preferred list**
  * Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- The UE shall be able to support automatic access technologies >
selection (i.e. without user intervention).
  * The user has set her preferences in the UE and enabled automatic > access technologies selection.
  * A list of preferred access technologies capabilities information is > stored in "internet"
  * The access technologies are authorized.
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- The user equipment initiates request for selected access technology. >
The request contains:
```{=html}
``` \- User preferences fetched from the UP
  * Reference to the access technology capabilities information is > stored in "internet"
```{=html}
``` \- The preferred access technology is selected.
```{=html}
``` \- Post-condition
```{=html}
``` \- The preferred access technology is selected based on the order of >
precedence defined in a list of access technologies on the UE. The > switch to
a less preferred access technology, in case the most > preferred is not
available, takes place without user intervention.
    **8. Multiple Access Technology Negotiation**
```{=html}
``` \- Precondition
```{=html}
``` \- The user has set her preferences in the UE and enabled access >
selection.
  * Terminal type capability information is stored in "internet"
  * The access technologies are authorized
  * The user has access and connection with one ongoing application
```{=html}
``` \- Actions
```{=html}
``` \- The (Multi-mode) terminal initiates request for another access >
technologies.
  * The terminal chooses the most appropriate access form based on the > UP and/or the sessions in progress demand of service quality.
  * Returned access form selected according to User preferences and > capability information.
```{=html}
``` \- Post-condition
```{=html}
``` \- Change of access technology without interrupting any session(s) >
to/from that host (context transfer).
  * The old access connection end.
  * The user and the terminal are connected via the new access (i.e. > WLAN) with the same user identity, without having to > re-authenticate.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Bibliography
The following material, though not specifically referenced in the body of the
present document (or not publicly available), gives supporting information.
3GPP TS 21.133: \"3G Security; Security Threats and Requirements\".
3GPP TS 22.097: \"Multiple Subscriber Profile (MSP) Phase 1; Service
description - Stage 1\".
3GPP TR 22.121: \"The Virtual Home Environment\".
#