# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Forecasts show that speech-driven services will play an important role on the
3G market. People want the ability to access information while on the move and
the small portable mobile devices that will be used to access this information
need improved user interfaces using speech input. At present, however, the
complexity of medium and large vocabulary speech recognition systems is beyond
the memory and computational resources of such devices. Also associated delay
to download speech data files (e.g. grammars, acoustic models, language
models, vocabularies etc. ...) may be prohibitive. Eventually, it may not
always be acceptable for the speech service providers to allow download of
these speech data files if they contained confidential information (password
(security issue), customer names and address (privacy issue)) or intellectual
properties; for example a well crafted speech grammar is often considered by
speech service providers as a trade secret.
Server-side processing of the combined speech and DTMF input and speech output
can overcome these constraints by taking full advantage of memory and
processing power as well as specialized speech engines and data files.
However, the distortions introduced by the encoding used to send the audio
between the client and the server as well as additional network errors can
degrade the performance of the speech engines; therefore also limiting the
achievable speech functionalities. A server-side speech service is generally
equivalent to a phone call to an automatic service. As for any other telephony
service, DTMF is a feature that should always be considered as needed.
This document describes a generic speech recognition framework to distribute
the audio sub-system and the speech services by sending encoded speech and
meta-information between the client and the server. Instead of using a voice
channel as in today's server-based speech services, an error-protected data
channel will be used to transport encoded speech from the client audio sub-
system (terminal client) to remote speech engines (on server) for processing
(e.g. speech recognition, speaker recognition,). The speech recognition
framework will also enable downlink data streaming of voice and recorded audio
prompt generated by server to the terminal client audio subsystem. The speech
recognition framework may use conventional codecs like AMR or Distributed
Speech Recognition (DSR) optimized codecs.
The speech recognition framework will provide users with a high performance
distributed speech interface to server-based automatic speech services with
communication, information access or transactional purposes.
The types of supported user interfaces include those that are voice only, for
example, automatic speech access to information, such as a voice portal
described in this section. These typically support combined speech or DTMF
input.
In the future, a new range of multi-modal applications is also envisaged
incorporating different modes of input (e.g. speech, keyboard, pen) and speech
and visual output.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the stage one description of the Speech
Recognition Framework for Automated Voice Services. Stage One is the set of
requirements for data seen primarily from the user's and service providers'
points of view.
This Technical Specification includes information applicable to network
operators, service providers, terminal and network manufacturers.
This Technical Specification contains the core requirements for the Speech
Recognition Framework for automated voice services.
The scope of this Stage 1 is to identify the requirements for 3G networks to
support the deployments of a speech recognition framework - based automated
voice services and therefore to introduce a 3GPP speech recognition framework
as part of speech-enabled services. The Speech Recognition Framework for
automated voice services is an optional feature in a 3GPP system.
Figure 1 positions the Speech recognition Framework (SRF) with respect to
other speech-enabled services as discussed in [6]. As illustrated, SRF is
designed to support server-side speech recognition over packet switched
network (e.g. IMS). As such SRF also enable configurations of multimodal and
multi-device services that include distribute the speech engines.
Note that it is possible to design speech-enabled services that alternate or
combine the use of client-side only engines and SRF.
{width="6.25in" height="4.541666666666667in"}
Figure 1 - Positions the scope of the speech recognition framework as part of
general speech enabled services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative References
[1] 3GPP TS 21.133: \"3G security; Security threats and requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.941: \"IP based multimedia framework; Stage 0\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services and service capabilities\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem; Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TR 22.977: \"Feasibility study for speech-enabled services\".
## 2.2 Informative References
[7] ETSI ES 201 108 v1.1.2: \"Distributed Speech Recognition: Front-end
Feature Extraction Algorithm; Compression Algorithm\", April 2000.
[8] Void
[9] Void
[10] ETSI ES 202 050 v0.0.0 \"Speech Processing, Transmission and Quality
aspects (STQ); Distributed speech recognition; Advanced front-end feature
extraction algorithm; Compression algorithms; DSR advanced front end\",
standard selected; document in preparation.
# 3\. Definitions and abbreviations
Definitions and abbreviations used in the present document are listed in TR
21.905 [2]. For the purposes of this document the following definitions and
abbreviations apply:
## 3.1 Definitions
**Automated Voice Services** : Voice applications that provide a voice
interface driven by a voice dialog manager to drive the conversation with the
user in order to complete a transaction and possibly execute requested
actions. It relies on speech recognition engines to map user voice input into
textual or semantic inputs to the dialog manager and mechanisms to generate
voice or recorded audio prompts (text-to-speech synthesis, audio playback,).
It is possible that it relies on additional speech processing (e.g. speaker
verification). Typically telephony-based automated voice services also provide
call processing and DTMF recognition capabilities. Examples of traditional
automated voice services are traditional IVR (Interactive Voice Response
Systems) and VoiceXML Browsers.
**Barge-in event:** Event that takes place when the user starts to speak while
audio output is generated.
**Conventional Codec** : The module in UE that encodes the speech input
waveform , similar to the encoder in a vocoder e.g. EFR, AMR.
**Downlink exchanges:** Exchanges from servers and networks to the terminal.
**Dialog manager** : A technology to drive a dialog between user and automated
voice services. For example a VoiceXML voice browser is essentially a dialog
manager programmed by VoiceXML that drives speech recognition and text-to-
speech engines.
**DSR Optimised Codec** : The module in UE which takes speech input, extracts
acoustic features and encodes them with a scheme optimised for speech
recognition. This module is similar to the conventional codec, such as AMR. On
the server-side, the uplink encoded stream can be directly consumed by speech
engines without having to be converted to a waveform.
**Meta information** : Data that may be required to facilitate and enhance the
server-side processing of the input speech and facilitate the dialog
management in an automated voice service. These may include keypad events
over-riding spoken input, notification that the UE is in hands-free mode,
client-side collected information (speech/no-speech, barge-in), etc....
**Speech Recognition Framework** : A generic framework to distribute the audio
sub-system and the speech services by sending encoded speech between the
client and the server. For the uplink, it can rely on conventional (ASR) or on
DSR optimised codecs where acoustic features are extracted and encoded on the
terminal.
**Speech Recognition Framework-based Automated Voice Service** : An automated
voice service utilising the speech recognition framework to distribute the
speech engines from the audio sub-system. In such a case the user voice input
is captured and encoded, with a conventional or a DSR optimised for speech
recognition as negotiated at session initiation. The encoded speech is
streamed uplink to server-side speech engines that process it. The application
dialog manager generates prompts that are streamed downlink to the terminal.
**SRF Call:** An uninterrupted interaction of a user with an application that
relies on SRF-based automated voice services.
**SRF Session:** Exchange of audio and meta-information, explicitly negotiated
and initiated by the SRF session control protocols, between terminal (audio-
sub-systems) and SRF-based automated voice services. Sessions last until
explicitly terminated by the control protocols.
**SRF User Agent:** a process within a terminal that enables the user to
select a particular SRF-based automated voice service or to enter the address
of a SRF-based automated voice service. The user agent converts the user input
or selection into a SIP IMS session initiation with the corresponding SRF-
based automated voice service. The user agent can also terminate the session
with the service when the user device to disconnect.
**Text-to-Speech Synthesis** : A technology to convert text in a given
language into human speech in that particular language.
**Uplink exchanges:** Exchanges from the mobile terminal to the server /
network.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this document the following abbreviations apply:
AMR -- Adaptive Multi Rate
DSR -- Distributed Speech Recognition
DTMF -- Dual Tone Multi-Frequency
IETF -- Internet Engineering Task Force
IMS -- IP Multimedia Subsystem
IVR -- Interactive Voice Response system
PCM -- Pulse Coded Modulation
PIM - Personal Information Manager
SIP -- Session Initiation Protocol
SRF -- Speech Recognition Framework
URI -- Uniform Resource Identifier
# 4 Requirements
A 3GPP speech recognition framework enables the use of conventional codecs
(e.g. AMR) or DSR optimized codecs to distribute in the network the speech
engines that process speech input or generate speech output. It includes:
\- Default uplink and downlink codec specifications.
\- A stack of speech recognition protocols to support:
\- Establishment of uplink and downlink sessions, along with codec negotiation
\- Transport of speech recognition payload (uplink) with conversational QoS
\- Support of transport (also at conversational QoS) of meta-information
required for the deployment of speech recognition applications between the
terminal and speech engines (meta-information may include terminal events and
settings, audio sub-system events, parameters and settings, etc.).
IMS provides a protocol stack (e.g. SIP/SDP, RTP and QoS), that may
advantageously be used to implement such capabilities.
It shall be possible to recommend a codec to be supported by default to deploy
services that rely on the 3GPP speech recognition framework. To that effect,
the specifications will consider either conventional speech codecs (e.g. AMR)
or DSR optimized codecs.
ETSI has published DSR optimized codecs specifications (ETSI ES 201 108 & ETSI
ES 202 050 [7, 10]) and a payload format for transport of DSR data over RTP
(IETF AVT DSR).
The following list gives the high level requirements for the SRF-based
automated voice services: .
  * Users of the SRF-based automated voice service shall be able to initiate voice communication, access information or conduct transactions by voice commands using speech recognition. Examples of SRF-based automated voice services are provided in Appendix A.
The speech recognition framework for automated voice services will be offered
by the network operators and will bring value to the network operator by the
ability to charge for the SRF-based automated voice services.
This service may be offered over a packet switched network; however in general
this requires specification of a complete protocol stack. When this service is
offered over the IMS, the protocols used for the meta information and front-
end parameters (from terminal to server) and associated control and
application specific information can and shall be based on those in IMS.
## 4.1 Initiation
It shall be possible for a user to initiate a connection to the SRF-based
automatic voice services by entering the identity of the service. Most
commonly, when used as a voice service, this will be performed by entering a
phone number. However, particular terminals may offer a user agent that
accepts other addressing schemes to be entered by the user: IP address, URI,
e-mail address possibly associated to a protocol identifier. This is
particularly important for multi-modal usages.
In all cases, the terminal will convert the address entered by the user to
initiate a session via the SIP IMS session initiation protocol and establish
the different SRF protocols. During this initiation of the SRF session, it
shall be possible to negotiate the uplink and downlink codecs. The terminal
shall support a codec suitable for speech recognition as a default uplink
codec.
## 4.2 Information during the speech recognition session
Codec negotiation during a SRF session should be optionally supported.
This may be motivated by the expected or observed acoustic environment, the
service package purchased by the user, the user profile (e.g. hands-free as
default) or service need. The user speaks to the service and receives output
back from the automated voice service provider as audio (recorded 'natural'
speech) or Text-to-Speech Synthesis. The output from the server can be
provided in the downlink as a streaming service or by using conversational
speech codec.
Additional control and application specific information shall be exchanged
during the session between the client and the service. Accordingly some
terminals shall be able to support sending additional data to the service
(e.g. keypad information and other terminal and audio events) and receiving
data feedback that shall be displayed on the terminal screen.
Dynamic payload switches within a session may be considered to transport meta-
information.
## 4.3 Control
It shall be possible to use SRF sessions in order to provide access to SRF-
based automated voice services. For example applications might use a SRF
session to access and navigate within and between the various SRF-based
automated voice services by spoken commands or pressed keypads.
It shall be possible for network operators to control access to SRF-based
automated voice services based on subscription profile of the callers.
## 4.4 User Perspective (User Interface)
The user's interface to this service shall be via the UE. User can interact by
spoken and keypad inputs. The UE can have a visual display capability. When
supported by the terminal, the server-based application can display visual
information (e.g., stock quote figures, flight gates and times) in addition to
audio playback (via recorded speech or text-to-speech synthesis) of the
information. These are examples of multimodal interfaces. SRF enables
distributed multimodal interfaces as described in [6].
# 5 UE and network capabilities
In addition to the capabilities required for IMS Basic Voice session (such as
the default voice codec that will be used for the downlink audio prompt
stream), the following SRF-based automated voice service-specific capabilities
shall be required in the UE and network:
  * A default uplink codec (conventional codec or DSR optimized codec).
  * A downlink conventional codec and downlink streaming capabilities (simultaneous with uplink).
  * The capability to transmit keypad information from the client to the server (e.g., either DTMF or the keypad string).
  * The capability to reconstruct encoded speech. The reconstruction requirement does not apply to the UE.
It shall be possible to enable application specific information exchanges
between the client and the server (e.g. client events (e.g. barge-in events),
display information, etc...), in the form of speech meta-information. It shall
be possible to enable these exchanges with conversational QoS.
SRF shall be supported by an uplink channel available in GERAN and UTRAN
networks for the transport of the codec payload and with QoS (Quality of
Service) for conversational class, streaming and interactive QoS services as
specified in TS 22.105 [4].
It shall be possible for the network to distinguish a SRF session from a basic
voice session (e.g. for charging purposes).
# 6 Administration
SRF-based automated voice services may be provided by the network operator
(home or visited) or by third parties. See appendix A for examples of such
services.
The administration of the SRF-based automated voice services will be under the
control of the network operator. But when decided to do so by the network
operator, it should be possible to the third party providers to administer the
SRF-based automated voice services them selves through the gateway that they
would connect to IMS. In such case, the third party provider performs all the
administrative steps and no registration would be required with the network
operator.
## 6.1 Authorization
Authorization for use of SRF-based automated voice services will be under the
control of the network operator. It shall require authorization of the
connection to IMS.
The network operators can provide automated voice services or they can only
provide the network that connects users to SRF-based automated voice services
provided by third party application service providers. The network operator
shall be able to permit or prevent access to a third party service. This
requirement shall be treated as equivalent to allowing or prevent access to
some phones numbers (IMS voice sessions) or internet services (domains for
example in WAP data access).
The network operator shall be able to administer the authorization of a SRF-
based automated voice service on a user basis as well as on a service basis
(e.g. to authorize access to all users or prevent access to all users).
It shall be possible for the operator to provide for the user:
\- Authorization to access a particular \"address\" (e.g. 3rd party SRF-based
automated voice service)
\- Authorization to use a service that the operator authorize access to when
the 3rd party operator wishes to rely on the operator to control this access
It shall be possible for the third party provider to authorize usage of its
services based on the identity of the user.
## 6.2 Deauthorization
Deauthorization for use of the SRF-based automated voice services shall be
under the control of the network operator as for the authorization described
in section 6.1.
## 6.3 Registration
Authorized SRF-based automated voice service register their address with the
IMS upon authorization of the service authorized SRF-based automated voice
service can then be reached by the user (by entering address and initiated a
SRF session).
## 6.4 Deregistration
Disconnection from the IMS shall prevent the use of the SRF-based automated
voice service. Deregistration may be decided by the third party provider.
## 6.5 Activation
Once authorized and registered a SRF-based automated voice service is deemed
activated as for other IMS services.
## 6.6 Deactivation
Deactivation shall be done by deregistering the services (operator or service
provider initiative) or by refusing to initiate a SRF session (service
provider initiative).
# 7 Service Provisioning
The SRF-based automated voice services shall be able to be provisioned by
either the network operator (roaming or home) or by a 3rd party service
provider.
It shall be possible for network operators and 3rd party service providers to
offer SRF-based automatic voice services by providing identity of service,
such as a phone number, an IP address or a URI that the user can enter or
select on the terminal.
# 8 Security
The \"Security Threats and Requirements\" specified in 21.133 [1] shall not be
compromised.
It shall be possible to deny unauthorized access to 3GPP SRF-based automated
voice services. An authorization may be based on the following,
  * identity of the accessing user agent, server or device
  * the destination user, device or user agent
Third parties shall have authorization from the User and PLMN Operators in
order to access 3GPP SRF-based automated voice services.
It shall be possible to reconstitute PCM samples from DSR packets so that the
user's spoken command can be transcribed at a later time, if required.
# 9 Privacy
For SRF-based automated voice services, privacy requirements shall be at least
as good as for IMS voice or data sessions [5]:
\- It shall be possible to encrypt speech and speech meta-data exchanges;
\- It shall be possible to prevent exchange of the user\'s true identity,
location and other terminal or user related information when required.
SRF-based automated voice services, may imply that the service provider
collects information about the user or usage. This information should be
treated according to the policies in place for data and voice (e.g. human to
operator or human to automated service) services. The SRF-based automated
voice services shall not add additional privacy risks.
# 10 Charging
The user can be charged for sessions with SRF-based automated voice services
in a variety of ways. The following shall be possible:
a) By duration of session (including \"one-off\" charge/flat rate)
b) By data volume transferred (number of packets) or other similar criteria.
c) By subscription fees for the service (unlimited usage or unlimited usage up
to a point and then per-use fees)
d) Free (e.g. with the service being subsidised by advertising revenue from
advertisement spots). The advertisement spots may be inserted either at
session start-up or close, or designed in such that system delay time is
masked (e.g., while the user is waiting for the flight schedules to be
returned, or a purchase transaction to be completed). The network operator
will receive revenue from users directly as well as from the content and
service providers who want their sites to be accessible via the automated
voice service, and from advertisers. Advertising spots can be inserted at
appropriate points during the session (e.g., at the beginning of the session,
while the user is waiting for a system response, or at the end of a session).
> SRF-based automated voice services shall be available to pre-paid and post-
> paid subscribers.
# 11 Roaming
The user shall be able to utilize SRF-based automated voice services when
roaming in any IMS compatible mobile network.
The capabilities of the SRF-based automated voice service shall be available
in the roamed-to network in the same manner as in the home network, within the
limitation of the capabilities of the serving network.
# 12 Interaction with other services
No interaction with other services identified. When connected to the IMS,
other IMS services are available to the user through the terminal.
Other services (non IMS voice etc..) may be available with or without
disconnecting from the IMS.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Speech recognition Framework-based automated
voice service examples
Examples of Automated Voice Services include:
\- Communication assistance (Name dialling, Service Portal, Directory
assistance)
\- Information retrieval (e.g., obtaining stock-quotes, checking local weather
reports, flight schedules, movie/concert show times and locations)
\- M-Commerce and other transactions (e.g., buying movie/concert tickets,
stock trades, banking transactions)
\- Personal Information Manager (PIM) functions (e.g., making/checking
appointments, managing contacts list, address book, etc.)
\- Messaging (IM, unified messaging, etc...)
\- Information capture (e.g. dictation of short memos)
\- A usage scenario for multimodal applications with a GUI user agent on the
terminal synchronized with an SRF automated voice service.
#