# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document covers requirements for a message service used for
person-to-thing and thing-to-thing communication within the 5G system
(represented by the term MSGin5G Service).
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the service requirements for operation of the
MSGin5G Service. The MSGin5G Service provides point-to-point, application-to-
point, group and broadcast message delivery for person-to-thing communication
and thing-to-thing communication.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**application-to-point message:** message that is originated at a UE and
terminated at an application sever in the network or originated at an
application sever in the network and terminated at a UE.
**MSGin5G Service** : a MNO message service within the 5G System that enables
point- to-point, application-to-point, group and broadcast message delivery
for thing-to-thing communication and person-to-thing communication.
**MSGin5G Server** : an entity in the 5G system for routing messages between
UEs and messages between application servers and UEs.
**MSGin5G Gateway** : an entity in the 5G system for interworking between the
MSGin5G Service and non-3GPP message service.
**point-to-point message** : message that is originated at a UE and terminated
at a UE.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AOMT Application Originated Mobile Terminated
IoT Internet of Things
MIoT Massive Internet of Things
MOAT Mobile Originated Application Terminated
MOMT Mobile Originated Mobile Terminated
NIDD Non IP Data Delivery
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 General
Massive Internet of Things (MIoT) is one of key market segments of 5G. The
typical IoT device communication is sending and receiving small data which can
be delivered just in a message. Today SMS is used as message enabler for some
IoT applications. However, SMS has limitation in term of service capabilities
(e.g. 140 bytes payload) and performance (e.g. long latency), in addition, the
overhead of control plane resource is high. There have been enhancements and
optimizations on the 3GPP network capabilities to facilitate IoT applications
including device triggering, small data transfer, and Non IP Data Delivery
(NIDD) etc.
Nevertheless, the characteristics of MIoT devices including high density
connection, flexible mobility, saving power, limited computing capability,
bulk of devices, and traffic pattern of short burst of small data will bring
various new demands on message communication, e.g. light weight message
communication for provision and monitoring, ultra low latency and high
reliability message communication for remote control, and extremely high
resource efficiency for large scale connections.
The MSGin5G Service is basically designed and optimized for massive IoT device
communication including thing-to-thing communication and person-to-thing
communication.
## 4.2 Message communication models
{width="6.297916666666667in" height="3.422222222222222in"}
Figure 4.2 a: The MSGin5G Service overview
The MSGin5G Service is a message enabler for applications. An application
client (APP1 Client) in UE A utilizes MSGin5G Service to send a message to UE
B. This message will be routed to UE B via the 5G system, or this message will
be first routed to the application server (APP 1 Server) and then forwarded to
UE B. If the terminated UE (UE C) supports SMS but does not support the
MSGin5G Service, the message will be translated to SMS by MSGin5G Server. A UE
(UE D) that does not support 3GPP message service can connect to the MSGin5G
Service via MSGin5G Gateway that facilitates the translation between the
MSGin5G Service and non-3GPP message service. The connection between the UE D
and the gateway can be via 3GPP access or non 3GPP access (e.g. WLAN).
The message communication models include:
\- point-to-point message: message that is originated at a UE and terminated
at a UEs.
\- application-to-point message: message that is originated at a UE and
terminated at an application sever in the network or originated at an
application sever in the network and terminated at a UE.
\- group message: messages are originated at a UE and terminated at a group of
UEs (the members of a group can be located in different geographical areas).
\- broadcast message: messages are originated at an application sever in the
network or an UE and terminated at all the UEs in a specific service area
within a cell or multiple cells.
# 5 Service requirements
## 5.1 General
### 5.1.1 Description
The MSGin5G Service enables various message communication models with advanced
service capabilities and performance. In addition to point-to-point,
application-to-point, group and broadcast message communication are supported
in the MSGin5G Service. To meet the requirements of remote control, the
MSGin5G Service needs to provide very low end-to-end latency and high
reliability of message delivery.
Considering the massive connections of IoT devices and high throughput of
message communication between devices or between devices and application
servers, the MSGin5G Service needs to be in a resource efficient manner to
optimize the resource usage of the both control plane and user plane. The IoT
devices usually have limitation in computation and storage, and are powered by
batteries or small solar photovoltaic equipment, so the message communications
need to be light weight and well scheduled in order to save power and data
traffic consumption in the device.
### 5.1.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.2-001] The MSGin5G Service shall support UE sending and receiving a
text or data message with end-to-end latency less than [500] ms.
NOTE 1: Initial connection activation latencies may be longer depending on
receiving UE power saving states, paging, etc.
[R-5.1.2-002] The MSGin5G Service shall support variable size of payload of a
text or data message with maximum [2048] bytes, and support segmented
transmission if the content is large than the maximum payload length of a
message.
[R-5.1.2-003] The MSGin5G Service shall support delivery of a message to a
specific application in the terminated UE. This message contains the contents
that can be handled by the specific application.
[R-5.1.2-004] The MSGin5G Service shall support acknowledgement of delivery
status (success, failure) of a message and indication of reason if the
delivery is failed.
[R-5.1.2-005] The MSGin5G Service shall support storage of a message if a UE
is unavailable (disconnected or power off) for future delivery once the UE
becomes available.
[R-5.1.2-006] The MSGin5G Service shall support a server in the network
triggering the UE to perform an action (e.g. wake up and establish a PDN
connection).
[R-5.1.2-007] The MSGin5G Service shall support a UE sending and receiving
messages via a MSGin5G Gateway
NOTE 2: The connection between the UE and the MSGin5G Gateway can be 3GPP or
non-3GPP access (e.g. WLAN.)
[R-5.1.2-008] The MSGin5G Service shall support the mobility of a UE (i.e. the
UE can still send/receive messages when it changes the location of network
access).
## 5.2 Point-to-point message
### 5.2.1 Description
The typical IoT communication happens between a person and a thing or two
things, where the messages are Mobile Originated and Mobile Terminated (MOMT).
A person can use his mobile handset to communicate with multiple smart
devices, e.g. wearable devices like intelligent watch and smart home devices
like air conditioner. These smart devices may have USIM or not. The MSGin5G
Service needs to support addressing the UE by IMSI/MSISDN or IMEI.
There are different applications in a UE that will use point-to-point
messages. The MSGin5G Service needs to identify which application a message is
to be delivered to and hence route the message to the corresponding
application server in the network and application client in the UE.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
[R-5.2.2-001] The MSGin5G Service shall support Mobile Originated Mobile
Terminated (MOMT) messaging, i.e. messages are originated and terminated at
UEs.
[R-5.2.2-002] The MSGin5G Service shall support addressing the UE by
IMSI/MSISDN or IMEI.
[R-5.2.2-003] The MSGin5G Service shall support a mechanism to identify the
applicable application and route a MOMT message to the corresponding
application server in the network and application client in the UE.
## 5.3 Application-to-point message
### 5.3.1 Description
The application-to-point message enables sending/receiving message between an
application server and an IoT device. The message can be Mobile Originated
Application Terminated (MOAT) and Application Originated Mobile Terminated
(AOMT). The MOAT messages can be used by devices for reporting the small data.
For example, in environmental monitoring, a monitoring device sends a message
to the application server to report the collected data by the sensor every
hour. The AOMT messages can be used by an application server to manage or
control the devices. For example, in shared bike communication, the
application server sends a message to a bike to unlock the bike.
One type of devices need to report data to the application server in a
scheduled way (e.g. every hour). Another type of devices need to be reachable
by the application server in a non-scheduled way, e.g. the server updates the
configuration of the device. An IoT device that is powered by batteries or
small solar photovoltaic equipment, needs to access the MSGin5G Service in the
whole lifecycle (e.g. 10 years), which requires the MSGin5G Service be very
light weight in power consumption. The AOMT messages are time sensitive. The
MSGin5G Service needs to support low latency delivery of AOMT messages.
### 5.3.2 Requirements
[R-5.3.2-001] The MSGin5G Service shall support Mobile Originated Application
Terminated (MOAT) messaging, i.e. messages are originated at a UE and
terminated at an application sever in the network.
[R-5.3.2-002] The MSGin5G Service shall support Application Originated Mobile
Terminated (AOMT) messaging, i.e. messages are originated at an application
sever in the network and terminated at a UE.
[R-5.3.2-003] The MSGin5G Service shall support Application Originated Mobile
Terminated messaging service with max latency of 10 seconds while maintaining
battery life of at least 3 months for small data traffic once every hour and
typical sized IOT battery [200-500mAh].
## 5.4 Group message
### 5.4.1 Description
In 5G IoT communication, there is a need that a group of devices can
communicate with each other, which means the message sent by a device will be
received by all the other devices in the group. The members of a group can be
devices for persons and smart things that are located in different
geographical areas. Group management mechanism is required to support the
members joining or leaving a group.
### 5.4.2 Requirements
[R-5.4.2-001] The MSGin5G Service shall support group message communication,
i.e. a UE sends a message to a group of UEs. All the members in a group can
send messages. The UEs in a group can be located in different geographical
areas.
[R-5.4.2-002] The MSGin5G Service shall support group management for message
communication:
\- establishing/deleting a group
\- adding UEs to the group or removing UEs from the group
\- configuration of a maximum number of members in a group
## 5.5 Broadcast message
### 5.5.1 Description
The MSGin5G Service for MIoT needs to support broadcast message delivery in
order to handle the massive communications efficiently without long latency.
The receivers of broadcast messages can be all UEs within a cell or multiple
cells. The broadcast areas can be configured according to the policy of
application.
To avoid malicious attack, only authorized UEs or application server can send
broadcast messages.
### 5.5.2 Requirements
[R-5.5.2-001] The MSGin5G Service shall support broadcasting a text or data
message with end-to-end latency less than [500] ms.
[R-5.5.2-002] The MSGin5G Service shall support an authorized application
server or UE to send a broadcast message to all the UEs within a specific area
which is configured according to application policy.
# 6 Charging
## 6.1 Description
The business model of MIoT market may be different from that of consumer
market. The MNO may need flexible policy for charging of the MSGin5G Service,
e.g., flat rate (per month or per year), charge per message, and charge by
amount of data. For different message communication models, the charging
policy may be distinguished. The MSGin5G Service needs to provide charging
information to support different charging policy.
## 6.2 Requirements
[R-6.2-001] The MSGin5G Service shall be able to collect charging information
of a UE according to the operator's charging policy including charge per
message, charge by amount of data, and flat rate (e.g., per month or per
year).
[R-6.2-002] The MSGin5G Service shall be able to collect charging information
of an application provider in application-to-point message communication.
# 7 Security
## 7.1 Description
The messages of thing-to-thing or person-to-thing can be critical, e.g., a
message for remote control may trigger actions of a device. To protect an IoT
device from malicious attack, only authorized UEs can send messages to this
device. In addition, the content of messages need to be integrity and
confidentiality protected.
The IoT devices may be battery-powered, so the security mechanism for MSGin5G
needs to be light weight.
## 7.2 Requirements
[R-7.2-001] The MSGin5G Service shall support a mechanism for the operator to
configure the white list of UEs that are authorized to send messages to a
specific UE. The MSGin5G Service shall be able to block messages from non-
authorized UEs.
[R-7.2-002] The MSGin5G Service shall support integrity and confidentiality
protection for the payload of a message.
# 8 Roaming
## 8.1 Description
The IoT device can be a device equipped in a vehicle moving from one nation to
anther nation. When roaming, the device needs to be able to access to the
MSGin5G Service.
## 8.2 Requirements
[R-8.2-001] The MSGin5G Service shall support a roaming UE sending and
receiving messages.
# 9 Interconnection
## 9.1 Description
The MSGin5G Service is a service that can involve two different operators on
originating and terminating side, and hence interconnection is needed.
## 9.2 Requirements
[R-9.2-001] The MSGin5G Service shall support an UE within an operator sending
a message to another UE within another operator.
[R-9.2-002] The MSGin5G Service shall support an application server
sending/receiving a message to/from a UE within another operator.
# 10 Interworking
## 10.1 Description
The legacy IoT devices have been widely deployed. These devices may support
legacy message service like SMS. When the terminated UE does not support the
MSGin5G Service, interworking between MSGin5G Service and another message
service (e.g., SMS) is required subject to the operator's policy.
## 10.2 Requirements
[R-10.2-001] The MSGin5G Service shall be able to interwork with SMS for
point-to-point message and application-to-point message.
[R-10.2-002] The MSGin5G Service shall be able to translate one message into
multiple SMS messages when the length of a message of MSGin5G Service is large
than the maximum length of a SMS message.
#