# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides rail communication Stage 1 normative service
requirements for 5G system. Rail communication includes main line and rail-
bound mass transit. Communication for main line is based on the set of Mission
Critical specification [1], [2], [3], [4]. Several service requirements for
rail-bound mass transit are based on the methodology of cyber-physical control
applications [7]. Requirements which are not in the scope of those
specifications are provided in this Technical Specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements
(MCCoRe)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video services \".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical Data services \".
[5] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\"
[7] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Area traffic capacity:** total traffic throughput served per kilometer along
a rail line.
**CCTV:** Closed-circuit television, also known as video surveillance, is the
use of video cameras for monitoring and recording people, animals and objects
in different places, such as in vehicles and stations.
**CCTV offload:** Transfer of video surveillance data archives from train to
ground through the wireless connection between mobile communication unit in
the train and ground communication units located at the depot and at the
stations and/or stops.
**Communication service availability** : percentage value of the amount of
time the end-to-end communication service is delivered according to an agreed
QoS, divided by the amount of time the system is expected to deliver the end-
to-end service according to the specification in a specific area.
**Communication service reliability:** ability of the communication service to
perform as required for a given time interval, under given conditions.
**End-to-end latency:** the time that takes to transfer a given piece of
information unidirectional from a source to a destination, measured at the
communication interface, from the moment it is transmitted by the source to
the moment it is successfully received at the destination.
**Inter-carriage link:** Wireless connection between the carriages of the
train.
**Reliability** : in the context of network layer packet transmissions,
percentage value of the amount of sent network layer packets successfully
delivered to a given system entity within the time constraint required by the
targeted service, divided by the total number of sent network layer packets.
**Survival time:** the time that an application consuming a communication
service may continue without an anticipated message.
**Transfer interval:** time difference between two consecutive transfers of
application data from an application via the service interface to 3GPP system.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CCTV Closed-circuit television
MTTC Mass-transit train control
# 4 Railway communication functionality
## 4.1 Bulk Transfer of CCTV archives from Train to Ground
### 4.1.1 Description
The video surveillance system in trains consists of multiple cameras which are
recording and encoding the video feeds 24/7 either into the video recorders or
into internal memory of the cameras themselves. The amount of video recordings
is excessive, which exceeds rather fast the physical storage capacity that is
available in video recorders and/or in cameras. The regulations in different
countries are ruling retention time for recordings until up to 31 days or even
more. However, the recordings need to be stored in the physical storages
located in the vehicles for only seven days.
Next, an example estimation is provided to illustrate the offload performance
with different uplink speeds, when the train is commuting from Helsinki to
Kemijärvi. The parameters for the calculation are provided in Table 1, whereas
the offload results for uplink speeds of 400 Mbps, 750 Mbps and 1000 Mbps are
provided respectively in Figure 1.1.1-2, Figure 1.1.1-3 and in Figure 1.1.1-4.
Station Arrives Departs Stop time Time between stations
HELSINKI 18:52
PASILA 18:57 19:00 0:03 0:08
TIKKURILA 19:41 19:44 0:03 0:44
RIIHIMÄKI 20:19 20:22 0:03 0:38
HÄMEENLINNA 20:46 20:48 0:02 0:26
TAMPERE 21:38 22:11 0:33 1:23
PARKANO 23:03 23:06 0:03 0:55
SEINÄJOKI 0:08 0:10 0:02 1:04
KOKKOLA 1:37 1:39 0:02 1:29
YLIVIESKA 3:10 3:12 0:02 1:33
OULU 4:42 5:00 0:18 1:48
KEMI 6:08 6:12 0:04 1:12
ROVANIEMI 7:47 7:55 0:08 1:43
MISI 8:31 8:32 0:01 0:37
KEMIJÄRVI 9:00 9:05 0:05 0:33
Table 4.1.1-1. The parameters for the offload calculation for the train route
between Helsinki and Kemijärvi.
{width="6.282638888888889in" height="3.584722222222222in"}
Figure 4.1.1-2. The offload results with uplink speed of 450 Mbps.
{width="6.282638888888889in" height="3.53125in"}
Figure 4.1.1-3. The offload results with uplink speed of 750 Mbps.
{width="6.226388888888889in" height="3.498611111111111in"}
Figure 4.1.1-4. The offload results with uplink speed of 1000 Mbps.
Based on the example estimations presented in the figures 4.1.1-1 -- 4.1.1-4,
the required throughput speed for the offload should be at least 1 Gbps.
Hence, in order to meet the requirement regarding the retention time and to
minimize the required physical storage in the train, FRMCS needs to provide
the means to transfer the CCTV archives from train to ground, i.e. enable
means for CCTV offload.
In a CCTV offload system, FRMCS provides means for transferring video
surveillance data between a mobile communication unit in the train and ground
communication units located at the depot and at the stations and/or stops
alongside the predetermined route of the train. Whenever the train approaches
the stations and/or stops or arrives into the depot, FRMCS facilitates the
communication between the ground and mobile communication unit. The mobile
communication unit in the train forwards the video surveillance data from the
video recorder and/or directly from video surveillance cameras. The generic
offload procedure between the ground and mobile communication units could be
e.g as described in the following;
\- The ground communication unit is monitoring whether a transmission signal
from the mobile communication unit is available and that the signal quality is
sufficient for synchronization.
\- Upon successful synchronization, the ground communication unit requests
offload from the mobile communication unit and the connection between the
ground communication and mobile communication unit is established as soon as
the sufficient signal quality is acknowledged by the FRMCS and mobile
communication unit.
\- The transfer of CCTV archives from train to ground is started.
\- The ground communication system forwards the offloaded data further to the
ground storage.
\- The transfer of CCTV archives continues as long as sufficient connection
between the train and ground system is available and/or aborted by the FRMCS.
Rail-bound mass transit requires the same functionality, however, the CCTV
offload is even more challenging due to the shorter stop times of commuter
trains.
### 4.1.2 Requirements
[R4.1.2-1] FRMCS shall facilitate the CCTV offload from train to ground when,
during the train stops the stations and/or stops, stations, and whenever the
train arrives into the stops and at the depot.
[R4.1.2-2] The FRMCS shall be able to support that CCTV archives can be
transferred into the ground system in a time and resource efficient way in
dedicated places such as stations, train stops or train depots.
[R4.1.2-3] The CCTV offload shall be initiated by the ground communication
unit, once the sufficient signal quality is available between the ground and
mobile communication units.
[R4.1.2-4] The transfer of CCTV archives shall not affect mission critical
communication.
## 4.2 Bulk transfer of multimedia from ground to train
### 4.2.1 Description
The offering of multimedia services to the passengers is becoming default
service during long travels in airplanes and more and more, also in trains. In
order to minimize the excessive consumption of network capacity between train
and ground, a bulk transfer of multimedia databases from ground to train
during stops at the stations and depots is optimal solution. The bulk transfer
of multimedia is done when the train stops at the stations, stops and depot,
ideally with minimum of one gigabit transfer speed. Hence, the multimedia
content can be more versatile and updated in regular basis. The actual content
is also consumed in-train network operated by the FRMCS and hence it does not
give burden to the link budget between train and ground. The multimedia may
contain movies, TV shows, cached webpages etc.
The bulk transfer of multimedia is facilitated by the FRMCS, which provides
means for transferring the multimedia databases data between ground
communication units, located at the depot, stations and/or stops alongside the
predetermined route of the train. Whenever the train approaches the stations
and/or stops or arrives into the depot, FRMCS facilitates the communication
between the ground and mobile communication unit, if bulk transfer of
multimedia transfer is requested. The ground communication unit uploads the
multimedia databases from ground into the mobile communication unit in the
train, where the data is stored in the train multimedia data storage. The
generic procedure for the bulk transfer of multimedia between the ground and
mobile communication units could be e.g as described in the following;
\- The ground communication unit is monitoring whether a transmission signal
from the mobile communication unit is available and that the signal quality is
sufficient for synchronization.
\- Upon successful synchronization, the mobile communication unit requests
multimedia upload from the mobile communication unit and the connection
between the ground communication and mobile communication unit is established
as soon as the sufficient signal quality is acknowledged by the FRMCS and
mobile communication unit.
\- The transfer of multimedia databases from ground to train is started.
\- The mobile communication system forwards the transferred multimedia
databases further into the in-train storage.
\- The transfer of multimedia archives continues as long as sufficient
connection between the train and ground system is available and/or aborted by
the FRMCS.
### 4.2.2 Requirements
[R4.2.2-1] FRMCS shall facilitate the transfer of multimedia archives from
ground to train.
[R4.2.2-2] The FRMCS shall be able to support that multimedia databases can be
transferred from ground to train in a time and resource efficient way, when
the train stops at the stations, train stops and at the depot.
[R4.2.2-3] FRMCS shall facilitate communication capabilities provided by the
train.
[R4.2.2-4] The transfer of multimedia databases shall not impact mission
critical communication.
## 4.3 Massive Inter-carriage data transfer
### 4.3.1 Description
The inter-carriage links between train vehicles enable sufficient capacity to
enable massive data transfer throughout the train required e.g. for transfer
of CCTV archives, multimedia databases and live streaming as well as for
control, operational, and passenger services. Mobile communication unit in
train provides connection between carriages of the train used, e.g. for the
transfer of CCTV archives to a central node in the train form which the
connection to the ground system will take place.
### 4.3.2 Requirements
[R4.3.2-1] The FRMCS shall facilitate the onboard communication between
carriages of a train, e.g. to collect CCTV content at one place on the train
for transfer to the ground system.
[R4.3.2-2] The Inter-carriage links shall support at least the same throughput
speed as the mobile communication unit of FRMCS providing the link between
train and ground system.
[R4.3.2-3] The onboard communication between carriages of a train shall not
impact mission critical communication.
## 4.4 Coexistence of automated train control with other train applications
### 4.4.1 Description
Train automation can be divided into control and operations. Both types
consist of distributed applications that rely on dependable communication.
Typically, control applications such as for automated train control are of
higher priority than operational applications, and the latter are typically of
higher priority than passenger services. One of the main challenges is to
guarantee the premium priority of control-related communication over other
types of communication, especially since the data bandwidth consumed for
control is typically dwarfed by data traffic stemming from the other two
application areas. Another challenge is to guarantee the super priority of
operational data communication over passenger-related communication.
Driverless trains are not the only source of automation in mass transit, and
thus not the only source of dependable machine-type communication. For
instance, mass transit train control (MTTC) including communication-based
train control (CBTC) is also used for trains exhibiting lower grades of
automation, if assisted by rail-to-rail-side wireless communication, which is
at the core of driverless trains.
Communication services for MTTC have to coexist with other high-priority and
low-priority communication services. This coexistence is done assigning
priorities to the communications, see below an example of how these priorities
can be allocated:
\- The MTTC communication service might have the highest priority (train
control).
\- The CCTV communication service might have high-priority, but lower than
MTTC.
\- (High data rate) data communication services such as passenger internet
access might be of low priority.
\- Emergency calls need to be established on demand with a priority suitable
to guarantee call success independent of already running communication
services.
NOTE: This kind of emergency calls is using the train and rail infrastructure
and not the public emergency services. An example for a train emergency system
are microphone/speaker boxes that are integrated into the walls of the
passenger area.
The setup of high data rate communication services with low priority does not
have an impact on the communication services for train control. Furthermore,
the start-up of a communication service for train control will acquire
sufficient resources in the 5G network, even if high data rate communication
services with low priority are already running.
### 4.4.2 Requirements
[R4.4.2-1] High priority communication services, especially their end-to-end
latency and availability, shall not be affected by communication services of
lower priority running in parallel.
[R4.4.2-2] The start-up of high-priority communication services shall not be
affected by already running services with different priorities.
# 5 Performance requirements for main line
## 5.1 Environmental conditions
Rail communication is subject to much diverse limitations in urban and
sparsely populated areas. Depending on the landscape, the construction of
tunnels, e.g. underground or mountain crossing, or the construction of new
tracks, the embedding of railway lines within aisles, through uninhabited
areas is required. Tunnels are specific and require separate consideration in
signal propagation through the changing fill factor. Here, the use of leaky
feeder cables is essential.
Crucial constraints for the provision of performance factors are summarized in
a non-exhaustive list below:
  * Free space;
  * Railway corridors in general and especially in hilly terrain;
  * Railway corridors through forest areas;
  * Underground / tunnel environment;
  * Moving trains or objects in a railway station and shunting yards;
## 5.2 Low latency and high reliability
### 5.2.1 Overview
In future, for example trains will simultaneously exchange control information
and status information with the responsible traffic management system on the
ground. This procedure is a key factor for automated operation without a
driver. Nonetheless, also traditional voice communication is needed to allow
train staff to communicate with the ground staff.
Trains are operated at speeds up to 500 km/h. Under these conditions voice,
video and data communication are to be provided. Especially train control
communication is of extreme importance to ensure passengers safety.
In normal rail operation and in the context of Grade of Automation (GoA3 and
GoA4) video/radar/lidar sensors on trains and on ground will be used to:
  * detect hazards on tracks, and
  * ensure a safe passenger (dis-)embarkation (e.g., ensure that passengers are not stuck in doors, or between platform and train, when trains depart, and trigger emergency braking or postpone train departure if any hazardous situation is detected).
The relative braking distance of a rail vehicle is an important indicator of
the safety, which is significantly influenced by the transmission reliability
between train and controller at low speeds up to 40 km/h. This mainly applies
to the entry and exit of trains in the station area or displacement manoeuvres
within marshalling yards. The reliability and latency of the transmission of
the control command signalling of speeds up to 40 km/h has a direct impact on
the braking distance.
### 5.2.2 Scenarios and KPIs for main line
To support this various voice, video and data categories,the following rail
communication scenarios under the aspect of train speed shall be considered:
  * **Voice Communication** for operational purposes impacting train safety
  * **Critical Video Communication** for observation purposes with indirect impact on train operation, e.g. passenger surveillance;
  * **Very Critical Video Communication** with direct impact on train safety- related critical train control and operation, e.g. used in driverless (e.g. Grade of Automation - GoA3/GoA4) operation for automated detection of objects (no human in the loop) or video-based remote control (human in the loop);
  * **Standard Data Communication** used for the exchange of train diagnostic information or communication relevant information;
  * **Critical Data Communication** for present rail traffic management systems;
  * **Very Critical Data** **Communication** for enhanced intelligent rail traffic management systems e.g. full automated train control systems (driverless -- remote control); requires high reliable transmission and preservation of the response pattern;
  * **Messaging** for the reliable exchange of short information e.g. train departure procedure;
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | ** | **Rel | ** | * | * | * |** Se | | Scena | End-t | iabil | Speed | _User |_ Payl | _Area | rvice | | rio_ _| o-end | ity_ _| li | e | oad_ _| tr | area | | | late | | mit_ _| xperi | | affic | dimen | | | ncy_ _| ** | | enced |__s | dens | sion\ | | | | (Note | | data | ize_ _| ity_ _| (note | | | | 1)__| | r | | | 3)__| | | | | | ate_ _| ** | | | | | | | | | (Note | | | | | | | | | 2)_ * | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Voice | ≤1 | 99,9% | ≤500 | 100 | Small | Up to | 2 | | Com | 00 ms | | km/h | kbps | | 1 | 00 km | | munic | | | | | | Mbps | along | | ation | | | | up to | | /line | rail | | for | | | | 300 | | km | t | | o | | | | kbps | | | racks | | perat | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | pur | | | | | | | | | poses | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cri | ≤1 | 99,9% | ≤500 | 10 | M | Up to | 2 | | tical | 00 ms | | km/h | Mbps | edium | 1 Gb | 00 km | | Video | | | | | | ps/km | along | | Com | | | | | | | rail | | munic | | | | | | | t | | ation | | | | | | | racks | | for | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | bserv | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | pur | | | | | | | | | poses | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Very | ≤1 | 99,9% | ≤500 | 10 | M | Up to | 2 | | Cri | 00 ms | | km/h | Mbps | edium | 1 Gb | 00 km | | tical | | | | | | ps/km | along | | Video | | | | up to | | | rail | | Com | | | | 20 | | | t | | munic | | | | Mbps | | | racks | | ation | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | irect | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mpact | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | train | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | afety | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | ≤ | 99,9% | ≤40 | 10 | M | Up to | 2 km | | | 10 ms | | km/h | Mbps | edium | 1 Gb | along | | | | | | | | ps/km | rail | | | | | | up to | | | t | | | | | | 30 | | | racks | | | | | | Mbps | | | urban | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | ation | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sta | ≤5 | 99,9% | ≤500 | 1 | Small | Up to | 1 | | ndard | 00 ms | | km/h | Mbps | to | 1 | 00 km | | Data | | | | up to | large | 00 Mb | along | | Com | | | | 10 | | ps/km | rail | | munic | | | | Mbps | | | t | | ation | | | | | | | racks | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cri | ≤5 | 99, | ≤500 | 10 | Small | Up to | 1 | | tical | 00 ms | 9999% | km/h | kbps | to | 10 Mb | 00 km | | Data | | | | up to | m | ps/km | along | | Com | | | | | edium | | rail | | munic | | | | 500 | | | t | | ation | | | | kbps | | | racks | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Very | ≤1 | 99, | ≤500 | 100 | Small | Up to | 2 | | Cri | 00 ms | 9999% | km/h | kbps | to | 10 Mb | 00 km | | tical | | | | up to | M | ps/km | along | | Data | | | | 1 | edium | | rail | | Com | | | | Mbps | | | t | | munic | | | | | | | racks | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | ≤ | 99, | ≤40 | 100 | Small | Up to | 2 km | | | 10 ms | 9999% | km/h | kbps | to | 1 | along | | | | | | up to | M | 00 Mb | rail | | | | | | 1 | edium | ps/km | t | | | | | | Mbps | | | racks | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Mess | - | 99.9% | ≤500 | 100 | Small | Up to | 2 km | | aging | | | km/h | kbps | | 1 Mb | along | | | | | | | | ps/km | rail | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | racks | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | eliab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | sub-c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | mall: | | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | | yload | | | | | | | | | ≤ 256 | | | | | | | | | oc | | | | | | | | | tets, | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | dium: | | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | | yload | | | | | | | | | ≤512 | | | | | | | | | oc | | | | | | | | | tets; | | | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | | | arge: | | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | | yload | | | | | | | | | 513 | | | | | | | | | -1500 | | | | | | | | | oc | | | | | | | | | tets. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | Esti | | | | | | | | | mates | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | imens | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 5.2.2-1 Performance requirements for rail scenarios -- main line
NOTE: All values in Table 5.2.2-1 are target values and assumes the use of a
dedicated network for rail communication.
End-to-end latency and reliability of the communication scenarios listed in
Table 5.2.2-1 shall be applied separately from the individually used priority
of the communication.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc4766803 .anchor}5.2.3 Communication establishment
The duration of time for establishing a communication between entities, e.g.
after network change or loss of communication, the braking distance between
vehicles and its impact to the risk integral is crucial. Based on this, the
following communication setup times of a communication shall be provided:
\- Immediate communication session establishment ≤1 sec;
\- Normal communication session establishment ≤3 sec.
# 6 Performance requirements for rail-bound mass transit
## 6.1 Environmental conditions
Rail-bound mass transit communication is required mostly in tunnels and urban
areas. Tunnels are specific and require separate consideration in signal
propagation, e.g for waveguide like non-line-of-sight communication, changing
cross-section or blocking/shadowing by other trains. Here, the use of leaky
feeder cables can be essential depending on the deployment scenario. Within
urban areas the interference through other users and the multi-path
propagation in conjunction with a high velocity have to be considered. In both
environments a high train density has to be considered, especially in stations
and shunting yards or depots.
## 6.2 Low latency and high reliability
### 6.2.1 Overview
Low latency and high reliability, high communication service availability, and
dependability of communication are important service and performance
requirements for mass transit train control (MTTC) such as communication based
train control (CBTC). They are necessary to provide high grades of automation
such as necessary for e.g. driverless trains. Furthermore, trains will
simultaneously exchange control information and status information with the
responsible traffic management system on the ground.
Trains are operated at speeds up to 160 km/h. The communication for rail-bound
mass transit has to be provided under these conditions.
Especially train control communication is of extreme importance to ensure
passengers safety. The relative braking distance of a rail vehicle is an
important indicator of the safety requirements.
### 6.2.2 Scenarios and KPIs for rail-bound mass transit
#### 6.2.2.1 Overview
There are three main drivers behind the growing importance of communication
services in rail-bound mass transit: (1) train automation (2) operational
data, and (3) passenger information.
Caused by increased safety awareness, onboard video surveillance/CCTV and
emergency calls play an increasing role in order to setup communication with
passengers during emergencies, e.g., when trains have to stop inside tunnels.
CCTV is required for high grades of automation by regulation.
Communication for rail-bound mass transit can be associated with different
communication patterns as described in TS 22.104 [7] Clauses 4.3 and 4.4 and
as used in communication for cyber-physical control applications in vertical
domains.
_Periodic deterministic communication_ is periodic with stringent requirements
on timeliness and availability of the communication service. A transmission
occurs every transfer interval.
_Aperiodic deterministic communication_ is without a pre-set sending time, but
still with stringent requirements on timeliness and availability of the
communication service.
_Non-deterministic communication_ subsumes all other traffic types than
periodic/aperiodic deterministic communication. This includes
periodic/aperiodic non-real-time traffic.
_Mixed traffic_ cannot be assigned to one of the other communication patterns
exclusively.
#### 6.2.2.2 Scenarios and KPIs for rail-bound mass transit
Coexistence of automated train control with other train applications: A train
is operated in an automated manner, and the communication of the train
controller with the rail side co-exists with traffic generated by other
applications.
The following communication scenarios of rail-bound mass transit shall be
considered in order to support the coexistance of automated train control with
other train applications:
_Use case 1:_ Periodic communication for train control.
_Use case 2:_ Communication serving CCTV cameras streaming within the train
and to the rail-side.
_Use case 3:_ Emergency call from the train to a remote control centre via the
mass-transit communication system.
The following communication scenario shall be considered in order to support
train coupling in rail-bound mass transit:
_Use case 4:_ Wireless communication link between two coaches; the link
carries traffic from many applications.
The following communication scenario shall be considered in order to support
rail-bound mass transit:
_Use case 5:_ CCTV offload in train stations.
A _characteristic parameter_ can be used to characterise the dynamic behaviour
and performance of the functionality of the communication service of the 5G
network (key performance indicator).
A communication service is considered unavailable in case an expected message
is not received within a specified time, which, at minimum, is the sum of
maximum end-to-end latency and survival time. The end point in \"end-to-end
latency\" is assumed to be the communication service interface between the
application and the 5G system (cf. TS 22.104 [7] Annex C).
Mean time between failures (MTBF) is one of the typical indicators for
communication service reliability. This parameter states the mean value of how
long the communication service is available before it becomes unavailable. For
instance, a mean time between failures of one month indicates that a
communication service runs error-free for one month on average before an error
makes the communication service unavailable. Usually, an exponential
distribution is assumed. This means, there will be several failures where the
time between two subsequent errors is below the mean value (1 month in the
example).
Availability and reliability together indicate frequency and duration of
acceptable unavailabilies of a communication service.
An _influence quantity_ is not essential for the characterisation of the
dynamic behaviour of an item but it affects the performance of the
characteristic parameter of an item.
Further information on characteristic parameters and influence quantities used
in Table 6.2.2.3-1 can be found in TS 22.104 [7] Annex C.
The 5G system shall support the communication service performance requirements
(KPIs) reported in Table 6.2.2.3-1.
Table 6.2.2.3-1: Characteristic parameters (KPIs) of communication service
performance requirements for rail-bound mass transit
| Characteristic parameters | Influence parameters |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Use case | Communi­cation service availabi­lity: target value (note 1) | Commu-nication service reliability: mean time between failures | End-to-end latency: maximum (note 2) | Service bit rate: user experienced data rate | Commu­nication pattern | Message size | Transfer interval: target value | Survival time | UE speed | # of UEs | Service area (note 3)  
1: Control of automated train (note 4) | 99,999 % | below 1 year but >>1 month | 99,99 % | ~1 week | 99,99 % | ~1 day | 99,9999 % | ~1 year | <100 ms | 1 Gbit/s | mixed traffic |  |  | ~500 ms | – (note 5) | 2 | 3 m x 1 m  
5: CCTV offload in train stations |  |  |  | ≥1 Gbit/s | non-deter­ministic |  |  |  | ~0 km/h | ≥1 | train station  
NOTE 1: One or more retransmissions of network layer packets may take place in order to satisfy the communication service availability requirement. NOTE 2: Unless otherwise specified, all communication includes 1 wireless link (UE to network node or network node to UE) rather than two wireless links (UE to UE). NOTE 3: Length x width. NOTE 4: 2 UEs per train car, column “# of UEs" is per train, there are multiple trains in the given service area. NOTE 5: UE speed is irrelevant since this communication takes place between two train segments. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#