# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document aims to develop **high-level use cases and identify the
related potential requirements to enable IMS to support new real time
communication services.**
**IMS enhancements for the following scenarios are studied in this document:**
  * one to many communication (e.g. live broadcast video service in a stadium, concert, etc.) with efficient media negotiation;
  * interworking for a UE to communicate with non-sip devices (e.g. camera), and delivery of information to control functions of the non-sip devices (e.g. PTZ);
  * fast IMS call setup time for Group Communication;
  * enhancements on voice & video communications for supporting AR/VR;
  * network slicing for IMS;
  * service visibility and usage;.
  * services using AI (voiceprint) in RTC.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: "Service requirements for the 5G system: Stage 1".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.468: "Group Communication System Enablers for LTE".
> [4] 3GPP TS 22.243: \"Speech recognition framework for automated voice
> services\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TR 22.977: \"Feasibility study for speech-enabled services\".
# 3 Definitions, and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**\ :** \.
... ...
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AR Augmented Reality
ASR Automatic Speech Recognition
ONVIF Open Network Video Interface Forum
PTZ Pan, Tilt and Zoom
SRF Speech Recognition Framework
VoNR Voice over New Radio
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 One source to many destinations communication
### 4.1.1 Description
Fully mobile and connected society will need efficient distribution of
information from one source to many destinations. These services may
distribute content as done today (typically only downlink), but also provide a
feedback channel (uplink) for interactive services or acknowledgement
information. Both, real-time or non-real time services should be possible.
Furthermore, such services are well suited to accommodate vertical industries'
needs. These services are characterized by having a wide distribution which
can be either geo-location focused or address-space focused (many end-users).
Beyond 2020, receiving text/pictures, audio and video, everywhere and as soon
as things happen (e.g., action or score in a football match) will be common.
Stadium services, advertisements, voucher delivery, festivals, fairs, and
congress/convention are typical scenarios.
For one source to many destinations voice/video communication, typical
scenario is that most of the audiences may only have downlink media while a
small portion of audiences may have bidirectional real time interaction. A
mechanism is needed to manage the priority/rights of users, e.g. interactive
or receive-only, performance (e.g. latency) and to deliver the content
efficiently to the users. In-network content caching provided by the operator,
a 3^rd^ party or both, can improve user experience, & reduce bandwidth
pressure.
### 4.1.2 Pre-conditions
Alice, Bob, Charlie, David are customers who can simultaneously receive video
stream from live broadcast event. For this broadcast Bob is the chairman.
Alice is authorised to have interactive service, while Charlie and David can
only receive the content.
### 4.1.3 Service Flows
Bob invite Alice, Charlie and David to join the live broadcast (indicates how
to join the live broadcast and the address e.g. URL). Alice is authorized to
have interactive service, while Charlie and David only receive the content.
The role/mode of participants can be changed after authorization and is
managed by the IMS network (e.g., receive-only, interactive).
After receiving the content from the broadcast server, the network delivers it
to caching entities which are close to the users.
Charlie requests to change and join the live broadcast in interactive mode,
which is authorized by Bob.
During the broadcast, Bob authorizes Alice to take over the chairmanship.
David requests to change and join the live broadcast in interactive mode,
which is authorized by Alice.
Chairman terminates the live broadcast.
### 4.1.4 Post-conditions
Users are able to watch the video from a content caching entity close to them,
and have interactive communication according to their priority/rights.
### 4.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.1.6 [Potential] Requirements
In addition of the requirements in TS 22.261[2] Clause 6.6 Efficient content
delivery, the IMS network shall support the following requirements.
For one-to-many communication service, the IMS network shall provide a
mechanism to support a single session with large number of users (e.g. more
than 10K) that can be in different communication modes e.g. interactive or
receive only.
For one-to-many communication service, the IMS network shall support the
different communication modes (e.g., receive-only, interactive, or switch
among these modes).
The IMS network shall be able to control the communication mode of a UE based
on the indication from a UE that acts as the chairman of the session (i.e.
based on UE role).
The IMS network shall authorize a user to join a single session served for
one-to-many communication service.
The IMS network shall be capable of deleting a user from the session served
for one-to-many communication service.
For one-to-many communication service, the IMS network shall provide a
mechanism to allow an application to allocate efficiently manage resources
(e.g. backhaul resources and/or application resource) for large numbers of
users in a single session to provide good quality of experience.
For one-to-many communication service, the IMS network shall be able to
support designated coverage area. Only users within the coverage area receive
the one-to-many communication service.
## 4.2 Remote camera control
### 4.2.1 Description
Currently, video client (e.g. camera) has been widely deployed in various
vertical industries. Real time communication between UE and camera is
emerging, e.g. for ambulances equipped with high-definition cameras, doctors
in the hospital can give remote guidance about medical treatment / diagnosis
through mobile phone and control the camera in real-time for better footage.
For this scenario the key aspect is that IMS provides service (interworking)
to a UE that allow one protocol (e.g. SIP) to control non-sip devices (e.g.
camera) that support different protocols (e.g. ONVIF).
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
Camera in the ambulance connects to the operator's network.
Doctor's UE connects to the operator's network.
### 4.2.3 Service Flows
Doctor requests communication with the camera to provide real-time medical
treatment.
Doctor requests control of the camera (e.g. Pan, Tilt, and Zoom (PTZ)) to gain
better footage.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
Effective medical treatment is given.
### 4.2.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.2.6 [Potential] Requirements
The IMS network shall provide a mechanism to allow a user to discover a video
client (e.g. camera).
The IMS network shall support the interworking (protocol conversion) for a UE
to communicate with a non-sip device (e.g. camera).
The IMS shall be able to deliver the information to control the functions of a
non-sip device (e.g. PTZ of camera).
NOTE: Existing protocols (e.g. ONVIF) could be used.
## 4.3 Fast call set up time for Group Communication
### 4.3.1 Description
As stated in TS 22.468 [3]:
_The system should provide a mechanism to support a Group Communication end-
to-end setup time less than or equal to 300ms. It is assumed that this value
is for an uncontended network, where there is no presence checking and no
acknowledgements requested from Receiver Group Member(s). The end-to-end setup
time is defined as the time between when a Group Member initiates a Group
Communication request on a UE and the point when this Group Member can start
sending start sending a voice or data communication._
_The time from when a UE requests to join an ongoing Group Communication to
the time that it receives the Group Communication should be less than or equal
to 300ms._
_Note: The 300 ms indicated in the preceding requirements is based on
requirements from ETSI ETR 086 [8] for legacy TETRA mission critical voice
systems. It is understood that_ _these requirements are particularly important
for half duplex voice communication and other data that is delay sensitive.
These requirements may not be met in some cases where the data is delay
insensitive e.g., a large document and/or where the type of Group
Communication requires acknowledgement(s) from Receiver Group Members before
it is allowed to proceed._
Although Group Communication is supported in IMS, the above requirement for
the end-to-end setup time of less than or equal to 300ms is not fulfilled. IMS
network needs to be enhanced to support critical group communication, like
MCPTT.
### 4.3.2 Pre-conditions
None.
### 4.3.3 Service Flows
None.
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 4.3.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.3.6 Potential Requirements
The IMS shall be able to support a Group Communication end-to-end setup time
of less than or equal to 300ms.
NOTE: The end-to-end setup time is defined as the time between when a Group
Member initiates a Group Communication request on a UE and the point when this
Group Member can start sending a voice or data communication.
NOTE: Roaming case is out of scope.
## 4.4 Augmented reality
### 4.4.1 Description
Currently, Conference (CONF) is one of the IMS Multimedia Telephony
supplementary services. As new technologies are emerging, more and more
operators hope to enrich the user experience based on Augmented Reality (AR)
technology, virtual meeting allows users to share and enhance users'
experiences in real-time with the same quality of communication as in a face-
to-face meeting. IMS can be used to set up and manage the AR media streams to
ensure a good user experience, i.e. users in the meeting enjoy a strong sense
of realism and presence between all participants. Low latency and high
bandwidth of communication are needed for AR service.
### 4.4.2 Pre-conditions
The IMS network supports Augmented Reality (AR) service.
Operator provides the AR service (e.g. AR meeting) for the users.
### 4.4.3 Service Flows
Bob books an AR meeting.
Bob, Alice, Mary and David join the AR meeting. Bob and Alice are in the same
meeting room, while Mary and David are in another meeting room in different
location.
The server of IMS network sets up the connection among Bob's, Alice's, Mary's
and David's terminals, and the AR meeting data are transferred among all the
participants via the operator's network.
Participants' position will be tracked and affect the synthesis of sounds,
thus, every participant can hear positional sound (i.e. character of voice
plus positions). .
Each participant's head motion will be tracked and affect the user visible
stereo video.
### 4.4.4 Post-conditions
Bob, Alice, Mary and David who attend the video meeting enjoy a good sense of
realism and presence between all participants.
### 4.4.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.4.6 [Potential] Requirements
The IMS network shall be able to provide the required QoS (e.g., reliability,
latency, and bandwidth) for AR service.
To support AR service, the IMS network shall be able to support the motion-to-
photon latency requirement as specified in TS 22. 261, section 7.2.3.
The IMS network shall be capable of monitoring the QoS provided for AR media
stream for assurance of the AR service quality.
The IMS network shall be able to inform the AR application layer when the
required QoS cannot be provided.
The IMS network should be able to terminate different media streams
individually (e.g. keep only the sound stream of AR media when the required
QoS for AR media stream cannot be provided).
The IMS network shall be able to support speech coding for positional sound.
The IMS network shall be able to set up and manage AR media stream (e.g.
coding and de-coding of video stream, composition of virtual and real world
objects).
Editor's Note: Operations over multi-operator networks and large distances may
have impact on the AR service.
## 4.5 VR Telepresence
### 4.5.1 Description
The general concept of a VR Telepresence system is to broadcast your own
environment (e.g. as 360 degree video) and allow another party to enter your
environment, while being able to communicate and interact with you. The
following use case shows such a communication link.
Anne is currently on a business in Japan and wants to join a meeting with her
team back home in Amsterdam. The team is located in a meeting room around a
360 camera and a microphone array is located on top of the camera to capture
spatial sound. The conferencing application on Anne's tablet shows a section
of the 360-degree view of the conferencing room. On voice activity, the camera
shows the person currently talking. Anne can swipe the image to look into any
direction in the conference room. Equally Anne could switch to an VR head
mounted display (HMD) or an AR glasses to experience a better immersion and
presence of the meeting room in Amsterdam.
In this scenario one side captures a 360-degree spherical video (e.g.
accomplished through the use of an omnidirectional camera) and 3D spatial
audio (e.g. captured with a microphone arrays). This captured image can be
shown on a traditional display or within an HMD (for full immersion). However,
if Anne's mobile device is not supporting the capability to encode the full
360-degree video, or if Anne has limited bandwidth (e.g. due to being in a
crowded office area), the IMS system needs to only send Anne's end device a
part of the video (i.e. the current viewpoint of Anne). Such re-encoding needs
to be executed on a server physically as close as possible to Anne's current
location (i.e. in Japan). Otherwise the motion-to-photon delay would be too
high to adopt the view quick enough and Anne's experience would suffer.
Extending on the use case from above, another colleague of Anne, Paul, is
joining the conversation from Singapore. In this case the IMS system has to
manage the streams between multiple user devices. Thus, the IMS system might
implement intelligent routing strategies like Audio/Video MCUs (multipoint
control units), in order to reduce the bandwidth load on the overall system.
As well as the re-encoding component such MCUs also depend on the physical
location of the end users.
### 4.5.2 Pre-conditions
The conference room of the team in Amsterdam is equipped with a 360-degree
camera and a microphone array that allow the recoding of spatial audio.
Both Anne and Paul need to have a 3GPP VR capable end device displaying the
360-degree video either in a HMD or on a traditional screen. In case of a
traditional screen the device needs sufficient UI capabilities to allow a user
to navigate the 360-degree video.
Further the devices of Anne and Paul need to be able to render spatial audio
based on the current viewport of the user in the 360 degree space.
### 4.5.3 Service Flows
Alice and the Team are joining the immersive call.
Negotiating the audio / video stream transmission, the IMS system identifies a
re-encoding component physically close to Anne.
The video transmission from the team is send into the network as full
360-degree image re-encoded and send as Anne's current viewport to Anne's end
device.
Further a synchronized special audio stream is send from the Amsterdam
conference Room to Anne.
The transmission from Alice is a traditional audio/video link.
### 4.5.4 Post-conditions
Alice enjoys an immersive experience, while the team can freely communicate
(including Alice being part of the conversation).
### 4.5.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.5.6 [Potential] Requirements
The IMS system shall support sufficient SDP-based mechanisms for the
negotiation of streaming and VR capabilities across senders and receivers
during both call setup and mid-call
The IMS system shall support spatial audio, in this case it has to be
transmitted in sync and via multiple channels (to support 3D and spatial
characteristics)
The IMS system shall support metadata (e.g. location of users) to orchestrate
the communication links and media servers (e.g. a viewport generators, re-
encoders) involved in the session.
The IMS system shall support different audio modes, e.g.:
\- No audio (audio is not transmitted or via a different channel, e.g. to
support lower latency for audio vs. video);
\- Stereo audio;
\- Multi-channel audio in sync with the video and with spatial information.
The IMS system shall support different delay modes, e.g.:
\- Ultra-Low latency mode, with a camera to display delay that is as close to
that of MTSI as possible (to enable conversational services);
\- Moderate latency mode, with delay of \ The category of 5GC slice is different from IMS slice. 5GC slice types are
> categorized by the different types of network performance requirements (e.g.
> latency, bandwidth, etc.). But IMS slice type should be categorized by the
> different types of application requirements (e.g. MCPTT, Public Safety,
> etc.), which does not match to 5GC slice types.
>
> Therefore it is possible that a user access to a specific IMS slice via
> different 5GC slices, e.g. a user subscribed to IMS video service may access
> to an IMS real time communication slice via eMBB slice and URLLC slice (e.g.
> video call when using AR/VR).
>
> However, some applications may require the same network performance, so that
> a user can access different IMS slices via a single 5GC slice, e.g. a user
> may access via eMBB slice to IMS voice call slice or Public safety slice.
>
> It is therefore proposed to consider IMS network slicing independent to 5GC
> slice as shown as the figure below.
Figure 4.6-1: IMS network slicing independent to 5GC slice
Case 2:
> According to NGMN document - Description of Network Slicing Concept v1.0.8
> [2] Clause 4.1, which is cited below, IMS can be a sub network instance of a
> network slice instance.
_Some examples of a network slice instance: Enhanced MBB, M2M, Enterprise and
Industry etc._
_Example of a sub network instance: IMS (IP Multimedia Subsystem) etc._
_The concept is extensible to any scenario envisioned for an application of
the network slice framework._
So, another option is to include IMS as part of the E2E slice.
{width="4.216666666666667in" height="3.029861111111111in"}
Figure 4.6-2: IMS network slicing as part of 5GC slice
### 4.6.2 Pre-conditions
NA
### 4.6.3 Service Flows
NA
### 4.6.4 Post-conditions
NA
### 4.6.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.6.6 [Potential] Requirements
IMS network shall support the Network slicing requirements as defined in TS
22.261[2] clause 6.1.2.
Note: IMS network can either be part of network slice or an independent slice.
IMS network shall allow user to access a specific IMS slice via different 5GC
slices.
IMS network shall allow users to access different IMS slices via a single 5GC
slice.
## 4.7 Service visibility and usage
### 4.7.1 Description
As new real time services are emerging, more types of devices are emerging,
including AR/VR glasses, cameras, robots, smart wearable, etc. So, UE will
need to support many real time services.
Take remote guidance application as an example, where one user can use video
communication to guide another user to perform a maintenance task.
### 4.7.2 Pre-conditions
The operator's network supports remote guidance service based on video
communication.
### 4.7.3 Service Flows
User A and B register with IMS network and get IMS network service list that
includes the remote guidance service.
The service list is displayed on the user A and B UEs.
User B selects the remote guidance service, and connects to user A.
User A instructs user B with the maintenance task.
### 4.7.4 Post-conditions
User B completes repairs task successfully and ends the call/session.
### 4.7.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
As new services are developed operators want to advertise these services to
the users so they can start using them. Hence, the IMS needs to provide a
capability to indicate / notify the available service offering to the users
and any changes to the service offering.
### 4.7.6 [Potential] Requirements
The IMS network shall provide a capability to indicate the available services
offering, and changes to the available services..
## 4.8 Services using Artificial Intelligent (voiceprint) in real time
communication
### 4.8.1 Description
With the development of cloud computing, improvement in CPU, GPU, and TPU
computing capability, and development of various algorithms (Convolutional
Neural Network (CNN), Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), etc.), Artificial
Intelligent (AI) application have made much progress in recent years. In the
content awareness of service areas, such as image recognition, speech
recognition and voiceprint recognition, there are mature applications in the
markets of security, intelligent traffic system, and biometric authentication.
In additional, technologies of machine cognition and reasoning, such as
Natural Language Processing (NLP), have been rapidly developing. There are a
lots of CHATBOT (computer programs that mimic conversation with people using
artificial intelligence.) and intelligently speakers (machine to copy
**intelligent** human behavior.), representing voice control functions in the
market.
These techniques can be used in real-time communication in public domain and
the vertical industries to provide a more intelligent and convenient means of
communication for users.
Hence, based on voiceprint, IMS can enable end users with real time
authentication/validation of user information as given in the use case below.
### 4.8.2 Pre-conditions
User A's voiceprint characteristic information is pre-provisioned in the IMS.
### 4.8.3 Service Flows
User A calls user B.
During the call user A asks B about user C contact information.
Before providing C's contact information, B uses an IMS service to
authenticate/validate the user A's identity using A's voiceprint, which user A
agreed to have done.
User B gets the result of user A's identity validation.
### 4.8.4 Post-conditions
Based on the validation result B takes the appropriate action (e.g. provide C
information if A validation was successful).
### 4.8.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.8.6 [Potential] Requirements
The IMS network shall be able to use the voiceprint analysis to authenticate
the user.
The IMS network shall provide mechanisms to record the user permission for
using voiceprint analysis.
The IMS network shall provide mechanisms to protect users\' data related to
voiceprint analysis.
## 4.9 Services using Artificial Intelligent ( on demand translation) in real
time communication
### 4.9.1 Description
3GPP has a speech recognition framework (SRF) since release 6 [4]. Although
services in this field have not been widely used, this previous study and the
function requirement illustrate a use case for IMS to support automated voice
services on the server side [5]:
{width="4.485416666666667in" height="1.5888888888888888in"}
Figure 4.9-1: On demand translation in real time communication
Some of popular scenarios for speech-to-speech translation are in the area of
travel, customer support and online meeting. These scenarios are relevant to
real time communication.
### 4.9.2 Pre-conditions
In an ongoing IMS call session, a foreign tourist User A is talking with a
local person User B. User A don't understand User B's language.
User A is provisioned with the real time translation service in IMS network.
IMS is able to provide real time translation service on demand during the call
session.
### 4.9.3 Service Flows
User A invokes the real time translation service on an active call which
redirect B's media (audio) to the translation server.
User A receive translated information of User B's speech.
Based on operator's policy and regional regulation for privacy, User B may be
informed that User A is using a translation service.
### 4.9.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 4.9.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.9.6 [Potential] Requirements
The IMS network shall be able to support real time translation service that
can be invoked by a user on demand during a call and which allows the incoming
media (e.g. audio) to be translated.
The IMS network shall be able to route the media (e.g. audio) that need to be
translated to the translation server.
NOTE 1: The output from the translation server can be audio/text.
NOTE 2: Based on operator's policy and regional privacy regulation, User B may
be informed that User A is using a translation service.
NOTE 3: The use of real time translation service for emergency call should be
considered and is subject to regional regulation.
# 5 Considerations
## 5.1 Considerations on security
For Artificial Intelligent (voiceprint) in real time communication service in
clause 4.8, security measures to protect users' data related to voiceprint
analysis are required.
## 5.2 Considerations on Charing Aspect
For one source to many destinations communication service in clause 4.1, the
operator may choose to distinguish the communication mode for charging (e.g.
interactive or receive only) per operator's policy. The communication mode
(e.g. interactive, receive only, or switching among these modes) shall be
reported in the charging information.
# 6 Conclusion and Recommendations
RTC is one of the key service in current mobile telecommunication services. As
IMS supports RTC service, it is essential to consider how to enhance IMS for
the emerging new RTC services.
In this study a number of use cases were analysed for enhancements to IMS
including one to many asymmetric communication, UE communication with non-sip
devices, delivery of information to control functions of the non-sip devices,
fast IMS call setup time for Group Communication, enhancements on voice &
video communications for supporting AR/VR, network slicing for IMS, service
visibility and usage, services using AI (voiceprint) in RTC.
The study has resulted in a set of potential requirements as captured in the
previous clauses.
It is therefore recommended that the potential requirements identified in the
present TR be considered for the development of normative requirements.
#