# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the use cases and provides gap analysis for
identifying potential requirements for optimization of both Over-The-Top and
operator managed streaming service considering new business models and
existing well-known technologies e.g. caching (UE caching, in-network caching,
internet CDN caching), content-aware service delivery, hybrid broadcast and
unicast delivery, delay tolerate delivery (using the spare resource and/or
delivery in non-busy time/hour), enhanced network sharing which covers the
case that the streaming content is provided by shared RAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
SHE service hosting environment
# 4 Overview
Mobile network operators are deciding to use LTE based system to support
streaming services. A content provider can use content caching technology in
the application in the UE to improve user experience by intelligent access
technology selection (e.g. application update or content pre-download
automatically in WLAN environment). At the same time, the network resources
are not fully utilized in certain cases (e.g. night time). The key factor to
enable "anywhere, anytime of streaming service" reachability is to optimize
network resource usage of streaming services in an efficient manner to promote
the consumption of content by the user. New technology e.g. local data center
will help to streaming transmission more efficiently.
This technical report is to study potential service requirements for
optimization of both Over-The-Top and operator managed streaming service
considering possible use cases e.g. caching, content-aware service delivery,
delay tolerate delivery, local streaming transmission etc. This study will
provide gap analysis and identify these potential requirements.
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Operator controlled Caching service delivery
### 5.1.1 Description
A user has a subscription with an operator and purchases the streaming service
from operator. The user caching service delivery takes place at different
times during the day (peak hour) and night (off-peak hour).
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
The operator provides information on how to use the caching service to the
customer who has subscribed to this service.
Authorized content providers list and data volume are configured into UE.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
The operator network provides an indication that subscription streaming
services are supported.
The subscribed user uses his UE to select a show from the operator provided
list.
The UE is able to cache the show for the user in different manner (at off-peak
hour or indoor).
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The UE disconnects from operator's streaming service.
The next origination attempt from the user's UE goes through the normal
session set up process. The UE may cache the unseen show or some other show
for free during certain time. If the user watches the cached content in the
UE, the user will be charged otherwise the cached content will be overwritten
by new content.
### 5.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None.
### 5.1.6 Potential Requirements
A 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to indicate to UEs that operator
streaming services are available.
Based on operator policy, the 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to
configure a list of authorized content providers and the maximum data volume
cached in the UE for each of these content providers.
## 5.2 Delay tolerated streaming service delivery
### 5.2.1 Description
This use case describes the delay tolerated delivery of streaming service for
a user. Some delay tolerated streaming service can be marked by user and
delivered to the UE in off-peak time (e.g. night).
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The user subscribes the video streaming service.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
1\. When commuting to office, the user watches the real-time video news and
marks some non real-time videos that could be downloaded later.
2\. The marked videos are automatically downloaded and cached at the UE at the
off-peak hours.
3\. The user watches the cached videos the next day.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
The network can setup session to transfer the delay tolerated streaming
service delivery during the off-peak time and the user is billed in watching
the video.
### 5.2.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None.
### 5.2.6 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to deliver a streaming service to UE at the off-
peak hours.
The 3GPP system shall be able to generate the charging data for this streaming
service.
## 5.3 Periodic media streaming upload
### 5.3.1 Description
In industrial plants, CCTV equipment is used to observe parts of a process
from a central control room, for example when the environment is not suitable
for humans. In some case, for example in the oil field, the plant is far away
from the central control room, the video data is stored in the local data
center owned by the operator and is periodically upload to the central data
center owned by the user.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
1\. The CCTV equipments are deployed in the plant where is far away from the
central control room.
2\. The operator deploys the local data centre (e.g. MEC system) near the
plant.
3\. The user subscribes the local data centre and the traffic package from
operator.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
1\. The CCTV equipments monitor the environment of the plant, and delivery the
monitoring video to the local data center owned by the operator.
2\. The administrator in the central control room can login the local data
centre and observe the environment of the plant.
3\. The video streaming is periodically uploaded to the central data centre
according to the subscription and policy of the 3^rd^ party (e.g. during the
off peak time).
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
The network can setup session to upload the streaming data stored in the local
data centre deployed by the operator to the central data center of the 3^rd^
party periodically according the subscription of the user.
### 5.3.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Editor's Note: text to be provided or section to be voided.
### 5.3.6 [Potential] Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to locally store streaming data.
The 3^rd^ party shall be able to configure the time of periodic upload
according to the subscription and policy of the 3^rd^ party.
The 3GPP system shall be able to collect the charging information for the
streaming service.
## 5.4 Local streaming service delivery
### 5.4.1 Description
This use case describes the local streaming service delivery which is mainly
supplied in concert, stadium, music hall, public palace, etc. In these kinds
of places, the users are almost in same location area and operator can deliver
the streaming in the local area which will reduce resource consumption and
achieve lower E2E latency.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
Bob subscribed the local streaming service supplied by Operator A.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
Bob is going to the stadium to watch football match.
The system of operator A identifies Bob's UE is entering the stadium area.
The system of operator A notifies Bob that he can enjoy the football match
through his streaming service during the match.
When the match begins, the streaming are real-time uploaded to the local
streaming servers and the system of operator A can get the specific streaming
from the local streaming servers and deliver them to users in the stadium area
according to user's requests. The streaming delivery can be real time or non-
real time which is dependent on audience's request. The real time streaming
delivery means that once the user presses the request button in his smart
phone, the specific streaming can be received in real time.
The interactions among users in the stadium are also supported by the system
of operator A.
When Bob leaves the stadium, the system of operator A identifies and notifies
Bob that the football match streaming service will be stop.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
During the match, when Bob is in the stadium area, he not only watches the
match in the stadium, but also enjoyes it with his UE, e.g. through the
streaming window focus on the goalkeeper action, through another streaming
window focus on the whole picture of the matching, to interact with other
audiences who are watching the match either.
### 5.4.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Editor's Note: text to be provided or section to be voided.
### 5.4.6 [Potential] Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to support local streaming service.
The 3GPP system shall be able to support local connection to local streaming
servers according to operator's policy.
The 3GPP system shall be able to configure local streaming service area
according to operator's policy.
The 3GPP system shall be able to identify a user is in the specific local
streaming service area.
The 3GPP system shall be able to identify a user is not in the specific local
streaming service area and stop the local streaming service.
The 3GPP system shall be able to deliver a real time or non real time local
streaming service to user according to user's preference.
The 3GPP system shall be able to generate the charging data for local
streaming service.
## 5.5 Flexible route for streaming delivery
### 5.5.1 Description
For achieving better user experience for streaming service, local streaming
service has been deployed. But the user does not always stay in one place.
When he leaves the local streaming service area, the 3GPP system should be
able to adaptively change video server and the route to continue supply
streaming service, vice versa.
On the other hand, in some condition, multiple steaming servers and routes can
be supplied to user. 3GPP network should be able to select one of them
according to operator's policy.
The use case describes one example of it.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
Bob subscribed streaming service from operator A.
Operator A deploys service hosting environment (SHE) in metro and some
applications run in the SHE.
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
Bob is in the metro to office.
Bob wants to watch video "news today" on line through his smart phone.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system selects the metro local server
and routes Bob's smart phone to the metro local server to watch video.
Bob takes off the metro and get on shuttle toward his office. The 3GPP network
identifies that Bob has left metro and the local server can't be connected.
The 3GPP system changes the video route to the general video server.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
Bob can continue watching the video in the shuttle without aware of the change
of the route.
### 5.5.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Editor's Note: text to be provided or section to be voided.
### 5.5.6 [Potential] Requirements
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall be able to automatically
change streaming service route, e.g. from local route to more general route,
vice versa.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall be able to configure
which context information is related with streaming route.
The 3GPP system shall be able to collect context information related to update
streaming route according to operator's policy.
## 5.6 Authorization for streaming delivery
### 5.6.1 Description
Today more children watch the videos on their smart phone, but some videos are
not suitable for kids. It is necessary for parent to control the content and
duration of streaming watched by kids.
This use case describes the authorization for streaming delivery.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
Bob is an eight year old boy and he often watches the videos through his smart
phone.
Bob's farther subscribes the streaming service for kids that specifies
corresponding content classification of streaming service and duration of
watching video, for example Bob can only watch the video one hour and do not
watch the violent video.
Note：The content classification may be specific countries and may depend on
local regulation.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
Bob wants to watch video online through his smart phone.
In the connection set up phase, 3GPP system should check the subscription of
Bob. If the watched video fits the subscribed grade, then the 3GPP system set
up the connection for Bob. If the video don\'t fit the subscription, the 3GPP
system shall reject to set up the connection for Bob.
The 3GPP system shall disconnect the session for Bob after subscribed
duration.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
Bob can watch video of suitable grade through his smart phone during
subscribed duration.
### 5.6.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Editor's Note: The relationship between this use case and what is provided by
OMA BCAST is FFS.
### 5.6.6 [Potential] Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to support the authorization for the streaming
delivery based on subscription and on policy defined by the third party.
## 5.7 Application user profile support for streaming delivery
### 5.7.1 Description
Today, some application server supplies one kind of pay video service. Once
user buys the pay video e.g. 9.99 USD per month for video provider's server,
he has higher priority to see the most popular and most fresh videos from the
application server.
When user watches these videos through smart phone, the 3GPP system also need
to support the application layer user priority from end to end aspect although
this kind of user profile is defined from one application server not 3GPP
system.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
Bob is one premium user of "OuyTube", a video sharing web site.
Bob and Tom subscribed with operator A.
"OuyTube" and Operator A have agreement to supply high quality video service
to "OuyTube" premium users.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
Bob and Tom want to watch "OuyTube" video online through their smart phones.
In the connection set up phase, the application server of "OuyTube" notifies
3GPP system that Bob's is in premium class.
According to agreement between "OuyTube" and Operator A, the 3GPP system sets
up high priority radio connection for Bob. But for Tom, the 3GPP system set up
normal radio connection.
In some cases, the video application server may be hosted in local, with the
help of local service hosting environment, the 3GPP system also can be
notified the application user's priority.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
Bob can watch "OuyTube" video through his smart phone with high quality.
Tom can watch "OuyTube" video through his smart phone with normal quality.
### 5.7.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Editor's Note: text to be provided or section to be voided.
### 5.7.6 [Potential] Requirements
According to agreement between application server and Operator, the 3GPP
system shall support the operator or the 3^rd^ party to configure which user
profile information belonging to the application server should be shared with
the 3GPP system.
## 5.8 Network assistant application optimization for streaming delivery
### 5.8.1 Description
For achieving better user experience for streaming service, local streaming
service has been deployed. Some popular streaming content in the local
streaming server is distributed from one same cloud video application server.
But when the streaming content in the local streaming server is continuously
delivered to the end user through 3GPP system, it has to face different radio
environment in different local area which will greatly impact the streaming
delivery quality.
So, it is suggested that different radio condition and local traffic context
should be considered in the local streaming server to adjust application layer
transmission to help to achieve better user experience. That means when the
local streaming server gets the radio environment information e.g. radio
condition, local traffic context, etc. it can decide whether the application
level video optimization function should be utilized to achieve better user
experience.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
Bob and Tom subscribed streaming service with 4K quality in default from
operator A.
Operator A deploys multiple local service hosting environments (SHE) in
different area e.g. airport, CBD etc. And "News Today" which is one popular
video application runs in these SHEs.
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
Bob is in the airport waiting for board.
Bob wants to watch video "News today" on line through his smart phone.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system selects the airport local
server and routes Bob's smart phone to the airport local server to watch
video.
The airport local server requests the 3GPP system to share the airport radio
environment information and decides to utilize its most efficient video
compress function in application layer to help the 4K video successfully to be
delivered over airport radio environment.
At the same time, Tom is in CBD and also wants to watch video "News today" on
line through his smart phone.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system selects the CBD local server
and routes Tom's smart phone to the CBD local server to watch video.
The CBD local server requests the 3GPP system to share the information of CBD
radio environment and decides that the radio environment is good and there is
no need to invoke the most efficient video compress function.
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
Bob receives the 4K format streaming in the airport.
Tom receives the 4K format streaming in the CBD.
### 5.8.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Editor's Note: text to be provided or section to be voided.
### 5.8.6 [Potential] Requirements
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall support the SHE which is
deployed in different local area (no matter belongs to operator or the 3^rd^
party) to configure which radio environment information can be shared to the
application layer which is hosted in the SHE.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall support the SHE which is
deployed in different local area (no matter belongs to operator or the 3^rd^
party) to get radio environment information based on the configuration.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on security
Security measures shall be provided to protect access to streaming service via
different RATs or operators, e.g. with RAN sharing.
The 3GPP system shall be able to authorize the streaming delivery based on
subscription and on policy defined by a third party.
Editor's note: additional security considerations are for further study.
## 6.2 Considerations on charging
Charging information shall identify whether the streaming service was provided
in real time or using delay tolerant delivery.
If the cached content on the UE is viewed by the user, the charging
information for that content needs to be generated.
The 3GPP system shall be able to generate the charging data (e.g. the duration
of streaming service, the amount of data transferred) for local streaming
service.
# 7 Potential Requirements
A 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to indicate to UEs that operator
streaming services are available.
The 3GPP system shall be able to schedule deliver a download-and-play service
to UE at the off-peak hours.
The 3GPP system shall be able to support local connection to local streaming
servers according to operator's policy.
The 3GPP system shall be able to configure local streaming service area
according to operator's policy.
The 3GPP system shall be able to identify a user is in the specific local
streaming service area.
The 3GPP system shall be able to identify a user is not in the specific local
streaming service area and stop the local streaming service.
The 3GPP system shall be able to deliver video content via local service
delivery immediately or postponed according to user's preference.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system may be able to automatically
change streaming service route, e.g. from local route to more general route,
vice versa.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall be able to configure
which context information is related with streaming route.
The 3GPP system shall be able to collect context information related to update
streaming route according to operator's policy.
According to agreement between application server and Operator, the 3GPP
system shall support the operator or the 3^rd^ party to configure which user
profile information belonging to the application server should be shared with
the 3GPP system.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall support the SHE which is
deployed in different local area (no matter belongs to operator or the 3^rd^
party) to configure which radio environment information can be shared to the
application layer which is hosted in the SHE.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall support the SHE which is
deployed in different local area (no matter belongs to operator or the 3^rd^
party) to get radio environment information based on the configuration.
# 8 Conclusion and Recommendations
The Feasibility Study on Enhancement of LTE for Efficient delivery of
Streaming Service Technical Report analyses several use cases of eLESTR. The
use cases address three key aspects of eLESTR:
\- operator controlled Caching service delivery
\- service delivery via an optimized path, and
\- authorization and security
Taking into consideration the Use Cases and Scenarios defined in Clause 5, new
considerations related to security and charging for eLESTR have been
identified in Clauses 6 with additional potential requirements in Clauses 7.
It is recommended to proceed with normative work.
#