# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.,
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document examines the business role models for network slicing in
order to identify potential requirements that will enable a 3GPP system to
adequately support those models, including:
Business role models for network slicing,
Trust relationships between MNOs and 3rd parties under various business role
models,
Security relationships based on business role models,
Relationship of business role models with slice characteristics (e.g., slice
scalability, slice flexibility), and
3GPP enhancements needed to support the business role models for slices.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.804: \"Study on Communication for Automation in Vertical
Domains\";
[4] ETSI TR 103 588v1.1.1: \"Reconfigurable Radio Systems (RRS); Feasibility
study on temporary spectrum access for local high-quality wireless networks\".
[5] 5G NORMA Deliverable D3.3: \"5G NORMA network architecture -- Final
report\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**non-public network:** a network that is intended for non-public use
**private slice:** a dedicated network slice deployment for the sole use by a
specific 3rd party.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5G 5th Generation
5GC 5G core network
A/V Audio/Visual
CD/DVD Compact Disc/Digital Versatile Disc
IoT Internet of Things
KPI Key Performance Indicator
LSA Licensed Shared Access
MIoT Massive Internet of Things
MNO Mobile Network Operator
OTT Over the Top
SCEF Service Capability Exposure Function
SPaaS Spectrum as a Service
URLLC Ultra Reliable Low-Latency Communications
V/NFs Virtual Network Functions
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Business, stakeholder and management role models
5G supports new business role models relevant for 3GPP systems. In previous
generations, business role models centered on two key types of relationships:
those between Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) and their subscribers and those
between MNOs (e.g., roaming, RAN sharing). To a limited extent, relationships
between MNOs and 3rd party application providers have also been supported in
the form of APIs (e.g., by the SCEF interface - see TS 23.682) allowing access
to specific network capabilities, such as those used by 3rd party applications
to access UE location information. 5G opens the door to new business role
models for 3rd parties, allowing 3rd parties more control of system
capabilities. This document considers these new business roles and how 3GPP
can best support the trust relationships between MNOs and 3rd parties
resulting from these new business role models.
In 5G three role models are envisaged for stakeholders.
1) The MNO owns and manages both the access and core network.
2) An MNO owns and manages the core network, the access network is shared
among multiple operators (i.e., RAN sharing).
3) Only part of the network is owned and/or managed by the MNO, with other
parts being owned and/or managed by a 3rd party.
The first two are essentially those found in previous generations of 3GPP
systems, where MNOs are operating PLMNs. In 5G it is expected that a 3rd party
can take on the role of an MNO, however in this case the 3rd party would
operate its own network. From a 3GPP perspective, stakeholder role models 1
and 2 are the same whether an MNO or vertical 3rd party is involved. Basic
support for the 3rd party stakeholder role model was provided in previous
generations via APIs which allowed minimal access to or management of network
capabilities. In contrast, the 5G enhancements will allow greater control and
ownership by the 3rd party, which will require increased trust between the MNO
and 3rd party. These new trust relationships become even more impactful when
network slicing is considered, particularly where the 3rd party is authorized
to control some aspects of network slices that are owned by the MNO.
With the introduction of network slicing, the third stakeholder role model
above warrants additional investigation to understand the trust relationships
between MNOs and 3rd parties. There are four potential business relationship
models impacting the trust relationships for stakeholder role model 3.
\- Model 3a: MNO provides the virtual/physical infrastructure and V/NFs; a 3rd
party uses the functionality provided by the MNO,
\- Model 3b: MNO provides the virtual/physical infrastructure and V/NFs; a 3rd
party manages some V/NFs via APIs exposed by the MNO,
\- Model 3c: MNO provides virtual/physical infrastructure; a 3rd party
provides some of the V/NFs,
\- Model 3d: a 3rd party provides and manages some of the virtual/physical
infrastructure and V/NFs.
Table 4.1-1 Business relationship models.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Model | Model | Model | Model | | | | | 3a | 3b | 3c | 3d | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Vi | Core | p | MNO | MNO | MNO | MNO and | | rtual/p | | hysical | | | | 3^r | | hysical | | | | | | d^party | | Infrast | | | | | | | | ructure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (3GPP | | | | | | | | archit | | | | | | | | ecture) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | virtual | MNO | MNO | MNO | MNO and | | | | | | | | 3^r | | | | | | | | d^party | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | RAN | p | MNO | MNO | MNO | MNO and | | | | hysical | | | | 3^r | | | | | | | | d^party | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | virtual | MNO | MNO | MNO | MNO and | | | | | | | | 3^r | | | | | | | | d^party | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Virtual | P | | MNO | MNO | MNO and | MNO and | | Network | rovider | | | | 3^r | 3^r | | Fu | | | | | d^party | d^party | | nctions | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Applica | | | | | | | | tions/S | | | | | | | | ervers) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Manager | | MNO | MNO and | MNO and | MNO and | | | | | | 3^r | 3^r | 3^r | | | | | | d^party | d^party | d^party | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Of these models, 3a and 3b have been addressed by the requirements in place in
TS 22.261. Provision has been made to ensure appropriate APIs and management
functions to support this extended 3rd party access and control of
capabilities provided by the MNO, and to do so in a secure manner. Within
these two models, the 3rd party has increasing control over the network
capabilities that support its service. However, this control is limited to
what is allowed by the MNO through the provided APIs.
Models 3c and 3d provide extended control for the 3rd party on the network
capabilities supporting its service. However, these models still require
ensuring appropriate levels of security are maintained for any communications.
In four potential business relationship models, three management role models
can be considered for models 3c and 3d.
1) MNO manages all virtual/physical infrastructure and all V/NFs including 3rd
party's ones,
2) 3rd party manages its own virtual/physical infrastructure and/or its own
V/NFs; MNO manages the others.
3) 3rd party manages virtual/physical infrastructure and/or V/NFs including
its own virtual/physical infrastructure and/or V/NFs and some MNO's
virtual/physical infrastructure and/or V/NFs; MNO manages the others.
From the 3rd party perspective, the management role models 2 and 3 support the
3rd party management function and provide extended management for the MNO to
coordinate with the 3rd party management. The 3rd party may use suitable APIs
provided by the MNO to directly manage the V/NFs as well as the infrastructure
resources so that it can properly handle when their business requirements are
changed.
## 4.2 Trust relationships
The degree of trust between the MNO and 3rd party has an impact on the 3GPP
system. In model 3a, the 3rd party must be able to trust the MNO to provide
the necessary capabilities. In the other models, the MNO must also be able to
ensure that the degree of control provided to the 3rd party does not allow the
3rd party to negatively impact the MNOs network. TS 22.261 addresses the trust
relationships for models 3a and 3b. For models 3c and 3d to be supported,
additional consideration is needed on the mechanisms to provide the isolation
and interfaces that give the 3rd party the appropriate level of control while
securing the PLMN.
Specifically for models 3c and 3d, where the 3rd party provides V/NFs or
provides and manages some of the virtual/physical infrastructure and V/NFs,
SLAs may be used to address some trust issues, such as what each party will
provide and manage. However, the principles of trust and verification also
come into play. The 3rd party must be able to verify, though the management
interface, that all terms of the SLA are being met by the MNO. Similarly, the
MNO must be able to verify that the 3rd party is managing resources
appropriately so that there is no adverse impact to the rest of the network.
Appropriate management interfaces are needed to support both the network
operator and 3rd party.
The underlying trust relationships support such models and may lead to new
3GPP requirements, such as the abilities to provide slice based authentication
and slice based encryption and integrity protection. The present document
considers the trust relationships related to extended control by a 3rd party.
# 5 Role model scenarios
## 5.1 3rd party encryption
### 5.1.1 Description
A mobile network operator provides a slice for small business customers. This
small business slice supports capabilities such as LAN emulation for the
office environment, support for employee smartphones (e.g., voice, high speed
data), and internet connectivity to support the business' social media and
advertising needs. The slice can be customized by individual small business
customers to better meet their specific needs, using APIs provided by the
operator.
In this scenario, a small business wants to ensure the privacy of its
communications within the slice. The trust relationship between the network
operator and the 3rd party requires that communications within the slice be
private both in terms of other users of the network and the network operator.
This trust relationship can be met by allowing the 3rd party to provide their
own encryption algorithm for intra-slice communications, using a customization
capability provided by the network operator.
This 3rd party encryption ensures the privacy of the business' communications
within the private slice, although certain metadata may still be visible to
the MNO, providing the MNO with resource management data.
The new requirement for this model concerns the ability for the 3rd party to
provide its own encryption algorithm for intra-slice communication. Such
encryption could be done as an OTT capability, but this would have a negative
impact on the overall efficiency of the slice communications. The additional
layer of encryption/decryption at each UE and network element, on top of the
normal 3GPP processing, increases resource usage, which reduces efficiency and
impacts battery life. The time to perform the OTT encryption/decryption also
adds to the latency delay for each communication.
Being able to use the 3rd party encryption in a 3GPP-supported manner allows
the small business to ensure the privacy of its internal communications and to
do so in a resource efficient manner. This requirement would be added to the
network capability exposure clause of TS 22.261 [2].
### 5.1.2 Potential requirements
[PR 5.1.2-1] The 3GPP system shall provide suitable APIs to allow use of a
trusted 3rd party provided encryption between any UE served by a private slice
and a core network entity in that private slice.
## 5.2 Private slice selection
### 5.2.1 Description
A business wants to have a secure and isolated set of network capabilities
that meets its communication needs, without having to purchase and maintain
the network infrastructure. In this case, a mobile network operator can use
network slicing as a means to provide a virtual private network, or private
slice, for the enterprise.
The criteria for the private slice include the following:
\- only UEs belonging to the 3rd party have access to the resources allocated
to the slice -- this prevents unauthorized UEs from consuming slice resources
potentially resulting in an authorized UE not being able to access a needed
resource
\- some UEs belonging to the 3rd party may be authorized for use only on the
slice (i.e., no access to other slices of the network) -- a robot should only
use resources belonging to the slice to ensure it receives the necessary
service support (QoS etc.)
\- some UEs belonging to the 3rd party may be authorized for use on the slice
as well as on other slices of the network.
The MNO allocates the necessary resources that meet the agreed KPIs for the
business to the private slice. The slice includes radio resources allocated
for the sole use of the business as well as core network functionality. A
business may arrange for more than 1 private slice to differentiate service
offerings for different types of equipment, e.g., robotic manufacturing
equipment that requires URLLC may be assigned to a specific slice while access
to databases and office equipment may be assigned to a separate slice with
different KPIs. Some equipment may need to have access to more than one of the
private slices used by the business.
A mechanism is needed to ensure that the business' traffic is confined to the
slices allocated to the business. This avoids potential churn to the remaining
network resources as well as constrains resource usage metrics for slice
management and charging purposes. For similar reasons, a mechanism is also
needed to prevent non-authorized UEs from attaching to a slice. If the
business uses more than one slice (e.g., URLLC/non-URLLC) then a mechanism is
needed to ensure that UEs only access the slice(s) within the business that
they are authorized for (e.g., printer cannot access a URLLC slice). At the
same time, some UEs need to be able to access both slices and slices open to
other users (e.g., employee phones). Techniques similar to CSG could be used
to optimize the access attempts to certain slices. An optional secondary
authentication may also be used to ensure that only authorized UEs access the
functionality of the private slice.
The trust relationships in this scenario include the following aspects.
\- The business trusts the MNO to provide the agreed resources and
functionality needed by the business.
\- The MNO is responsible for ensuring isolation of the slice communications
from the rest of the network, including only allowing authorized UEs to access
a slice and constraining authorized UEs to the authorized slice.
\- The business may provide a secondary authentication to ensure only
authorized UEs access the private slice.
### 5.2.2 Potential requirements
[PR 5.2.2-5] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to prevent a UE from
accessing a cell it is not authorized to select.
[PR 5.2.2-6] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for a 3rd party to
authenticate a UE for access to a private slice.
## 5.3 Network slicing and roaming scenarios
### 5.3.1 Description
A customer may require certain network slice capabilities that work across a
very large area. For example, a company that provides transportation services
may have vehicles that cross borders between operators and between nations.
These vehicles may use certain slices in their HPLMN that they also need to
access in VPLMNs. The 5G system should support the use of specific network
slices in the HPLMN as well as VPLMNs that mobile devices may roam to. There
are at least 3 methods to do this:
a) Define standardized slices so that a roaming device can obtain service from
the same slice that it uses in home network. This approach is somewhat
inflexible, as it requires 3GPP specification. Customers would also need to
design their applications to work in the standardized slices.
b) Define slices with comparable characteristics that will be supported by a
group of agreeable operators. As long as the customer is served by those
operators, the required slice will be available. This could be done without a
3GPP specification.
c) Define signalling that allows the HPLMN specific slices to be "ported" to a
serving PLMN. Essentially the home network could provide a slice's blueprint
to the VPLMN. The VPLMN would then create a slice that meets the requirements
or respond that it cannot support the specific requirements.
## 5.4 Enhanced network capability exposure for distribution network of smart
grid
### 5.4.1 Description
A mobile network operator provides a slice for a power grid company. This
slice supports power grid specific services such as MIoT service for grid
sensors in the company\'s Distribution Network. These sensors, deployed at
each home, could record the usage of power, and send the recorded data back to
the company via the mobile network. The manager of power grid company could
customized the slice to meet their specific needs, by using APIs provided by
the mobile network operator.
Figure 5.4.1-1: Overview of the role model scenario between MNO and power grid
company
As depicted in Figure 5.4.1-1, the private slice provides MIoT services for
power grid company's sensors across multiple areas. In the control centre, a
management tool, which is called Unified device management platform, could
manage these sensors distributed in different areas via the APIs provided by
the mobile network operator. The Unified device management platform could
further cooperate with other specific tools or platforms for smart grid
applications, e.g., electricity meters, charging pile, distributed generation,
distribute automation.
In this scenario, a power grid company wants to manage their numerous devices
more effective via the APIs provided by the mobile network operator. For
example, the company wants to know the current status (e.g., location,
connection status and etc.) of their devices in a specific area to get the
whole view for this area. The numbers of the devices could be in a range from
digits to tens of thousands. Some devices perform normally, but some devices
may be abnormal, i.e., there is no feedback from the UE at company's
application layer. Once there are one or more abnormal devices, the company
would like to get further information from the operator that whether the
problem comes from the network communication to a UE or from the UE itself. If
a failure device is identified, a repair team will be sent to fix it.
Being able to provide more information via APIs allows the power grid company
to get the whole picture for their deployed devices and to identify and repair
the abnormal device in a more efficient way. These requirements would be added
to the network capability exposure clause of TS 22.261 [2].
### 5.4.2 Potential requirements
[PR 5.4.2-1] The 3GPP network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a trusted
3rd party to monitor the status (e.g., locations, lifecycle, registration
status) of its own UEs served by a private slice in a specific area that
covered by this slice.
NOTE: The number of UEs could be in the range from single digit to tens of
thousands.
[PR 5.4.2-2] The 3GPP network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a trusted
3rd party to get the network status information of a private slice dedicated
for the 3rd party, e.g., the network communication status between the slice
and a specific UE.
## 5.5 A/V production use cases with local standalone network deployment
### 5.5.1 Description
Consider the case of an audio/video production company that may require
covering and producing professional live A/V content of an event (e.g.,
sports, culture, entertainment, politics, news gathering, etc.) in a location
where no 5G system infrastructure is available. We distinguish two deployment
scenarios:
1) No MNO's 5G system is available, i.e., neither 5G core network (5GC) nor 5G
radio access network (NG-RAN) infrastructure is available
2) Only MNO's 5GC is available
In the first deployment scenario, since neither 5GC nor NG-RAN infrastructure
is available at the desired location, none of the three stakeholder models
described in clause 4.1 are feasible. In fact, this deployment scenario would
require a vertical 3rd party to deploy on demand the full network
infrastructure necessary to set up a standalone non-public network at the
desired location. In this contribution, we consider the case that the vertical
3rd party is an A/V production business and that it has the ability to deploy
its own standalone non-public network to satisfy its communication
requirements. Thus, the 5G local standalone network may follow a non-public
network deployment and includes both core and access components.
However, for successful wireless communication not only network infrastructure
but also access to radio spectrum is needed. The requirement for guaranteed
QoS levels as described in [3] precludes the operation of the considered
standalone non-public networks in licensed-exempt spectrum, mostly related to
coexistence problems and targets instead access to exclusive licensed
spectrum. Since no MNO is involved at the desired location, the vertical 3rd
party deploying such a standalone non-public network needs to find an
alternative way to access spectrum. One alternative way could be provided by
the framework of evolved Licensed Shared Access [4], which extends the scope
of the LSA licensees to include vertical 3rd parties as independent local
communication service providers.
The first deployment scenario does not put any requirements on the 3GGP
system. It is provided to illustrate the specific case where 3rd party network
operators may need to deploy on demand standalone non-public networks --
comprising both core and access components - at locations where no other 5G
system infrastructure is available.
For the second deployment scenario, role model 2) in clause 4.1 can be
leveraged. It is stated in that clause that from a 3GPP perspective, role
model 2) does not change whether an MNO or a vertical 3rd party is involved,
if the vertical 3rd party would operate its own network. Following this
thinking, a suitable business relationship model for deployment scenario 2) is
one in which a 3rd party deploys and manages at the required location anon-
public network.
In addition, deployment scenario 2) aims to introduce new considerations
regarding spectrum access for non-public networks. Deployment scenario 2)
assumes that the involved MNO may be able to provide spectrum access and/or
interference management services to non-public networks deployed by a 3rd
party. Therefore, the non-public networks and the MNO Operations System need
to be connected through appropriate standardized interfaces. This scenario is
illustrated in Figure 5.5.1-1 and Figure 5.5.1-2.
{width="6.743055555555555in" height="3.142361111111111in"}
Figure 5.5.1-1: Two local A/V production networks deployed as 3GPP non-public
networks and remotely connected over the 5G Core infrastructure of a PLMN
{width="5.815972222222222in" height="2.9930555555555554in"}
Figure 5.5.1-2: Local A/V network deployed as a 3GPP non-public network
connected to the Operations System of a PLMN
As depicted in Table 5.5.1-1, deployment scenario 2 distinguishes two cases:
\- Spectrum as a Service (SPaaS): MNO is willing to provide both spectrum
access and automatic interference management services to a non-public network
deployed by a vertical 3rd party and connected to the MNO's Operations System
through appropriate standardized interfaces.
\- Local subleasing: MNO is willing to provide spectrum access service but no
automatic interference management service to a non-public network deployed by
a 3rd party and connected to the MNO's Operations System through appropriate
standardized interfaces. This case follows the concept of local sub-leasing
described in [4].
Thus, the difference between the two models is whether the automatic
interference management service is also offered by the MNO's Operations System
to the local A/V production network or not.
Table 5.5.1-1: Role model scenarios for stand-alone non-public network
operation
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Roles** | **Business | | | | | | r | | | | | | elationship | | | | | | models** | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **Scenario |** Scenario | | | | | 1**| 2** | | | | | | | | | | | **eLSA | | | | | | (note 1) | | | | | | Local | | | | | | Licensing** | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | **Spectrum |** Local | | | | | as a | S | | | | | Service | ubleasing**| | | | | (SPaaS)** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | * | Owner | Incumbent | MNO | MNO | | _Spectrum_ _| | (note 2) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Manager | eLC (note | MNO | eLC (note | | | | 3) | | 7) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |__Infra | CORE | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | | structure_ _| | (note 4) | (note 4) | (note 4) | | | | | and MNO | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | RAN | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |__V/NFs_ _| CORE | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | | | | (note 4) | (note 4) | (note 4) | | | | | and MNO | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | RAN | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |__M | CORE | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | | anagement_ _| | (note 4) | (note 4) | (note 4) | | | | | and MNO | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | RAN | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | 3^rd^ Party | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |__Network | Service | A/V | A/V | A/V | | User_ * | | Production | Production | Production | | (note 5) | | business | business | business | | | | (note 5) | (note 5) | (note 5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Service | Consumers | Consumers | Consumers | | | user | (note 6) | (note 6) | (note 6) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | evolved | | | | | | Licensed | | | | | | Shared | | | | | | Access | | | | | | (LSA) | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Incumbent | | | | | | may include | | | | | | MNOs | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | evolved LSA | | | | | | controller | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: As | | | | | | part of | | | | | | local RAN | | | | | | (embedded) | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | Depending | | | | | | on the | | | | | | selected | | | | | | model, the | | | | | | A/V | | | | | | production | | | | | | business | | | | | | decides for | | | | | | which roles | | | | | | it would | | | | | | like to act | | | | | | as the | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | Party. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | Consumer of | | | | | | the A/V | | | | | | application | | | | | | service can | | | | | | be e.g., | | | | | | the live | | | | | | audience of | | | | | | an event or | | | | | | the | | | | | | off-line | | | | | | audience | | | | | | listeni | | | | | | ng/watching | | | | | | CDs/DVDs or | | | | | | downloading | | | | | | the | | | | | | po | | | | | | st-produced | | | | | | content | | | | | | from a | | | | | | media | | | | | | center, | | | | | | etc. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: | | | | | | evolved LSA | | | | | | controller | | | | | | [4] as | | | | | | part of the | | | | | | MNO's 5G | | | | | | system | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 5.5.2 Potential requirements
[PR 5.5.2-1] The 3GPP system shall allow a 3rd party to connect non-public
networks to an MNO's Operations System through standardized interfaces.
[PR 5.5.2-2] The 3GPP system shall support MNOs to offer spectrum access
and/or automatic configuration services (for instance, interference
management) to non-public networks deployed by 3^rd^ parties and connected to
an MNO's Operations System through standardized interfaces.
## 5.6 A/V production use cases relying on PLMN infrastructure
### 5.6.1 Description
Consider the case of an audio/video (A/V) production company producing
professional live A/V content of an event (e.g., sports, culture,
entertainment, politics, news gathering, etc.) in a location where 5G
infrastructure is available.
We distinguish two deployment scenarios:
1) Fixed 5G installations, e.g., in a state theatre, stadium, convention
centre, exhibition hall, etc.
2) Nomadic 5G installations, e.g., typical during a band tour or entertainment
show hosting at several different cities
In both scenarios, it is assumed that 5G core network infrastructure is
available at the desired locations. In the first scenario, the 5G access
network infrastructure (5G-AN) is fixed installed at the desired location. In
the second scenario, the 5G-AN infrastructure is installed on demand for the
duration of the event in the desired locations. Any of the business
relationship models 3b, 3c and 3d introduced in clause 4 of this TR are
considered feasible in both scenarios, fixed or nomadic.
Table 5.6.1-1 illustrates each of the possible business relationships from the
perspective of the A/V production business in charge of the event. The A/V
production business should have the possibility to choose between any of the
three business relationship models presented in Table 5.6.1-1. Depending on
the selected model, the A/V production business should have again the
possibility to decide for which roles it would like to act as the 3rd party.
Further note that in a typical vertical use case, the network users are not,
as in typical MNO business, the subscribers of the MNO, but subscribers of the
service application of the vertical use case, in this clause the A/V
production business. In turn, the users of the A/V production business are the
consumers, e.g., the live audience of an event or the off-line audience
listening/watching CDs/DVDs or downloading the post-produced content from a
media center, etc.
For all business relationship the A/V production network should be a 3GPP
network that is not for public use and may interact with a PLMN. The A/V
production network may be deployed as a network slice provided by an MNO or a
vertical 3rd party.
For all business relationship models in Table 5.6.1-1 following aspects apply:
\- In the case that the A/V production network is deployed as a network slice:
\- The A/V production business trusts the MNO and any other 3rd party involved
in its A/V production network slice to provide the agreed resources and
functionality as described in [3].
\- The privacy of communication within the A/V production network slice shall
be ensured by the MNO and or any 3rd party involved.
\- Either the MNO or the 3rd party providing the slice is responsible for
ensuring isolation of the slice communications from the rest of its network.
This includes only allowing authorized UEs to access the A/V production
network slice and constraining authorized UEs to the authorized slice.
\- Mutual sharing of assets (e.g., infrastructure, V/NFs) may be allowed
between the 3rd party and the MNO.
In addition, for business relationship 3d the following features are required:
\- The A/V production network contains both core and access components
\- The 3GPP system shall support connection (plug-in) of 3rd party network
infrastructure (i.e., physical/virtual network entities at RAN/core level) to
a private slice.
Table 5.6.1-1: Feasible business relationship models for fixed & nomadic A/V
production network scenarios
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Roles** | **Business | | | | | | r | | | | | | elationship | | | | | | models** | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **Model |** Model | **Model | | | | 3b** | 3c**| 3d** | | | | | | | | | | **A/V |** A/V | **A/V | | | | production | production | production | | | | network | network | network | | | | slice with | slice with | slice** | | | | limited | extended | | | | | control**| control** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | * | **Owner** | **MNO** | **MNO** | **MNO** | | _Spectrum_ _| | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | |__Manager_ _|__MNO_ _|__MNO_ _|__MNO_ _| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |__Inf |__CORE_ _|__MNO_ _|__MNO_ _|__3rd Party | | rastructure | | | | and MNO_ _| | ( | | | | | | Physical)__| | | |__(note | | | | | | 5)__| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | |__AN_ _|__MNO_ _|__MNO_ _|__3rd Party | | | | | | and MNO_ _| | | | | | | | | | | |__(note | | | | | | 5)__| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |__Virtual |__CORE_ _|__MNO_ _|__3rd Party |__3rd Party | | NFs_ _| | | and/or | and MNO_ _| | | | | MNO_ _| | | ** | | | |__(note | | Provision_ _| | | | 5)__| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | |__AN_ _|__MNO_ _|__3rd Party |__3rd Party | | | | | and/or | and MNO_ _| | | | | MNO_ _| | | | | | |__(note | | | | | | 5)__| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |__Virtual |__CORE_ _|__3rd Party |__3rd Party |__3rd Party | | NFs_ _| | (note 1) | and/or | and MNO_ _| | | | and/or | MNO_ _| | |__M | | MNO_ _| |__(note | | anagement_ _| | | | 5)__| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | |__AN_ _|__3rd Party |__3rd Party |__3rd Party | | | | (note 1) | and/or | and MNO_ _| | | | and/or | MNO_ _| | | | | MNO_ _| |__(note | | | | | | 5)__| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |__Network |__Service_ _|__A/V |__A/V |__A/V | | User (note | | Production | Production | Production | | 2)__| | business | business | business | | | | (note 3)__| (note 3)__| (note 3)__| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | |__Service |__Consumers |__Consumers |__Consumers | | | User_ _| (note 4)__| (note 4)__| (note 4)_ * | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | V/NFs are | | | | | | managed via | | | | | | APIs | | | | | | exposed by | | | | | | the MNO. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | network | | | | | | user is the | | | | | | A/V | | | | | | application | | | | | | service. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Depending | | | | | | on the | | | | | | selected | | | | | | model, the | | | | | | A/V | | | | | | production | | | | | | business | | | | | | decides for | | | | | | which roles | | | | | | it would | | | | | | like to act | | | | | | as the | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | Party. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | Consumer of | | | | | | the A/V | | | | | | application | | | | | | service can | | | | | | be e.g., | | | | | | the live | | | | | | audience of | | | | | | an event or | | | | | | the | | | | | | off-line | | | | | | audience | | | | | | listeni | | | | | | ng/watching | | | | | | CDs/DVDs or | | | | | | downloading | | | | | | the | | | | | | po | | | | | | st-produced | | | | | | content | | | | | | from a | | | | | | media | | | | | | center, | | | | | | etc. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: In | | | | | | this model, | | | | | | both a 3rd | | | | | | party and | | | | | | MNO provide | | | | | | and manage | | | | | | some of the | | | | | | virtu | | | | | | al/physical | | | | | | inf | | | | | | rastructure | | | | | | and V/NFs. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 5.6.2 Potential requirements
[PR 5.6.2-1] The 3GPP system shall provide suitable APIs to allow use of
additional encryption mechanisms, provided by a trusted vertical 3rd party
between any UE served by a private slice and a core network entity in that
private slice.
[PR 5.6.2-2] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to prevent a UE from
accessing a private slice it is not authorized to access.
[PR 5.6.2-3] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for a 3rd party to
authenticate a UE for access to a private slice which is allocated to this 3rd
party.
[PR 5.6.2-4] The 3GPP system shall provide suitable APIs to allow a 3rd party
infrastructure (i.e., physical/virtual network entities at RAN/core level) to
be part of a private slice.
## 5.7 Network slicing for Industry 4.0 verticals
### 5.7.1 Description
Based on an example described in [5], an Industry 4.0 factory owns and
operates a non-public network for its communication needs and sole use. This
network consists of multiple slices that allow specific needs to be met with
different infrastructure. For example,
\- slice A is able to meet specific KPIs for time critical functions for
robotic manufacturing controls,
\- slice B provides non-time critical IoT communications for various sensors
and package tracking devices within the factory, and
\- slice C is used for the employee communications services on their
smartphones.
Each of these slices has separate core functions and radio resources available
to avoid any competition for resources between the three types of devices. Due
to the highly critical functions addressed by the robotic control slice A, UEs
served by that slice have no interaction with a PLMN, even though both
networks provide coverage in the same geographic area.
The factory owner contracts with a local MNO for two additional private
slices.
\- slice D that can interact with factory slice C for employee communications.
This allows employees to access the factory communication service via the
private slice when they are out of range of the factory radio resources. In
this case, the private slice is based on the trust relationship model 3c where
the 3rd party provides and manages some of the virtual/physical infrastructure
and V/NFs, namely, access to the factory communication service. Only UEs of
factory employees have access to MNO private slice D.
\- slice E that provides IoT radio coverage for the sensors and tracking
devices which occasionally move outside the building and outside the range of
the radio resources of slice B. This MNO slice is restricted to a coverage
area within a perimeter of the factory to avoid conflict with non-factory
devices. This slice is also based on trust model 3c, with the factory
providing the IoT supporting services. Devices using this slice are not
authorized for use on the PLMN outside of slice E.
The slices in this scenario illustrate the trust needs between the Industry
4.0 vertical, or factory, and the MNO. In the case of slice A, a strict
separation is enforced, such that no interaction between that slice and the
PLMN is possible. In the case of slices C and D for employee communications,
the MNO must provide appropriate security measures and APIs to ensure the
factory system cannot negatively impact the rest of the network outside of
slice D and ensure that only UEs belonging to the factory are able to access
slice D. The factory owner must provide appropriate security measures to
protect any proprietary information carried over slice D.
The IoT slices B and E require similar protective actions on behalf of both
the MNO and factory, with a clear distinction that the IoT devices accessing
MNO provided slice E also be constrained against accessing any other part of
the PLMN.
To ease such security concern, reduce the factory owner\'s burden on network
operation, and realize a smoother network operation, an alternative to deploy
slices A to E is for an MNO to act as an integrator that provides a certain
level of network operation that covers slices A to C as well, while keeping
the factory owner\'s ownership to them and supporting the factory owner\'s
capability to manage those slices via APIs.
### 5.7.2 Potential requirements
[PR 5.7.2-1] Subject to an agreement between the operators/service providers,
operator policies and the regional or national regulatory requirements, the 5G
system shall support intersystem mobility between a network slice in a non-
public network and a PLMN.
[PR 5.7.2-2] A 5G system shall support a mechanism to limit slice radio
coverage to a specific geographic area.
[PR 5.7.2-3] A 5G system shall support a mechanism to associate a UE with one
or more slices such that the UE is not authorized to receive service from any
other network or slice.
[PR 5.7.2-4] A 5G system shall be able to bar UEs from trying to access a
network slice they are not authorized to receive service from.
[PR 5.7.2-5] Subject to an agreement between a PLMN and a 3rd party, a 5G
system shall be able to allow the PLMN to authenticate and authorize UEs for
the usage of the 3rd party\'s own 3GPP network and to operate it in
combination with their private slice(s) in the PLMN.
[PR 5.7.2-6] A 5G system shall be able to allow a PLMN to provide suitable
APIs to enable the 3rd party to manage its own 3GPP network and its private
slice(s) in the PLMN in a combined manner.
## 5.8 End-to-end asset tracking
### 5.8.1 Description
Current and emerging production processes require continuous tracking of
workpieces and goods. Complex goods are often produced and assembled at
different sites. 5G networks can enable continuous asset tracking of
workpieces (end-to-end asset tracking). Some parts of the end-to-end asset
tracking may be deployed through private slices. Figure 5.8.1-1 illustrates
such a scenario.
{width="6.270833333333333in" height="2.0625in"}
Figure 5.8.1-1: Example of end-to-end asset tracking by use of 5G networks and
private slices
A workpiece is tracked in factory A. A wireless 5G UE is used for tracking.
This UE is connected to the private slice of factory A. The private slice is
provided as a dedicated network slice for use by factory A. The private slice
is provided by an MNO, and it is part of a PLMN (PLMN 1).
The workpiece is transported from factory A to factory B. As soon as the 5G UE
of the workpiece loses connectivity to the private slice of factory A, it
connects to the 5G PLMN 2 in order to continue to provide asset-tracking
information (e.g., its location) to the asset tracking application in factory
A.
When the 5G UE of the workpiece gets into the connectivity range of factory B,
it disconnects from the PLMN and connects to the network slice for asset
tracking in the non-public network of factory B. The 5G network of factory B
deploys one or more network slices.
Other examples for the deployment of end-to-end asset tracking by use of 5G
networks and network slices are shown in Figure 5.8.1-2 and Figure 5.8.1-3.
{width="6.270833333333333in" height="2.0729166666666665in"}
Figure 5.8.1-2: Example of end-to-end asset tracking by use of geographically
constrained private slice
{width="6.270833333333333in" height="2.0625in"}
Figure 5.8.1-3: Example of end-to-end asset tracking by use of private slice
throughout the PLMN
Position of the workpiece with the asset tracking UE is monitored in a uniform
way, independent of the 5G network or network slice the UE is connected to.
The time-stamps of the asset-tracking information use the same time base
throughout all visited 5G networks/slices.
Corresponding credentials for the different 5G networks will be used for
authorisation and authentication.
Since the information sent back to the factory can be quite sensitive,
encryption of the information is required. Commonly, UEs used for asset
tracking are energy constrained, which is why OTT security often is not an
option and network encryption usually is relied on. The operators of the
factories need an assurance that network security is switched on (and what
kind). This assurance can be provided through suitable monitoring mechanisms.
### 5.8.2 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.8.2-1] The 3GPP system shall enable communication service continuity
between network slices of non-public networks and 5G PLMNs if a 5G UE moves
from a non-public network to a 5G PLMN or vice versa.
[PR 5.8.2-2] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to enable uniform
monitoring of the position of the asset-tracking UE independent of the network
(slice) it is connected to.
[PR 5.8.2-3] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to provide time stamps
with a common time base at the monitoring API, across the different network
slices and 5G networks.
[PR 5.8.2-4] The 5G system shall be able to expose the information of the
enabled security mechanisms of a UE to an authorised user for logging and
auditing purposes.
## 5.9 Network slicing roles in (off-shore) wind farm
### 5.9.1 Description
Several roles for network slicing can be inferred from use cases for wind
power plant networks, especially for off-shore or remote wind farms. The use
case "Customised access of stakeholders to wind power plant network" in [3]
details pertinent usage scenarios.
The wind power plant communication network is realised by a 5G system, i.e., a
5G core network and base stations at each wind turbine. The base stations
enable wireless communication in their vicinity, e.g., to UEs in helicopters.
The wind turbine networks and the local control centre are part of the wind
power plant communication network. Moreover, the local control centre connects
to a remote service centre, e.g., through the core of a PLMN. The network
structure is illustrated in Figure 5.9.1-1.
Figure 5.9.1-1: Example of a communication network for a wind power plant
The wind power plant communication network is deployed as a non-public
network. This network consists of at least one slice. The operator of the
network can be a PLMN MNO or, for instance, the wind farm operator or grid
operator. The operator of the wind power plant communication network has full
control over the operation of the network, including the definition,
instantiation, configuration, and operation of any network slices. The
operator also manages the subscriber data base for this non-public network.
The remote service communication between the local control centre in the wind
power plant communication network and the remote service centre uses one or
more PLMNs. If more than one PLMN is involved, the private slices in the
different PLMNs are connected by suitable mechanisms and APIs.
The main objective of the wind power plant communication is to provide
customised access for different stakeholders to the applications in a wind
power plant. The setup of the communication services with different service
requirements is dynamic.
The applications are very diverse. They range from monitoring of sensor data
(e.g., collection of sensor data at local control centre) over audio and video
surveillance (local at wind turbine and between wind turbine and local control
centre) to control applications for controlling the wind turbine operation
(locally, from local control centre, and from remote service centre). Most of
these applications require dependable communication, control applications
require URLLC.
Network slicing enables the assurance of demanding QoS requirements such as
low latency, high dependability, and high communication service availability.
Network slicing ensures that the not so demanding communication services do
not disturb the communication services with high, demanding requirements such
as URLLC. Communication services with similar characteristics might be
clustered in network slices. However, the operator of the wind power plant
communication network might assign select communication services to separate
network slices in order to enforce strict isolation between them (one
communication service per network slice).
An important use of network slices is the separation of the different users
(3rd parties) of the wind power plant communication network. Besides the
operator of the wind power plant communication network, there are several
external stakeholders that require temporary or continuous access to the
network, e.g., grid regulation signalling and grid pricing, external
maintenance and helicopter companies. Often, this access is restricted to
certain parts of the wind power plant communication network, e.g., a select
subset of the UEs attached to this network. The UEs are assigned to
corresponding network slices in order to enforce the separation of the
different users.
The network slices will be monitored via suitable APIs such as network slice
status, slice KPIs, UEs connected to the network slice, etc.
The so-called wind turbine network requires special network slicing roles. It
is part of the wind power plant communication network and it contains all
network devices of a single wind turbine (see Figure 5.9.1-1). Each wind
turbine has a local wind turbine controller for autonomous operation of the
wind turbine (in case the connectivity to the local control centre is lost).
Furthermore, certain activities on a wind turbine such as maintenance work
require network slices restricted to (a subset of) devices of the wind
turbine.
External stakeholders have to get access to certain UEs of the wind power
plant communication network. Network slices will be set up in order to
separate the external stakeholders from the other communication services of
the wind power plant communication network (for instance, from the control
application of the wind farm). Furthermore, the access to the network slice
has to be restricted to the necessary UEs.
The setup of network slices has to be dynamic and automatic (for instance, if
on-site maintenance personnel connects to the wind turbine network wirelessly
for performing test procedures).
Several network slices of the wind power plant communication network may
extend through a PLMN to the remote service centre (network slices for sensor
information, monitoring information, data analytics information).
### 5.9.2 Potential requirements
[PR 5.9.2-1] For autonomous operation in case connectivity inside the network
slice is lost, the 3GPP system shall be able to continue operation in
unaffected parts of the network slice.
[PR 5.9.2-2] The 3GPP system shall be able to setup and operate network slices
constrained to a subarea of the 5G network, that can autonomously operate even
if connectivity to the other parts of the 5G network is lost.
[PR 5.9.2-3] The 3GPP system shall provide suitable APIs for additional 3rd
party authorisation and authentication for controlling the access to network
slices.
[PR 5.9.2-4] The 3GPP system shall be able to bar UEs from trying to access a
network slice they are not authorized to receive service from.
[PR 5.9.2-5] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide network slices through
multiple 5G networks so that select communication services of the non-public
network can be extended through a PLMN. The 3GPP system shall provide suitable
APIs for this.
## 5.10 Private slice management
### 5.10.1 Description
A business wants to have a diversity of network functionality and capabilities
that meets its business requirements. In this case, a mobile network operator
can provide a private slice by means of provisioning it that meet the agreed
KPIs. Furthermore MNO can agilely provide a customized network slice for their
customers (e.g., enterprise), as a service, which is called NSaaS as shown in
TS 28.530. This service allows the customer to use and optionally manage the
private slice. There are two trust relationships between MNOs and 3rd parties
based on the management role models.
The criteria for the private slice management include the following:
\- The network function/slicing management function(s) of MNO can create and
manage a private slice. The network function/slicing management function(s) of
3rd party provides to the MNO information required to create private slice.
\- The network function/slicing management function(s) of 3rd party can create
and manage some component of a private slice. It provides to the network
function/slicing management function(s) of MNO information related to created
private slice.
Usually, network slices are provided with different compositions to the
businesses which may involve different management responsibilities and network
slice provisioning procedures for MNO and the 3rd party. MNO need clearly
understand what businesses want from a network and can set adequate SLA
according to the business requirements. As every business has its own
priorities (some value bandwidth more than response times and vice versa), if
directly providing private slice management, the 3rd party can get exactly the
amount of performance and features it requires.
The trust relationships in this scenario include the following aspects.
\- The 3rd party trusts the MNO to provide the agreed private slice management
needed by the business.
\- The 3rd party may directly manage the private slice via suitable APIs
provided by MNO.
### 5.10.2 Potential requirements
[PR 5.10.2-1] The 3GPP system shall provide suitable APIs to allow the 3rd
party to create and manage a private slice, subject to an agreement between
the 3rd party and the MNO.
## 5.11 Management of network selection information in (off-shore) wind farm
### 5.11.1 Description
This role model scenario belongs to the same usage scenario as clause 5.9,
i.e. an (off-shore) wind farm.
The 5G network that supports maintenance and operation activities within a
wind farm is deployed as a non-public network. This non-public network is
hosted by a PLMN (henceforth referred to as PLMN1). The UEs---including their
network selection information---are managed by the wind farm operator. Service
continuity of select communication services---for instance transmission of
video streaming from a maintenance helicopter to the maintenance ships in the
wind farm area---is provide even if the helicopter temporarily leaves the
coverage area of the non-public network.
One of the concerns behind this scenario is that the users of non-public
networks hosted by PLMNs do not want to update the network selection
information in their UEs in cases the host PLMN or the associated roaming PLMN
is changed. Such an update is unwanted since it could lead to interruptions in
productivity, the need for new certification, high administration efforts,
etc. A single state-of-the-art wind turbine may host up to 3000 sensors that
provide input to the turbine controller, and some of them are in places that
are difficult to reach.
In order to simplify this role model scenario in the example provided below,
it is assumed that service continuity outside the perimeters of the non-public
network is initially provided by PLMN1.
At some point, the wind farm makes an operational change in their network and
the non-public network is no longer hosted by PLMN1. One option for the wind
farm is to have the non-public network hosted by another PLMN. Another option
is for the wind farm to realise the non-public network with 3GPP hardware
owned and operated by the wind farm operator. In neither case, a change to the
network selection information stored in the non-public-network UEs is
necessary
### 5.11.2 Potential requirements
[PR 5.11.2-1] The 5G system shall support a change of host of a non-public
network from one PLMN to another PLMN without changing the network selection
information stored in the UEs of the non-public network.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on security
The 5G system shall provide suitable APIs to allow use of a trusted 3rd party
provided encryption between an authorized UE served by a private slice and a
network entity within that private slice.
Subject to an agreement between an MNO and a 3rd party, a 5G system shall
support a mechanism for the PLMN to authenticate and authorize UEs for access
to both the 3rd party\'s own non-public network and private slice(s) of the
PLMN associated with the 3rd party.
The 5G system shall provide suitable APIs for additional authorisation and
authentication provided by a trusted 3rd party for controlling the access to
private slices.
## 6.2 Considerations on performance
Network slicing as an enabling capability is foundational for a variety of
roles dependent on business models. The notion of a collection of functions
and resources that constitute a given network slice is a building-block for
virtualization.
Since service categories have diverse quality of service profiles and
configurability options for a network slice, it would be useful to adapt the
realization of a network slice to meet the established key performance
targets. Such configuration choices would enable performance improvements,
such as latency reduction, minimization of faults, and overall robustness.
From an end-to-end perspective, impact of any performance degradation in a
virtualized core network and/or access network will need to be minimized to
meet the agreed KPIs (Key Performance Indicators) [2].
Network slice performance studies are important for an assessment of the
system-level KPIs (e.g., availability, reliability, latency, mobility,
retainability, user experience, coverage, and capacity). Consistency in
network slice performance is vital for supporting the service demands
associated with different market scenarios and service-level agreements, based
on business models and stakeholder requirements.
The performance aspects of network slicing are to be studied in terms of
optimization and configurable arrangements.
# 7 Consolidated potential requirements
## 7.1 General
The 5G system shall support MNOs to offer spectrum access and/or automatic
configuration services (for instance, interference management) to non-public
networks deployed by 3rd parties and connected to an MNO's Operations System
through standardized interfaces.
The 5G system shall provide a mechanism to enable an MNO to operate a non-
public network and private slice(s) of the PLMN associated with the 3rd party
in a combined manner.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to enable monitoring of the position
of a UE independent of the network or network slice it is connected to.
The 5G system shall support a change of host of a non-public network from one
PLMN to another PLMN without changing the network selection information stored
in the UEs of the non-public network.
## 7.2 Service exposure
The 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a trusted 3rd party to
monitor the status (e.g., locations, lifecycle, registration status) of its
own UEs when served by its private slice.
NOTE: The number of UEs could be in the range from single digit to tens of
thousands.
The 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a trusted 3rd party to get
the network status information of a private slice dedicated for the 3rd party,
e.g., the network communication status between the slice and a specific UE.
The 5G system shall support APIs to allow the non-public network to be managed
by the MNO's Operations System.
The 5G system shall provide suitable APIs to allow 3rd party infrastructure
(i.e., physical/virtual network entities at RAN/core level) to be used in a
private slice.
A 5G system shall provide suitable APIs to enable a 3rd party to manage its
own non-public network and its private slice(s) in the PLMN in a combined
manner.
The 3GPP system shall provide suitable APIs to allow the 3rd party to create
and manage a private slice, subject to an agreement between the 3rd party and
the MNO.
## 7.3 Network slice constraints
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to prevent a UE from trying to access
a radio resource dedicated to a specific private slice.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to limit slice radio coverage to a
specific geographic area.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to limit a UE to only receiving
service from an authorized slice.
## 7.4 Cross-network slice coordination
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to provide time stamps with a common
time base at the monitoring API, for services that cross multiple network
slices and 5G networks.
The 5G system shall provide suitable APIs to coordinate network slices in
multiple 5G networks so that the selected communication services of a non-
public network can be extended through a PLMN (e.g., the service is supported
by a slice in the non-public network and a slice in the PLMN).
## 7.5 Slice fault tolerance
The 5G system shall support full functionality in a private slice even when
connectivity to the PLMN is not available.
# 8 Conclusion and recommendations
The study has analysed a number of use cases supporting use of private slices
provided by an MNO on behalf of a 3rd party. The use cases highlight various
business role models and trust relationships that will need to be supported by
a 3GPP system in order to support private slices and identify potential
requirements to provide that support. The resulting potential requirements and
considerations on security and performance have been consolidated in clauses 6
and 7 of the TR,
The content of clauses 6 and 7 should be considered as the basis of normative
Rel-16 requirements to support private slices.
#