# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The requirements for Public Warning System were specified from 3GPP Release 8
onwards in order to provide a text-based and language-dependent PWS message to
mobile users who have conventional mobile devices that were normally assumed
in 3GPP technical specifications, i.e. PWS-UEs that can display a text-based
and language-dependent PWS message, over 3GPP system.
It is recently recognised that mobile devices with different or no user
interface or with different roles (e.g. devices implemented as wrist bands
with a tiny screen and a limited or no user interface, sensors that support a
simple functionality such as the control for power on/off, or mobile devices
with relay functionality) are on the market. In addition, as 5G brings the
connected society with the application of the 3GPP system to non-ICT industry
businesses, the number of such mobile devices in the market is expected to
increase in the near future.
Such changes in the market of mobile devices make it necessary that existing
PWS requirements in 3GPP TS 22.268 [2] are revisited to check whether they are
applicable to such mobile devices.
In addition, the number of mobile users who internationally travel or live in
other countries than their mother country without knowledge of the local
language is increasing. So, other means than texts (e.g. globally standardised
graphical symbols or images that are mapped to disasters or any event
triggering to disseminate a PWS message) might be much more powerful and
efficient to let such mobile users recognise what is happening from the PWS
message they receive.
Mobile devices may have accessibility capabilities that help mobile users with
disabilities (e.g. people with vision impairment) understand text-based and
language-dependent PWS messages. PWS messages may also supplement current PWS
content with additional content tailored to the needs of users with
disabilities. Therefore, it seems desirable to identify the necessity of new
or additional requirements for the improvement of the comprehension of the PWS
message.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes new use cases and potential requirements
applicable to Public Warning Services for
> \- UEs with diverse form-factors whose user interface is different from the
> conventional mobile phones; and
>
> \- UEs that are defined by applying 3GPP system to non-ICT industry
> businesses (e.g. vehicles or machines such as IoT devices or robots) and
> have the different UE role from what 3GPP has traditionally assumed.
In addition, it considers the improvement of the understandability of the PWS
message e.g. displaying language independent or graphical content to users,
especially foreigners who might not understand the language used in the text
or people with physical disability who may be sight impaired and unable to
read the text. So it deals with user interface related potential requirements
to address the presentation of the warning message considering circumstances
such as language being used (e.g. international roaming scenario where the
user does not understand the local language) or users with disability (e.g.
people with vision impairment).
The present document does not cover use cases or potential requirements for US
WEA and Japan ETWS so the results of this document are not applicable for US
and Japan. This document considers national variants of EU-Alert and KPAS
related service scenarios and potential requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.268: \"Public Warning System (PWS) requirements\"
# 3 Definitions
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**PWS-UE:** User Equipment (UE) that is defined in 3GPP TS 22.268 and is
capable of displaying a text-based PWS message.
**ePWS-UE:** User Equipment (UE) that
\- has the capability of receiving a PWS message by the direct network
connection or the indirect network connection over 3GPP system but is not
capable of displaying a text-based PWS message; or
\- has the capability of receiving a PWS message and is capable of providing
the improvement of the understandability of a PWS message.
# 4 Overview
The objectives of enhancements of Public Warning System are to support the
legacy regulatory policy and to provide the minimum set of requirements for
devices whose user interface or display method is not suitable to show text-
based PWS message.
Enhancements of Public Warning System aim to introduce requirements for new
functionalities for the following UEs.
\- UEs with no user interface over direct network connection;
\- Remote UEs with no user interface over indirect network connection;
\- Relay UE for indirect network connection of remote UEs; and
\- UEs with different user interface.
In addition, enhancements of Public Warning System aim to address the
improvement of the understandability of a PWS message to help following users
recognise what happens by a PWS message they receive.
\- Users with disabilities such as vision impairment; and
\- Users who internationally travel or live in other country than their mother
country without knowledge of the local language.
# 5 Use cases for UEs with different or no user interface or with different UE
roles
## 5.1 Use case: UEs with no user interface over direct network connection
### 5.1.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario where UEs with no user interface that are
not intended for human type communication are connected to a 3GPP network and
receive a PWS message when a disaster occurs. Those UEs with no user interface
take pre-defined actions (e.g. shutting down air condition when an earthquake
occurs to prevent fire) to minimize damages caused by disasters or protect
human.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
UEs with no user interface are subscribed to operator's 3GPP network.
UEs with no user interface are connected to the 3GPP network.
UEs with no user interface monitor the 3GPP network for public warning alarms.
Pre-defined actions or procedures are stored on the UEs with no user interface
and can be executed based upon the information in the content of the PWS
message about the event or the disaster.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
UEs with no user interface are deployed to manage home appliances such as
powering them on and off .
An earthquake suddenly occurs in the area where UEs with no user interface are
located and because of the earthquake, a PWS message is broadcast to UEs with
no user interface.
UEs with no user interface take pre-defined actions or procedures about the
earthquake that is notified by the PWS message.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
UEs with no user interface take pre-defined actions (e.g. power off) in time
that made home appliances less damaged from the earthquake.
### 5.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified
### 5.1.6 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.1.6-1] The 3GPP system shall enable the content of a PWS message to
include information that can be mapped to an event or a disaster and is
identifiable by the ePWS-UEs with no user interface per event or disaster.
NOTE: The information included in the content of a PWS message may be an
identifier of an event or a disaster.
[PR-5.1.6-2] ePWS-UEs with no user interface shall be able to support the
reception of a PWS message broadcast from the 3GPP network.
NOTE: Pre-defined procedures contained in the ePWS-UE with no user interface
may be specified by a device manufacturer or regional regulatory requirement
in order to have UEs with no user interface take such pre-defined procedures
once receiving a PWS message.
## 5.2 Use case: Remote UEs with no user interface over indirect network
connection
### 5.2.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario where remote UEs with no user interface
that are not intended for human type communication are connected to 3GPP
network via relay UE in coverage of 3GPP network and receive a PWS message via
relay UE when a disaster occurs. Those remote UEs with no user interface take
pre-defined actions (e.g. shutting down the heater to prevent fire when an
earthquake occurs) to minimize damages caused by disasters or protect human.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
A relay UE is connected to the 3GPP network and remote UEs with no user
interface are in indirect network connection.
Pre-defined actions or procedures are stored on the remote UEs with no user
interface and can be executed based upon the information in the content of the
PWS message which is transmitted by the relay UE about the event or the
disaster.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
Remote UEs with no user interface are deployed to control machines in a
factory and are connected to 3GPP network via a relay UE.
An earthquake suddenly occurs close to the factory and the relay UE receives a
PWS message.
The relay UE receives a PWS message, and unconditionally forwards the PWS
message to the remote UEs with no user interface.
The remote UEs with no user interface take pre-defined actions or procedures
about the earthquake that is based upon the information transmitted by the
relay UE.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
Remote UEs with no user interface take pre-defined actions (e.g. shut off the
power) in time that made machines in the factory less damaged from the
earthquake.
### 5.2.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified
### 5.2.6 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.2.6-1] The remote ePWS-UE with no user interface shall be able to
support the reception of the information that is related to an event or a
disaster notified by PWS message and is transmitted from the relay ePWS-UE.
NOTE: Subject to regional regulatory requirements and the intended function of
the ePWS-UE (e.g. IoT) which does not have a user interface, the ePWS- UE may
either:\ 1\. Ignore PWS message, or\ 2\. Take actions consistent with the
ePWS-UE function (e.g. IoT) in response to specific PWS messages. An example
could be to shut down machinery, or\ 3\. Use alternative alerting mode of user
alerting consistent with the ePWS-UE function (e.g. building alarm system)
based on the content of the PWS message.
[PR-5.2.6-2] The remote ePWS-UE with no user interface shall automatically
suppress duplicated notifications. A duplicate is a repetition of a same
notification as determined by unique parameters.
[PR-5.2.6-3] The relay ePWS-UE shall be capable of unconditionally forwarding
the PWS message broadcast to areas where remote ePWS-UEs with no user
interface and the relay ePWS-UE are located without modification on the PWS
message received from the network.
## 5.3 Use case: relay UE for indirect network connection of remote UEs
### 5.3.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario where a relay UE that provides an indirect
network connection to remote UEs transmits a PWS message to the remote UEs as
they are located in an area where the PWS message is broadcast from the 3GPP
network.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
Bob and Mary go out to the sea by taking their yacht where there is a relay UE
on the deck of the yacht to provide indirect network connection to remote UEs
inside the steel cabin of the yacht.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
The PWS message is broadcast and the relay UE receives the PWS message
notifying that a storm is coming to the area where the yacht is located while
Bob and Mary sleep in the steel cabin of the yacht.
The UEs that Bob and Mary have with them could not receive the PWS message
directly because the UEs are located inside the steel cabin of the yacht but
the relay UE forwards the PWS message to the UEs of Bob and Mary.
The UEs of Bob and Mary receive the PWS message and alarm Bob and Mary about
the storm.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
Bob and Mary woke up due to the warning alarm from the UEs that they have with
them inside the cabin and come back to the port before the storm arrives at
the area where they are.
### 5.3.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified
### 5.3.6 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.3.6-1] A remote PWS-UE shall be able to support monitoring PWS messages
which are received both directly from the 3GPP network and indirectly via the
relay ePWS-UE or the relay PWS-UE.
[PR-5.3.6-2] When a remote PWS-UE receives a PWS message transmitted via a
relay ePWS-UE or the reply PWS-UE, the remote PWS-UE shall carry out the same
procedure as specified in 3GPP TS 22.268 [2] for the PWS-UE receiving the PWS
message broadcast from the 3GPP network.
## 5.4 Use case: UE with different user interface
### 5.4.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario where the user interface of the mobile
device is different from the conventional user interface of the mobile phone,
e.g. augmented reality based user interface or hologram based user interface.
Because the network functionalities to broadcast a PWS message need to be kept
as unchanged as what is currently specified in 3GPP TS 22.268, such mobile
devices with different user interface take the procedure that may be specified
by regional regulatory requirements or a device manufacturer if the regional
regulatory requirements do not exist for such devices, e.g. displaying the
content that is stored in the device and is mapped to a warning event that is
extractable from the PWS message broadcast from the network.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
The UE with different user interface (e.g. augmented reality based or hologram
based user interface) are connected to 3GPP system.
A warning event or disaster is identifiable from information that can be
extracted from the PWS message.
Pre-defined content or procedure is mapped in the UE with different user
interface to the warning event or disaster
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
Sally is on holidays in Seoul and her device, a UE with user interface that is
different from the conventional user interface of a mobile device (e.g.
augmented based or hologram based user interface), helps her find a good
restaurant at Gangnam area.
Suddenly an earthquake occurs near Seoul so a PWS message is broadcast to
cities in Gyeonggi-do Province as well as Seoul.
Sally's device receives the text based PWS message broadcast from the network.
Sally's device recognizes the warning event, i.e. the earthquake that is
extracted from the PWS message and the device notifies Sally to leave the
restaurant.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
Sally recognized in time about the earthquake occurred thanks to the
notification of the device and not by the text-based public warning message
itself.
### 5.4.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified
### 5.4.6 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.4.6-1] The ePWS-UE with a different user interface (i.e. a user
interface that is not capable of displaying a text-based content) shall be
able to support the reception of a PWS message broadcast from the 3GPP
network.
[PR-5.4.6-2] The ePWS-UE with a different user interface shall be able to
support the extraction of the information on the type of a notified event or
disaster from the received PWS message.
NOTE 1: The information extractable from the received PWS message may be an
identifier of an event or a disaster.
NOTE 2: Pre-defined procedures contained in the ePWS-UE with a different user
interface may be specified by a device manufacturer or regional regulatory
requirement in order to have the ePWS-UE with a different user interface carry
out such pre-defined procedures once receiving a PWS message and extracting
the information on the type of a notified event or disaster.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on the improvement of the understandability of the PWS
message
### 6.1.1 Constraints inherent in the language-based and text-based PWS
message
3GPP specified the requirements for Public Warning System in 3GPP TS 22.268
from 3GPP Release 8 onwards in order to let mobile users receive text-based
PWS messages. Language-related requirements described in 3GPP TS 22.268 are as
follows.
NOTE 1: Requirements described in the section 5 (Earthquake and Tsunami
Warning System) and the section 6 (CMAS-Specific Requirements) of 3GPP TS
22.268 are not included to analyse constraints inherent in the language-based
and text-based PWS message.
NOTE 2: Constraints identified in this section might not be applicable for US
WEA and Japan ETWS so such clarification needs to be added later after
proposed texts are agreed.
In the section 4.2 'High level general requirements for Warning Notification
delivery',
_\- PWS shall only be required to broadcast Warning Notifications in languages
as prescribed by regulatory requirements._
In the section 4.3 'Warning Notification Content',
_\- PWS shall not modify or translate the Warning Notification content
specified by the Warning Notification Provider._
In the section 4.5 'Support of Warning Notification Providers',
_\- PLMN operators shall, at a minimum, be able to support the following
functionalities through interaction with Warning Notification Providers:_
_Activation of Warning Notification delivery_
_\- It shall be possible for multiple Warning Notifications to be activated
concurrently from one or more Warning Notification Providers._
In the section 4.6.1 'General Requirements' from the section 4.6 'PWS-UE
Requirements',
_\- PWS-UEs shall only be required to receive and present Warning
Notifications in languages as presented by the Warning Notification Provider.
Regional/regulatory requirements may require the Warning Notifications to be
broadcast in multiple languages._
_\- There shall be no requirement for language translation in the operator's
network or the UE._
_\- The PWS-UE shall automatically suppress duplicate notifications. A
duplicate is a repetition of a previous notification as determined by unique
parameters._
_\- PWS-UE shall be able to support concurrent reception of multiple Warning
Notifications._
In the section 4.6.4 'Enabling and disabling of Warning Notifications' from
the section 4.6 'PWS-UE Requirements',
_\- It shall be possible for users to disable (e.g., opt-out) presentation of
some or all of the Warning Notifications, subject to regulatory requirements
and/or operator policy. The user shall be able to select PWS-UE
enabling/disabling options via the User Interface to disable, or later enable,
the PWS-UE behavior in response to some or all Warning Notifications.
Depending on the regional/regulatory requirements, the user shall be able to
receive Warning Notifications in one or more selected languages._
In the section 7.2 'Additional PWS Requirements Specific to EU-ALERT,
_\- EU-ALERT shall support Warning Notifications in various languages. To
support international roaming, it is expected that countries adopting EU-ALERT
use the same Message Identifier for Warning Notifications in the local
language. If Warning Notifications are broadcast in other languages besides
the local language, then the Message Identifier for such Warning Notifications
are expected to be the same across the countries adopting EU-ALERT._
Based on the requirements above, any user with a mobile device is supposed to
receive the text-based PWS message in languages as prescribed by regulatory
requirements no matter whether there is any constraint inherent in users that
makes users unable to understand such message (e.g. users who do not know the
language used in the PWS message such as migrants or international travellers,
or users with disabilities such as vision impairment).
In addition, as the connected society is moving to the 5G era, diverse new
types of mobile devices are expected to help users with disabilities overcome
their difficulties for the convenience in their lives. This means that more
and more mobile users with disabilities will make use of mobile devices.
Further on, the number of mobile users who internationally travel or live in
other countries than their mother country without knowledge of the local
languages is also anticipated to rise more and more.
Therefore, additional potential requirements are necessary to be identified to
address the presentation of the PWS message considering circumstances such as
language being used (e.g. international roaming scenario where the user does
not understand the local language) or users with disabilities (e.g. people
with vision impairment).
Following consideration needs to be taken into account as well when additional
potential requirements are identified for such mobile users under the current
network procedure
_\- The size of the additional content included in the PWS message shall be
constrained by the existing PWS system for any content intended for mobile
users with disabilities._
_\- Considering the PWS message is broadcast to mobile users, specific
contents dedicated to some mobile users with any disability are impossible to
notify them individually that an event or a disaster happens._
_\- Device manufacturers should extend accessibility support to apply to PWS
message presentation as well._
_\- If graphical symbols or images are used to notify mobile users who do not
understand text-based PWS messages about disasters or any event triggering to
disseminate a PWS message, these PWS messages should use graphical symbols or
images which are internationally recognised._
### 6.1.2 Potential requirements proposed for the improvement of the
understandability of the PWS message
For mobile users with disabilities, the user interface of UEs that are used by
them is extended by UE accessibility functions. The most effective
presentation of the warning indication may be different from what is normally
defined for mobile users without disabilities. Considering such difference,
following potential requirements are proposed in order to improve the
comprehension of the PWS message.
  * [PR-6.1.2-1] The ePWS-UE with a user interface providing accessibility extensions to mobile users with disabilities shall be able to support the reception of a PWS message broadcast from the 3GPP network.
  * [PR-6.1.2-2] The ePWS-UE with a user interface providing accessibility extensions to mobile users with disabilities shall be able to support the extraction of the information on the type of a PWS notified event or disaster from the received PWS message.
> NOTE 1: The information extractable from the received PWS message content
> may be an identifier of the type of an event or a disaster.
>
> NOTE 2: Subject to regional regulatory requirements the ePWS-UE may use
> alternative alerting modes for user alerting consistent with ePWS-UE
> accessibility extensions and based on the content of the PWS message.
For mobile users who are in a region whose local language they do not know,
the following potential requirements are proposed in order to improve the
understandability of the PWS message.
  * [PR-6.1.2-3] The 3GPP system shall enable the content of a PWS message to include language-independent content (e.g. pictogram or symbolic icon representing an event or a disaster) and to be identifiable per event or disaster.
  * [PR-6.1.2-4] The ePWS-UE shall support the presentation of language-independent content defined by regional regulatory requirements contained in a PWS message content.
## 6.2 Considerations on existing PWS requirements for UEs with different or
no user interface or with different UE roles
### 6.2.1 Applicability review of existing PWS requirements
UEs with different or no user interface or with different UE roles didn't
exist when existing PWS requirements were specified in 3GPP TS 22.268 [2] so
some of existing PWS requirements might not be applicable and need to be
revised or to add some additional requirements for UEs with different or no
user interface or with different UE roles. Table 1, Table 2 and Table 3 show
which existing PWS requirements are applicable or need to be revisited for UEs
with different or no user interface or with different UEs.
Table 1: General PWS requirements applicable for UEs with different UI, with
no UI and with different role
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Existing | UEs with | UEs with no UI | UEs with | | requirements | different UI | | different role | | in the section | | | | | 4 of 3GPP TS | | | | | 22.268 [2] | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.2 High level | | | | | general | | | | | requirements | | | | | for Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | delivery | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PWS shall be | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | able to | | | | | broadcast | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | to multiple | | | | | users | | | | | simultaneously | | | | | with no | | | | | a | | | | | cknowledgement | | | | | required. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PWS shall be | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | able to | | | | | support | | | | | concurrent | | | | | broadcast of | | | | | multiple | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Warning | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | Notifications | | | | | shall be | | | | | broadcast to a | | | | | Notification | | | | | Area which is | | | | | based on the | | | | | geographical | | | | | information as | | | | | specified by | | | | | the Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Provider. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PWS capable | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | UEs (PWS-UE) | | | | | in idle mode | | | | | shall be | | | | | capable of | | | | | receiving | | | | | broadcasted | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: A | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | reduced low | | | | | complexity UE | | | | | or a UE | | | | | supporting | | | | | eDRX may not | | | | | support all | | | | | requirements | | | | | for PWS, | | | | | including | | | | | ETWS, CMAS, | | | | | EU-Alert and | | | | | KPAS. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PWS shall only | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | be required to | | | | | broadcast | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | in languages | | | | | as prescribed | | | | | by regulatory | | | | | requirements. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Warning | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | Notifications | | | | | are processed | | | | | by PWS on a | | | | | first in, | | | | | first out | | | | | basis, subject | | | | | to regulatory | | | | | requirements. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reception and | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | presentation | | | | | of Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | to the user | | | | | shall not | | | | | pre-empt an | | | | | active voice | | | | | or data | | | | | session. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Warning | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | Notifications | | | | | shall be | | | | | limited to | | | | | those | | | | | emergencies | | | | | where life or | | | | | property is at | | | | | imminent risk, | | | | | and some | | | | | responsive | | | | | action should | | | | | be taken. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: This | | | | | requirement | | | | | does not | | | | | prohibit the | | | | | use of the | | | | | operator's | | | | | network (i.e. | | | | | broadcast | | | | | technology) | | | | | implemented | | | | | for Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | to be used for | | | | | commercial | | | | | services. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.3 Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Content | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PWS shall not | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | modify or | | | | | translate the | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | content | | | | | specified by | | | | | the Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Provider. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Warning | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | Notifications | | | | | should not | | | | | contain | | | | | anything that | | | | | would drive | | | | | immediate and | | | | | debilitating | | | | | traffic loads | | | | | into the PLMN | | | | | (i.e., URLs or | | | | | dialable | | | | | numbers). | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.4 | | | | | Granularity of | | | | | the | | | | | distribution | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Based on the | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | geographical | | | | | information | | | | | indicated by | | | | | the Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Provider, it | | | | | shall be | | | | | possible for | | | | | the PLMN | | | | | operators to | | | | | define the | | | | | Notification | | | | | Area based on | | | | | their network | | | | | configuration | | | | | of the area | | | | | coverage such | | | | | as | | | | | distribution | | | | | of cells, Node | | | | | Bs, RNCs, etc. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.5 Support of | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Providers | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PLMN operators | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | shall, at a | | | | | minimum, be | | | | | able to | | | | | support the | | | | | following | | | | | f | | | | | unctionalities | | | | | through | | | | | interaction | | | | | with Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Providers: | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Activation | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | of Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | delivery | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | possible for | | | | | multiple | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | to be | | | | | activated | | | | | concurrently | | | | | from one or | | | | | more Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Providers. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | Cancellation | | | | | of Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | delivery | | | | | | | | | | A cancellation | | | | | is a command | | | | | from the | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Provider to | | | | | stop | | | | | dissemination | | | | | of a specific | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Updating of | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | delivery | | | | | | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Providers | | | | | update a | | | | | previous | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | to provide new | | | | | instructio | | | | | ns/information | | | | | to the PLMN | | | | | operator. When | | | | | the Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Provider | | | | | updates a | | | | | previous | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | they provide | | | | | an identifier | | | | | that allows | | | | | the PLMN | | | | | operator to | | | | | associate the | | | | | updated | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | with the | | | | | previous | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Additional | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | functionality | | | | | may be | | | | | required based | | | | | on regulatory | | | | | or operator | | | | | policy | | | | | requirements. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.6 PWS-UE | | | | | Requirements | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.6.1 General | | | | | Requirements | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PWS-UEs shall | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | only be | | | | | required to | | | | | receive and | | | | | present | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | in languages | | | | | as presented | | | | | by the Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | Provider. | | | | | Regio | | | | | nal/regulatory | | | | | requirements | | | | | may require | | | | | the Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | to be | | | | | broadcast in | | | | | multiple | | | | | languages. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | There shall be | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | no requirement | | | | | for language | | | | | translation in | | | | | the operator's | | | | | network or the | | | | | UE. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | It shall be | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | possible for | | | | | the Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | to be | | | | | displayed on | | | | | the PWS-UE | | | | | upon reception | | | | | and without | | | | | any user | | | | | interaction. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | It shall be | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | possible for | | | | | users to | | | | | configure the | | | | | behavior of a | | | | | PWS-UE with | | | | | regard to | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | alerting and | | | | | should allow | | | | | at least | | | | | volume | | | | | adjustment. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The PWS-UE | Need to be | Need to be | Applicable | | shall support | revisited | revisited | | | a dedicated | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication | | | | | (audio | | | | | attention | | | | | signal and a | | | | | dedicated | | | | | vibration | | | | | cadence) and | | | | | be distinct | | | | | from any other | | | | | device alerts | | | | | and restricted | | | | | to use for | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | purposes. The | | | | | User Interface | | | | | shall support | | | | | the ability | | | | | for the user | | | | | to suppress | | | | | the dedicated | | | | | audio | | | | | attention | | | | | signal and/or | | | | | the dedicated | | | | | vibration | | | | | cadence when a | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | is received. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The alerting | Applicable | Need to be | Applicable | | indication for | | revisited | | | a specific | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | shall continue | | | | | until | | | | | suppressed by | | | | | users\' manual | | | | | operation | | | | | (e.g. by | | | | | pushing keys). | | | | | The frequency | | | | | and duration | | | | | of the | | | | | continued | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication is | | | | | mobile device | | | | | implementation | | | | | specific. This | | | | | shall not | | | | | suppress the | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication for | | | | | subsequent | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The PWS-UE | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | shall | | | | | automatically | | | | | suppress | | | | | duplicate | | | | | notifications. | | | | | A duplicate is | | | | | a repetition | | | | | of a previous | | | | | notification | | | | | as determined | | | | | by unique | | | | | parameters. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The PWS-UE | Applicable | Applicable | Need to be | | shall not | | | newly | | support any | | | specified for | | capabilities | | | e.g. relay UE | | to forward | | | | | received | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications, | | | | | to reply to | | | | | received | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications, | | | | | or to copy and | | | | | paste the | | | | | content of | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PWS-UEs should | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | have the | | | | | ability to | | | | | present | | | | | previously | | | | | displayed | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | if requested | | | | | by the user. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PWS-UE shall | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | be able to | | | | | support | | | | | concurrent | | | | | reception of | | | | | multiple | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.6.2 Support | | | | | of non-Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | capable UEs | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Support of | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | non-Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | capable UEs is | | | | | subject to | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements | | | | | and/or | | | | | operator\'s | | | | | policy. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.6.3 Battery | | | | | Life of PWS-UE | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Battery life | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | of the PWS-UE | | | | | shall not be | | | | | significantly | | | | | reduced by | | | | | PWS. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.6.4 Enabling | | | | | and disabling | | | | | of Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The PWS-UE | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | shall be | | | | | configured to | | | | | receive all | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | It shall be | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | possible for | | | | | users to | | | | | disable (e.g., | | | | | opt-out) | | | | | presentation | | | | | of some or all | | | | | of the Warning | | | | | Notifications, | | | | | subject to | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements | | | | | and/or | | | | | operator | | | | | policy. The | | | | | user shall be | | | | | able to select | | | | | PWS-UE | | | | | enab | | | | | ling/disabling | | | | | options via | | | | | the User | | | | | Interface to | | | | | disable, or | | | | | later enable, | | | | | the PWS-UE | | | | | behavior in | | | | | response to | | | | | some or all | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications. | | | | | Depending on | | | | | the | | | | | regio | | | | | nal/regulatory | | | | | requirements, | | | | | the user shall | | | | | be able to | | | | | receive | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | in one or more | | | | | selected | | | | | languages. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Where regional | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | or national | | | | | regulations | | | | | allow, the | | | | | HPLMN operator | | | | | shall be able | | | | | to instruct | | | | | the PWS-UE to | | | | | ignore all | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | in the HPLMN | | | | | and in PLMNs | | | | | equivalent to | | | | | it, by means | | | | | of a setting | | | | | on the USIM. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Where regional | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | or national | | | | | regulations | | | | | pertaining to | | | | | a VPLMN allow, | | | | | the HPLMN | | | | | operator shall | | | | | be able to | | | | | instruct the | | | | | PWS-UE to | | | | | ignore all | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | that are | | | | | received | | | | | whilst in this | | | | | VPLMN, by | | | | | means of a | | | | | setting on the | | | | | USIM, when the | | | | | integrity of | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | in this VPLMN | | | | | is known by | | | | | the HPLMN | | | | | operator to be | | | | | compromised. | | | | | This setting | | | | | need not | | | | | distinguish | | | | | VPLMNs. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Subject to | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | regional or | | | | | national | | | | | regulations, a | | | | | PWS-UE in | | | | | limited | | | | | service state | | | | | shall be able | | | | | to receive and | | | | | display | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: | | | | | Non-existing | | | | | or empty USIM | | | | | data files | | | | | results in all | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | being | | | | | presented to | | | | | the PWS | | | | | application. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.7 Roaming | | | | | Requirements | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | It shall be | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | possible for | | | | | PWS-UEs that | | | | | are enabled | | | | | for Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | in the HPLMN | | | | | to receive | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | from the VPLMN | | | | | supporting PWS | | | | | when roaming. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A PWS-UE that | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | does not | | | | | support the | | | | | PWS | | | | | requirements | | | | | of the VPLMN's | | | | | PWS service | | | | | may not | | | | | receive | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | from that | | | | | VPLMN. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: See | | | | | section 4.9 | | | | | for roaming | | | | | impacts to PWS | | | | | due to | | | | | regional | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.8 Security | | | | | Requirements | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PWS shall only | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | broadcast | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | that come from | | | | | an | | | | | authenticated | | | | | authorized | | | | | source. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The following | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | requirements | | | | | only apply | | | | | when not | | | | | roaming | | | | | in | | | | | ternationally: | | | | | | | | | | - When | | | | | required by | | | | | regional or | | | | | national | | | | | regulations, | | | | | the integrity | | | | | of the Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | shall be | | | | | protected. If | | | | | no such | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirement | | | | | exists, there | | | | | shall be no | | | | | integrity | | | | | protection of | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications, | | | | | and all | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | shall be | | | | | presented to | | | | | the PWS | | | | | application on | | | | | the PWS-UE. | | | | | | | | | | - When | | | | | required by | | | | | regional or | | | | | national | | | | | regulations, | | | | | the PWS shall | | | | | protect | | | | | against false | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | messages. If | | | | | no such | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirement | | | | | exists, there | | | | | shall be no | | | | | protection | | | | | against false | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications, | | | | | and all | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | shall be | | | | | presented to | | | | | the PWS | | | | | application on | | | | | the PWS-UE. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: These | | | | | requirements | | | | | are subject to | | | | | regulatory | | | | | policies. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | authentication | | | | | and | | | | | authorisation | | | | | of the source | | | | | are outside | | | | | the scope of | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | S | | | | | pecifications. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.9 Regulatory | | | | | Requirements | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The PWS | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | offered by a | | | | | PLMN may be | | | | | subject to PWS | | | | | regional | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements | | | | | and thus, the | | | | | PWS offered | | | | | may differ | | | | | from PLMN to | | | | | PLMN as well | | | | | as from region | | | | | to region | | | | | within a PLMN. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 2: EU-ALERT specific requirements applicable for UEs with no or
different user interfaces or UEs with different role
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Existing | UEs with | UEs with no UI | UEs with | | requirements | different UI | | different role | | in the section | | | | | 7 of 3GPP TS | | | | | 22.268 [2] | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7.2 Additional | | | | | PWS | | | | | Requirements | | | | | Specific to | | | | | EU-ALERT | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EU-ALERT shall | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | support three | | | | | types of | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications: | | | | | Alert messages | | | | | to warn | | | | | citizens of an | | | | | imminent | | | | | emergency | | | | | situation, | | | | | Advisory | | | | | messages of | | | | | lesser | | | | | urgency, and | | | | | Amber alerts. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The Alert | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | messages shall | | | | | be supported | | | | | with three | | | | | levels of | | | | | severity. | | | | | EU-Alert level | | | | | 1 shall have | | | | | no opt-out; | | | | | levels 2 and 3 | | | | | shall allow | | | | | opt-out by the | | | | | user. All | | | | | levels of | | | | | EU-ALERT | | | | | messages shall | | | | | be associated | | | | | with a | | | | | dedicated | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: EU-Alert | | | | | level 1 is | | | | | compatible | | | | | with the | | | | | Presidential | | | | | Alert in CMAS. | | | | | EU-Alert level | | | | | 2 is | | | | | compatible | | | | | with CMAS | | | | | Extreme Alerts | | | | | and EU-Alert | | | | | level 3 is | | | | | compatible | | | | | with CMAS | | | | | Severe Alert. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The Advisory | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | messages have | | | | | only one | | | | | level. | | | | | Advisory | | | | | messages shall | | | | | not be | | | | | associated | | | | | with any | | | | | dedicated | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Depending on | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | national | | | | | requirements, | | | | | Amber alerts | | | | | may need to be | | | | | broadcast as | | | | | part of the | | | | | EU-ALERT | | | | | service. Amber | | | | | alerts shall | | | | | not be | | | | | associated | | | | | with any | | | | | dedicated | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EU-ALERT shall | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | support | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | in various | | | | | languages. To | | | | | support | | | | | international | | | | | roaming, it is | | | | | expected that | | | | | countries | | | | | adopting | | | | | EU-ALERT use | | | | | the same | | | | | Message | | | | | Identifier for | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | in the local | | | | | language. If | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | are broadcast | | | | | in other | | | | | languages | | | | | besides the | | | | | local | | | | | language, then | | | | | the Message | | | | | Identifier for | | | | | such Warning | | | | | Notifications | | | | | are expected | | | | | to be the same | | | | | across the | | | | | countries | | | | | adopting | | | | | EU-ALERT. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EU-ALERT shall | Applicable | Applicable | Applicable | | be supported | | | | | on GERAN, | | | | | UTRAN and | | | | | E-UTRAN radio | | | | | access | | | | | technologies. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 3: KPAS specific requirements applicable for UEs with no or different
user interfaces or UEs with different role
* * *
Existing requirements in the section 8 of 3GPP TS 22.268 [2] UEs with
different UI UEs with no UI UEs with different role 8.1 Introduction to Korean
Public Alert System  
the system supporting Korean Public Alert System (KPAS) shall transmit the
public alert message with high priority in order to provide up-to-date
information on emergency situations. (e.g. In Tsunami situation, it is
recommended to deliver message between CBC and UE in several seconds.).
Applicable Applicable Applicable 8.2 Additional PWS Requirements Specific to
Korean Public Alert System (KPAS)  
Two classes of Warning Notification shall be supported; class 0 & class 1.
Applicable Applicable Applicable The classes are differentiated per opt-out
function. Class 0 shall have no opt-out and class 1 shall allow opt-out by the
user. Applicable Applicable Applicable The characteristics of the Warning
Notification shall follow the requirements specified in clause 4. Applicable
Applicable Applicable The current implementation requirement is for the
message of up to 180Bytes (90 Korean Characters) text. Applicable Applicable
Applicable
* * *
### 6.2.2 Proposals on existing PWS requirements
Proposed texts are given in Table 4 in order to make existing PWS requirements
with proposed texts applicable for UEs with different or no user interface or
with different role as well as for legacy UEs with the conventional user
interface that 3GPP assumed when these existing PWS requirements were
specified in 3GPP TS 22.268 [2].
NOTE: Proposed texts for general PWS requirements described in the section 4
of 3GPP TS 22.268 [2] do not take into account US WEA and Japan ETWS so such
clarification needs to be added later once proposed texts are agreed.
Table 4: Proposed texts on general PWS requirements applicable for UEs with
different UI, with no UI and with different role
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Existing | UEs with | UEs with no UI | UEs with | | requirements | different UI | | different role | | in the section | | | | | 4 of 3GPP TS | | | | | 22.268 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.6 PWS-UE | | | | | Requirements | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.6.1 General | | | | | Requirements | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The PWS-UE | Need to be | Need to be | Applicable | | shall support | revisited | revisited | | | a dedicated | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication | | | | | (audio | | | | | attention | | | | | signal and a | | | | | dedicated | | | | | vibration | | | | | cadence) and | | | | | be distinct | | | | | from any other | | | | | device alerts | | | | | and restricted | | | | | to use for | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | purposes. The | | | | | User Interface | | | | | shall support | | | | | the ability | | | | | for the user | | | | | to suppress | | | | | the dedicated | | | | | audio | | | | | attention | | | | | signal and/or | | | | | the dedicated | | | | | vibration | | | | | cadence when a | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | is received. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Proposed | | | | | texts: | | | | | | | | | | The PWS-UE | | | | | shall support | | | | | a dedicated | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication | | | | | (audio | | | | | attention | | | | | signal and a | | | | | dedicated | | | | | vibration | | | | | cadence) and | | | | | be distinct | | | | | from any other | | | | | device alerts | | | | | and restricted | | | | | to use for | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | purposes. The | | | | | User Interface | | | | | shall support | | | | | the ability | | | | | for the user | | | | | to suppress | | | | | the dedicated | | | | | audio | | | | | attention | | | | | signal and/or | | | | | the dedicated | | | | | vibration | | | | | cadence when a | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | is received. | | | | | | | | | | [PR-6.2.2-1] | | | | | NOTE: In case | | | | | of a ePWS-UE | | | | | that does not | | | | | have a user | | | | | interface or | | | | | has a user | | | | | interface that | | | | | is not able to | | | | | support a | | | | | dedicated | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication, | | | | | modification | | | | | of this | | | | | requirements | | | | | needs to | | | | | consider | | | | | several | | | | | factors: | | | | | | | | | | 1. Recent | | | | | regulations | | | | | | | | | | 2. Intended | | | | | functions for | | | | | devices (e.g. | | | | | IoT) | | | | | | | | | | 3. Device's | | | | | support for | | | | | the alerting | | | | | indication | | | | | (audio | | | | | attention | | | | | signal and a | | | | | dedicated | | | | | vibration | | | | | cadence) or | | | | | alternative | | | | | alert | | | | | indications | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | The alerting | Applicable | Need to be | Applicable | | indication for | | revisited | | | a specific | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | shall continue | | | | | until | | | | | suppressed by | | | | | users\' manual | | | | | operation | | | | | (e.g. by | | | | | pushing keys). | | | | | The frequency | | | | | and duration | | | | | of the | | | | | continued | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication is | | | | | mobile device | | | | | implementation | | | | | specific. This | | | | | shall not | | | | | suppress the | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication for | | | | | subsequent | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Proposed | | | | | texts: | | | | | | | | | | The alerting | | | | | indication for | | | | | a specific | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | | shall continue | | | | | until | | | | | suppressed by | | | | | users\' manual | | | | | operation | | | | | (e.g. by | | | | | pushing keys). | | | | | The frequency | | | | | and duration | | | | | of the | | | | | continued | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication is | | | | | mobile device | | | | | implementation | | | | | specific. This | | | | | shall not | | | | | suppress the | | | | | alerting | | | | | indication for | | | | | subsequent | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notifications. | | | | | | | | | | [PR-6.2.2-2] | | | | | NOTE: In case | | | | | of a ePWS-UE | | | | | with no user | | | | | interface, | | | | | modification | | | | | of this | | | | | requirements | | | | | needs to | | | | | consider | | | | | several | | | | | factors: | | | | | | | | | | 1. Recent | | | | | regulations | | | | | | | | | | 2. Intended | | | | | functions for | | | | | devices (e.g. | | | | | IoT) | | | | | | | | | | 3.Device's | | | | | support for | | | | | the | | | | | suppression of | | | | | Warning | | | | | Notification | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# 7 Potential Requirements
## 7.1 General
This technical report has described new use cases and potential requirements
for UEs with different or no user interface or for UEs with different roles
that were not taken into account when specifying existing requirements in 3GPP
TS 22.268 [2] but that are expected to be commonly used by mobile users in the
near future. Proposed potential requirements are consolidated in two
categories; one category for potential requirements for UEs with different or
no user interface or with different roles and another category for potential
requirements for the improvement of understanding the PWS message and for the
inclusion of additional consideration in the existing requirements that is
applicable to UEs with different or no user interface.
## 7.2 Consolidation of potential requirements
### 7.2.1 Consolidated potential requirements for UEs with different or no
user interface or with different roles
This section consolidates the potential requirements proposed for ePWS-UEs
with different or no user interface or with different roles.
[PR-5.1.6-1] The 3GPP system shall enable the content of a PWS message to
include information that can be mapped to an event or a disaster and is
identifiable by the ePWS-UEs with no user interface per event or disaster.
NOTE: The information included in the content of a PWS message may be an
identifier of an event or a disaster.
[PR-5.1.6-2] ePWS-UEs with no user interface shall be able to support the
reception of a PWS message broadcast from the 3GPP network.
NOTE: Pre-defined procedures contained in the ePWS-UE with no user interface
may be specified by a device manufacturer or regional regulatory requirement
in order to have ePWS-UEs with no user interface take such pre-defined
procedures once receiving a PWS message.
[PR-5.2.6-1] The remote ePWS-UE with no user interface shall be able to
support the reception of the information that is related to an event or a
disaster notified by PWS message and is transmitted from the relay UE.
NOTE: Subject to regional regulatory requirements and the intended function of
the ePWS-UE (e.g. IoT) which does not have a user interface, the ePWS-UE may
either:
1\. Ignore PWS message, or
2\. Take actions consistent with the ePWS-UE function (e.g. IoT) in response
to specific PWS messages. An example could be to shut down machinery, or
3\. Use alternative alerting mode of user alerting consistent with the ePWS-UE
function (e.g. building alarm system) based on the content of the PWS message.
[PR-5.2.6-2] The remote ePWS-UE with no user interface shall be able to
automatically suppress duplicated notifications. A duplicate is a repetition
of a same notification as determined by unique parameters.
[PR-5.2.6-3] The relay ePWS-UE that supports PWS relaying shall be capable of
unconditionally forwarding the PWS message broadcast without modification on
the PWS message received from the network.
[PR-5.3.6-1] and [PR-5.3.6-2] When the remote PWS-UE receives a PWS message
transmitted via a relay ePWS-UE, it shall behave in the same fashion as if it
received the message from a 3GPP network.
[PR-5.4.6-1] The ePWS-UE with a different user interface (i.e. a user
interface that is not capable of displaying a text-based content) shall be
able to support the reception of a PWS message broadcast from the 3GPP
network.
[PR-5.4.6-2] The ePWS-UE with a different user interface shall be able to
support the extraction of the information on the type of a notified event or
disaster from the received PWS message.
NOTE 1: The information extractable from the received PWS message may be an
identifier of an event or a disaster.
NOTE 2: Pre-defined procedures contained in the ePWS-UE with a different user
interface may be specified by a device manufacturer or regional regulatory
requirement in order to have the ePWS-UE with a different user interface carry
out such pre-defined procedures once receiving a PWS message and extracting
the information on the type of a notified event or disaster.
### 7.2.2 Consolidated potential requirements for the improvement of
understanding the PWS message and for the inclusion of additional
consideration in the existing requirements applicable to UEs with different or
no user interface
This section consolidates the potential requirements proposed to improve the
understanding of the PWS message or to include additional consideration in the
existing requirements described in 3GPP TS 22.268 [2] that is applicable to
UEs with different or no user interface.
[PR-6.1.2-1] The ePWS-UE with a user interface providing accessibility
extensions to mobile users with disabilities shall be able to support the
reception of a PWS message broadcast from the 3GPP network.
[PR-6.1.2-2] The ePWS-UE with a user interface providing accessibility
extensions to mobile users with disabilities shall be able to support the
extraction of the information on the type of a PWS notified event or disaster
from the received PWS message.
NOTE 1: The information extractable from the received PWS message content may
be an identifier of the type of an event or a disaster.
NOTE 2: Subject to regional regulatory requirements the ePWS-UE may use
alternative alerting modes for user alerting consistent with ePWS-UE
accessibility extensions and based on the content of the PWS message.
[PR-6.1.2-3] The 3GPP system shall enable the content of a PWS message to
include language-independent content (e.g. pictogram or symbolic icon
representing an event or a disaster) and to be identifiable per event or
disaster.
[PR-6.1.2-4] The ePWS-UE shall support the presentation of language-
independent content defined by regional regulatory requirements contained in a
PWS message content.
[Requirement existed in 3GPP TS 22.268] The PWS-UE shall support a dedicated
alerting indication (audio attention signal and a dedicated vibration cadence)
and be distinct from any other device alerts and restricted to use for Warning
Notification purposes. The User Interface shall support the ability for the
user to suppress the dedicated audio attention signal and/or the dedicated
vibration cadence when a Warning Notification is received.
[PR-6.2.2-1] NOTE: In case of an ePWS-UE that does not have a user interface
or has a user interface that is not able to support a dedicated alerting
indication, modification of this requirements needs to consider several
factors:
> 1\. Recent regulations
>
> 2\. Intended functions for devices (e.g. IoT)
>
> 3\. Device's support for the alerting indication (audio attention signal and
> a dedicated vibration cadence) or alternative alert indications
[Requirement existed in 3GPP TS 22.268] The alerting indication for a specific
Warning Notification shall continue until suppressed by users\' manual
operation (e.g. by pushing keys). The frequency and duration of the continued
alerting indication is mobile device implementation specific. This shall not
suppress the alerting indication for subsequent Warning Notifications.
[PR-6.2.2-2] NOTE: In case of an ePWS-UE with no user interface, modification
of this requirements needs to consider several factors:
> 1\. Recent regulations
>
> 2\. Intended functions for devices (e.g. IoT)
>
> 3\. Device's support for the suppression of Warning Notification
# 8 Conclusion and Recommendations
The feasibility study for enhancements of Public Warning System has analysed
use cases for
\- mobile devices with different or no user interface or with different roles
for which a text-based PWS service is not applicable; and
\- mobile users who
\- do not understand the written language used in a PWS message; or
\- need an accessibility function supported from their mobile devices to
improve the understanding of a PWS message.
This technical report identifies potential requirements that were not taken
into account when existing PWS requirements were specified in 3GPP TS 22.268
[2] and that are applicable for these use cases.
It is recommended that the consolidated potential requirements in the section
7.2.1 as well as the clarification that these newly introduced requirements
are not applicable to US WEA and Japan ETWS are added in a new section of 3GPP
TS 22.268 [2].
In addition, it is also recommended that the consolidated potential
requirements in the section 7.2.2 are included in the section 4 of 3GPP TS
22.268 [2] with the clarification that these newly added or revised
requirements are not applicable to US WEA and Japan ETWS.
#