# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this document is to identify use cases and potential service
requirements to enhance 3GPP support for V2X service in the following areas:
\- Support for non-safety V2X services (also, referred to as \"comfort
service\") (e.g. connected vehicle, mobile high data rate entertainment,
mobile hot-spot/office/home, dynamic digital map update)
\- Support for safety-related V2X services (e.g. autonomous driving, car
platooning, priority handling between safety-related V2X services and other
services)
\- Support for V2X services in multiple 3GPP RATs (e.g. LTE, New RAT (NR)) and
networks environment, including aspects such as interoperability with non-3GPP
V2X technology (e.g. ITS-G5, DSRC, ITS-Connect)
In this document, V2X-related use cases and potential requirements already
included in TR 22.891 are considered and new ones are introduced.
The identification of use cases and potential requirements covers both evolved
LTE RAT and new 3GPP RAT (e.g. NR) and also covers V2X operation using 3GPP
RATs where there are non-3GPP V2X technologies (e.g. ITS-G5, DSRC, ITS-
Connect) in use.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 5G-PPP-White-Paper-on-Automotive-Vertical-Sectors.
[3] ETSI TR 103 299 (V0.0.10): \"Intelligent Transport System, Cooperative
Adaptive Cruise Control (CACC)\".
[4] ADASIS, http://adasis.org
[5] ETSI TR 102 863 (V1.1.1): \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS); Vehicular
Communications; Basic Set of Applications; Local Dynamic Map (LDM); Rationale
for and guidance on standardization\".
[6] Draft ETSI EN 302 895 (V1.0.0): \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS);
Vehicular Communications; Basic Set of Applications; Local Dynamic Map (LDM)
Concept for Local Dynamic Maps\".
[7] ISO/TS 18750:2015 Intelligent transport systems -- Cooperative systems --
Definition of a global concept for Local Dynamic Maps.
[8] Nan Hu, Hamid Aghajan, Tianshi Gao, Jaime Camhi, Chu Hee Lee and Daniel
Rosario \"Smart Node: Intelligent Traffic Interpretation\", World Congress on
Intelligent Transport Systems, New York, 2008.
[9] TNO, \"Truck Platooning; driving the future of transportation\" TNO
Whitepaper, 2015.
[10] S. Shladover, \"PATH at 20 - History and Major Milestones,\" Inteligent
Transportation Systems, vol. 8, 2007.
[11] \"Multi channel operation\", ETSI ITS Workshop 2016,
https://docbox.etsi.org/Workshop/2016/201603_ITS_WORKSHOP/S02_ITS_NEXT_CHALLENGES/MULTI_CHANNEL_OPERATION_spaanderman_paulsconsultancy.pdf
[12] Bergenhem C., Shladover S., Coelingh E., Englund C., andTsugawa S.,
\"Overview of platooning systems,\" in Proceedings of the 19th ITS World
Congress, Oct 22-26, Vienna, Austria (2012), 2012.
[13] V2V Communication Quality: Measurements in a Cooperative Automotive
Platooning Application, Carl Bergenhem Qamcom Research and Technology AB, Erik
Coelingh Volvo Car Corp..Rolf Johansson SP Technical Research Inst of Sweden,
Ali Tehrani Qamcom Research & Technology,
https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Carl_Bergenhem/publication/262451443_V2V_Communication_Quality_Measurements_in_a_Cooperative_Automotive_Platooning_Application/links/0f317537c05258c754000000.pdf
[14] S. W. Kim et al., \"Multivehicle Cooperative Driving Using Cooperative
Perception: Design and Experimental Validation,\" in IEEE Transactions on
Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 663-680, April 2015.
[15] A. Rauch, F. Klanner and K. Dietmayer, \"Analysis of V2X communication
parameters for the development of a fusion architecture for cooperative
perception systems,\" Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IV), 2011 IEEE, Baden-
Baden, 2011, pp. 685-690.
[16] METIS-II_D1.1_v1.0 Refined scenarios and requirements, consolidated use
cases, and qualitative techno-economic feasibility assessment.
[17] L. Licciardi, M. P. Galante : \"5G CRITICAL COMMUNICATION USE CASES\",
ETSI 5G: \"From Myth to Reality\", 2016, http://www.etsi.org/news-
events/events/1025-2016-04-5g-from-myth-to-reality
[18] Ford: From Autonomy to Snowtonomy: How Ford Fusion Hybrid Autonomous
Reasearch Vehicle can Navigate in Winter,
http://www.at.ford.com/SiteCollectionImages/2016_NA/March/From%20Autonomy%20to%20Snowtonomy.pdf
[19] 5G Infrastructure Public Private Partnership (5G-PPP) (2015): 5G
automotive vision, 65 p., https://5g-ppp.eu/, September 2015.
[20] NGMN Perspectives on Vertical Industries and Implications for 5G,
https://www.ngmn.org/uploads/media/160610_NGMN_Perspectives_on_Vertical_Industries_and_Implications_for_5G_v1_0.pdf
[21] ITS Japan,
http://www.kantei.go.jp/jp/singi/it2/senmon_bunka/douro/dai2/siryou4_8.pdf
[22] NEDO\'s Energy ITS Project in Japan for Automated Truck Platooning,
http://www.nedo.go.jp/content/100541227.pdf
[23] NHTSA Human Factors Evaluation of Level 2 and Level 3 Automated Driving
Concepts,
http://www.nhtsa.gov/DOT/NHTSA/NVS/Crash%20Avoidance/Technical%20Publications/2015/812182_HumanFactorsEval-L2L3-AutomDrivingConcepts.pdf
[24] M. Althoff, O. Stursberg, and M. Buss, \"Safety assessment of driving
behavior in multi-lane traffic for autonomous vehicles,\" in Proc. IEEE
Intelligent Vehicles Symposium, pp. 893-900, June 2009.
[25] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services\".
[26] P. Gomes, F. Vieira and M. Ferreira, \"The See-Through System: From
implementation to test-drive,\" Vehicular Networking Conference (VNC), 2012
IEEE, Seoul, 2012, pp. 40-47.
[27] J. Choi, N. González-Prelcic, R. Daniels, C. R. Bhat, and R. W. Heath,
Jr., \"Millimeter Wave Vehicular Communication to Support Massive Automotive
Sensing,\" submitted to IEEE Communications Magazine, Jan. 2016.
[28] N. Andersen, C2C-Consortium \"Towards Accident Free Driving\", ETSI
Summit \"5G from Myth to Reality\", 2016.
[29] M. Amoozadeh, H. Deng, C.-N. Chuah, H. M. Zhang, and D. Ghosal, \"Platoon
management with cooperative adaptive cruise control enabled by VANET,\"
ELSEVIER Vehicular Communications, vol. 2. no. 2, pp. 110-123, Apr. 2015.
[30] R. Alieiev, A. Kwoczek and T. Hehn, \"Automotive requirements for future
mobile networks,\" Microwaves for Intelligent Mobility (ICMIM), 2015 IEEE
MTT-S International Conference on, Heidelberg, 2015, pp. 1-4.
[31] M. Düring, K. Franke, et al., \"Adaptive cooperative manoeuvre planning
algorithm for conflict resolution in diverse traffic situations,\" 2014
International Conference on Connected Vehicles and Expo (ICCVE), Vienna, 2014,
pp. 242-249.
[32] 3GPP TR 22.885: \"Study on LTE support for V2X services\".
[33] DOT HS 811 492B, Vehicle Safety Communications -- Applications (VSC-A)
Final Report: Appendix Volume 1, System Design and Objective Test, pp C-2-4
and C-2-5.
[34] A. Kwoczek (Volkswagen AG), \"Automotive Requirements for Future
Networks\", Information Technology Society (ITG), Communication Technology,
May, 2016.
[35] Void
[36] 5G-PPP Project on \"5G Air Interface Below 6 GHz\", Deliverable D2.1:
\"Air interface framework and specification of system level simulations\",
http://fantastic5g.eu/wp-
content/uploads/2016/06/FANTASTIC-5G_D2_1_final_modified.pdf.
[37] ETSI TS 102 894-2 V1.2.1, \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS); Users
and applications requirements; Part 2: Applications and facilities layer
common data dictionary\".
[38] SAE International, \"AUTOMATED DRIVING LEVELS OF DRIVING AUTOMATION ARE
DEFINED IN NEW SAE INTERNATIONAL STANDARD J3016\"; US Homeland Security
Digital Library, \"Self-Driving Cars: Levels of Automation\", March 2017
https://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=801463.
[39] U.S. Department of Transportation, \"Federal Automated Vehicles Policy\",
Sept. 2016. [https://one.nhtsa.gov/nhtsa/av/av-policy.html]{.underline}
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**End-to-end latency:** time it takes to transfer a given piece of information
from a source to a destination, measured at the application level, **from the
moment it is** transmitted by the source to the moment it is received at the
destination.
**Road Side Unit:** A stationary infrastructure entity supporting V2X
applications that can exchange messages with other entities supporting V2X
applications.
NOTE: RSU is a term frequently used in existing ITS specifications, and the
reason for introducing the term in the 3GPP specifications is to make the
documents easier to read for the ITS industry. RSU is a logical entity that
supports V2X application logic using the functionality providedby either a
3GPP network or an UE (referred to as UE-type RSU).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> CACC Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control
LoA Level of Automation
RSU Road Side Unit
V2I Vehicle to Infrastructure
V2V Vehicle to Vehicle
# 4 Overview
A basic set of requirements for EPS to support V2X applications have been
specified in [25]. These requirements are considered sufficient for vehicles
(i.e., UEs supporting V2X applications) to exchange their own status
information, such as position, speed and heading, with other nearby vehicles,
infrastructure nodes and/or pedestrians. Also, these requirements fulfil the
need to disseminate imminent warning messages to nearby entities in time. The
capability of EPS to support these requirements will expedite the adoption of
3GPP connectivity by vehicles.
Despite the basic set of requirements for 3GPP system to support V2X service,
it is considered growingly important among telecommunication industry and
automotive industry that its evolution is necessary. Because automotive
industries have begun to see V2X applications beyond unidirectional
distribution of status information of vehicles, the 3GPP system needs to
increase its capability enough to meet KPIs that emerging V2X applications
require. That is, as V2X applications advance, transmission of short messages
about vehicles' own status data will be complemented with transmission of
larger messages containing raw sensor data, vehicles' intention data,
coordination and confirmation of future manoeuvre and so on. For these
advanced applications, the expected requirements to meet the needed data rate,
reliability, latency, communication range and speed are made more stringent.
A relevant aspect of advanced V2X applications is the Level of Automation
(LoA), which reflects the functional aspects of the technology and affects the
system performance requirements. In accordance with the levels from SAE [X1]
and NHTSA [X2], the LoA are: 0 -- No Automation, 1 -- Driver Assistance, 2 --
Partial Automation, 3 -- Conditional Automation, 4 -- High Automation, 5 --
Full Automation. A distinction is drawn between Levels 0-2 (Driver Control)
and 3-5 (Vehicle Control) based on whether the human operator or the automated
system is primarily responsible for monitoring the driving environment.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 eV2X support for vehicle platooning
### 5.1.1 Description
Platooning is operating a group of vehicles in a closely linked manner so that
the vehicles move like a train with virtual strings attached between vehicles.
To maintain distance between vehicles, the vehicles needs to share status
information such as speed, heading and intentions such as braking,
acceleration, etc. By use of platooning, the distances between vehicles can be
reduced, overall fuel consumption is lowered, and the number of needed drivers
can be reduced.
Following aspects need to be supported for platooning.
[Join/Leave]{.underline}
To form a platoon, vehicles need to exchange intent such as interest to form a
platoon, intention to be a leader or follower of the platoon. And when a
vehicle reaches a destination or has to leave the platoon, this intent should
be also exchanged among vehicles of the platoon. This exchange of intent can
occur at any time while the platoon is active.
[Announcement/Warning]{.underline}
When a platoon is formed and operational, a vehicle which do not belong to the
platoon should aware the existence of the platoon. Otherwise, the vehicle may
move into the middle of the platoon and disrupt the operation of the platoon.
Thus, the platoon should be known to other vehicles beyond the communication
range among vehicles of the same platoon.
[Group communication]{.underline}
There are several messages that are exchanged for platoon management. E.g.,
vehicles of the platoon need to exchange information regarding when to take
which road, whether to brake or accelerate and when, etc. At least, 30 CAM
messages/seconds needs to be supported. [3]. In addition, the lead vehicle
consume more fuel than other vehicles, sometime lead vehicle may request next
vehicle to be a leader. This kind of communication can be done between the two
vehicles without other vehicles' involvement.
To prevent potential security threats such as revealing of the route, these
messages should be supported with confidentiality and be deciphered only by
the vehicles of the platoon. In addition, due to the private nature of the
messages, the communication range of these messages is from the lead vehicle
to the last vehicle of the platoon, and typically line-of-sight. Because the
size of the platoon can differ even on the move, resource-efficient
distribution of messages for platooning and dynamic control of the
distribution area of the messages should be supported.
Two sets of Platooning performances requirements are supported:
\- Set 1: According to [11][2], the distance between vehicles for normal
density platooning may be larger than 2 meters. When the platoon moves at
100km/h, vehicles move 1 meter in 36ms. Considering the round-trip-time and
processing delay, message transmission frequency up to 40Hz, translating into
25ms end-to-end latency with message sizes of around 300-400 bytes should be
supported.
\- Set 2: According to [2], the distance between vehicles for high density
platooning is 1 meter. When the platoon moves at 100 km/h, vehicles move 1
meter in 36 ms. Considering round-trip-time and processing delay, message
transmission frequency up to 100 Hz, translating into at least 10 ms latency
with message sizes of around 50-1200 bytes should be supported.
If the platoon is too long, it will sometimes interrupt the operation of other
vehicles and traffic management authority. So, there should be limit on how
many vehicles can be included in a platoon. This is especially true
considering that a truck can span more than 15 m.
### 5.1.2 Potential requirements
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case:
KPIs common for set 1 and set 2:
[PR.5.1-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to control the communication range
for a message based on the characteristic of the messages transmitted by a UE
supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support in a periodic manner at
least 30 message per second broadcast by a UE supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to create/destroy a group for UEs
supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support up to 5 UEs for a group
of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to add/remove a UE supporting V2X
application into a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to support at least in a periodic
manner [28] message transfer per second among a group of UEs supporting V2X
application.
[PR.5.1-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer among a
group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-008] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
two UEs belonging to the same group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-009] The 3GPP system shall be able to support confidentiality and
integrity of message transfer among a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
KPIs for set 2:
[PR.5.1-010] The 3GPP system shall be able to support 10 ms end-to-end latency
for message transfer among a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-011] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages among a
group of UEs supporting V2X application with variable message payloads of
50-1200 bytes, not including security-related message component.
KPIs for set 1:
[PR.5.1-012] The 3GPP system shall support communication latency no larger
than [25] ms.
[PR.5.1-013] The 3GPP system shall support [90] % reliability.
[PR.5.1-014] The 3GPP system shall support triggered and periodic transmission
of small data packets (e.g. 300-400 bytes).
## 5.2 Information exchange within platoon
### 5.2.1 Description
#### 5.2.1.1 General
When the vehicles are travelling on the road, they can dynamically form a
platoon. The platoon creator is responsible for platoon management. The
manager should real-time updates surrounding traffic data reported by group
members, and reported it to RSU; At the same time, the platoon manager should
real-time receive RSU messages which include road conditions and traffic
information far away from them, and share them with platoon members. All the
platoon members can also share the information within the group through V2V.
All the platoon members can obtain information through two ways. One is within
platoon through V2V. Another is come from RSU which based on the platoon
manager relay. All the information obtains will be used to build high-
precision dynamic driving maps. Information exchange between vehicles can be
the new type of \"ask-response\".
#### 5.2.1.2 Pre-conditions
All the vehicles support V2V communication and the platoon manager should
support V2V and V2I communication. Each vehicle has a unique label for
identification when interacting with others.
The platoon has more than 1 active vehicle which is driving in the same lane.
All the platoon members are within the communication range with its direct
neighbour which also is the platoon member.
The platoon management is responsible for platoon management and information
exchange with the RSU.
#### 5.2.1.3 Service flows
Vehicle A/B/C/D are within the same platoon, and vehicle A is the team
manager.
Vehicle A/B/C/D sharing the surrounding real-time traffic and road information
within the platoon. Vehicle A reports all the information to RSU.
Vehicle A receives traffic and road information from RSU, found there are road
congestion caused by traffic accidents in the front corner of the road which
are out of their V2V communication range.
Vehicle A sharing the information to vehicle B/C/D. Vehicle B/C/D update the
driving map in real time and the platoon slow down and change the route.
#### 5.2.1.4 Post-conditions
Vehicles within platoon can build the high-precision dynamic driving map by
real-time sharing information with platoon members which can provide reliable
protection for traffic safety and efficiency.
Vehicles which only support V2V can obtain dynamic information out of the V2V
communication range through platoon information exchange.
Also the vehicles without HD camera and radar can obtain the surrounding
information from other platoon members.
### 5.2.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a maximum latency of
[500] ms for the transport of V2X messages between a UE supporting V2X
application and a RSU via another UE supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.2-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support the maximum transport of
[2] V2X messages per second between a UE supporting V2X application and a RSU
via another UE supporting V2X application..
[PR.5.2-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support the transport of V2X
messages with variable payload of [50-1200] bytes between a UE supporting V2X
application and a RSU via another UE supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.2-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a maximum latency of
[10] ms for V2V communications.
## 5.3 Automotive: sensor and state map sharing
### 5.3.1 Description
#### 5.3.1.1 General
Sensor and state map sharing (SSMS) enables sharing of raw or processed sensor
data to build collective situational awareness. The concept is an extension of
the Local Dynamic Map embodied in ETSI and ISO technical reports and standards
[4], [5], [6], [7] with the primary difference being higher spatio-temporal
fidelity, low latency and ability to transition from hyper-local to
transportation link to network area of \"state map\" awareness. Sensor and
state map sharing would leverage properties of highly-reliable transmission
and system resiliency. This enables services such as low latency communication
for precision positioning and control; such properties can enable mission
critical applications such as cooperative driving (vehicle platooning),
intersection safety of all road users to include pedestrians and emergency
vehicle communication. For these use cases, highly resolved sensor images do
not necessarily need to be transmitted (see [8] where smart nodes perform on-
board processing and data exchange for a shared or fused situational
awareness, whereupon vehicles autonomously perform reasoning or tactical
manoeuvre planning operations); however, because of the plethora of disparate
connected sensors, it is anticipated that significant data bandwidth would be
needed for SSMS.
Requirements:
\- High bandwidth
\- High reliability for fusion confidence
\- Short latency to allow highly dynamic automated vehicle operation and
emergency vehicle response
\- High density of transmitting devices
\- Large messages
\- Integration of network and cloud-based information (e.g. local dynamic
map.)
High precision positioning techniques should also be supported (either via
local sharing, ranging or from the mobile network) because GPS may not
available in dense urban scenario.
#### 5.3.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A, B and C are SSMS-enabled. Infrastructure appurtenances
(constituting roadside equipment or RSE) X, Y and Z are SSMS-enabled.
2\. Any combination of vehicles A, B and C and RSE X, Y and Z are in
communication range
3\. At least two entities within A, B, C, X, Y or Z offers SSMS services,
effectively creating a SSMS group.
#### 5.3.1.3 Service flows
1\. SSMS group members (A, B, C, X, Y, Z) share messages with common data
exchange format (e.g, future extended Local Dynamic Map). This information
would include the vehicle trajectory, its planned trajectory and some
combination of raw or processed/abstracted data from on-board perception
sensors.
2\. SSMS group member develops individual state map.
3\. SSMS group member makes tactical or manoeuvre decision based on state map.
4\. SSMS group member broadcasts manoeuvre decision to all others in SSMS
group.
5\. SSMS group member conducts manoeuvre decision.
6\. Other SSMS group members incorporate manoeuvre decision broadcast and
their sensors' perception of group member manoeuvre into their state maps.
#### 5.3.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Enhanced state information: SSMS group members (A, B, C, X, Y, Z) are
enabled to perform their individual movement (A, B, C) and system and roadway
(X, Y, Z) operations and control functions with high degree of individual and
shared situational awareness.
2\. System coordination: Enables SSMS group members to perform joint
operational instructions.
3\. Improved safety and operational performance.
### 5.3.2 Potential requirements
All requirements are for end to end performance, defined as communications
sent by source and communication received by target.
[PR.5.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support less than 10 ms latency between V2X
applications.
[PR.5.3-002] The 3GPP system shall support message reliability of 90 % between
V2X applications.
[PR.5.3-003] The 3GPP system shall support peak data rate up to [25] Mbps per
UE for occasional transmissions.
[PR.5.3-004] The 3GPP system shall support efficient coordination of radio
resources used for V2X communication to maximize the utilisation of the
available spectrum and to ensure the required reliability.
[PR.5.3-005] The 3GPP system shall support high connection density for
congested traffic.
NOTE: An example of estimate is for worst case US Freeway scenario that does
not include arterial roads (i.e. onramps): 5 lanes in each direction or 10
lanes total per highway, for up to 3 highways intersecting = around 3,100 --
4,300 cars per square kilometer.
## 5.4 eV2X support for remote driving
### 5.4.1 Description
Remote driving is a concept in which a vehicle is controlled remotely by
either a human operator or cloud computing.
While autonomous driving needs a lot of sensors and sophisticated algorithm
like object identification, remote driving with human operators can be
realized using less of them. For example, if on-board camera of the vehicle
feeds the live video to remote human operator, human operator can easily
understand the potential hazard of the vehicle without assistance of any
sophisticated computing. Based on this video, the remote operator sends
commands to the vehicle.
Remote driving can different use case than autonomous driving. Buses follow
pre-defined static routes and a specific lane, and stop at pre-defined bus-
stops. Thus, the characteristic of operating these buses are somewhat
different from what is required for operating autonomous vehicles. For these
buses, live video stream includes not only outside-bus image but also inside-
bus image, so remote operators additionally need to react to more diverse
scenario such as passengers getting on/off the bus.
Also, when cloud computing replaces human operators, coordination between
vehicles can be achieved. For example, if all the vehicles feed their schedule
and destination, the cloud can coordinate which route each vehicle will take.
This coordination will reduce potential traffic congestion, overall travel
time, leading to better fuel efficiency.
### 5.4.2 Potential requirements
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case:
[PR.5.4-001] The 3GPP system shall support user experienced data rate up to 1
Mbps at DL and 20 Mbps at UL for UE supporting V2X application for an absolute
speed of up to 250 km/h.
NOTE: The assumption is that H.265/ HEVC HD stream is up to 10 Mb/s and two
video streams are delivered to a remote driver.
[PR.5.4-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to control the UL and DL
reliability of V2X communication, depending on the requirement of V2X
application.
[PR.5.4-003] The 3GPP system shall support ultra-high UL and DL reliability
(99.999 % or higher) for UE supporting safety-related V2X application for an
absolute speed of up to 250 km/h.
[PR.5.4-004] The 3GPP system shall support end-to-end latency 5 ms between V2X
application server and UE supporting safety-related V2X application for an
absolute speed of up to 250 km/h.
## 5.5 Automated cooperative driving for short distance grouping
### 5.5.1 Description
#### 5.5.1.1 General
Cooperative driving allows a group of vehicles to automatically communicate to
enable lane changing, merging, and passing between vehicles of the group and
inclusion/removal of vehicle in the group in order to improved safety and fuel
economy.
This use case is pushed by automotive industry because the reduced aerodynamic
drag would result in greater fuel economy and a reduction in greenhouse gas
emission. For all vehicle classes, close following from vehicle-to-vehicle
communication and coordination allow more efficient use of the roadway,
alleviating congestion and enhancing safety. It is foreseen, that the gap
between vehicles will become much smaller, exceeding the response capability
of the driver while improving the consumption of gasoline and improving the
utilisation of the roads even more.
Automated Cooperative Driving requires far more automation than Cooperative
Adaptive Cruise Control (CACC) described in Rel-14 V2X. CACC provides
longitudinal control of vehicle motions, while the driver remains responsible
for the steering control. CACC is an instantiation of Level 1 automation on
both the SAE (Society of Automotive Engineers) [38] and NHTSA (The National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration) scales [39] of automated driving;
alternately, it is called \"Assisted Driving\" by BASt.(German Federal Highway
Research Institute) and similarly, \"Driver Assistance\" by SAE. Automated
Cooperative Driving provides 'tighter' or lower latency longitudinal control
to enable a leader to communicates and coordinates with a group of vehicles,
which enables close following. Moreover, Automated Cooperative Driving may in
add lateral control, or higher levels of automation. The Automated Cooperative
Driving conceptual framework allows innovative use of communications access in
solving complex road traffic scenarios without driver intervention. Automated
Cooperative Driving therefore enables SAE Level 2 through 5 automation ([10],
[38])
The Basic Safety Message broadcast and similar uses of the Cooperative
Awareness Message for V2V safety generally allow a nominal 100 ms latency,
since the control loop to alert humans is long. Additionally, the V2V safety
warning applications allow for reliability (PER) as low as 20 %. ([33])
In contrast, Automated Cooperative Driving requires:
\- Very much lower latency for message exchange
\- Higher reliability of message exchange: communication links must operate
extremely reliably to mitigate risk of vehicular crashes.
\- Higher density of transmitting UEs
\- Larger messages exchanged
Cooperative Short Distance Grouping (CoSdG) refers to the scenario where the
distance between vehicles such as trucks are extremely small -- creating a
desirable form of legal tailgating. The gap distance translated to time can
equivalently be as low as 0.3s or even shorter, which at 80km/h leads to
almost 6.7m distance between the vehicles [10]. Driving such closely is made
possible by advanced automated cooperative driving technology, in combination
with a highly reliable wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communication system that
enables data transmission with low latency.
CoSdG is different than current platooning implementations summarized in [12],
where ITS-G5 has been successfully used at a wide range of transmission rates
(10 -- 50 Hz). CoSdG envisions closer spacings and lower latency that what can
reliably accomplished with alternative technologies. CoSdG would therefore
enable a marked improvement in string stability, efficiency, and ultimately
safety.
\- Reliable wireless communications are required among the vehicles in a
cooperative group. Messages are exchanged between the leading vehicles and all
cooperating vehicles in order to execute control actions at the same time.
CoSdG may not only be operated by vehicle-to-vehicle communication, but may
also be vehicle-to-infrastructure and vehicle-to-backend communication to
ensure most efficient utilisation of available resources and the required
reliability.
\- CoSdG may be used together with video transmission as explained in [9]. A
display panel in any vehicles share forward-facing data, while drivers of the
other cooperatively communicating group are able to display the video gathered
by the camera mounted on other vehicles.
\- CoSdG enables direct control intervention in mission critical scenarios.
Information loss might lead to vehicle crashes. Messages must be transmitted
reliably and delivered with very low latency. The jitter must be extremely
low, as the electronic control unit operates usually on data provided
periodically. Multiple vehicles must be linked to the leading vehicle by the
wireless connection. When considering the mix of vehicles on the road, the
number of vehicles can exceed 10,000 vehicles in scenarios with multiple lanes
and multiple levels and types of roads.
There would be two phases for CoSdG:
\- In Phase I, a baseline is proposed with a group of vehicles driving
together with a lead vehicle are driven normally by a trained professional
driver, and several following vehicles driven fully automatically by the
system with information exchanged between the leader and other cars allowing
with small distance (longitudinal gaps) between them. The typical required
transmission frequency among the vehicles is up to 40Hz, [11], translating
into 25ms end-to-end latency. Initial consideration of message exchange
between vehicles in a platooning is based on CAM extension, which is around
300-400 bytes [11].
\- In Phase II, all vehicles, the lead vehicle as well as following vehicles
are driven fully automatically by the system. This will, compared to Phase I,
allow smaller distance (longitudinal gaps) between them, leading to further
reduction of fuel consumption. This requires in Phase II a higher transmission
frequency compared to Phase I. The transmission frequency is 100Hz to
coordinate the driving manoeuvre. The end-to-end latency is 1ms [13]
In addition, high precision positioning techniques should be supported by the
mobile network to ensure the V2X information can be used even when GPS is not
available, e.g. in very dense urban scenarios.
#### 5.5.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A, B & C are V2V enabled
2\. Vehicle A, B & C are traveling in close proximity and in V2V communication
range
3\. Vehicle A is traveling outside of a group and wants to join the group
which includes Vehicles B & C.
#### 5.5.1.3 Service flows
1\. Vehicle B and other group members (e. g. C) share a message with the group
information (i.e. size, speed, gap policies, their positions in the group,
planned trajectory, etc.).
2\. Vehicle A receives messages from the group members and identifies
acceptable groups based on certain criteria (i.e. speed and gap policies,
size).
3\. Vehicle A sends a message to members of the group requesting to join
group.
4\. Vehicle B decides that Vehicle A or C can join the group ahead of it and
responds with a confirmation and provides a gap (if necessary).
5\. All other members of the group receive messages from Vehicle A and update
the group information.
6\. Vehicle A, B & C are traveling in close proximity
7\. Vehicle A, B & C continuously exchange their on-board information, which
when shared constitutes actual group information. This enables keep the
optimal distance between all of the group members and to ensure safety. Each
vehicle sends a state information V2X message to the vehicle right behind it.
8\. Subsequently, the driver of Vehicle A decides to leave the group and
assumes control of Vehicle A.
9\. Vehicle A broadcasts a message indicating it will leave group to other
members of the group.
10\. Vehicle B receives the message from Vehicle A and updates the group
information
#### 5.5.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Vehicle A leaves the group
> 2\. Distance between vehicles has to be corrected based on updated group
> information
### 5.5.2 Potential requirements
All requirements are for end to end performance, defined as communications
sent by source and communication received by target.
[PR-5.5-003a] The 3GPP system shall support less than 5 ms communication
latency for transport of messages between two UEs supporting V2V applications,
that are part of a group of UEs supporting V2V applications.
NOTE: The determination of group membership may be done at the upper layers
and/or lower layers (application and/or Layer 2).
The 3GPP system shall support 1^st^ set of KPIs in Phase I:
[PR.5.5-001] The 3GPP system shall support communication latency for data
packets 300-400 bytes no larger than 25 ms.
[PR.5.5-002] The 3GPP system shall support over 90 % target packet delivery
reliability rate.
[PR.5.5-003] The 3GPP system shall support triggered and periodic transmission
of data packets 300-400 bytes.
The 3GPP system shall support 2^nd^ set of KPIs in Phase II:
[PR.5.5-004] The 3GPP system shall support less than 10 ms communication
latency for transport of V2X messages between two UEs supporting V2X
application in proximity guaranteed in highly loaded network.
[PR.5.5-005] The 3GPP system shall support over [99.99] % target packet
delivery reliability rate within 80 m range.
[PR.5.5-006] The 3GPP system shall support transmission of one data packet up
to 1200 bytes every 25 ms within 80 m range.
[PR.5.5-007] The 3GPP system shall support relative lateral position accuracy
of 0.1 m.
[PR.5.5-008] The 3GPP system shall support relative longitudinal position
accuracy of less than 0.5 m for UEs supporting V2X application in proximity.
[PR.5.5-009] The 3GPP system shall support to ensure sufficient reliability
metrics are reached.
[PR.5.5-010] The 3GPP system shall support high connection density for
congested traffic.
> Note: An example of estimate is for worst case US Freeway scenario that does
> not include arterial roads (i.e. onramps): 5 lanes in each direction or 10
> lanes total per highway, for up to 3 highways intersecting = around 3,100 --
> 4,300 cars per mile.
## 5.6 Collective perception of environment
### 5.6.1 Description
#### 5.6.1.1 General
Vehicles can exchange real time information (based on vehicle sensors
information or sensor data from a capable UE-type RSU) among each other in the
neighbour area. This kind of information exchange leads to Collective
Perception of Environment (CPE), which can enhance the perception of
environment of vehicles to avoid accidents [15].
9.840 cars are considered per kilometre in the scenario with high vehicle
density related to congested traffic road on US Freeway with 5 lanes in each
direction (or 10 lanes total per highway), and up to 3 highways intersecting.
The information exchange has following characteristics:
\- The information traffic should at least consist of 1600 payload byte to
enable transmission of information related to 10 detected objects in order to
support information from local environment perception and the information
related to the actual vehicle status [16].
\- The information shall be able to track changes in the environment by many
other cars, with repetition rate of at least 5-10 Hz [16]. The update rate is
chosen high enough such that the vehicle velocity vector does not change too
much between updates. The information generated by each vehicle has to be
delivered to all the neighbouring vehicles within the specified range (urban
50 m, rural 500 m, highway 1000m) [16].
Both traffic types (periodic and event driven) can exist at the same time.
There will be two Phases in Collective Perception of Environment (CPE), we can
have two sets of KPIs for the two Phases, 1st Set of KPIs for Phase I and 2nd
Set of KPIs for Phase II:
\- Phase I: CPE addresses the use case where road users not able to
periodically transmit messages for ITS services are detected and classified by
other road users already equipped with 3GPP technology for ITS. These road
users periodically transmit the information like object classification, speed,
direction etc. detected with the local sensors. The pre-processed sensor
information is used to enhance the environment perception with the overall
goal to increase the benefit from 3GPP technology for ITS even in a not fully
developed market. Requirements on 3GPP [15]: Packet size 1600 byte, end-to-end
latency 100ms, 99% reliability [16].
\- Phase II: CPE lays down the baseline for a set of cooperative automated
driving use cases (e.g. automated forward collision avoidance, overtaking and
lane changing) [14]. Phase II goes beyond road users' detection and
classification [15], the aim is to achieve an all-around view [14]. Sensor
data information is shared to increase the limited sensor horizon to detect
objects and obstacles in areas not visible to the local sensors e.g. behind
crests, curves or objects behind the corner of houses [14]. These sensor data
are used to control the vehicle without the human driver. Sensor data must be
sent either in low resolution as pre-processed data or high resolution as raw
data dependant on the scenario. Raw data are needed for liability reasons in
case of accidents, for distributed verification of local and remote sensor
data, furthermore to achieve accurate map merging as well as object
localization [14]. Mobile communication performance significantly impacts the
accurate environment modelling [15]. Requirements on 3GPP: Pre-processed data
50Mb/s, raw data 1Gb/s [17], [18], packet size 1600 byte, end-to-end latency
3ms [14] [17], reliability (emergency 99.999%) [5], otherwise 99.99% [19].
{width="6.044444444444444in" height="2.6013888888888888in"}
Figure 5.6.1.1-1: Collective Perception of Environment
#### 5.6.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicle A is not V2X enabled, Truck B and Vehicles C are V2X enabled.
2\. Vehicle C is following the Truck B on the lane from east to west. Vehicle
A is travelling on the lane from west to east, on the opposite direction of
Truck B and Vehicle C.
3\. Vehicle A, B & C are travelling in close proximity and in V2V
communication range.
4\. Vehicle C wants to overtake the Truck B.
#### 5.6.1.3 Service flows
1\. At the beginning of the overtake manoeuvre, the Vehicle C is not able to
perceive the Vehicle A.
2\. Truck B detects the Vehicle A with its head sensor system and sends this
environmental information via V2X Communication to Vehicle C.
3\. The overtaking Vehicle C analyses the received information and gives the
driver a warning of the danger.
4\. The driver interrupts his overtaking manoeuvre because of the warning.
#### 5.6.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. The potential accident has been avoided.
2\. Vehicle C tries overtaking again later when the vehicle A is travelling
through and the next information shared by the Truck B shows that the traffic
is safe.
### 5.6.2 Potential requirements
The 3GPP system shall support 1^st^ set of KPIs in Phase I:
[PR.5.6-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support [100] ms end-to-end
latency for message transfer among a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.6-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support over [99] % target
packet delivery reliability rate in [1000] m.
[PR.5.6-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support periodic transmission of
data packets (e.g. [1600] bytes).
The 3GPP system shall support 2^nd^ set of KPIs in Phase II:
[PR.5.6-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support [3] ms end-to-end
latency and [99.999] % reliability for message transfer among a group of UEs
supporting V2X application within [200] m communication range.
[PR.5.6-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to support [10] ms end-to-end
latency and [99.99] % reliability for message transfer among a group of UEs
supporting V2X application within [500] m communication range.
[PR.5.6-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to support [50] ms end-to-end
latency and [99] % reliability for message transfer among a group of UEs
supporting V2X application within [1000] m communication range.
[PR.5.6-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to support peak data rate of [1]
Gbps for a single UE for a short period of time in range of [50] m, in case of
imminent collision.
> NOTE: Only one of the requirements [PR.5.6-004], [PR.5.6-005], [PR.5.6-006],
> and/or [PR.5.6-007] need to be fulfilled at the same time.
## 5.7 Communication between vehicles of different 3GPP RATs
### 5.7.1 Description
Depending on the choice of OEMs, while some vehicles are equipped with modules
supporting only LTE, other vehicles may be equipped with modules supporting NR
(New Radio). If a vehicle of NR cannot talk to a vehicle supporting LTE, the
vehicle supporting LTE can be regarded as another vehicle of no V2X
capability.
The following figure 5.7.1-1 shows the scenarios to be considered.
{width="5.629166666666666in" height="3.00625in"}
Figure 5.7.1-1: Example scenario of mixed 3GPP RATs deployment
[]{.underline}
[No coverage]{.underline}
In this area, neither E-UTRAN nor NR access network is found. Because there is
no network support for the communication among vehicles, direct Prose
communication based on LTE and/or NR is the only option available for the
communication between the vehicles.
For communication toward other NR-based vehicle, it seems straight-forward for
a NR-based vehicle to use direct Prose communication based on NR. Performance
of NR-based direct Prose communication will surpass that of LTE-based direct
Prose communication.
However, considering that the average lifespan of the vehicles is longer than
10 years, it is likely that LTE-based vehicle exists near the NR-based
vehicle. Because LTE-based vehicle cannot understand NR-based Prose direct
communication, one choice is that the NR-based vehicle can communicate with
the LTE-based vehicle using LTE-based communication. With thisdirect
communication between vehicles can be supported.
By the way, this does not necessarily mean that enhancement in NR-based Prose
direct communication is limited to what LTE-based Prose direct communication
can provide. For the basic safety service, LTE compatible Prose direct
communication is used and NR-optimized direct communication can be used for
advanced V2X service such as platooning.
[LTE only coverage]{.underline}
Because there is no NR-based Access Network, NR-based vehicle is not provided
with any network support and the only choice for the NR-based vehicle is to
use Prose direct communication.
On the other hand, within LTE coverage, LTE-based vehicle can be controlled by
the network, i.e. whether to use LTE-based direct communication or not. Based
on the network's decision, V2X-related traffic generated by LTE-based vehicle
can be routed through the V2X application server. In this case, LTE-based
vehicle does not use direct Prose communication and the direct communication
between NR-based vehicle and LTE-based vehicle is not possible.
However, in this area, if a NR-based vehicle behaves in a same way as in the
area of no LTE/NR coverage, the transmission from the NR-based vehicle may
generate interference to E-UTRAN. Thus, impact to E-UTRAN can be minimized by
NR-based vehicle.
[LTE/NR coverage]{.underline}
Because both LTE-based vehicle and NR-based vehicle are within coverage of
networks, communication between the vehicles are possible indirectly via the
network, regardless of whether the vehicles can use direct Prose communication
or not, or whether they use same radio access technology or not.
### 5.7.2 Potential requirements
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case:
[PR.5.7-001] Void
[PR.5.7-002] Impact to E-UTRA(N) by UE supporting only 5G RAT(s) based V2X
communication shall be minimized.
[PR.5.7-003] Impact to 5G RA(N) by UE supporting only E-UTRA based V2X
communication shall be minimized.
## 5.8 Multi-PLMN environment
### 5.8.1 Description
#### 5.8.1.1 General
Although required communication condition, e.g. for immediate message
transfer, is set high for some of eV2X use cases, such condition needs to be
met regardless of whether or not all the involved UEs and UE-type RSUs are
subscriber of the same PLMN.
#### 5.8.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A and B and UE-type RSU X are subscriber of PLMN P. Vehicle C is
subscriber of PLMN Q.
2\. A, B, C and X support V2X communication.
3\. Any combination of A, B, and X are in communication range.
#### 5.8.1.3 Service flows
1\. C comes into the communication range of A, B, and X.
2\. Each vehicle shares its detected objects and/or coarse driving intention
with other vehicles. Each UE-type RSU shares its detected objects with
vehicles. Each vehicle obtains the information of surrounding objects that
cannot be obtained only from local sensors and also obtains the driving
intention of the other vehicles in proximity.
3\. A recognizes no service degradation of the message transfer between with B
and with C.
#### 5.8.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Each vehicle utilizes the received information of detected objects and/or
coarse driving intention of other vehicles as predictive information for its
driving.
2\. Road safety and traffic efficiency is improved. Having C does not degrade
that.
### 5.8.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.8-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
UEs or between a UE and a UE-type RSU, regardless of whether or not they are
subscribers of the same PLMN supporting V2X communications. In case they are
subscribers to different PLMNs, there shall be no service degradation of the
message transfer.
## 5.9 Cooperative collision avoidance (CoCA) of connected automated vehicles
### 5.9.1 Description
#### 5.9.1.1 General
To enable vehicles to better evaluate the probability of an accident and to
coordinate manoeuvres in addition to usual CAM, DENM safety messages, data
from sensors, list of actions like braking and accelerating commands, lateral
as well as longitudinal control are exchanged amongst vehicles to coordinate
in the application the road traffic flow through 3GPP V2X communication.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs):
\- Throughput of 10 Mbps [36] to exchange CoCA application messages between
UEs in proximity to perform coordinated driving manoeuvre at intersections.
\- Message size up to 2 kByte [37] depending on the number of involved
vehicles, to exchange pre-planned trajectories between vehicles.
\- Less than 10 ms [2] latency for regular manoeuvre coordination within the
CoCA application time limit.
\- 99.99 % [2] reliability for safety coordinated driving manoeuvre.
#### 5.9.1.2 Pre-conditions
\- Vehicles A, B, C support message exchange via 3GPP V2X communication.
\- Vehicles A, B, C support basis for V2X safety application (CAM, DENM etc.)
so they already know their relative positions.
\- With relative positions, Vehicles A, B, C are able to operate CoCA
application.
#### 5.9.1.3 Service flows
\- Vehicle A, B or C detects the risk of collision.
\- V2X application of vehicle A detects a risk of collision. Vehicle A\'s
application exchanges CoCA related messages (trajectories, sensor data, brake
commands etc.) via 3GPP V2X communication service.
\- Vehicles B and C confirm on application layer to vehicle A the coordinated
manoeuvre for CoCA by transmitting messages via 3GPP communication service.
#### 5.9.1.4 Post-conditions
\- Vehicles A, B and C perform coordinated manoeuvre.
### 5.9.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.9-001] The 3GPP network shall enable communication between UEs to
support message exchange with [10] Mbps data throughput with less than [10] ms
latency.
[PR.5.9-002] The 3GPP network shall enable UE's message exchange with [99.99]
% reliability and message sizes in range up to [2] kByte.
## 5.10 Information sharing for partial/ conditional automated driving
### 5.10.1 Description
#### 5.10.1.1 General
This use case is interpreted as an automated driving at the level of e.g. SAE
Level 3 automation and SAE Level 2 automation [38], where non-short inter-
vehicle distance (e.g. >2sec * vehicle speed) is assumed and abstracted/coarse
data exchange is sufficient.
The following applies for aspects of cooperative perception and cooperative
manoeuvre.
NOTE 1: Cooperative perception is defined in general as sharing local
perception data (abstracted data and/or high resolution sensor data) using V2X
communication to expand detectable range of on-board sensor capability. Here,
each vehicle and/or RSU shares its own perception data obtained from its local
sensors (e.g., camera, LIDAR, radar, etc.), with vehicles in proximity.
NOTE 2: Cooperative manoeuvre is defined in general as sharing driving
intention information (coarse and/or high resolution) using V2X communication
for cooperative manoeuvre. Here, each vehicle shares its driving intention
with vehicles in proximity.
\- Cooperative perception: This use case requires sharing detected objects
(e.g., abstracted object information detected by local sensors) among vehicles
in the same area.
\- Cooperative manoeuvre: This use case requires sharing coarse driving
intention (e.g., changing lanes or moving/ stopping/ parking in T sec at
[x,y,z]) for changing lanes, merging at highway and roundabout, crossing at
4-way stop and have consensus among all involved vehicles via V2X.
The following requirements apply for KPIs.
\- Data rate: [0.5] Mbps per link for cooperative perception. [0.05] Mbps per
link for cooperative manoeuvre.
NOTE 3: [0.5] Mbps is derived from: 60 byte/object, 100 objects, [10]
messages/sec. [0.05] Mbps is derived from: few 100 bytes (e.g., 500 byte)
/message, [10] messages/sec. (cf. [20]) The message transmission rate [10]
messages/sec comes from assumption that a transmitter vehicle and RSU generate
a new message every [100] ms. (cf. [22])
NOTE 4: Broadcast or multicast, periodic (or event-triggered) is assumed.
\- End-to-end latency: low
NOTE 5: Low application-layer end-to-end latency is required (e.g. [100] ms)
(cf. [20]).
\- Reliability: High reliability
\- Communication range: [10] sec * (maximum relative speed [m/s]) (cf. [21])
NOTE 6: In SAE Level 3 automation [38], the driver is expected to be available
for taking full control when the automated driving system is no longer able to
support automation, with sufficiently comfortable transition time (e.g., [10]
sec). To this end, the vehicle needs to obtain predictive information of
environments sufficient ahead. (cf. [23])
NOTE 8: In general, between UEs, the following mobility [km/h] (Relative
vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-100] km/h, Sub-urban: [0-200] km/h,
Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). Between UE and RSU, the following
mobility [km/h] (Relative vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-50] km/h, Sub-
urban: [0-100] km/h, Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). (cf. [2])
\- Density of connection devices: High density
#### 5.10.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A, B, and C and RSUs X, Y, and Z support V2X communication for
information sharing for limited automated driving.
2\. Any combination of vehicles A, B, and C and RSUs X, Y, and Z are in
communication range.
3\. Vehicles A, B, and C are travelling in proximity, where inter-vehicle
distance is not short (e.g. >2sec * vehicle speed).
#### 5.10.1.3 Service flows
1\. Each vehicle shares its detected objects (e.g., abstracted object
information detected by local sensors) and/or coarse driving intention with
other vehicles. Each RSU shares its detected objects with vehicles A, B, and
C.
2\. Each vehicle obtains the information of surrounding objects that cannot be
obtained only from local sensors and also obtains the driving intention of the
other vehicles in proximity.
#### 5.10.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Each vehicle utilizes the received information of detected objects and/or
coarse driving intention of other vehicles as predictive information for its
driving.
2\. Road safety and traffic efficiency is improved.
### 5.10.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.10-001] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting user experienced
data rate of [0.55] Mbps between UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.10-002] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting user experienced
data rate of [0.5] Mbps between a UE supporting V2X application and an RSU.
[PR.5.10-003] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring periodic
broadcast/multicast messages between two UEs supporting V2X application with
message payloads of [6500] bytes, not including security-related message
component.
[PR.5.10-004] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring periodic
broadcast/multicast messages between a UE supporting V2X application and an
RSU with message payloads of [6000] bytes, not including security-related
message component.
[PR.5.10-005] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a maximum
frequency of [10] messages per second per transmitting UE.
[PR.5.10-006] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between two UEs supporting V2X application, directly or via an RSU, with a
maximum application-layer end-to-end latency of [100] ms.
[PR.5.10-007] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between a UE supporting V2X application and an RSU with a maximum application-
layer end-to-end latency of [100] ms.
[PR.5.10-008] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting high reliability
without requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
[PR.5.10-009] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a communication
range sufficient to give the predictive information to the vehicles in
proximity (e.g. [10] sec * (maximum relative speed) [m/s]).
NOTE: In each mobility scenario, [10] sec * (maximum relative speed) [m/s] is
equal to: [278] m for the maximum relative speed of [100] km/h in urban, [556]
m for the maximum relative speed of [200] km/h in sub-urban, and [694] m for
the maximum relative speed of [250] km/h in Autobahn (same direction).
[PR.5.10-010] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a high connection
density.
## 5.11 Information sharing for high/full automated driving
### 5.11.1 Description
#### 5.11.1.1 General
This use case is interpreted as an automated driving at the level of e.g. SAE
Level 4 and Level 5 automation [38], where non-short inter-vehicle distance
(e.g. >2sec * vehicle speed) is assumed and high-resolution data exchange is
required.
The following applies for aspects of cooperative perception and cooperative
manoeuvre.
\- Cooperative perception: This use case requires sharing high resolution
perception data (e.g., camera, LIDAR, occupancy grid) among vehicles in the
same area.
\- Cooperative manoeuvre: This use case requires sharing detailed planned
trajectory among all involved vehicles via V2X for collaborative manoeuvre.
The following requirements apply for KPIs.
\- Data rate: [50] Mbps per link for cooperative perception. [3] Mbps per link
for cooperative manoeuvre.
NOTE 1: [50] Mbps is derived from: H.265/ HEVC HD camera \~10 Mbps + LIDAR
\~35 Mbps (6 vertical angles, 64 elements, [10] Hz horizontal rotation) +
other sensor data. [3] Mbps is derived from: Planned trajectory \~2.5 Mbps (32
byte/coordinate, 10 ms resolution, 10 sec trajectory, [10] messages/sec) +
other intention data. (cf. [20]) The message transmission rate of [10]
messages/sec for the purpose of calculation comes from assumption that a
transmitter vehicle and RSU generate a new message every [100] ms. (cf. [22])
\- End-to-end latency: low
NOTE 2: Low application-layer end-to-end latency is required (e.g. [100] ms)
(cf. [20]).
\- Reliability: High reliability
\- Communication range: [5] sec * (maximum relative speed [m/s]) (cf. [21])
NOTE 3: In SAE Level 4 and Level 5 automation (cf. [23] [38]), the automated
driving system is expected to be available for control without human
intervention. To this end, the vehicle needs to obtain predictive information
of environments sufficient ahead (e.g., [5] sec ahead). (cf. [24])
NOTE 4: In general, between UEs, the following mobility [km/h] (Relative
vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-100] km/h, Sub-urban: [0-200] km/h,
Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). Between UE and RSU, the following
mobility [km/h] (Relative vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-50] km/h, Sub-
urban: [0-100] km/h, Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). (cf. [2])
\- Density of connection devices: High density
#### 5.11.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A, B, and C and RSUs X, Y, and Z support V2X communication for
information sharing for full automated driving.
2\. Any combination of vehicles A, B, and C and RSUs X, Y, and Z are in
communication range.
3\. Vehicles A, B, and C are travelling in proximity, where inter-vehicle
distance is not short (e.g. >2 sec * vehicle speed).
#### 5.11.1.3 Service flows
1\. Each vehicle shares its high resolution perception data (e.g., camera,
LIDAR, occupancy grid) and/or detailed planned trajectory with other vehicles.
Each RSU shares its high resolution perception data with vehicles A, B, and C.
2\. Each vehicle obtains the information of the surrounding environment that
cannot be obtained only from local sensors and also obtains the planned
trajectory of the other vehicles in proximity.
#### 5.11.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Each vehicle utilizes the received information of high resolution
perception data and/or planned trajectory of other vehicles as predictive
information for its driving.
2\. Road safety and traffic efficiency is improved.
### 5.11.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.11-001] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting user experienced
data rate of [53] Mbps between UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.11-002] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting user experienced
data rate of [50] Mbps between a UE supporting V2X application and an RSU.
[PR.5.11-003] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between two UEs supporting V2X application, directly or via an RSU, with a
maximum application-layer end-to-end latency of [100] ms.
[PR.5.11-004] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between a UE supporting V2X application and an RSU with a maximum application-
layer end-to-end latency of [100] ms.
[PR.5.11-005] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting high reliability
without requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
[PR.5.11-006] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a communication
range sufficient to give the predictive information to the vehicles in
proximity (e.g. [5] sec * (maximum relative speed) [m/s]).
NOTE: In each mobility scenario, [5] sec * (maximum relative speed) [m/s] is
equal to: [139] m for the maximum relative speed of [100] km/h in urban, [278]
m for the maximum relative speed of [200] km/h in sub-urban, and [347] m for
the maximum relative speed of [250] km/h in Autobahn (same direction).
[PR.5.11-007] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a high connection
density.
## 5.12 Information sharing for partial/ conditional automated platooning
### 5.12.1 Description
#### 5.12.1.1 General
This use case is interpreted as an automated platooning at the level of e.g.
SAE Level 3 automation [38], where short inter-vehicle distance (e.g. \ NOTE 5: Low application-layer end-to-end latency is required (e.g. [20] ms)
> (cf. [20]).
\- Reliability: High reliability
\- Communication range: [10] sec * (maximum relative speed [m/s]) (cf. [21])
NOTE 6: In SAE Level 3 automation [38], the driver is expected to be available
for taking full control when the automated driving system is no longer able to
support automation, with sufficiently comfortable transition time (e.g., [10]
sec). To this end, the vehicle needs to obtain predictive information of
environments sufficient ahead. (cf. [23])
NOTE 8: In general, between UEs, the following mobility [km/h] (Relative
vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-100] km/h, Sub-urban: [0-200] km/h,
Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). Between UE and RSU, the following
mobility [km/h] (Relative vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-50km/h], Sub-
urban: [0-100] km/h, Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). (cf. [2])
\- Density of connection devices: High density
#### 5.12.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A, B, C, D, E, and F and RSUs X, Y, and Z support V2X
communication for information sharing for limited automated platooning.
2\. Any combination of vehicles A, B, C, D, E, and F and RSUs X, Y, and Z are
in communication range.
3\. Vehicles A, B, and C are travelling as a platoon group ABC. In proximity
to the platoon group ABC, vehicles D, E, and F are travelling as another
platoon group DEF. For vehicles in the same platoon group, inter-vehicle
distance is short (e.g. \ \- Vehicles A, performs the lane change with the cooperation of Vehicles B
> and C.
### 5.23.2 Potential requirements
KPIs for set 1:
[PR.5.23-001] The 3GPP network shall support message exchange between UEs of
message with less than [25] ms latency, [90] % reliability and message size
[300-400] Bytes with semi-automated driving.
KPIs for set 2:
[PR.5.23-003] The 3GPP network shall support message exchange between UEs with
less than [10] ms latency, with [99.99] % reliability and maximum message size
of [12] KBytes with full automated driving.
## 5.24 Proposal for secure software update for electronic control unit
### 5.24.1 Description
#### 5.24.1.1 General
A car Electronic Control Unit (ECU) is a generic term for a software module
that controls the electronics within a car system; this could be anything from
the steering wheel to the brakes and with automated car driving and this
becomes a key part of the car that will possibly need regular software
updates. These updates are subject to major security checks and as expected
this is an important topic within the automotive industry.
#### 5.24.1.1 Pre-conditions
None.
#### 5.24.1.2 Service flows
The diagram below considers the case when an UE is using eV2X to support
automated driving and there is an update required to the ECU. The procedural
flow is described as follows:
\- UE is synchronised e.g. via Bluetooth to an ECU.
\- Suppose a scenario where a car stops in a filling station and connects
following a registration procedure to a nearby RSU.
\- When connected, the RSU detects the software module version of the ECU in
the car via communication with the UE and detects that an update is needed.
This is based on the list available to the RSU from a broadcast message from a
car manufacturer cloud server.
\- The RSU will notify the UE that an update is required to the ECU and with
the list of updates required. The User will be able to choose the update
required from the list of updates for example. Also the user should be able to
reject/defer the update required to ECU.
\- If the user chooses an update to the ECU, then additional security
procedures should take place so the software download is definitely not from a
wrong source and it's actually the correct version.
{width="6.652777777777778in" height="3.263888888888889in"}
Figure 5.24.1.2-1: secure software update for electronic control unit
#### 5.24.1.3 Post-conditions
None.
### 5.24.2 Potential requirements:
[PR.5.24 -001] The 3GPP System shall provide a secure mechanism to update V2X
applications (e.g. an Electronic Control Unit (ECU)).
## 5.25 3D video composition for V2X scenario
### 5.25.1 Description
This use case consists of multiple UEs supporting V2X application moving in an
area. The UEs may belong to the same PLMN or different PLMNs. The UEs may also
be camped in different cells.
Those UEs have a camera and they take a video of the environment, and send
this video to a server. The server can be in the cloud or in the near the UE
point of attachment to enable edge computing. The server will then post-
process the videos received and combine the information in order to create a
single 3D video of the environment. The 3D video can then be used for analysis
in different scenarios, such as sharing the video with end-users in a car
race, evaluation of possible accident by law enforcement, etc.
The UEs location information, allows the server to accurately represent the
location, relative speed and distance of vehicles, pedestrians, and any
objects in that area.
### 5.25.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.25-001] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism so that a server
outside the 3GPP domain is able to time-synchronize different videos received
from different UEs, each UE having a maximum absolute speed of 250 Km/h.
[PR.5.25-002] The 3GPP system shall support a data rate of [10] Mbps in the
uplink per UE (to support 4K/UHD video).
[PR.5.25-003] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for UEs to be able to
calculate [50] absolute location fixes per second, with [TBD] meters of
accuracy for each location fix.
NOTE: This requirement is to support 250 Km/h (69 meters per second), so 50
location fixes per second implies one location fix every 1.4 meters.
## 5.26 QoS aspect of vehicles platooning
### 5.26.1 General description
Platooning is a coordinated mobility of group of vehicles, sharing manoeuvre
and other information with each other. As described in previous sections, it
increases traffic efficiency and reduces fuel consumptions.
One of most critical requirements for platooning is that the information flow
between platoon members should be performed in a timely and reliable way.
Because the time gap or distance gap between vehicles within a platoon is
small, late arrival of the status information of the preceding vehicle or loss
of manoeuver information can result in uncomfortable situations. These gaps
between the vehicles should be set to avoid potential collision risk.
Thus, the platooning applications installed in a vehicle will adjust the
time/distance gap based on the achievable QoS of connectivity. When low
latency and high reliability can be achievable, the gap can be shorter. On the
other hand, when latency is high or packet loss rate is high, the gap between
vehicles need to be longer. If the QoS cannot fulfil the platoon application's
requirement at all, the platoon itself should not be composed from the start.
### 5.26.2 Adjustment of gaps for platooning
#### 5.26.2.1 Description
Following is a service flow in which the gaps within a platoon are adjusted:
1\. A logistics company called PTruckers owns lots of trucks and connects
CityA and CityB with parcel delivery service. Due to several reasons, road
transportation is the only way to connect CityA and CityB. To optimize the
service, PTruckers starts to apply platooning application to its vehicles.
While the depots of PTruckers are located within city center where there is
good network coverage, there are areas with weak signal or areas outside of
coverage along the road between CityA and CityB.
2\. Three vehicles of PTruckers are scheduled to leave from the depot in CityA
to the depot in CityB. One human driver rides on VTruck1, which is the leading
vehicle. VTruck1 is followed by VTruck2 and VTruck3. VTruck1, VTruck2 and
Vtruck3 belongs to the same platoon.
3\. Platooning application checks the communication QoS (e.g. latency and
reliability) among the vehicles. Because the currently available QoS are good
enough and the available QoS for the next 10 km is expected to be similar, the
application sets 0.1 second time gap between the vehicles. The vehicles starts
to move
4\. As the platoon approaches the edge of the CityA, the platooning
application is notified with updated forecast of QoS. According to the
notification, starting from 10 seconds later, the available QoS for the next
100 km along the route is lower than the current level. Because expected
guaranteed latency is longer than the currently supported guaranteed latency,
the platooning application decides to gradually increase the time gap between
the vehicles from current 0.1 second to 0.5 second.
5\. As the platoon moves further away from the CityA, it will soon move out of
any network coverage. With use of direct communication between the vehicles,
the platooning application continues to work even when there is no network
coverage. However, due to lack of centralized network control, the expected
guaranteed latency and the reliability of communication is a little bit worse
than when the platoon was in network coverage. This updated forecast
information is delivered to the platooning application. Now, the application
starts to increase further the inter-vehicle distance and relies more on
information obtained through sensors.
#### 5.26.2.2 Potential requirements
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case.
[PR.5.26.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications with
supported QoS information, regardless of whether a UE related to the V2X
application is in coverage of a 3GPP radio access network or not.
NOTE: This requirement may not be applicable all scenarios. For example, when
QoS information is generated in the 3GPP network and UE is out of coverage,
V2X application cannot be provided with the QoS information.
[PR.5.26.2-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications with
updated QoS, from the multiple QoS previously provided by the application,
when the QoS changes.
[PR.5.26.2-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to additionally provide V2X
application with prediction on how long the QoS will be maintained, when the
3GPP system provides the V2X applications with supported QoS information.
[PR.5.26.2-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to additionally provide V2X
applications with prediction on geographical area where the QoS will be
maintained, when the 3GPP system provides the V2X application with supported
QoS information.
## 5.27 QoS aspects of advanced driving
### 5.27.1 General
According to [38], there are several levels for automated driving. Based on
design decision by manufactures or by regulation, an appropriate level of
automated driving will be designated per each driving environment.
Based on the implementation or approach taken by each manufacturer or the
environment where each vehicle is located, whether to engage automated driving
or not needs to be controlled by the V2X service either in the vehicle or in
the cloud of remote back-end. Following are examples:
\- A vehicle can operate as an automated vehicle when its future driving route
is within areas for which the driving tests have already been finished to
confirm that the vehicle can drive safely.
\- Due to capability limitations such as real-time data/image processing
capability, some portion of computation for sensor data processing and/or
driving manoeuvre decision should be performed in the cloud. In this case, the
V2X service may allow the vehicle to be automated only when it can reliably
connect to the vehicle.
\- To resolve potential liability issue, the V2X service may want to
continuously monitor the status of the vehicle and the surrounding
environment.
\- Depending on regulations and conditions, the permission to use of automated
driving can differ per each environment. For example, regulations may specify
that automated driving is allowed only on the highway. Or, due to heavy rain,
local road authority may decide not to allow the use of automated driving in a
certain road. Because of the amount of information, the vehicle may not
locally store all information required for the decision of whether to use
automated driving mode or not for each different environment.
In addition, the comfort, quality of experience of the passenger or existence
of potential human driver should be considered. If use of automated driving is
granted only when the vehicle is connected to the V2X service in the cloud,
sudden loss of connection may kick off pre-programmed emergency routine in the
vehicle. In the worst case, the vehicle suddenly make a full stop or pull
over, if enough time is not given for human to take over the control of a
vehicle. This impacts negatively human experience of automated driving.
### 5.27.2 Assistance to automated driving
#### 5.27.2.1 Service flows
Following is overall service flow where a human in a vehicle requests the
vehicle to drive automatedly.
1\. VehicleA is a vehicle capable of supporting automated driving. VehicleA is
manufactured by MFG_A and controlled by a V2X service using a V2X application.
The V2X application can reside either in VehicleA and / or in the cloud of
MFG_A. The V2X service of VehicleA is supported through MNO_A, which is an
operator with which MFG_A has established a service contract. Knight is the
owner of the VehicleA.
2\. Knight leaves his home in CityA and rides a vehicle called VehicleA.
Knight requests VehicleA to go CityB and VehicleA forwards the request to the
V2X application.
3\. The V2X application calculates and decides a route toward the destination.
The V2X application queries MNO_A whether connections can be provided along
the route. For a certain service, the V2X application also queries MNO_A
whether a specific QoS can be supported along the route.
4\. Based on internal information for its core network and radio network
coverage, MNO_A check whether the route is within its network coverage. MNO_A
replies back to the V2X application regarding the area where connection can be
provided, the area where connection cannot be provided, and supported QoS in
case connection is provided.
5\. The V2X application finalizes the decision regarding the route and the use
of automated driving per road environment along the route. Based on the
information in step 4, the V2X application may provide the VehicleA with the
information regarding the use of automated driving per segment of the route.
6\. Based on information from the V2X application, VehicleA starts automated
driving.
#### 5.27.2.2 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.27.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a standardized
interface to enable exposure of the following services and capabilities to V2X
applications, to support the V2X application to adjust its service offering:
\- [PR.5.27.2-001a] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X applications
to request information on whether connectivity can be provided in a certain
geographical area.
\- [PR.5.27.2-001b] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications
with information on whether connectivity can be provided in a certain
geographical area.
\- [PR.5.27.2-001c] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X applications
to request information on whether specific QoS can be provided in a certain
geographical area.
\- [PR.5.27.2-001d] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X application
with information on whether the requested QoS can be provided in a certain
geographical area.
### 5.27.3 Authorization to support automated driving
#### 5.27.3.1 Service flows
Following service flow can be applicable.
1\. Manufacture MFG_A provides MNO_A with an information regarding a V2X
application such as an IP address to e.g. identify the access from an V2X
application.
2\. MNO_A configures its network with what kind of information of the network
can be provided to this V2X application. For example, the V2X application can
inquire the network whether coverage can be provided in certain area, but it
cannot inquire the network of information regarding the location of each radio
network node.
3\. When the V2X application requests network coverage information, MNO_A's
network checks the authenticity of the V2X application and the request. Once
the authentication of the V2X application is successful, the MNO_A's network
further checks whether the information requested is authorized to V2X
application.
4\. If the requested information is authorized for the V2X application, MNO_A
responds to the V2X application with the requested information. Based on the
service agreement, granularity of information or contents of response can
vary.
#### 5.27.3.2 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.27.3-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to authenticate V2X application
for accessing exposed services and capabilities of the 3GPP system.
[PR.5.27.3-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to authorize V2X application to
access exposed services and capabilities of 3GPP system.
[PR.5.27.3-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide authorized
information to V2X application.
### 5.27.4 Notification of updated information to support automated driving
#### 5.27.4.1 Service flows
Following service flow can be applicable.
1\. When the V2X application requests information from MNO_A, it further
indicates whether it wants to be notified if there are any changes in the
previous provided information.
2\. When MNO_A sends response to the V2X application with the requested
information, it keeps records of the delivered information.
3\. MNO_A monitors whether there is any potential QoS change in the area where
connectivity needs to be provided. Or, if the previous negotiated QoS cannot
be guaranteed for a certain area due to radio resource congestion or failure
of some NFs, this event can be also monitored.
4\. If there is a change compared to the previous response to the V2X
application, MNO_A delivers new information to the V2X application.
5\. Based on new information, the V2X application checks whether there is a
need to update information sent to VehicleA.
In this service flow, to minimize impact to user experience, the potential
change of QoS should be detected and notified in several second earlier, which
can be determined from service requirements.
#### 5.27.4.2 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.27.4-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a standardized
interface to enable the exposure of the following services and capabilities to
V2X applications, to support V2X application to adjust its service offering:
\- [PR.5.27.4-001a] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X applications
to subscribe to information on the availability or unavailability of
connectivity for a certain geographic area.
\- [PR.5.27.4-001b] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications
with updated information on the availability or unavailability of connectivity
within a certain geographic area, at least a certain amount of time before
when the actual change occurs.
\- [PR.5.27.4-001c] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X applications
to subscribe to information on the QoS which can be provided within a certain
geographic area.
\- [PR.5.27.4-001d] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications
with updated information on the QoS that can be provided within a certain
geographic area, at least a certain amount of time before when the actual
change occurs.
### 5.27.5 Support for adjustment and big data transport
#### 5.27.5.1 Service flows
For MNO to have capability to support V2X services to adjust their functions
based on the change of QoS, the information gathering and analysis of the
gathered information is needed. Following service flow can be applicable.
1\. VehicleA is able to calculate its current location. VehicleA is also able
to keep records of the connectivity-related parameters and performances. For
example, VehicleA logs when data packet transmission/reception occurs and
identification information for the data packets, along with location
information.
2\. Radio access network and/or core network is also able to keep records of
the connectivity-related parameters, performances and events.
3\. VehicleA starts journey and it is configured by MNO_A to log
transmission/reception events and related time and location information. In
addition, the network is also configured to log similarly.
4\. During the journey, due to some reason, VehicleA disengages automated
driving.
5\. VehicleA arrives at the destination. VehicleA reports to V2X application
with information related to disengagement of automated driving.
6\. Manufacturer MFG_A receives similar event reports from other vehicles of
specific vehicle segments. To fully analyse the event, MFG_A requests MNO_A's
assistance.
7\. MNO_A calculates the time and location relevant for the MFG_A's request.
Based on the calculation, MNO_A requests VehicleA to upload relevant log
information. Due to information sharing restriction, the log information is
not directly shared to MFG_A. After internal processing, and based on service
agreement and regulation, processed information is shared to MFG_A by MNO_A.
#### 5.27.5.2 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.27.5-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support efficient and secure
mechanism to gather information (e.g. location information, reliability
information, timing information, latency information, velocity information and
so on.), which enables 3GPP system to support V2X application to adjust its
service offering.
NOTE: It is FFS whether Minimization of Driving Test can support this
requirement in consideration of the various velocity of vehicular environment.
[PR.5.27.5-002] Based on service agreement and operator policy, the 3GPP
system shall be able to provide authorized V2X application with information
enabling V2X application to adjust its service offering, based on gathered
information.
[PR.5.27.5-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to minimize impact to system
performance, while supporting a mechanism to gather information, which enables
3GPP system to support V2X application to adjust its service offering.
### 5.27.6 Support of automated driving in multi-PLMN environments
#### 5.27.6.1 Service flows
Because of 'mobility', vehicles are expected to cross international borders or
PLMN borders. Depending on the extent to which service agreement is made, two
scenarios can be assumed:
\- Scenario 1: A vehicle manufacturer makes multiple service agreements with
MNOs. For example, the manufacturer has service agreement with MNO A for
France and with MNO B for Germany. In this case, when the vehicle crosses
border from Germany to France, the MNO for the vehicle changes from MNO B to
MNO A.
\- Scenario 2: A vehicle manufacturer has a single service agreement with a
MNO. For example, the manufacturer has service agreement with MNO B. In this
case, when the vehicle crosses border from Germany to France, the used MNO for
the vehicle in France can be controlled depending on MNOs with which the MNO B
has roaming agreements.
While above scenarios are described in terms of international border, similar
description can be applied to PLMN borders of the same country.
Regardless of actual scenarios in place, from passenger experience point of
view, automated driving should not be interrupted even when the vehicles cross
borders as long as automated driving is permitted by regulation.
Following service flow can be applicable.
1\. Information on current location and destination is delivered to the V2X
application. The route is calculated by the V2X application and the V2X
application queries MNO_A whether QoS can be supported along the route.
2\. MNO_A checks whether connectivity service can be provided over the
requested route. MNO_A estimates that part of the route is outside of MNO_A's
coverage area.
3\. VehicleA starts journey with connection to MNO_A.
4\. VehicleA approaches the boundary of MNO_A. MNO_A selects target MNO from
candidate MNOs which can support required QoS of the V2X application. The
selected MNO is MNO_B.
5\. As VehicleA crosses the border of MNO_A, the connection is covered through
involvement of MNO_B. While the radio network is changed from MNO_A to MNO_B,
the passenger does not notice this change because there is no changes in the
engaged automated driving. It is expected that interruption during the MNO
change does not impact the V2X application.
#### 5.27.6.2 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.27.6-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support service continuity
for a UE even when the PLMN serving the UE changes.
### 5.27.7 Reliable and guaranteed connectivity service
#### 5.27.7.1 Service flows
Life-cycle of vehicles is longer than that of general consumer electronics
devices such as smartphone. Due to long life-cycle, people performs periodic
maintenance measures for various components of their vehicles. But, due to
regulation and/or certification, some components such as computing unit in the
vehicle cannot be replaced and upgraded. In this case, the vehicle with
limited processing capacity cannot handle advanced algorithm in real-time or
the information gathered by sensors cannot be fully interpreted by the vehicle
alone. To assist the vehicle, one option is to use edge-computing so that
sensor data from the vehicle is uploaded to edge-computing environment and
processing result is sent back to the vehicle.
In the above scenario, reliable connectivity between the vehicle and the edge
computing environment is critical. When the connectivity between the vehicle
and the edge computing environment cannot be sustained, automated driving
should be disengaged. But this transition cannot be done immediately. For
example, in worst case where the driver falls asleep during the high level of
automated driving, it will take several seconds for the driver to wake up and
to grip the driving wheel.
Thus, connectivity service needs to be guaranteed in terms of time, depending
on the characteristics of the impacted V2X service. This is in turn related to
how much earlier the change in QoS needs to be notified in advance. For
example, if a vehicle is designed to switch off automated driving mode for a
QoS degradation and if a driver needs at least 10 seconds to prepare manual-
driving, the V2X service should be notified at least 10 seconds before the
potential change in the supported QoS of connectivity. And from the time when
the notification is made and to time when the actual change in the QoS occurs,
the pre-negotiated QoS should be maintained.
Following is a service flow for guaranteed service provision.
1\. Manufacturer MFG_A configures the functionality of VehicleA and the V2X
application to support automated driving function. While raw data from the
sensors installed in the VehicleA is good enough, the processing unit in the
VehicleA is not enough to handle state-of-the-are software processing. Thus,
when higher level of automated driving is used, the vehicle is configured to
deliver sensor data to V2X application, the V2X application processes the
sensor data, and the driving command is sent back to VehicleA.
2\. The current location information and the destination information is sent
from VehicleA to the V2X application. Based on service requirement of the V2X
application, V2X application queries MNO_A whether required QoS can be
provided over next 10 seconds for the planned road segment over which the
VehicleA will drive.
3\. Based on the information provided by the V2X application and internal
information, MNO_A checks and estimates whether the requested QoS can be
provided for the calculated route for the next 10 seconds.
4\. If it is estimated that the QoS can be supported for the next 10 seconds,
the MNO_A responds to the V2X application that the QoS is guaranteed for the
next 10 seconds. After sending response, the radio network and the core
network will take necessary measures to provide the negotiated QoS for that 10
seconds. For example, because safety-issue is involved, the resource used for
the connectivity between VehicleA and the V2X application is prioritized or
can be reserved in the relevant nodes. Network maintenance or rebooting should
be avoided for that period.
#### 5.27.7.2 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.27.7-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide mechanisms to support
the estimation of potential QoS for a certain time period and a certain
geographical location, with negotiated accuracy level to support V2X
applications to adjust their service offerings.
[PR.5.27.7-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide mechanisms to support
the provision of potential QoS at a certain time period and a certain
geographical location after informing the V2X applications with the QoS
information, the time period and the geographical location.
## 5.28 QoS aspect of remote driving
### 5.28.1 Notification of QoS change for remote driving application
#### 5.28.1.1 Description
Remote driving requires specific levels of QoS for safe operation of the
application, as described in [TS 22.186]. Remote Driving applications allow a
remote driver that is not sitting in the vehicle to undertake the control of
the vehicle and drive remotely the vehicle, in an efficient and safe manner,
from the current location to the destination.
If then the communication between the remote vehicle and the remote driver
could be suddenly interrupted. This could affect the traffic flow, the
efficiency of the remote driving application and the safety of the passengers
of the remote vehicle and/or surrounding vehicles.
An early notification about a potential QoS degradation from the network to
the Remote Driving application, could allow the remote driver or the remote
vehicle to adapt themselves to the expected communication conditions (e.g.,
the vehicle to fall back to a safe state or to adapt its speed) and mitigate
the impact of sudden QoS changes:
  * If the network estimates that the conditions will be potentially bad in a certain future, there is an interest to notify the application of this potential downgrade in advance to allow it to slow down the car.
  * When the network conditions are better, there is interest to notify the application so it requests a new QoS and applies higher car speed.
#### 5.28.1.2 Pre-conditions
The vehicle has some autonomous capabilities.
The remote vehicle and the remote driver can establish an authenticated and
secure communication channel via 3GPP V2X communication service, and thus
exchange information (e.g., vehicle information, driving commands).
#### 5.28.1.3 Service Flows
  1. The driver of the vehicle asks a remote driving service to undertake > the control of the vehicle and drive safely.
  2. A remote driver undertakes the control of the vehicle.
  3. The vehicle transmits video streams to the remote driver, via 3GPP > network, which help the remote driver to identify road conditions, > neighboring vehicles and objects on the road.
  4. Based on the perceived environment the remote driver controls the > vehicle, while manoeuvre commands are transmitted from the remote > driving application to the vehicle, via 3GPP network.
  5. The 3GPP network estimates a future degradation of the network > condition that will not allow to keep the current guaranteed QoS > for the 3GPP communication service between the remote driving > application server and the vehicle. This can be based e.g. on > radio technologies in the area the car is driving into or foreseen > network conditions.
  6. The 3GPP network notifies the remote driving application about the > expected degradation of the QoS.
  7. Based on the provided notification by the 3GPP network, the vehicle > falls back to a safe state or it is decided to adapt the speed by > the remote driver drives the vehicle.
#### 5.28.1.4 Post-conditions
The remote driving application has taken the appropriate action to adapt
itself and the new QoS, taking into account its view on best safety and
efficiency action to be done.
#### 5.28.1.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5. 28.1-001] The 3GPP network shall be able to notify an application
server supporting a V2X application when it estimates that the QoS might need
to be downgraded compared to the currently agreed QoS of a 3GPP connection
e.g. due to expected bad network conditions, change of radio technology, radio
congestion.
[PR.5. 28.1-002] The 3GPP network shall be able to negotiate alternative QoS
with the V2X
[PR.5. 28.1-003] The 3GPP network shall notify an application server
supporting V2X application that the current QoS might change indicating the
specific period of time and/or geographical area it applies.
[PR.5. 28.1-004] The 3GPP network shall be able to notify an application
server supporting a V2X application when it estimates that the QoS can be
upgraded compared to the currently agreed QoS of a 3GPP connection e.g. due to
expected improved network conditions, change of radio technology, less cell
occupation..
### 5.28.2 Support of remote Driving
#### 5.28.2.1 General
When remote driving application is running, there is no need for the human in
the vehicle to drive. Instead, a human driver or a driving software in remote
location makes analysis of the situation around the vehicle, makes driving
decision and sends driving decisions back to the vehicle. Accordingly,
connections between the vehicle and the remote back-end is always required
while the remote driving application is running.
#### 5.28.2.2 Disengagement of autonomous driving
In the following case, transition from autonomous driving to remote driving
can occur:
1\. Jack owns a vehicle capable of higher level of autonomous driving. There
is no need for Jack to drive and he actually does not know how to drive. When
Jack leaves home to his office, his vehicle is engaged with highest level of
autonomous driving.
2\. The route that the vehicle takes is always the same. But, one day, on his
way to office, due to bad road situation, one of sensors installed in the
vehicle is severely damaged.
3\. Due to the sudden loss of the sensor, the higher level of autonomous
driving is no longer supported by the vehicle
4\. Because Jack cannot drive, the vehicle contacts emergency service center
of the vehicle manufacturer. The service center proposes remote driving and
Jack accepts the offer.
5\. The service center activates remote driving application toward the
vehicle. The remote driving application checks whether connectivity can be
provided up to the original destination. In addition, based on the capability
of the vehicle and the requirements of the application, the remote driving
application calculates the required QoS of the connectivity toward the vehicle
and checks whether the QoS can be supported or not, on the way to the original
destination. In this step, potential interaction with 3GPP system is required
to get necessary information.
6\. Because the workplace of Jack is located in suburban area, the required
QoS cannot be provided all the way to the office. Thus, the remote driving
application calculate alternative intermediate destination up to which the QoS
requirement of the remote driving application can be supported.
7\. The remote driving application drives the vehicle to the intermediate
destination, where Jack can take taxi to his office.
#### 5.28.2.3 Provision of freedom of mobility
There are various scenario in which remote driving can provide mobility
assistance to people. For example, due to the increase of car accidents caused
by the elderly people, these people prefer not to drive or driving licences
can be voided for people over certain ages. Remote driving application can
play an important role in supporting daily lives of these people.
1\. Karl is a senior living in a nursing home. While the seniors living in
that nursing home cannot drive, there is a need to support their mobility.
Thus, the nursing home owns several vehicles in which a remote driving
application is installed. The remote driving application is run by a company
called RDrive with which the nursing home has service contract.
2\. On Monday, Karl receives an invitation to the birthday party of Michael,
which will be held in 7:00 PM Wednesday. Karl calls RDrive to make a
reservation of mobility support. RDrive checks with a contracted MNO whether
the required QoS to run the remote driving application can be guaranteed along
the route at the scheduled time of departure. When the QoS can be met, RDrive
requests reservation of the connectivity service to the MNO and the MNO
replies with confirmation. RDrive also sends confirmation to Karl that the
mobility service can be provided and the vehicle will leave on 6:30 PM
Wednesday. With this confirmation, Karl replies to Michael that he will attend
the party.
3\. At 6:30 PM Wednesday, Karl rides on the vehicle and the remote driving
application controlled by RDrive starts. Because connectivity service with a
requested QoS is reserved and provided along the route, there is no
interruption to remote driving application. Karl safely arrives at Michael's
home at 6:50 PM.
#### 5.28.2.4 Potential requirements
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case.
[PR.5.28.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a standardized
interface to enable exposure of the following services and capabilities to V2X
application, to support the V2X application to adjust its service offering:
\- [PR.5.28.2-001a] The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to support a V2X
application to request information on whether connectivity service can be
provided for a certain geographic area and time.
\- [PR.5.28.2-001b] The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to provide a V2X
application with information on whether connectivity service can be provided
for a certain geographic area and time.
\- [PR.5.28.2-001c] The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to support a V2X
application to request information on whether specific QoS can be provided for
a certain geographic area and time.
\- [PR.5.28.2-001d] The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to provide a V2X
application with information on whether the requested QoS can be provided for
a certain geographic area and time.
\- [PR.5.28.2-001e] The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to support a V2X
application to request reliable provision of connectivity with specific QoS
parameter for a certain geographic area and time.
\- [PR.5.28.2-001f] The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to provide a V2X
application with response on whether the request on reliable provision of
connectivity service with specific QoS parameter for a certain geographic area
and a certain time is accepted or not.
\- [PR.5.28.2-001g] The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to provide a V2X
application with recommendation of QoS parameters that can be provisioned for
connectivity services for a certain geographic area and a certain time.
[PR.5.28.2-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support means to provide
connectivity service with specific QoS for a certain geographic area, based on
the response sent to V2X application.
### 5.29 QoS Aspect for extended sensor
#### 5.29.1 Description
The extended sensor use cases are composed of sensor data collection to
construct local dynamic map and the state map sharing, sensor data shared to
extend sensor range, different all round video data shared for automatic
drive. The 3GPP system will support different V2X applications on above use
cases and following aspects need to be considered:
a) The V2X service provider may appoint key sensor data suppliers (Vehicles
and RSUs) to construct collective situational awareness. The key sensors can
be owned by the V2X service provider or have contracts with V2X service
provider to provide more detail and specific sensor data for V2X service.
Thus, the key sensors need more reliable and specific communication
supporting. And the V2X service provider may adjust them while the vehicles
are moving or the environment is changed.
b) Based on the collected sensor data, the local dynamic map server continues
to build the all around local dynamic map, the V2X service provider may
provide different local dynamic map or extended sensor service for different
user e.g. different data rate, different accuracy, different range, different
update cycle etc. Thus, the communication service need to support different
data rate, different reliability, different information deliver frequency etc.
c) Considering different computing capabilities, the vehicles and RSUs may
share different sensor data type i.e.raw or processed sensor data, the sensor
data type can be selected by V2X service provider and different latency\ data
throughput\reliability should be adaptive to support different kind of sensor
data types.
#### 5.29.1.1 Pre-conditions
Vehicle A, B, C have been installed sensors and V2X capability. The RSU X, Y
have been installed camera, V2X capability and locate in the traffic
intersections of downtown.
VehicleA, B, C are installed the V2X application "MAPS for V" which belongs to
map company MAPS to collect sensor data and receive LDM (Local Dynamic Map).
VehicleA has a contract with the map company MAPS to get realtime higher
accuracy local dynamic map to support its automatic drive mode.Vehicle B and
Vehicle C are normal cars and subscribe free map service from MAPS.
The RSUX, Y belong to Road company ZROAD and have a contract with MAPS to
provide traffic information to MAPS through the V2X application "MAPS for I"
which belong to MAPS and is installed in the RSUs.
The company MAPS has a contract with communication Operator X:
  * Operator X supplies higher level communication and computing service for MAPS which may be in cloud or the local data center.
  * Operator X supplies higher level communication service to MAPS user who is chosen by MAPS.
Vehicle A, B and C, RSU X, Y are normal users of Operator X.
#### 5.29.1.2 Service Flow
1\. Vehicle A, B, C begin driving in different roads in downtown. The
application "MAPS for V" in these vehicles are opened and begin to collect
sensor data around the vehicles. The "MAPS for I" in the RSUs are working all
the time to collect vehicles sensor data and traffic information then delivers
them to LDM server which may locate in a local data center or in the Operator
X's cloud.
2\. Considering RSU X location and Vehicle A, B locations and trajectorys,
they are chosen as the key sensor data suppliers for downtown LDM
construction. This chosen information is notified to Operator X and the
specific higher throughput and low latency, reliability communication services
for chosen RSU X, Vehicle A, Vehicle B to report their sensor data are also
required.
3\. Operator X supplies required communication service for RSU X, Vehicle A,
Vehicle B while others are supplied with normal communication service. LDM
server continues to build LDM for downtown.
4\. When delivering the LDM to Vehicle A, LDM Server asks Operator X to
provide higher performance communication service to Vehicle A to support
specific higher accuracy LDM for it. While other Vehicles in the area receive
normal LDM.
5\. When Vehicle B leaves downtown, it is no longer the key sensor supplier
for downtown LDM construction. This information is notified to Operator X and
from now on, the communication service for collected sensor data from Vehicle
B is resumed to normal.
6\. When Vehicle C is chosen as the key sensor data supplier for downtown LDM
construction, the computing capability in Vehicle C can support it to share
processed sensor data which does not need high throughput communication
service. Considering LDM server demand and Operator X network status, the
processed sensor data type is selected which need higher reliability, lower
latency and middle throughput.
#### 5.29.1.3 Post-conditions
RSU X, Y can collect sensor data and deliver required whole situational
awareness information to LDM server.
Vehicle A, B, C can deliver their sensor data in time and receive the downtown
LDM according to the contract with MAPS.
The map company can choose key sensor data supplier and construct LDM, then
provide different class map services to users.
The Operator X can provide different communication service on demand for V2X
extended sensor use cases.
### 5.29.2 Potential Requirements
[PR.5. 29.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to expose the following
services and capabilities to V2X applications, to support the V2X application
offering:
\- [PR.5.29.2-001a] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X applications
to dynamically request specific quality of service of communication services
and to dynamically request revocation of previous quality of service of
communication services.
\- [PR.5.29.2-001b] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide required quality
of service to communication services on demand for different V2X applications.
## 5.30 Different QoS estimation for different V2X applications
### 5.30.1 Description
QoS estimation will help V2X applications e.g. automation driving, intelligent
traffic system, to get the communication system connection capability in
advance which is very important for them to compute and adjust in advance to
right working mode to guarantee safety and service availability.
Different V2X application may need different QoS estimation content and
accuracy. The more the content and the higher the accuracy, it costs more
resource for QoS estimation function. And superfluous QoS estimation in one
hand is not useful to V2X application, on the other hand it may impact other
capabilities from whole system aspect because more collected information, more
computing resources, more store resources are needed.
So, it is proposed to provide different QoS estimation information for
different V2X applications.
#### 5.30.1.1 Pre-conditions
Vehicle A is a vehicle capable of supporting automated driving. It belongs to
taxi company TT and is controlled by a V2X application of TT. The V2X
application can reside either in Vehicle A and / or in the cloud of TT.
Vehicles A can get communication service from the 3GPP system of Operator X
which has a platinum level contract with TT to provide higher level QoS
estimation e.g. support whole scenarios whole daytime of connection capability
estimation with higher accuracy and more time advance value.
Vehicle B is one vehicle capable of supporting automated driving. It belongs
to logistic company LL and is controlled by a V2X application of LL. The V2X
application can reside either in Vehicle B and / or in the cloud of LL.
Vehicles B also can get communication service from the 3GPP system of Operator
X which has a golden level contract with LL to provide specific scenarios QoS
estimation e.g. in highway scenario with whole daytime, in city scenario with
specific time window.
#### 5.30.1.2 Service Flow
1\. Vehicle A and Vehicle B both can achieve communication service from
Operator X according to different contracts with their owners.
2\. Vehicle A has an order from Hotel A to the airport beginning with 12:00am.
2.1The V2X application in Vehicle A subscribes to QoS estimation of the 3GPP
system, and sends a estimation request with related supporting information
asking whether it can provide specific QoS (e.g. data rate, latency, jitter,
reliability) of communication service which is needed by its automation
driving mode along planned vehicle route with associated timestamps from
12:00am.
2.2. The 3GPP system negotiates with the V2X application the parameters and
mutual capabilities for estimation and evaluates and responds that it can
predict that the required communication service for Vehicle A is going to be
supplied during 12:00am\~12:15am with associated a certain accuracy or
probability and followed QoS estimation information (e.g. data rate, latency,
jitter, reliability) will be delivered to Vehicle A for future area before
1.5km\~10km distance in advance.
2.3. Vehicle A receives the estimation report and decides to enter automation
driving mode. It picks passenger in Hotel A on time. During the journey to the
airport, the QoS estimation information (e.g. data rate, latency, jitter,
reliability) of the communication service for future area e.g. 1.5km\~10km
distance is continually delivered to the V2X application in Vehicle A.
2.4 Vehicle A may timely adjust its drive mode or automation level considering
the QoS estimation information.
2.5 When Vehicle A arrives in airport, the application terminates the
subscription to QoS estimation.
3\. Vehicle B has a goods transportation task from city A to city B begin with
12:00am. Some of the road in the trajectory is city normal road and some is
highway. The application in Vehicle B configures which QoS estimation
information it need in different road when the QoS estimation is started.
3.1 The V2X application in Vehicle B subscribes to QoS estimation of the 3GPP
system, and sends a estimation request with related supporting information
asking whether it can provide specific QoS (e.g. latency, reliability) of
communication service which is needed by its automation driving mode along the
vehicle route with associated timestamps from city A to city B from 12:00am.
3.2 The 3GPP system negotiates with the V2X application the parameters and
mutual capabilities for estimation and evaluates and responses that the
required QoS with associated a certain accuracy or probability for
communication service for Vehicle B can not be supplied from 12:00am in city
road but in highway, it can be supplied.
3.3 Vehicle B receives the estimation response and decides not to enter
automation driving mode. The journey is started, in the city road, Vehicle B
is driven by Pilot and the QoS estimation (e.g. latency, reliability) of the
communication service for future area e.g. from 1.5km\~3km distance is
continually delivered to the V2X application in Vehicle B. Before entering
highway, the latest QoS estimation responses that the required QoS for
automation driving is supported with a certain accuracy or probability, the
Vehicle B adjust the driving mode to automation driving.
3.4 When Vehicle B arrives in destination, the application terminates the
subscription to QoS estimation.
#### 5.30.1.3 Post-conditions
V2X application in vehicle A can receive timely QoS estimation information
with associated accuracy or probability, so vehicle A can adjust its driving
mode or automation level more safely and flexibly.
V2X application in vehicle B can receive QoS estimation required in advance in
highway, so vehicle B can adjust its driving mode or automation level when it
is in highway.
#### 5.30.2 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.30.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to expose the following services
and capabilities to V2X applications, to support the V2X application to adjust
its service offering:
\- [PR.5.30.2-001a] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide different quality
of service estimation information needed by different V2X applications.
\- [PR.5.30.2-001b] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X applications
to configure and negotiate quality of service estimation information and
related supporting information to be provided by the V2X applications.
\- [PR.5.30.2-001c] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X applications
to request quality of service estimation information and to provide related
supporting information to the 3GPP system.
\- [PR.5.30.2-001d] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications
with quality of service estimation information according to the application's
configuration and request.
NOTE: The quality of service estimation information may contain detailed
information depending on the application\'s request, e.g., on the accuracy of
the estimation information.
\- [PR.5.30.2-001e] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X applications
to subscribe to quality of service estimation information, and to terminate
the subscription to quality of service estimation information.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on network slicing
As vehicles can drive without human involvement, human inside the vehicle will
engage in other activities such as media consumption (e.g. web browsing, or
video streaming). When safety-related V2X applications are concerned,
consideration should be given to that the abnormal situation in other
applications does not negatively affect the QoS of such V2X applications.
When, different network slices are used to support different characteristic of
applications for V2X and other applications, consideration should be given to
that the isolation of network slice for V2X applications from other network
slices is supported.
## 6.2 Considerations on deployment and mobility
Initially, the coverage area provided by NR radio access network will be
smaller than that provided by E-UTRAN. To support service continuity and to
meet QoS requirements for e.g. eMBB services, inter-system mobility will be
used in general. However, performance achieved by the use of NR is expected to
surpass the performance of E-UTRA, and some advanced V2X applications is
supported only by NR. In this case, handover to E-UTRAN has impact on the
proper operation of such advanced V2X applications. Thus, inter-system
mobility needs to consider separate handling of V2X applications and other
applications.
## 6.3 Considerations on relation to requirements of LTE V2X
All the requirements applied to LTE V2X, shown in [25], are applied to eV2X as
well, unless otherwise stated.
# 7 Potential requirements
## 7.1 General
Different V2X scenarios require the transport of V2X messages with different
performance requirements for the 3GPP system.
Vehicles Platooning enables the vehicles to dynamically form a platoon
travelling together. All the UEs in the platoon obtain information from the
leading vehicle to manage this platoon. These information allow the vehicles
to drive closer (short time or distance inter-vehicle gap) than normal in a
coordinated manner, going to the same direction and travelling together. These
are expected to be a set of sophisticated application. The requirement on the
communication latency is directly related to the assumed inter-vehicle gap
(distance between successive vehicles and equivalent to vehicle density),
which can be specified in meter or seconds.
Extended Sensors enables the exchange of raw or processed data gathered
through local sensors or live video images among vehicles, road site units,
devices' of pedestrian and V2X application servers. The vehicles can increase
the perception of their environment beyond of what their own sensors can
detect and have a more broad and holistic view of the local situation. High
data rate is one of the key characteristics.
Advanced driving enables semi-automated or full-automated driving. Longer
inter-vehicle distance is assumed. Each vehicle and/or RSU shares its own
perception data obtained from its local sensors with vehicles in proximity and
that allows vehicles to synchronize and coordinate their trajectories or
manoeuvres. Each vehicle shares its driving intention with vehicles in
proximity, too. The benefits of this use case group are safer traveling,
collision avoidance, and improved traffic efficiency.
Remote Driving enables a remote driver or a V2X application to operate a
remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive by themselves or remote
vehicles located in dangerous environments. For a case where variation is
limited and routes are predictable, such as public transportation, driving
based on cloud computing can be used. Also, access to cloud-based back-end
service platform can be considered for this use case group. High reliability
and short low latency are the main requirements.
Vehicle quality of service support enables a V2X application to be notified of
change of quality of service before actual change occurs and to enable the
3GPP System to modify the quality of service in line with V2X application's
quality of service needs. Based on the quality of service information, the V2X
application can adapt behaviour to 3GPP System's conditions. The benefit of
this use case group are smoother user experience of service and increased
safety.
## 7.2 Consolidated requirements
### 7.2.1 General requirements
Some requirements in this section are applicable to all V2X scenarios.
[CPR.G-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to control the communication range
for a message based on the characteristic of the messages transmitted by a UE
supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to optimize the communication
between UEs supporting V2X application belonging to the same group and in
proximity.
[CPR.G-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support the message transfer for
group management operations as requested by the application layer.
[CPR.G-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer among a
group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
two UEs belonging to the same group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to support confidentiality and
integrity of message transfer among a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-007] The 3GPP system shall support relative lateral position accuracy
of 0.1 m between UEs supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-008] The 3GPP system shall support mechanisms to ensure sufficient
reliability metrics are reached.
[CPR.G-009] The 3GPP system shall support high connection density for
congested traffic.
NOTE: An example of estimate is for worst case US Freeway scenario that does
not include arterial roads (i.e. onramps): 5 lanes in each direction or 10
lanes total per highway, for up to 3 highways intersecting = around 3,100 to
4,300 cars per square kilometer.
[CPR.G-010] The 3GPP system shall support efficient coordination of radio
resources used for transport of V2X communications to maximize the utilisation
of the available spectrum and to ensure the required reliability.
[CPR.G-011] The 3GPP system shall be able to control the UL and DL reliability
of transport of V2X communications, depending on the requirement of V2X
application
[CPR.G-012] Impact to E-UTRA(N) by UE supporting only NR based V2X
communication shall be minimized.
[CPR.G-013] Impact to NR by UE supporting only E-UTRA based V2X communication
shall be minimized.
[CPR.G-014] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
UEs or between a UE and a UE-type RSU, regardless of whether or not they are
subscribers of the same PLMN supporting V2X communications. In case they are
subscribers to different PLMNs, there shall be no service degradation of the
message transfer.
[CPR.G-015] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting high reliability
without requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
[CPR.G-016] The 3GPP system shall enable discovery and communication between
UEs supporting the same V2X application.
[CPR.G-017] The 3GPP system shall be able to support for the operator to
select which 3GPP RAT to use for a V2X application.
[CPR.G-018] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE supporting a V2X application to
obtain network access via another UE supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-019] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE supporting a V2X application to
discover another UE supporting V2X application that can offer access to the
network.
[CPR.G-020] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE supporting a V2X application to
switch the network access from direct 3GPP connection to an indirect 3GPP
connection via another UE supporting V2X application that is connected via
3GPP access to the 3GPP core network, and vice versa.
[CPR.G-021] The 3GPP system should provide integrity and confidentiality
protection (end to end) for the network access traffic of a V2X UE via another
such UE.
[CPR.G-022] The 3GPP system shall allow UEs supporting V2X application to use
5G RAT for direct communication when the UEs are not being serviced by a 5G
cell.
[CPR.G-023] An RSU shall be able to communicate with up to 200 UEs supporting
a V2X application.
[CPR.G-024] The 3GPP system shall support less than 5 ms communication latency
for transport of V2V messages between two UEs supporting V2V applications,
that are part of a group of UEs supporting V2Vapplications.
NOTE: The determination of group membership may be done at the upper layers
and/or lower layers (application and/or Layer 2).
[CPR.G-025] The 3GPP system shall be able to support confidentiality and
integrity of message transfer between a UE supporting V2X application and a
V2X application server.
### 7.2.2 Requirements for platooning
[CPR.P-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support up to 5 UEs for a group
of UEs supporting V2X application.
[CPR.P-002] For Vehicle Platooning, the 3GPP system shall be able to support
reliable V2V communications between a specific UE supporting V2X applications
and up to 19 other UEs supporting V2X applications.
NOTE: For group of heavy goods vehicle platooning, the number of UEs in a
platoon can be smaller, due to communication range, the length of truck,
inter-truck distance, etc.
[CPR.P-003] The 3GPP system shall support relative longitudinal position
accuracy of less than 0.5 m for UEs supporting V2X application for platooning
in proximity.
Table 7.2.2-1 Performance requirements for platooning
Communication scenario | Payload (Bytes) | Tx rate (Message/ Sec) | Max end-to-end latency (ms) | Reliabi-lity (%) | Data rate (Mbps) | Commu-nication range (meters) |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Section  
# | Description | CPR # |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.1 | Among a group of UEs (or two UEs) supporting V2X application | [CPR.P-004] | 50-1200 (NOTE 1) | 30 | 10 |  |  |  |   
|  | [CPR.P-005] | 300-400 | 30 | 25 | 90 |  |  |   
5.2 | Between UE supporting V2X application and RSU via another UE supporting V2X application | [CPR.P-006] | [50-1200] | 2 | 500 |  |  |  |   
5.5 | Between UEs supporting V2X application | Driver control | [CPR.P-007] | 300-400 (NOTE 2) |  | 25 | 90 |  |   
|  | Fully automated driving | [CPR.P-008] | 1200 |  | 10 | 99.99 |  | 80  
5.12, 5.13 | Between UEs supporting V2X application | Conditionally automated driving | [CPR.P-009] | [6500] | 50 | [20] |  |  | [10] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
|  | Highly/fully automated driving | [CPR.7.P-010] |  |  | [20] |  | [65] | [5] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
5.12, 5.13 | Between UE supporting V2X application and RSU | Conditionally automated driving | [CPR.7.P-011] | [6000] | 50 | [20] |  |  | [10] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
|  | Highly /Fully automated driving | [CPR.7.P-012] |  |  | [20] |  | [50] | [5] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
NOTE 1: This value does not including security related messages component. NOTE 2: This value is applicable for both triggered and periodic transmission of data packets. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 7.2.3 Requirements for advanced driving
Table 7.2.3-1 Performance requirements for advanced driving
Communication scenario | Payload (Bytes) | Tx rate (Message/Sec) | Max end-to-end latency (ms) | Reliabi-lity (%) | Data rate (Mbps) | Commu-nication range (meters) |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Section  
# | Description | CPR # |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.9 | Between UEs supporting V2X applications Fully automated driving | [CPR.A-001] | [2000] |  | [10] | [99.99] | [10] |  |   
5.10, 5.11 | Between UEs supporting V2X application | Partially/conditional ly automated driving | [CPR.A-002] | [6500] | 10 | [100] |  |  | [10] sec * (maximum relative speed) [m/s]  
|  | Highly automated driving | [CPR.A-003] |  |  | [100] |  | [53] | [5] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
5.10, 5.11 | Between the UE supporting V2X application and the RSU | Partially/conditional ly automated driving | [CPR.A-004] | [6000] | 10 | [100] |  |  | [10] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
|  | Highly automated driving | [CPR.A-005] |  |  | [100] |  | [50] | [5] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
5.20 | Between UEs supporting V2X application Fully automated driving | [CPR.A-006 |  |  | [3] | [99.999] | [30] | [500] |   
5.22 | Between RSU and UE supporting V2X application | [CPR.A-007] | 450 | 50 |  |  | DL: [0.5] UL: [50] |  |   
5.23 | Between UEs supporting V2X application | Driver control/ Limited automated driving | [CPR.A-008] | [300-400] |  | [25] | [90] |  |   
|  | Full automated driving | [CPR.A-009] | [12000] |  | [10] | [99.99] |  |   
5.25 | Between a UE supporting V2X application and a V2X application server | [CPR.A-010] |  |  |  |  | UL: [10] |  |   
### 7.2.4 Requirements for extended sensors
Table 7.2.4-1 Performance requirements for extended sensors
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Com | Pa | Max | Re | Data | Com | | | | | munic | yload | end-t | liabi | rate | munic | | | | | ation | (B | o-end | -lity | ( | ation | | | | | sce | ytes) | | (%) | Mbps) | range | | | | | nario | | la | | | (me | | | | | | | tency | | | ters) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (ms) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sec | D | CPR | | | | | | | | tion\ | escri | # | | | | | | | | # | ption | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5.3 | Be | [C | | 10 | 95 | Peak | | | | | tween | PR.E- | | | | data | | | | | UEs | 001] | | | | rate | | | | | suppo | | | | | \ | | | | | rting | | | | | [25] | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Fully | | | | | | | | | | auto | | | | | | | | | | mated | | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5.6 | Be | D | [C | [1 | 100 | 99 | | 1000 | | | tween | river | PR.E- | 600] | | | | | | | UEs | co | 002] | | | | | | | | suppo | ntrol | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Fully | [C | | 3 | 9 | | 200 | | | | auto | PR.E- | | | 9.999 | | | | | | mated | 003] | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | [C | | 10 | 99.99 | | 500 | | | | | PR.E- | | | | | | | | | | 004] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | [C | | 50 | 99 | | 1000 | | | | | PR.E- | | | | | | | | | | 005] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | [C | | | | 1000 | 50 | | | | | PR.E- | | | | | | | | | | 006] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5.16 | Be | D | [C | | \ | 90 | \ | [ | | | tween | river | PR.E- | | [50] | | [10] | 100] | | | UEs | con | 007] | | | | | | | | suppo | trol/ | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | Li | | | | | | | | | a | mited | | | | | | | | | pplic | auto | | | | | | | | | ation | mated | | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Fully | [C | | \ | 99.99 | [ | [ | | | | auto | PR.E- | | [10] | | 700] | 500] | | | | mated | 008] | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 7.2.5 Requirements for remote driving
[CPR.R-001] The 3GPP system shall support user experienced data rate up to 1
Mbps at DL and 20 Mbps at UL for UE supporting V2X application between V2X
application server and UE for an absolute speed of up to 250 km/h.
[CPR.R-002] The 3GPP system shall support ultra-high UL and DL reliability
[99.999 or higher] % for UE supporting safety-related V2X application.
[CPR.R-003] The 3GPP system shall support end-to-end latency 5 ms between V2X
application server and UE supporting safety-related V2X application for an
absolute speed of up to 250 km/h.
Table 7.2.5-1 Performance requirements for remote driving
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | Com | Pa | Max | Re | Data | Com | | | | munic | yload | end-t | liabi | rate | munic | | | | ation | (B | o-end | -lity | ( | ation | | | | sce | ytes) | | (%) | Mbps) | range | | | | nario | | la | | | (me | | | | | | tency | | | ters) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (ms) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | Sec | D | CPR | | | | | | | tion\ | escri | # | | | | | | | # | ption | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | 5.21 | Be | [C | | \ | [99. | UL: | | | | tween | PR.R- | | [20] | 999] | 25 | | | | a UE | 004] | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | DL: 1 | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | & V2X | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | rver. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | river | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
### 7.2.6 Requirements for vehicle quality of service support
[CPR.Q-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications with
estimated quality of service information, regardless of whether a UE related
to the V2X application is in coverage of a 3GPP radio access network or not.
NOTE 1: This requirement may not be applicable all scenarios. For example,
when quality of service information is generated in the 3GPP network and UE is
out of coverage, V2X application cannot be provided with the quality of
service information.
[CPR.Q-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support efficient and secure
mechanism to gather information (e.g. location information, reliability
information, timing information, latency information, velocity information and
so on.), which enables 3GPP system to support V2X application to adjust its
service offering.
NOTE 2: It is FFS whether Minimization of Driving Test can support this
requirement in consideration of the various velocity of vehicular environment.
[CPR.Q-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to minimize impact to system
performance, while supporting a mechanism to gather information, which enables
3GPP system to support V2X application to adjust its service offering
[CPR.Q-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support continuity of reporting
estimated quality of service for a UE even when the PLMN serving the UE
changes.
[CPR.Q-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide mechanisms to support the
estimation of potential quality of service for a certain time period and a
certain geographical location, with negotiated accuracy level to support V2X
applications to adjust their service offerings.
[CPR.Q-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide mechanisms to support the
provision of potential quality of service at a certain time period and a
certain geographical location after informing the V2X applications with the
quality of service information, the time period and the geographical location.
[CPR.Q-007] The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to provide a V2X application
with recommendation of quality of service parameters that can be provisioned
for connectivity services for a certain geographic area and a certain time.
[CPR.Q-008] The 3GPP network shall be able to negotiate alternative quality of
service with the V2X application.
[CPR.Q-009] The 3GPP system shall be able to authenticate and authorize V2X
application for accessing exposed services and capabilities of the 3GPP system
to enable V2X application to adjust its service offering, based on gathered
information.
[CPR.Q-010] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide authorized information to
V2X application.
[CPR.Q-011] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X applications to
request information on whether connectivity with specific quality of service
can be provided in a certain geographical area and at a certain time
[CPR.Q-012] The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to support a V2X application
to request reliable provision of connectivity with specific quality of service
parameter for a certain geographic area and time.
[CPR.Q-013] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X application with
estimation on time and geographical information where the quality of service
will be provided, when the 3GPP system provides the V2X applications with
supported quality of service information.
[CPR.Q-014] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications with
information on whether requested connectivity with a certain quality of
service can be provided in a certain geographical area at a certain time.
[CPR.Q-015] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a standardized interface
to V2X application, to support the V2X application to adjust its service
offering.
[CPR.Q-016] The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to provide a V2X application
with response on whether the request on reliable provision of connectivity
service with specific quality of service parameter for a certain geographic
area and a certain time is accepted or not.
[CPR.Q-017] The 3GPP system shall be able to notify V2X applications with
updated estimation on the availability or unavailability of quality of service
that can be provided within a certain geographic area, at least a certain
amount of time before when the actual change occurs.
[CPR.Q-018] The 3GPP network shall notify a V2X application that the current
quality of service of a UE's ongoing communication might change indicating the
specific period of time and/or geographical area it applies.
[CPR.Q-019] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications with
updated quality of service information within the list of quality of service
previously provided by the V2X application, when the quality of service of the
UE's ongoing communication changes.
[CPR.Q-020] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications with
updated estimation on the quality of service that can be provided within a
certain geographic area, at least a certain amount of time before when the
actual change of quality of service occurs e.g. due to change of network
condition or radio condition.
[CPR.Q-021] The 3GPP network shall be able to notify a V2X application when it
estimates that the quality of service of a UE's ongoing communication might
need to be downgraded compared to the currently agreed quality of service e.g.
due to expected bad network conditions, change of radio technology, radio
congestion.
[CPR.Q-022] The 3GPP network shall be able to notify a V2X application when it
estimates that the quality of service can be upgraded compared to the
currently agreed quality of service of a UE's ongoing communication e.g. due
to expected improved network conditions, change of radio technology, less cell
occupation.
[CPR.Q-023] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X applications to
request revocation of the connectivity with previous quality of service
parameters.
[CPR.Q-024] The 3GPP system shall be able to request V2X applications provide
related supporting information for quality of service estimation.
NOTE3: the related supporting information provided by V2X applications may be
path route priority, vehicle priority, vehicle automatic level etc.
[CPR.Q-025] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications with
quality of service estimation information according to the application's
configuration and request.
NOTE4: The quality of service estimation information may contain detailed
information depending on the application's request, e.g., on the accuracy of
the estimation information.
# 8 Conclusion and recommendations
This document analyses a number of use cases of V2X for both safety use and
non-safety use which the prior work on LTE support for V2X services [32] does
not cover or is not able to support. This document also analyses a number of
use cases that will be needed for interaction between V2X application and 3GPP
system in relation to quality of service to support good V2X user experience
of service and increased safety. The resulting potential requirements have
been consolidated in clause 7 of the TR.
It is recommended that the consolidated potential requirements identified in
this TR are considered as the basis of normative requirements in order to
better serve the V2X applications safety needs.
###### ### Annex A: Mapping of use cases to use case group
Table A-1: Mapping of use cases to use case group
* * *
Use case group Section number Use case name Platooning 5.1 eV2X support for
Vehicle Platooning 5.2 Information exchange within platoon 5.5 Automated
Cooperative Driving for Short distance Grouping 5.12 Information sharing for
limited automated platooning 5.13 Information sharing for full automated
platooning 5.17 Changing Driving-Mode Advanced Driving 5.9 Cooperative
Collision Avoidance (CoCA) 5.10 Information sharing for limited automated
driving 5.11 Information sharing for full automated driving 5.20 Emergency
Trajectory Alignment 5.22 Intersection Safety Information Provisioning for
Urban Driving 5.23 Cooperative lane change (CLC) of automated vehicles 5.25 3D
video composition for V2X scenario Remote driving 5.4 eV2X support for Remote
Driving 5.21 Teleoperated Support (TeSo) Extended Sensor 5.3 Automotive:
Sensor and State Map Sharing 5.6 Collective Perception of Environment 5.16
Video data sharing for automated Driving General 5.7 Communication between
vehicles of different 3GPP RATs 5.8 Multi-PLMN environment 5.15 Use case on
Multi-RAT 5.19 Use case out of 5G coverage 5.14 Dynamic Ride Sharing 5.18
Tethering via Vehicle 5.24 Proposal for secure software update for electronic
control unit Vehicle quality of service support 5.26 QoS aspect of vehicles
platooning 5.27 QoS aspects of advanced driving 5.28 QoS aspects of remote
driving 5.29 QoS Aspect for extended sensor 5.30 Different QoS estimation for
different V2X applications
* * *
###### ### Annex B: Mapping table between PRs and CPRs
Table B-1 Mapping between CPRs and PRs
+-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR # | PR # | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-001 | [PR.5.1-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-002 | [PR.5.1-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-003 | [PR.5.1-005] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-004 | [PR.5.1-007] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-005 | [PR.5.1-008] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-006 | [PR.5.1-009] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-007 | [PR.5.5-007] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-008 | [PR.5.5-009] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-009 | [PR.5.5-010] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-010 | [PR.5.3-004] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-011 | [PR.5.4-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-012 | [PR.5.7-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-013 | [PR.5.7-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-014 | [PR.5.8-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-015 | [PR.5.10-008] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-016 | [PR.5.14-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.14-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-017 | [PR.5.15-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-018 | [PR.5.18-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-019 | [PR.5.18-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-020 | [PR.5.18-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-021 | [PR.5.18-004] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-022 | [PR.5.19-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-023 | [PR.5.22-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-024 | [PR.5.5-003a] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.G-025 | [PR.5.24-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-001 | [PR.5.1-004] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-002 | [PR.5.17-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-003 | [PR.5.5-008] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-004 | [PR.5.1-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-006] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-010] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-011] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-005 | [PR.5.1-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-006] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-012] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-013] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-014] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-006 | [PR.5.2-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.2-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.2-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-007 | [PR.5.5-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.5-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.5-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-008 | [PR.5.5-004] | | | | | | [PR.5.5-005] | | | | | | [PR.5.5-006] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-009 | [PR.5.12-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-005] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-006] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-009] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-010 | [PR.5.13-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.13-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.13-006] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-011 | [PR.5.12-004] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-007] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-005] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-009] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.P-012 | [PR.5.13-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.13-006] | | | | | | [PR.5.13-004] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.A-001 | [PR.5.9-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.9-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.A-002 | [PR.5.10-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-006] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-009] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-004] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-005] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.A-003 | [PR.5.11-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.11-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.11-006] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.A-004 | [PR.5.10-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-004] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-007] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-009] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-005] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.A-005 | [PR.5.11-002], | | | | | | [PR.5.11-004], | | | | | | [PR.5.11-006], | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.A-006 | [PR.5.20-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.A-007 | [PR.5.22-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.22-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.A-008 | [PR.5.23-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.A-009 | [PR.5.23-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.A-010 | [PR.5.25-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.E-001 | [PR.5.3-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.3-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.3-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.E-002 | [PR.5.6-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.6-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.6-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.E-003 | [PR.5.6-004] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.E-004 | [PR.5.6-005] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.E-005 | [PR.5.6-006] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.E-006 | [PR.5.6-007] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.E-007 | [PR.5.16-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.E-008 | [PR.5.16-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.R-001 | [PR.5.4-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.R-002 | [PR.5.4-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.R-003 | [PR.5.4-004] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.R-004 | [PR.5.21-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-001 | [PR.5.26.2-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-002 | [PR.5.27.5-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-003 | [PR.5.27.5-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-004 | [PR.5.27.6-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-005 | [PR.5.27.7-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-006 | [PR.5.27.7-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.28.2-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-007 | [PR.5.28.2-001g] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-008 | [PR.5.28.1-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.27.5-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-009 | [PR.5.27.3-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.27.3-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-010 | [PR.5.27.3-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-011 | [PR.5.27.2-001a] | | | | | | [PR.5.27.2-001c] | | | | | | [PR.5.28.2-001a] | | | | | | [PR.5.28.2-001c] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-012 | [PR.5.28.2-001e] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-013 | [PR.5.26.2-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.26.2-004] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-014 | [PR.5.27.2-001b] | | | | | | [PR.5.27.2-001d] [PR.5.28.2-001b] | | | | | | [PR.5.28.2-001d] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-015 | [PR.5.28.2-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-016 | [PR.5.28.2-001f] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-017 | [PR.5.27.4-001b] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-018 | [PR.5.28.1-003] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-019 | [PR.5.26.2-002] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-020 | [PR.5.27.4-001d] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-021 | [PR.5.28.1-001] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-022 | [PR.5.28.1-004] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-023 | [PR.5.29.2-001a] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-024 | [PR.5.30.2-001b] | | | | | | [PR.5.30.2-001c] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+ | CPR.Q-025 | [PR.5.30.2-001d] | | | | | | [PR.5.30.2-001a] | +-----------+---------------------------------------+
###### ### Annex C: Other considered use cases
## C.1 Interoperability with other V2X schemes
### C.1.1 Description
#### C.1.1.1 General
As the automotive industry already started adopting non-3GPP V2X technologies
(e.g., 760 MHz ITS Connect in Japan, 5.9 GHz DSRC in the US, and 5.9 GHz
ITS-G5 in Europe), it is essential that vehicles with eV2X capability are also
interoperable with "legacy" vehicles with only a current non-3GPP V2X
capability (cf. [20]). This being "essential" comes from the understanding
that "_realizing the full extent of benefits from cooperative driving depends
on the availability of a critical mass of capable and compatible vehicles on
the road_ " and that "_the long product lifecycle in the automotive market
(i.e., 10 -- 14 years)_ " (cf. [20]).
As the objective of the WID already suggests, interoperability with non-3GPP
V2X technologies should be ensured at the application level, understanding NR
could be quite different from e.g. IEEE 802.11p.
An interpretation of this "interoperability" is as follows. Considering early
adoption of non-3GPP V2X technologies in some regions, for years to come there
exist vehicles with only a non-3GPP V2X device. In this circumstance, some V2X
messages (e.g., Basic Safety Messages or Cooperative Awareness Messages /
Decentralized Environmental Notification) are to be transmitted using non-3GPP
V2X technologies. eV2X capability is to be used to convey at least additional
V2X messages (e.g., high-resolution perception data and/or detailed planned
trajectory) to complement non-3GPP V2X technologies. In this way, all vehicles
with V2X capability, whether having an eV2X UE or not, can make the best use
of their outfit.
#### C.1.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A and B are equipped with both an eV2X UE and a non-3GPP V2X
device. Vehicle C is equipped with only a non-3GPP V2X device. Vehicles A, B,
and C are in the communication range.
#### C.1.1.3 Service flows
1\. Vehicles A and B share their Basic Safety Messages or Cooperative
Awareness Messages / Decentralized Environmental Notification (and their
detected objects and/or coarse driving intention) with Vehicle C using the
non-3GPP V2X technology, and vice versa.
2\. Vehicle C uses the above information received from Vehicles A and B for
its driving.
3\. Vehicle A shares its high-resolution perception data and/or detailed
planned trajectory with Vehicle B using the eV2X technology, and vice versa.
Vehicles A and B obtain information of surrounding environments that cannot be
obtained only from their local sensors.
4\. Vehicle A combines the above information received from Vehicles B and C,
and uses it for its driving. The same applies to Vehicle B.
#### C.1.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Road safety and traffic efficiency is improved. For Vehicles A and B,
having an eV2X capability as well further improves those.
#