# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document aims to study the introduction of an optional, user-
centric authentication layer on top of the existing subscription
authentication, supporting various authentication mechanisms and interactions
with external authentication systems as well as a degree of confidence (i.e. a
value that allows differentiated service policies depending on the reliability
of the User Identifier).
The new authentication layer shall not replace existing subscription
credentials. The security and privacy of subscriber or end user data shall not
be compromised.
Use cases are developed and potential requirements derived how to use the new
User Identifier within the 3GPP system e.g. to provide customized services and
enhanced charging and how to provide this identifier to external entities to
enable authentication for systems and services outside 3GPP.
Use cases for use within 3GPP include
> \- providing different users using the same UE with customized services
>
> \- identifying users of devices behind a gateway with a 3GPP subscription,
> but without the devices having a dedicated 3GPP subscription
>
> \- using a User Identifier being linked to a subscription to access 3GPP
> services via non-3GPP access
>
> \- using a User Identifier for slice authorization.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Gateway UE:** a UE, which acts as a gateway providing access to and from the
3GPP network for one or more non-3GPP devices that are connected to the
gateway UE.
**User:** As defined in TR 21.905 [1]: An entity, not part of the 3GPP System,
which uses 3GPP System services. Example: a person using a 3GPP System mobile
station as a portable telephone.
Additional examples for a user in the context of this TR: a non-3GPP device
connected to the 3GPP system via a gateway, or an application running on a UE.
**User Identity:** information representing a user in a specific context. A
user can have several user identities, e.g. a User Identity in the context of
his profession, or a private User Identity for some aspects of private life.
**User Identifier:** a piece of information used to identify one specific User
Identity in one or more systems.
**User Identity Profile:** A collection of information associated with the
User Identities of a user.
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Background and motivation
Current mobile networks are subscription-centric, which allows mobile
operators to protect the access to the network and respect legal obligations.
From a use case perspective this was sufficient in times when a user typically
only had one phone with one subscription, using only a few services provided
by the operator such as telephony and SMS.
However, times have changed: Today a person may have different kinds of
devices (phones, tablets, laptops), some of which might belong to the user,
others might be shared with someone else or belong to some other party to
access various operator and non-operator services. Things are increasingly
connected (sensors, gateways, actuators etc.) and there are many different
flavours in the relation between the owner of the thing, the holder of the
subscription and the actual user of the thing.
Presently it is common for each service to perform its own authentication,
often based on username and password. For users it becomes more and more
cumbersome to manage the different credentials of the growing number of
services.
So-called identity providers address the above problem by providing identity
information to entities and authentication to services for those entities.
Such mechanisms could be used over the top of any data connections, but
integration or interworking with operator networks provides additional
advantages.
Identifying the user in the operator network (by means of an identity provided
by some external party or the operator) enables to provide an enhanced user
experience and optimized performance as well as to offer services to devices
that are not part of 3GPP network. The user to be identified could be an
individual human user, using a UE with a certain subscription, or an
application running on or connecting via a UE, or a device ("thing") behind a
gateway UE.
Network settings can be adapted and services offered to users according to
their needs, independent of the subscription that is used to establish the
connection. By acting as an identity provider the operator can take additional
information from the network into account to provide a higher level of
security for the authentication of a user.
## 4.2 Basic concept and relations of identity management
In the context of identity management something outside a system that needs to
be identified in the system is referred to as "entity". In 3GPP such an entity
is called a user. A user is not necessarily a person, it could also be an
application or a device ("thing").
The entity is uniquely represented by an identity in the system. The identity
can dependent on the role of the entity in the system (e.g. which kind of
service is used for which purpose). As such, a user can have several user
identities -- e.g. one user identity representing the professional role of the
(human) user and another one representing some aspects of her private life.
There is a 1:n relation between user and user identity.
Figure 1: relation between user, identities, identifiers and attributes
A user identity is associated with some pieces of information, which are
generally called attributes. One special form of attributes are identifiers.
The relation between identity and identifier is 1:n.
Each user identity is identified in the system by one or more user
identifiers. An identifier could take the form of an NAI, email address or
some number, could be permanent (comparable to the IMSI), or temporary
(comparable to the TMSI).
E.g., in the internet-world a user might choose to use her company email
address when registering and using services (access to web portals) that she
needs for her work. For access to other sites, e.g. online shopping or login
to information servers concerning some hobby, she might use other email
addresses. In this example the email addresses are the user identifiers that
identify the different identities of the user for certain web services.
Other attributes could contain information about the date of birth of a user,
the private address, the company name and address, job title etc. Attributes
that are no identifiers may be associated with more than one identity, e.g.
date of birth might be relevant in the professional as well as in the private
context. One identity typically is associated with several attributes.
With having multiple user accounts the above information is distributed over
multiple servers. An identity provider creates, manages and stores this
information in one place, authenticates a selected user identity (i.e.
verifies a claimed user identity) for a service and provides the result and
necessary attributes to the service.
## 4.3 Impact on the 3GPP system
The goal of this activity is not to define an identity provisioning service.
The assumption is that operators can use existing systems to act as identity
providers if they wish to do so. The actual process of identity creation,
provisioning, managing, authentication etc. does not need to be defined within
3GPP.
The focus of this work is the interaction of such a service with the 3GPP
system:
\- how to take a user identity into account for adapting network and operator-
deployed service settings (e.g.policies, IMS, Gi-LAN service chain) and for
network slice selection
\- support of providing the user identity to external services via the 3GPP
network
\- extending 3GPP services to non-3GPP devices that are identified by user
identifiers, e.g. to enable network and service access by these devices and to
make them addressable and reachable from the network
\- additionally, if the operator acts as identity provider, how to improve the
level of security or confidence in the identity by taking into account
information from the network
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Several users sharing one UE
### 5.1.1 Description
Different users can share one UE. To improve the user experience it would be
beneficial to automatically change settings of operator deployed services
according to the users' settings.
This requires the user to be identified in addition to the existing
identification of subscription.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
Lucy and Linus live at their parents' home and use their mother's tablet PC
(actually a UE) mainly to surf the web.
The mother is subscriber of operator TTT who has deployed some child
protection service (web filter).
Both Lucy and Linus have a user account at operator TTT. The user account
contains some User Identifier and specific service settings.
The tablet is configured in a way that Lucy and Linus can use it with their
accounts.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
Linus unlocks the tablet using the fingerprint sensor. Due to this the UE
(tablet) selects Linus' user account and triggers a user authentication
procedure towards operator TTT.
Linus is successfully authenticated over the 3GPP network. He starts to surf
the web. Based on the user specific configuration stored in or linked with his
user account the operator's web filter is configured according to Linus' needs
to prevent him from receiving inappropriate content.
For a while Linus is distracted and does not use the tablet. After 5 minutes
of inactivity it automatically enters the locked mode and the user account is
deactivated.
When he picks up the tablet again, he can quickly reactivate. For example, for
the first log in after a long time a two-step authentication may be needed,
but now one step is sufficient.
After a while, Linus wants to call the neighbour kid, Charlie. Instead of
searching his own UE, which is hidden under a blanket in his room, he calls
from the tablet. The network's communication settings are according to his
user account settings and so Charlie sees an incoming call with Linus' User
Identity. Charlie answers the call and they decide to meet outside for playing
baseball.
Linus leaves the house. Now Lucy picks up the tablet and unlocks it. Her user
account is selected and she is authenticated by the network. The service
settings including the web filter are reconfigured according to Lucy's account
settings.
### 5.1.4 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.1-1] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a User Identifier to a
user. The User Identifier shall be independent of existing identifiers
relating to subscription (e.g. IMSI, MSISDN, IMPI, IMPU, SUPI, GPSI). The User
Identifier may be provided by some entity within the operator's network or by
a 3^rd^ party.
[PR 5.1-2] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to perform authentication
of a User Identity, regardless of the access, the UE and its HPLMN as well as
the provider of the User Identifier.
[PR 5.1-3] The 3GPP system shall be able to store or link user specific
service settings and parameters with the User Identifier. Those shall include
network parameters (e.g. QoS parameters), IMS service (e.g. MMTEL
supplementary services) and operator deployed service chain settings.
[PR 5.1-4] The 3GPP system shall be able to take user specific settings into
account when delivering a service.
[PR 5.1-5] The operator shall be able to enable or disable the use of a User
Identifier in his network.
[PR 5.1-6] The operator shall be able to set the boundaries within which the
user specific settings are taken into account in his network. The operator
shall be able to restrict the feature depending of the provider of the User
Identifier, the roaming status of the UE, the service and its specific
parameters.
[PR 5.1-7] The operator shall be able to restrict the number of simultaneously
active User Identifiers per UE.
[PR 5.1-8] The user shall be able to activate and deactivate the use of the
User Identifier and the associated user account settings. With deactivation
all links between a subscription and a certain User Identifier shall be
erased.
[PR 5.1-9] The 3GPP system shall be able to include the User Identifier in the
charging data for on- and offline charging.
[PR 5.1-10] The 3GPP system shall be able to support automatic deactivation of
an active user identity after a certain period of time of inactivity, as
configured by the operator.
[PR 5.1-11] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a fast activation
mechanism, based on MNOs' configuration.
## 5.2 Identity provisioning to external services
### 5.2.1 Description
With the option to identify the user the 3GPP system can support an operator
to act as identity provider and enable auto-log-in and single-sign-on to
operator and non-operator services.
This use case is an enhancement of functionalities described in the use case
in clause 5.1 and the potential requirements are in addition to those
described in clause 5.1.4.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Dorothea is a subscriber of operator TTT. She also has a user account at
operator TTT. She is logged in on her UE with her user account and her User
Identity has been authenticated over the 3GPP system, using a strong
authentication mechanism.
Dorothea also owns a bank account and has referred to her TTT user account
when registering to the bank's online services.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
Dorothea uses her UE for online banking for which the bank requires strong
user authentication. As she has already been authenticated by the 3GPP system
there is a high level of confidence with regard to her identity. This level of
confidence is increased by the fact that Dorothea uses her own UE from the
location of her home address and was authenticated less than 1 minute ago when
unlocking her UE.
Based on application layer information transferred by the 3GPP system, the
banking system accepts her request to access her banking account without
further need for Dorothea to provide additional credentials.
As later on Dorothea places an order to the bank for a money transfer, the
bank however requests her strong re-authentication by the 3GPP system so as to
ensure that she is still the actual user behind the UE, which is achieved by
having Dorothea re-authenticating by operator TTT, e.g. over the fingerprint
sensor of the UE.
### 5.2.4 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.2-1] The 3GPP system shall be able to support operators to act as
identity provider and to authenticate users for accessing operator and non-
operator deployed (i.e. external non-3GPP) services.
[PR 5.2-2] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide information to services
concerning the level of confidence of the User Identity and authentication
process.
[PR 5.2-3] The 3GPP system shall be able to assess the level of confidence of
the User Identity and authentication process by taking into account
information regarding the used authentication mechanism (e.g. algorithms, key-
length, time since last authentication), information from the network (e.g. UE
or device in use, access technology, location).
[PR 5.2-4] The 3GPP system shall protect the privacy of the user by only
transferring information that is necessary to provide the service and the user
has consented when registering for the service.
## 5.3 Use case of Authorizing Others to Access One's Resources
### 5.3.1 Description
One user manages some kind of resources such as a home video camera and others
may want to access it. Only users that are authorized by the manager are able
to access the managed resources and the manager knows in real time who is
accessing the resources. Thus the manager needs to know who the visitor is to
be able to authorize him.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
A Video camera (Ax) is installed at Tom's house and Tom is responsible to
configure and manage it.
Camera (Ax) has an eSIM and is subscribed to MNO X's 5G service. The camera
has an integrated web server and is configured to inform the manager when
somebody wants to access and this is only allowed when the manager authorizes
it.
Tom's mobile phone uses MNO X's service and Tom has a profile on MNO X's
system. Tom's profile contains information that he is the owner of camera Ax
and that for accessing the camera's web server a certain authentication method
and security level (e.g. finger print or face scanning) is needed as well as
the use of his UE (e.g. identified by IMSI and IMEI).
Jenny, Tom's cousin, uses MNO Y's service and has a profile on MNO Y's system.
Jenny's profile also contains information concerning the necessary
authentication method and security level as well as which UE she uses (e.g.
identified by IMSI and IMEI).
Tom has a new baby recently and many relatives would like to have a look at
the cute baby via cameras remotely.
Note: Jenny could also use MNO X's service, the same with Tom, then in this
case the process happens only in the MNO X's system. Thus no requirement for
system inter-operation is wanted.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
a) Jenny wants to see the new baby so she keys in the website of the camera on
her phone.
b) The camera Ax gets the request with Jenny's User Identity and securely
informs Tom about the request. .
c) Tom gets it and requests authentication from the 3GPP system.
d) The system authenticates Jenny and returns the result.
e) After the successful authentication of Jenny Tom authorizes her to access
the video from the camera.
f) The 3GPP system records the charging data for the authentication request.
### 5.3.4 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.3-1] The 3GPP system shall be able to store a User Identity Profile,
which can include the following information
\- User Identifiers,
\- used UEs (identified by their subscription and device identifiers),
\- the capabilities the used UEs support for authentication,
\- information regarding authentication policies (required authentication
mechanism and level of confidence) for different services.
[PR 5.3-2] The 3GPP system shall be able to authenticate the User Identity
according to the authentication policies.
[PR 5.3-3] The 3GPP system shall be able to record charging data for user
authentication.
## 5.4 Slice authentication by 3^rd^ party
### 5.4.1 Description
A gaming company provides 3 tiers of service, bronze, silver, gold, to its
subscribers who can then login to play games with different capabilities
(e.g., QoS). The gaming company provides its own devices to gamers, each of
which has a subscription with the local MNO. Each device is capable of
supporting multiple users where each user has a separate subscription with the
gaming company.
The gaming company leases 3 slices, each with appropriate resources, from the
MNO to support the three tiers of service. The MNO know the gaming company UEs
are authorized to gain access to the gaming company slices but the MNO does
not manage which exact slice a UE is entitled to use for each access attempt.
The gaming company maintains its own database indicating which tier of service
is allowed for each subscriber. This allows changes to the tier associated
with a particular UE, which may be based on changes in the user's gaming
company subscription (e.g., user changes subscription option or company offers
a short term promotion) or on a change of user using the device who has a
different subscription option, to be transparent to the MNO. This also allows
users to login on different gaming devices and get the same service regardless
of device.
Any gaming company subscriber can login to the gaming device with the gaming
company user ID and credentials, which causes a new network access attempt to
be initiated by the gaming device. Access authentication is then performed by
the MNO on the UE credentials of the gaming device. Based on the network
awareness that the UE is associated with the gaming company, before the UE is
attached to a particular slice, the gaming company is requested to perform a
second authentication and authorization of the user which determines the
appropriate slice for the UE based on the subscription option for the current
user.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
The gamer has a silver subscription with the gaming company.
The gamer receives a gaming device from the company which includes a
subscription with the local MNO.
The gaming company maintains the association of the subscription with the
slice for silver service.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
The gamer logs onto the gaming device with the gaming company credentials
Based on the new access attempt, the gaming device is authenticated by the
network as having a valid subscription with MNO.
The network determines the device also has a subscription with the gaming
company that requires an interaction with a gaming company entity to determine
what slice it should attach to.
The network requests the gaming company to authenticate the user and determine
the appropriate slice. After authenticating the user, authorization for the
gaming device to access the silver slice is conveyed to the network.
The gaming device is connected to the gaming company slice for silver service.
### 5.4.4 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.4-1] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to determine whether
3^rd^ party authentication is needed for slice assignment.
[PR 5.4-2] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to interwork with a 3^rd^
party network entity to authenticate the user and authorize the UE for slice
access.
[PR 5.4-3] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to receive a slice
authorization from a 3^rd^ party network entity.
5.5 Secondary slice authentication by 3^rd^ party -- failure case
5.5.1 Description
This use case follows the same description as the use case in clause 5.4.
5.5.2 Pre-conditions
The gamer has a silver subscription with the gaming company.
The gamer receives a gaming device from the company which includes a
subscription with the local MNO.
The gaming company maintains the association of the subscription with the
slice for silver service.
The gamer's younger brother does not have a subscription with the gaming
company.
5.5.3 Service Flows
The gamer's younger brother picks up the device and turns it on.
Based on the new access attempt, the gaming device is authenticated by the
network as having a valid subscription with MNO.
The network determines the device also has a subscription with the gaming
company that requires a secondary authentication to determine what slice it
should attach to.
The gaming company attempts to authenticate the device user and determines
that the current user does not have an active subscription (e.g., based on
receiving invalid user credentials from the younger brother).
The gaming device is not connected to the gaming company slices.
5.5.4 Post-conditions
Based on operator policy, subscription options of the gaming device, and
device capabilities (e.g., it is also a smartphone), the device may be denied
service or it may be connected to another part of the network, where, for
example, the younger brother could make a voice call using the device which
has been successfully authenticated for network access.
5.5.5 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.5-1] The 3GPP system shall be able to store a User Identity Profile for
a user, which can include the following information:
\- information regarding authentication policies required by different slices
to authenticate a User Identity for access to these slices.
[PR 5.5-2] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to interact with a 3rd
party network entity for User Identity authentication.
[PR 5.5-3] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to deny a UE access to a
slice based on unsuccessful User Identity authentication, while still allowing
access to other services associated with the UE subscription.
## 5.6 Updating user account based on authorization from 3^rd^ party
### 5.6.1 Description
A gaming company provides two kinds of services, default service and enhanced
service, to its game players. Comparing to the default service, the enhanced
service could provide better game experience, e.g., lower latency, higher data
rate. The gaming company leases 2 slices, each with appropriate resources,
from the MNO to support the two tiers of service.
A game player could online purchase the enhanced service, e.g., via the game
application provided by the game company. Then the game player could either
use his own smartphone or other's one, to access the MNO's slice that
providing enhanced service. The game player will enjoy the game with better
game experience.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
The gaming company leases 2 slices, each with appropriate resources, from
MNO(s) to support default service and enhanced service, respectively.
A game player Andy has a user account at the MNO. The user account contains
the User Identifier and specific service settings and parameters. In this
case, the user account contains the information that allow 3GPP network to
permit Andy to access the slice for default service, but not the slice for
enhanced service.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
Andy logs on the game by using his smartphone. Andy is successfully
authenticated by the MNO's network, and allowed to access the slice for
default service according to the user account.
Andy plays the game for a while. He is a little annoyed since the network lag
impacts his gaming skills.
Andy online purchases the enhanced service by using the game app provided by
the gaming company.
The MNO updates Andy's user account according to the authorization of the
gaming company, i.e., the information in the user account now allows the 3GPP
network to permit Andy to access the slice for enhanced service.
Andy's smartphone now is connected to the slice for enhanced service. Andy
spends a very happy gaming time as there is no annoying lag anymore.
Later, Andy uses his friend Bob's smartphone to start the game. As Andy's
purchased enhanced service as well as the information in the user account are
still valid, if allowed by the MNO of Bob's smartphone according to the
agreement between the game company and the MNOs, Andy could enjoy the game by
using Bob's smartphone, via the slice for enhanced service.
### 5.6.4 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.6-1] The 3GPP system shall be able to store and link User Identity
Profile with the User Identifier. The User Identity Profile shall include
specific network parameters (e.g., QoS parameters), and/or specific network
resources (e.g., network slice).
[PR 5.6-2] The 3GPP system shall be able to update the User Identity Profile
related to a User Identifier, according to the information shared by a 3^rd^
party.
[PR 5.6-3] The 3GPP network shall be able to take the User Identity Profile
into account when assigning a UE to a network slice, moving a UE from one
network slice to another, and removing a UE from a network slice.
## 5.7 Several users or devices behind one gateway UE
### 5.7.1 Description
One or more devices (IoT, wearables etc.) without own subscription can be
connected via gateway UEs to the network. With the option to identify the
devices (users) behind the UE (gateway) the 3GPP system can act as identity
provider, enable auto-log-in and single-sign-on as well as change settings in
the operator's network to enable the best user experience.
This use case is an enhancement of functionalities described in the use cases
in clauses 5.1 and 5.2. The potential requirements are in addition to the
requirements described there.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
Rosy has some serious health condition. She regularly uses a portable ECG,
which records her heart rate and function and is able to transmit the data to
a medical centre, using a UE as a gateway.
For medication, amongst others, she uses a connected inhaler. It tracks the
medication use and can also transmit data to Rosy's medical centre, again over
a gateway UE.
Finally for her own information she has a smart watch that measures her heart
rate at the wrist, counts her activity during the day etc. The data from the
smart watch can be synchronized with her smart phone and a cloud service from
time to time.
Rosy has got a user account at operator TTT. Rosy is subscriber of operator
TTT with her UE, her husband Joseph is subscriber of operator ONO.
Rosy paired all her medical devices and wearables with her smart phone.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
Rosy registers at the medical centre, referring to her user account at
operator TTT, as well as for the smart watch cloud service. So her account is
updated with a User Identifier for Rosy's ECG, another one for Rosy's inhaler
and third one for Rosy's watch.
Rosy wears her ECG. The ECG establishes a data connection to the network via
the smart phone as a gateway UE. This triggers the authentication process with
operator TTT and enables the log-in at the medical centre, as Rosy's ECG. The
network provides the necessary resources (guaranteed bitrate) to enable a
reliable real time transmission of ECG data.
In parallel Rosy uses her smart phone to synchronize her smart watch with the
cloud service. Credentials derived from her watch identifier in her user
account are used to log in. The data are exchanged on a best effort basis
(i.e. there is no guaranteed bitrate).
After some time Rosy takes off the ECG, the data transmission is stopped and
the device logged out from the service.
A bit later Rosy's smart phone needs re-charging. As she has to leave the
house she takes the UE of her husband Joseph with her. Her devices (i.e. the
smart watch and the inhaler) are paired with this phone because she had
already done the configurations earlier.
When Rosy uses her inhaler it connects to the medical centre via Joseph's UE,
and is logged in as Rosy's inhaler, because of the previous user
authentication over the 3GPP system.
### 5.7.4 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.7-1] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a User Identifier for a
non-3GPP device that is connected to the network via a UE that acts as a
gateway.
NOTE 1: The user identified with a User Identifier could be a person, a device
or an application.
[PR 5.7-2] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to perform authentication
of a User Identity used by devices that are connected via a UE that acts as a
gateway.
NOTE 2: The above requirements are additional requirements to those described
in clause 5.1, especially those for storing and applying user specific
settings within the 3GPP network and for operator deployed services as well as
for charging.
## 5.8 Access via non-3GPP with a User Identity linked to a subscription
### 5.8.1 Description
Existing subscribers may want to add non-3GPP devices to their subscription to
be able access the network and its services using these devices via non-3GPP
access. By identifying the user and linking the User Identity to a
subscription the 3GPP system can enable such scenarios.
This use case is based on functionality described in the use case in clause
5.1 and the potential requirements are in addition to those described in
clause 5.1.4.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
Dorothea is a subscriber of operator TTT with her UE and has a user account at
operator TTT.
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
Dorothea buys a new tablet PC, equipped with WLAN. She wants to add this
tablet PC to her subscription e.g. to be able to make phone calls with it.
She connects to the internet via WLAN and downloads the operator's
communication client app. She logs in at the app with her user account and an
authentication procedure is triggered towards operator TTT. As she uses her
account from this tablet for the first time, some verification message is sent
to Dorothea's UE, where she has to confirm, that she currently wants to link a
new device with her subscription.
Dorothea confirms by entering her PIN or using the fingerprint sensor on her
UE and the network downloads some credentials to the tablet that enable the
tablet to access the operator's network and its services via WLAN. From now
on, Dorothea can use the operator TTT communication services on her tablet,
until the credentials are no longer valid (context-based, e.g. until the
tablet is locked, after x minutes/hours/days, ...). Furthermore, since
Dorothea's user account contains some user-specific network service settings
(e.g. add-blocking option, traffic encryption over VPN), those settings are
automatically applied to the tablet PC's network connection.
She uses the tablet with the operator's communication client app to setup a
call to her friend Martin, who sees her preferred alias that is linked with
her account as incoming call identity. Therefore, he answers the call and they
arrange to go out for sports together.
### 5.8.4 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.8-1] The 3GPP system shall be able to permanently link a user account
with a subscription.
[PR 5.8-2] The 3GPP system shall support authenticating User Identities from
devices that connect via the internet and securely downloading credentials to
those devices to enable them to access the network and its services via
non-3GPP access.
[PR 5.8-3] The 3GPP system shall support using aliases with a User Identity
for 3GPP and non-3GPP services.
[PR 5.8-4] The 3GPP system shall be able to create charging data containing
the User Identifier for access and use of network services by a device that
was authorized with its User Identifier.
[PR 5.8-5] The operator shall be able to set restrictions for devices
accessing the network and its services via non-3GPP access with their user
account based on the User Identity provider, the roaming status of the device
and the network service.
## 5.9 Services Configuration of Shared Devices
### 5.9.1 Description
This use case is based on the functionality described in clause 5.7.
Operators provide a variety of services which users might want to use from
different devices. Some of these devices may be shared between several users.
To improve the user experience a user should be able to configure which
services are available on which devices.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
\- Jimbo and Ryder are two children of the family.
\- Both of them live with their parents in the same house.
\- A pad is shared in the family, which supports HD voice, HD video and
surfing the internet.
\- Both of them have their own UEs.
### 5.9.3 Service Flows
\- Ryder uses the pad to watch movies and play somatic games. But he does not
want to make calls and send messages from the pad.
\- Ryder uses the pad to watch movies and play somatic games. But he does not
want to make calls and send messages from the pad.
\- Ryder logs in at the pad at home, for surfing the Internet. He can still
send or receive phone calls, send or receive messages on his UE.
\- Ryder can configure whether he wants to use data, telephone or message
services on the pad.
\- Jimbo wants to use voice and messaging services on the pad as well. After
logging in, he can receive calls on the pad, using VoWiFi with the same
service settings as he has for VoLTE.
### 5.9.4 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.9-1] The 3GPP system shall enable a user to configure, within the
boundaries set by the network operator, which services shall be available on a
device where a user logs in. These services include voice, video, and
messaging.
[PR 5.9-2] The service settings shall be the same as if they were used from
the user's UE.
# 6 Consolidated potential requirements
## 6.1 User Identifiers and user authentication
[PR 5.1-1 part 1] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide User Identities
with related User Identifiers for a user.
[PR 5.1-1 part 2] The User Identifier shall be independent of existing
identifiers relating to subscription or device (e.g. IMSI, MSISDN, IMPI, IMPU,
SUPI, GPSI, IMEI) and of other User Identifiers.
[PR 5.1-1 part 3]The User Identifier may be provided by some entity within the
operator's network or by a 3rd party.
[PR 5.4-2] The 3GPP system shall support to interwork with a 3rd party network
entity for authentication of the User Identity.
[PR 5.1-2] The 3GPP system shall support to perform authentication of a User
Identity regardless of the user\'s access, the user\'s UE and its HPLMN as
well as the provider of the User Identifier.
[PR 5.7-1] The 3GPP network shall be able to provide a User Identifier for a
non-3GPP device that is connected to the network via a UE that acts as a
gateway.
[PR 5.7-2] The 3GPP network shall support to perform authentication of a User
Identity used by devices that are connected via a UE that acts as a gateway.
[PR 5.1-4] The 3GPP system shall be able to take User Identity specific
service settings and parameters into account when delivering a service.
[replacing PR 5.8-1] A subscriber shall be able to link and unlink one or more
user Identities with his 3GPP subscription.
[PR 5.8-2] The 3GPP system shall support user authentication with User
Identifiers from devices that connect via the internet; the 3GPP system shall
support secure provisioning of credentials to those devices to enable them to
access the network and its services according to the 3GPP subscription that
has been linked with the User Identity.
[PR 5.2-3] The 3GPP system shall be able to assess the level of confidence in
the User Identity by taking into account information regarding the used
mechanism for obtaining that User iIdentity (e.g. algorithms, key-length, time
since last authentication), information from the network (e.g. UE or device in
use, access technology, location).
[PR 5.1-7] The operator and the subscriber shall be able to restrict the
number of simultaneously active User Identifiers per UE.
## 6.2 Access to services
The 3GPP System shall support to authenticate a User Identity to a service
with a User Identifier.
Note: The requirement applies to 3GPP services and non-3GPP services that are
accessed via the 3GPP System
[PR 5.2-2] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide information to services
concerning the level of confidence of the User Identity and authentication
process.
[replacing PR 5.3-2] A service shall be able to request the 3GPP network to
only authenticate users to the service for which the association of the user
with a User Identifier has been established according to specified
authentication policies of the service.
[replacing PR 5.3-2] When a user requests to access a service the 3GPP System
shall support authentication of the User Identity with a User Identifier
towards the service if the level of confidence for the correct association of
a User Identity with a User Identifier complies to specified policies of the
service.
[PR 5.6-3] The 3GPP network shall be able to take the User Profile into
account when assigning a UE to a network slice, moving a UE from one network
slice to another, and removing a UE from a network slice.
[merging PRs 5.4-1 and 3] The 3GPP system shall support to [ ]{.underline}
allow a UE access to a slice based on successful User Identity authentication.
[PR 5.5-3] The 3GPP system shall support to deny a UE access to a slice based
on unsuccessful User Identity authentication.
## 6.3 Charging for services
[PR 5.1-9] The 3GPP system shall be able to include the User Identifier
including information concerning the provider of the User Identifier in the
charging data for on- and offline charging.
[PR 5.3-3] The 3GPP system shall be able to record charging data for user
authentication.
[PR 5.8-4] The 3GPP system shall be able to create charging data containing
the User Identifier and the 3GPP subscription to which it is linked for access
and use of network services by a non-3GPP device that was authorized with its
User Identifier linked to a 3GPP subscription.
## 6.4 User Identity Profile and its User Identities
[PR 5.3-1] The 3GPP system shall be able to store and update a User Profile
for a user.
The User Profile shall include a User Identifier.
The User Profile may include one or more pieces of the following information:
\- Additional User Identifiers of the user\'s User Identities and potentially
linked 3GPP subscriptions,
\- used UEs (identified by their subscription and device identifiers),
\- capabilities the used UEs support for authentication,
\- information regarding authentication policies required by different
services and slices to authenticate a user for access to these services or
slices.
[PR-5.1-3] User Identity specific service settings and parameters.\ Those
shall include network parameters (e.g. QoS parameters), IMS service (e.g.
MMTEL supplementary services) and operator deployed service chain settings.
[PR 5.6-1] User Identity specific network resources (e.g., network slice).
[PR 5.1-8] The user shall be able to activate, deactivate and suspend, i.e.
temporarily deactivate, the use of the User Identifiers per device or UE and
the associated settings in its user profile.
Note 1: Suspending (temporarily deactivating) a User Identifier on a UE could
also be automatically performed by the device on behalf of the user after a
period of inactivity of the user at that device. The time period of inactivity
of the user at that device after which a device should suspend a User
Identifier may depend on home operator policy.
Note 2: Re-activation of a suspended User Identifier on a UE where it was
suspended could involve simplified authentication (e.g. using fingerprint) at
the device.
[PR 5.6-2] Subject to operator policy the 3GPP system shall be able to update
User Profile related to a User Identifier, according to the information shared
by a trusted 3^rd^ party.
## 6.5 Operator requirements
[PR 5.1-5] The operator shall be able to enable or disable the use of a User
Identifier in his network.
[PR 5.2-1] The 3GPP System shall support operators to act as User Identity
provider and to authenticate users for accessing operator and non-operator
deployed (i.e. external non-3GPP) services
[PR 5.1-6] The operator shall be able to set the boundaries within which the
user specific settings are taken into account in his network. The operator
shall be able to restrict the feature depending of the provider of the User
Identifier, the roaming status of the UE, the service and its specific
parameters.
[PR 5.8-5] The operator shall be able to set restrictions for devices
accessing the network and its services via non-3GPP access with their User
Identity linked to a 3GPP subscription. The 3GPP system shall support
restrictions based on the User Identity provider, the roaming status of the
linked 3GPP subscription, and the network service that is accessed.
[PR 5.9-1] The 3GPP system shall enable a user to configure, within the
boundaries set by the network operator, which services shall be available on a
device where a user logs in. These services include voice, video, and
messaging.
## 6.6 Privacy requirements
[PR 5.2-4] The 3GPP system shall protect the privacy of the user by
transferring to a service only User Identity information that is necessary to
provide the service and for which the user has consented to when registering
for the service.
#