# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The future environment will be characterised by features such as multimedia
services and the convergence of 3GPP systems and the Internet. In this
environment the total User Equipment used to access 3GPP services may be
implemented over a number of physical devices. For example the User Equipment
may include a PC or PDA with appropriate client software as well as a separate
module containing radio protocols and other elements. These cases are referred
to under the term "UE Functionality Split" or just "UE Split".
This report identifies scenarios and requirements for UE Functionality Split.
# 1 Scope
This report identifies scenarios and requirements for UEs with functionality
split over multiple devices. Scenarios that are required to be supported in
the standard are defined in detail. The requirements in this report should
enable interoperability between user equipment components from different
vendors. This report is not intended to identify all possible or permitted
functionality splits. Certain splits of functionality may be prohibited for
security or other reasons. This report does not identify all prohibited
scenarios.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
Description; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service Requirements for the IP Multimedia; Core Network
Subsystem; Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.101: \"General UMTS Architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access
reference configuration\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**User Equipment Combination: All the user equipment that is connected and
used together in a particular scenario. For example a user equipment
combination may consist of an MT and all the TEs that are connected to that
MT.**
**User Equipment Component:** Any one of a number of separate components of
user equipment. User equipment components include MTs and TEs.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CC Call Control
CCC Call Control Client
CS Circuit Switched
DT Data Termination
IMEI International Mobile Station Equipment Identities
IMS IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identifier
IPAF IP Adaptation Function
IMC IMS Media Coding
IPDT IP Data Termination
ISIM IMS SIM
LAN Local Area Network
MAC Medium Access Control
MM Mobility Management
MT Mobile Terminal
PC Personal Computer
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PDP Packet Data Protocol
PDA Personal Digital Assistant
PS Packet Switched
RAN Radio Access Network
RR Radio Resource
SC SIP client
SIM Subscriber Identity Module
SM Session Management
SMC Session Management Client
TAF Terminal Adaptation Function
TE Terminal Equipment
TMSI Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identifier
UE User Equipment
UICC UMTS Integrated Circuit Card
USIM UMTS SIM
# 4 General Aspects
## 4.1 Overview of User Equipment
3GPP user equipment may take many forms. One case is that all the user
equipment is integrated in to a single physical device. This report deals with
cases where several different components make up the whole user equipment
combination. An example is illustrated below. This illustration is only meant
to introduce concepts and not imply any limitations or physical form for user
equipment.
Figure 1: User Equipment Combination
The user equipment combination contains at least one MT and may also contain
one or more TEs.
## 4.2 Background to Requirements
> The support of UE-functionality split in 3GPP should aim to exploit
> technology trends and to promote the convergence of 3GPP technologies with
> Internet and computing technologies. The objective of this report is to
> identify a scenario which is seen as being particularly important for the
> success of the 3GPP system. The scenario should:
  * correspond to likely physical scenario for available equipment
  * offer attractive commercial opportunities
  * be simple enough to allow requirements capture and technical specifications to be completed
  * align with other standards (e.g. Bluetooth, PC-Card) and common industry practice (e.g. major operating systems) where appropriate
Allowing some 3GPP related applications to be implemented on TEs separate from
the MT offers advantages such as:
\- Ability for applications to evolve without changing hardware or firmware.
This will improve service velocity.
\- Ability of 3GPP applications to integrate with a user's other business,
entertainment and communications tools.
  * Allowing 3GPP applications to take advantage of the physical characteristics of computer (e.g. large display, memory, processing power)
  * Ability to use hardware built into the TE (eg speaker, microphone) for input and output.
  * Integration of emerging wireless LAN technologies (e.g. Bluetooth, 802.11b) with 3GPP networks
> This will facilitate the development of applications in the TE that use 3GPP
> services independently of the specific 3GPP defined radio module being used.
> For example the application developer should not need to write different
> applications for 3GPP defined radio modules made by different vendors.
>
> The scenario considered is shown in Figure 1. In this case, multiple
> independent applications that are possibly being used by independent users
> employ one subscription and its information is stored in one UICC as shown
> in Fig. 1. The user(s) identity is possibly different from the subscribers\'
> identity.
Figure 2: Multiple applications and/or users with one subscriber identity.
Note: The single TE associated with a single MT scenario is a special case of
this scenario.
In this case the restriction is that only a single subscription on the UICC
may be active. In this release a subscription consists of a SIM/USIM for non-
IMS subscribers or a ISIM/USIM pair for IMS subscribers.
Examples of where scenario 1 is useful include:
\- A PC or PDA contains a 3GPP defined radio module to allow it to access 3GPP
services. The module may be a (semi)permanent part of the PC or PDA (similar
to an embedded modem) or a removable module such as a PC card.
## 4.3 Assumptions
The following assumptions are made:
a The transport link between the TE and MT functions of the UE is not
necessarily secure.
b A SIM/USIM application resident on a UICC is required to access the 3GPP
system . Only a single USIM on a UICC can be active at any time (multiple
USIMs can be located on a UICC).
c Charging is linked to one particular USIM.
d The secret key and the authentication algorithm cannot be transferred out
from the USIM.
e The UICC must be present during the entire duration of the call. Periodic
UICC presence detection is mandatory during a call.
f Requirements identified in [3] regarding the ISIM must be fulfilled.
_Note: In particular the following requirement from [3] is relevant:_ "For
this release of UE-split the USIM and the ISIM shall reside on the same UICC
(i.e., the ISIM application shall require the presence of a USIM application
on the same UICC). This shall not preclude the possibility in later releases
of having an ISIM in a UICC that does not contain a USIM."
Note: The following maybe later moved into an appropriate stage 2 document if
considered necessary. The functionality split required in this case
corresponds to generic way computers treat other types of network interface
cards. In this configuration the basic 3GPP protocols are implemented in the
3GPP defined radio module (see figure below). The computer contains the
following elements:
_\- driver software to control the 3GPP radio module and interface it to the
computer operating system_
\- software applications using network protocols (such as IP) which are routed
to other computers via the card.
Figure 3: Assumed Topology
# 5 Requirements
Requirements are identified for only the single active subscription for each
TE-MT combination case. Requirements for the other more general cases may be
added in later releases.
## 5.1 General
1 The functionality split proposed applies to Circuit Switched (CS) domain.
2 The functionality split proposed applies to the Packet Switched (PS) domain.
3 The user should be able to control which MTs and TEs are part of their user
equipment combination.
4 A standardized API for access to capabilities provided by an MT (TE) towards
a TE (MT) across Operating Systems must be provided.
5 It must be possible to develop applications in the TE that use 3GPP services
independently of the specific 3GPP defined radio module being used. For
example the application developer should not need to write different
applications for 3GPP defined radio modules made by different companies.
6 Control over those radio aspects as currently available with AT commands
should be provided to the TE by the MT. Access to additional functions is not
required.
> 7\. Call control signalling (e.g. IMS SIP signalling) must not be run
> transparently through the MT by the TE in this Release. [Note: This
> requirement is FFS currently under review.].
## 5.2 Security
  1. IMEI must be collocated with Mobility Management functions.
  2. The USIM/SIM and if relevant the ISIM application must be a part of the MT.
  3. The architecture for UE Functionality Split must provide a solution with equivalent or better security than the integrated (non-split) UE architecture. Particular attention should be paid to the origination point of call control signalling to ensure that the TE does not insert false information without detection in the MT or the network.
  4. Access to any parts of the network must not be given to unauthorised entities.
## 5.3 Functionality split
### 5.3.1 MT Functions
1 Radio attachment to the 3GPP network.
2 Authenticating subscription(s) (including IMS subscription).
3 Communicating with the application(s) resident on the UICC on behalf of the
TE.
4 Creation/activation/deactivation of additional PDP contexts on demand from a
TE.
5 Transceiving PS data across the appropriate Radio Access Bearers with the
RAN
6 Security
  1. Call control (including call control for IMS) [Note: This requirement is FFS.]
  2. Mobility Management function. Given this requirement, all relevant security-related identities (IMEI, IMSI, TMSI, etc.) must be located on the MT or UICC.
### 5.3.2 TE Functions
> 1 Control of hardware in the TE (speaker, microphones, video cameras,
> displays, etc.)
  1. Access to services and capabilities provided by the MT. [Note: The services and capabilities provided by the MT which can be accessed by the TE are FFS].
  2. Call control [Note: This requirement is FFS.]
## 5.4 TE-MT Reference Point
> 1\. The interface between a TE and an MT uses the 27.007 and 27.005 AT
> command set. [Editor's Note: Additional functionality may be added in the
> future.]
###### ### Annex A: Example Scenarios
These scenarios were studied and deferred to a later release. They are not
enabled by the requirements outlined in this TR.
**Scenario 2**
In this case, multiple SIM/USIM applications are stored on the MT on a single
UICC. Each application (that may be associated with its own unique user) has
its own unique SIM/USIM associated with it. The billing is associated with the
subscriber\'s identity stored in the SIM/USIM.
Figure 1 - Multiple users, multiple "borrowed" subscriber identities.
Editors Note: Release 99 allows multiple USIMs stored to be stored on a UICC
but they cannot be all active at the same time. In Release 4, the support of
logical channels on the UICC enables multiple USIM activation. However, for
any registered UICC it is assumed that only one SIM/USIM can be active at any
given time.
The scenarios discussed above can be divided into two categories based on the
number of simultaneously active subscriptions per user equipment
configuration. Scenario 1 and Scenario 2 are examples of cases where there is
a single active subscription per UE. This implies that for these scenarios:
1) The user equipment combination shall contain only one active SIM/USIM.
2) The user equipment combination shall contain only one active MT.
3) All MTs and TEs in a particular user equipment combination shall be treated
by the 3GPP system as being under the responsibility of the subscription
identified by the active SIM/USIM. All charges made by 3GPP shall be directed
to the subscriber identified by the SIM/USIM.
Note: It is possible that charges that are not related to the 3GPP
subscription may be treated differently for different TEs in the same user
equipment combination. For example a user on a TE may access an Internet
service which charges them based on a credit-card or a subscription that is
not associated with 3GPP.
Note: If a 3GPP subscriber permits a TE to be connected to their user
equipment combination they shall be willing to accept any charges as a result
of this. This is similar to the situation where you lend your phone to another
person to allow them to make a call.
**Scenario 3**
In this case, every user uses subscription per device and each device (e.g.
PC, PDA) have a UICC. The MT does not use an UICC, even if an UICC is
physically present. In this case, each TE is independent and billed for
separately. The MT in this case is used as transmitter with multiplexing
capabilities and the CK and the IK are handled by the TEs
Figure 3 - Multiple users, multiple "owned" subscriber identities.
Due to security concerns this case is not possible, since USIM/SIM
applications must be collocated with the Mobility Management on the MT. (It is
assumed that the Mobility Management functions are located on the MT).
**Scenario 4**
In this scenario, every user has a subscription i.e. each user has one UICC
that resides in a device (TE + MT) such as the mobile phone (like in case 3).
However, the user may be able to transition (henceforth, handoff) into using a
different MT (which has a UICC with a SIM/USIM application resident) as shown
in the figure below.
Figure 2: Hand-off to a "borrowed" subscriber identity.
**Comments:** Hand-off during "IDLE" state may be possible for CS/PS domains
using existing services offered by each domain. Significant issues arise if
this must be accomplished during "active" state. The assumption is that the
handoff is accomplished using existing supplementary services (call
forwarding, explicit call transfer etc). This is under the assumption that
after the handoff the functional split will be the same as the TE and MT split
case discussed earlier.
Figure 3: Hand-off, but retain and lend "own" subscriber identity.
In a variation of the scenario under consideration, it may conceivably be
possible to use the UICC on the TE while using a borrowed MT. However, this is
not possible since the USIM/SIM application and the MM funtion should be
collocated and on the MT.
###### ### Annex B: Scenarios for possible functionality split for the Circuit
domain
This annex identifies scenarios for possible functionality split for the
Circuit domain. It is expected that these scenarios will aid in deciding the
functionality splits to be supported. Note that the scenarios enumerated here
may not be exhaustive yet and others may be added.
**B.1 Telephony**
This section deals with circuit-switched voice Telephony.
**B.1.1 Functional Elements**
The following functional elements are identified as being applicable to the
Telephony service:
**B.1.1.1 Call Control and Mobility Management (CC &MM)**
The Call Control and Mobility Management entity is a C-plane function which
supports the signalling for call control and mobility management. The actions
of the CC&MM may be initiated directly by the user using a local HMI, or by a
Call Control Client on a remote device.
**B.1.1.2 Call Control Client (CCC)**
The Call Control Client is a client that interfaces to the CC&MM to provide
service. The protocol between the CCC and the CC&MM is an intermediate
protocol that allows the CCC to signal its call setup and release
requirements.
**B.1.1.3 Codec**
The codec is a U-plane entity responsible for applying the radio-interface
voice coding to a PCM or analogue signal.
**B.1.1.4 Transducer**
The transducer a U-plane entity responsible for converting between physical
sound waves and electrical signals.
**B.1.1.5 Radio Resource Layers (RR)**
The Radio Resource Layers cover the C-plane and the U-plane. They are
responsible for all low-level protocols on the radio interface -- including
the MAC and physical layers.
**B.1.2 Telephony Scenarios**
**B.1.2.1 Telephony Scenario 1 - Headsets**
Telephony scenario 1 corresponds to the use of a headset to access the
telephony service. Though a headset is not normally considered to be a TE,
from a formal point of view it is an external device connected to the MT and
therefore should strictly be included in the discussion. As the question of
support for wireless headsets has frequently been mentioned in conjunction
with UE-split it is felt necessary to include this scenario for completeness.
The model presented is applicable to both wired and wireless headsets.
In Telephony Scenario 1 the TE only contains the transducer. All other
functions are included in the MT.
{width="5.90625in" height="1.4388888888888889in"}
Telephony Scenario 1
**B.1.2.2 Telephony Scenario 2 -- Telephony Control Application in TE**
This scenario corresponds to the use of a TE (a PC or a PDA) which contains a
function to control telephony calls on behalf of the user. This might be a
telephone dialler application linked to a contacts database. APIs like "TAPI"
are typically used to provide this interface to applications. On the
R-interface the AT-command set provides some of the required functionality. In
this scenario the user's voice is still handled only in the MT.
{width="5.861111111111111in" height="1.4388888888888889in"}
Telephony Scenario 2
**B.1.2.3 Telephony Scenario 3 -- Telephony Supported in TE**
In this scenario the HMI for the Telephony teleservice is supported in the TE.
This may correspond to a user who uses their PC or PDA to initiate calls (the
above scenario), but also wants to multiplex the audio component of their
calls on to their PCs sound-channel so they can also use the PC's MP3 or CD
player via the same transducer.
The U-plane interface between the TE and the MT is assumed to be PCM or a
similar light-weight encoding.
NOTE: This scenario raises the interesting question of TE-split! In this case
it is likely the transducer is not physically integrated with the TE, but is
in fact a headset connected to the TE. At this level of modelling it is
assumed that the internal structure of the TE (even if it is itself made up of
several components) is not important provided this doesn't change the TE-MT
interface.
{width="5.861111111111111in" height="1.4479166666666667in"}
Telephony Scenario 3
**B.2 Circuit Bearer Services**
This section deals with the circuit-mode data bearer services
**B.2.1 Functional Elements**
The following functional elements are identified as being applicable to the
Circuit Bearer Services:
**B.2.1.1 Call Control and Mobility Management (CC &MM)**
As for telephony.
**B.2.1.2 Call Control Client (CCC)**
As for Telephony
**B.2.1.3 Terminal Adaptation Function (TAF)**
The TAF maps the data format on the R-interface in to the format needed for
the bearer.
**B.2.1.4 Data Termination (DT)**
The data termination is the end-point in the user-equipment for the bearer
service. The DT is outside the scope of the 3GPP standard.
**B.2.1.5 Radio Resource Layers (RR)**
As for Telephony
**B.2.2 Circuit Bearer Scenarios**
**B.2.2.1 Circuit Bearer Scenario 1 -- PC or PDA Access**
This scenario corresponds to a PC or PDA that uses the circuit bearer service.
This scenario is supported by the existing R-interface standards.
{width="5.866666666666666in" height="1.4375in"}
Circuit Bearer Scenario 1
**B**.**4\. Packet-Based Data Scenarios**
**B.4.1. Functional Elements**
**B.4.1.1 Session Management and Mobility Management (SM &MM)**
The Session Management and Mobility Management entity is a C-plane function
which supports the signalling for session management and mobility management.
Session management includes the establishment, management and release of PDP
contexts. The actions of the SM&MM may be initiated directly by the user using
a local HMI, or by a Session Management Client on a remote device. This
function does not include the SIP client.
**B.4.1.2 Session Management Client (SMC)**
The Session Management Client is a client that interfaces to the SM&MM to
provide service. The protocol between the SMC and the SM&MM is an intermediate
protocol that allows the SMC to signal its session setup and release
requirements. This is a peer to the SM&MM and does not include SIP
**B.4.1.3 SIP Client (SC)**
The SIP-client terminates IMS signalling in the user equipment. It is
responsible for all the control signalling between the user equipment and the
elements of the IMS domain in the network.
**B.4.1.4 IP Adaptation Function (IPAF)**
The IPAF is a U-plane function that does the high-level mapping of IP data in
to the UMTS bearer.
**B.4.1.5 IP Data Termination (IPDT)**
The IP Data Termination is the end-point in the user-equipment for the IP
bearer service provided by the PS-domain. Note that the IPDT is not intended
to be part of the IMS. Rather it represents other IP applications that may
exist.
**B.4.1.6 IMS Media Coding (IMC)**
The IMS media coding is similar to the codec in the Telephony service. It
converts media formats to those used for IMS. The IMC may support many types
of media including speech and video.
**B.4.1.7 Multimedia Transducers**
The multimedia transducers convert between the physical works and electronic
representation of multimedia content. They include microphones, speakers,
displays etc.
**B.4.1.8 Radio Resource Layers (RR)**
As for telephony.
**B.4.2 Packet-Based Data Scenarios**
**B.4.2.1 Packed-Based Data Scenario 1 -- PC or PDA Access**
This scenario corresponds to a PC or PDA that uses the packet bearer service.
This scenario is partially supported by the existing R-interface standards.
{width="5.866666666666666in" height="1.4375in"}
Packet Based Data Scenario
**B.4.3 IMS Scenarios**
**B.4.3.1. IMS Scenario 1 - Headsets**
This scenario supports simple headsets by locating the IMS client in the MT
and simply using the MT as a transducer. The diagram shows a simple headset
plugged in to the MT. The headset may be wired or wireless. It is assumed that
the headset only supports audio media. Therefore the transducers are in fact
split between the MT and the TE.
Support for PCs and PDAs with limited multimedia capabilities may also conform
to this model. This is for further study.
Note that on these diagrams the connections show the flow of content (for
C-plane entitles "content" is the signalling they use to interact towards the
network). Therefore all the internal control relationships are not fully
shown. For example the SM&MM obviously interacts with the IPAF and the SIP
Client, but this is not shown.
{width="5.866666666666666in" height="1.4375in"}
IMS Scenario 1 -- Support for Headsets
In operational terms this scenario is very similar to an integrated TE/MT.
Therefore it does not introduce many new requirements or problems. One item
that should be considered though is the security and access control on the
TE->MT interface. It is required that:
  * Only headsets the user intends to access his or her MT should be able to connect to the MT. A form of access control is required on this interface.
  * It should not be possible to record conversations by monitoring the TE-MT interface. Therefore some form of encryption is required if the TE-MT interface is wireless.
**B.4.3.2. IMS Scenario 2 -- Multimedia TE**
This scenario shows a multimedia SIP client and the media coding located in
the TE. In this scenario the functions in the MT are essentially the same as
those required in the MT for normal packet-data access (section 4.2.1 of this
Annex). This scenario emphasises the requirement for the MT to effectively
support QoS management and efficient mapping of data on to the radio
interface.
In order to emphasise the similarity to other data access scenarios the TE has
been shown to include a generic IP Data Termination (IPDT) which is outside
the scope of IMS. The IPDT has been shown as dotted to indicate it is not part
of the IMS components. The IPDT may represent another IP application such as a
web browser.
{width="5.866666666666666in" height="2.3541666666666665in"}
IMS Scenario 2 -- Support for Multimedia TEs
In this scenario important UMTS functions are located outside the MT. This
means that the system aspects need to be understood. The most important of
these are discussed in the following sections.
**B.4.3.3. IMS Scenario 3 -- Multimedia TE without Codecs**
This scenario is intermediate between the other two. It recognises the fact
that in the short-term the implementation of media codecs presents special
problems for TE hardware. Also the location of codecs outside the MT may
complicate the efficient management of the radio interface. Therefore in this
model the codecs are located in the MT while the SIP client is contained in
the TE.
In this model the requirements and issues are similar to the case above.
However some of the complexity in the areas of delay and radio efficiency are
avoided. The cost of this simplification is less flexibility in terms of
support of new media formats and a system design which is less compatible with
other access types.
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="2.3756944444444446in"}
IMS Scenario 3 -- Support for Multimedia TEs without codecs
**B.4.4. IMS Security and system integrity**
The TE -- MT link needs to include both confidentiality and access control.
These security requirements are similar in any UE-split scenario including the
IMS-headset scenario described above.
Locating UMTS functions such as the SIP client outside the MT may be seen as
introducing other security risks that arise because of malicious or poorly
implemented SIP clients, however these security risks exist for non-split UEs
as well. The network must therefore be secure against attacks which may result
from maliciously modified SIP clients.
It is possible that the client may attempt to attack nodes in the IMS
directly. In order to control this the IMS must include adequate firewalling
and IP-based security procedures. These functions should be placed in the
network rather than the user equipment so that they cannot be tampered with,
and so they can be adapted to meet new threats. Because of the IP-based nature
of IMS the security of this network from IP-based attacks needs to be
considered whether or not IMS clients are implemented in the TE according to
the standard.
**B.4.5 End to end delay**
End to end delay in IMS scenario 2 is a function of many factors. These
includes the hardware on the TE, the codecs in the TE, the mapping of data
over the TE-MT interface and the UMTS radio interface. In order to ensure that
system-wide delay is managed it is important that:
  * The total maximum end-to-end delay limits are defined in 3GPP
  * A delay budget is created showing the maximum contribution to the delay at each point in the network
  * The technical design of the standard takes in to account delay aspects, and that the interfaces are created in a way where both the theoretical and practical delay consequences are compatible with the delay budget.
  * Approved implementations are tested to ensure they meet delay requirements.
**5.3 Radio Efficiency**
This scenario is not necessarily less radio efficient than other IMS scenarios
provided that:
  * The MT has sufficient information about the different IP streams it is transporting to map then on to the correct radio access bearer, and
  * The IP header compression mechanism on the radio interface supports header stripping and reassembly to support the transparency of the service.
The first point requires developments in the TE's operating system and also on
the TE-MT interface.
#