# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document describes the technical characteristics and methods of
test for Mobile Stations (MSs), operating in the different frequency bands
within the digital cellular telecommunications system.
The present document corresponds to technical specification 3GPP TS 51.010-5,
covering the Digital cellular telecommunications system (3GPP Release 99,
Release 4, Release 5, Release 6, Release 7 and Release 8) version 8.x.x.
The present document, contains Tree and Tabular Combined Notation (TTCN) for
Mobile Station (MS) Inter-RAT (GERAN to UTRAN) service conformity
specifications, for which Mobile Stations, within the digital cellular
telecommunications system (3GPP Release 99, Release 4, Release 5, Release 6,
Release 7 and Release 8), are tested for compliance.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document describes the technical characteristics and methods of
test for Mobile Stations (MSs) within the digital cellular telecommunications
system.
**The graphical form ATS**
The electronic form of the graphical representation (TTCN.GR format)
corresponding to the ATS for Layer 3, is contained in the Adobe Portable
Document Format™ file IR_XXX.pdf where XXX corresponds to the current version.
**The machine processable ATS**
The electronic form of the machine processable file (TTCN.MP format)
corresponding to the ATS for Layer 3, is contained in the file IR_XXX.mp where
XXX corresponds to the current version.
The present document is part 5 of a multi-part 3GPP TS covering the digital
cellular telecommunications system; Mobile Station (MS) conformance
specification, as identified below:
Part 1: Conformance specification
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑1.
**Part 2: Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS) proforma
specification.**
**Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑2.**
**Part 3: Layer 3 (L3) Abstract Test Suite (ATS).**
**Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑3.**
Part 4: SIM Application Toolkit conformance specification
Reference: 3GPP TS 11.10‑4.
**Part 5: Inter-RAT (GERAN to UTRAN) Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\ Reference:
3GPP TS 51.010‑5.**
Part 7: Location Services (LCS) test scenarios and assistance data.\
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑7.
NOTE: At the present time, part 4 is 3GPP TS 11.10.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Abstract Test Suites (ATS) and partial IXIT
proforma for the Network Layer (Layer 3) at the mobile radio interface of the
GSM/3GPP mobile stations (MS) conforming to the TSs for Layer 3, for the
digital cellular telecommunications systems.
The present document is valid for MS implemented according to R99, 3GPP
Release 4, Release 5, Release 6, Release 7 or Release 8.
The ISO standards for the methodology of conformance testing and the TTCN
language are used as the basis for the test specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [11] (void)
[12] 3GPP TS 51.010-5 Release 10: \"Mobile Station (MS) conformance
specification; Part 5: Inter-Radio-Access-Technology (RAT) (GERAN / UTRAN)
interaction Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Abstract test method and test configurations
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 51.010-5
Release 10 [12].
###### ## Annex A to E:Void
#