# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part deliverable covering the
Digital cellular telecommunications system (GSM Phase2 and Phase 2+ Releases
1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 3GPP Release 4, 3GPP Release 5, 3GPP Release 6, 3GPP
Release 7, 3GPP Release 8 and 3GPP Release 9); Mobile Station (MS) conformance
specification, as identified below:
Part 1: Conformance specification
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑1.
Part 2: Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS) proforma
specification.
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑2.
Part 3: Layer 3 (L3) Abstract Test Suite (ATS).
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑3.
Part 4: SIM Application Toolkit conformance specification.
Reference: 3GPP TS 11.10-4.
Part 5: Inter-RAT (GERAN to UTRAN) Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\ Reference: 3GPP
TS 51.010‑5.
**Part 7: Location Services (LCS) test scenarios and assistance data.\
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑7.**
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the orbital model information, the assistance
data and the assistance data files that shall be used for all LCS Assisted GPS
and Assisted GNSS test cases defined in subclause 70 of TS 51.010-1 [4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [8] (void)
[9] 3GPP TS 51.010-7 Release 10: \"Mobile Station (MS) conformance
specification; Part 7: Location Services (LCS) test scenarios and assistance
data\"
# 3 Abbreviations
Void
# 4 Orbital model information, assistance data and assistance data files
## 4.1 General
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 51.010-7
Release 10 [9].
# 5 to 6 Void
###### ## Annex A to B: Void
#