# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP TSG SA to allow for
the standardisation in the area of Lawful Interception (LI) of
telecommunications. This document describes in general the requirements for
lawful interception.
Laws of individual nations and regional institutions (e.g. European Union),
and sometimes licensing and operating conditions define a need to intercept
telecommunications traffic and related information in modern
telecommunications systems. It has to be noted that lawful interception shall
always be done in accordance with the applicable national or regional laws and
technical regulations.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides Stage 1 interception requirements within a 3GPP
network.
The specification describes the service requirements from a Law Enforcement
point of view only. The aim of this document is to define an interception
system for 3GPP networks that supports a number of regional interception
regulations, but these regulations are not repeated here as they vary.
Regional interception requirements shall rely on this specification to derive
such information as they require.
Lawful interception services may include both passive collection of
information related to PLMN services provided to a user targeted for
interception and active PLMN service invocation in support of lawfully
authorized surveillance activities relating to a particular target. This
specification considers requirements for both forms of lawful interception.
Which PLMN services are subject to lawful interception is defined in national
regulations.
The presence of a requirement in this specification does not in itself infer
or mandate that a 3GPP operator has an obligation to implement any network
service capability, which is not otherwise required to meet LI obligation
compliance in relation to specific regulated services, offered by that 3GPP
operator. Only those specific requirements and sub-sections of this
specification which are applicable to specific network and/or service
capabilities implemented in a 3GPP operator's network shall be considered in
scope for that operator. In all cases, national regulations define which
requirements are applicable to 3GPP operators in each country relative to the
services offered by each 3GPP operator.
As such not all requirements in 33.106 will apply in all national
jurisdictions or to all 3GPP operator deployments (e.g if an operator does not
offer voice services, then voice LI requirement in this specification do not
apply unless otherwise mandated in national regulations).
Editor's Note: Scope needs to be enhanced more clearly differentiate between
traditional 3GPP service usage reporting and wider LI requirements covered
national lawful interception obligations.
These interception requirements shall be used to derive specific network
requirements.
For details see:
Stage 2: 3GPP TS 33.107 [9];
Stage 3: 3GPP TS 33.108 [10].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] - [3] Void.
[4] ETSI ES 201 671(V3.1.1 May 2007): \"Handover Interface for the lawful
interception of telecommunications traffic\".
[5] - [7] Void.
[8] ANSI J-STD-025‑A: (April 2003): \"Lawfully Authorized Electronic
Surveillance\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.107: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Lawful
interception architecture and functions\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.108: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Handover
interface for Lawful Interception\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.220: \"Service Requirements for Home NodeBs and Home
eNodeBs\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.182: \"Customized Alerting Tones (CAT) Requirements; Stage
1\".
[13] 3GPP TR 23.872: \"Study on Architecture of IP Mulimedia subsystem (IMS)
based Customized Alerting Tone (CAT)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 24.182: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Customized Alerting Tones
(CAT); Protocol Specificiation\".
[15] 3GPP TR 29.882: \"Customized Alerting Tone (CAT) in 3G CS Domain\".
[16] 3GPP TS 22.183: \"Customized Ringing Signal (CRS) Requirements; Stage
1\".
[17] 3GPP TS 24.183: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) customized Ringing Signal
(CRS); Protocol Specification\".
[18] ETSI TS 101 671 (V3.11.1 November 2012): \"Lawful Interception (LI)
Handover Interface for the lawful interception of telecommunications
traffic\".
> [19] 3GPP TR 21.905: \" 3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
> Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
> Specifications\".
[20] ETSI TS 102 232-7 (V3.1.1 June 2012): \" Service-specific details for
Mobile Services\"
[21] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\".
[22] OMA OMA-AD-MMS-V1_3-20110913-A.:\"Multimedia Messaging Service
Architecture\".
[23] 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage
1\".
[24] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\".
[25] 3GPP TS 22 173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [19] and the following terms apply.
**Content of Communication:** information exchanged between two or more users
of a telecommunications service, excluding intercept related information. This
includes information which may, as part of some telecommunications service, be
stored by one user for subsequent retrieval by another.
**Customized Alerting Tone:** An indication that is customized by the called
party or the calling subscriber that is played to the calling party during
call establishment or during an established call session indicating that the
called party is being alerted, the progress of a communication request, or any
alerting event during a call session. A Customized Alerting Tone may be a
piece of recorded or composed music, greeting words, voice, advertisement or
video.
**Customized Ringing Signal:** An indication to the called party as an
incoming communication indication during the establishment of a communication
that is customized by the calling party or the called party. A Customized
Ringing Signal (CRS) may e.g. be a picture, a piece of recorded or composed
music, greeting words, voice, advertisement or video.
**Intercept Related Information:** information or data associated with
telecommunication services involving the target identity, specifically
communication associated information or data (e.g. unsuccessful communication
attempts), service associated information or data, and location information.
**Interception Area:** is a subset of the Public Lands Mobile Network (PLMN)
service area comprised of a set of cells which define a geographical zone.
**Location Dependent Interception:** is interception within a PLMN service
area that is restricted to one or several Interception Areas (IA).
**Lawful Access Location Services** : action (based on the law), performed by
a network operator/access provider/service provider, of making available
Location Services (LCS) and providing that information to a law enforcement
monitoring facility. Depending of legislation this can be part of interception
or an additional action.
**Lawful Interception (LI):** the action (based on the law) for specific
target identity(s), by a network operator/access provider/service provider, of
accessing and delivering in real-time certain current information to a Law
Enforcement Monitoring Facility (LEMF). This information includes Intercept
Related Information (IRI) and Content of Communications (CC).
**LCS (Location Services):** LCS is a service concept in system (e.g. GSM,
UMTS, UTRAN or EUTRAN) standardization. LCS specifies all the necessary
network elements and entities, their functionalities, interfaces, as well as
communication messages, due to implement the positioning functionality in a
cellular network. Note that LCS does not specify any location based (value
added) services except locating of emergency calls and Lawful Access Services.
**LCS Client** : Software and/or hardware entity that interacts with a LCS
Server for the purpose of obtaining location information for one or more
Mobile Stations. LCS Clients subscribe to LCS in order to obtain location
information. LCS Clients may or may not interact with human users. The LCS
Client is responsible for formatting and presenting data and managing the user
interface (dialogue).
**LI-LCS Client** : describes the instance used by PLMN to provide LEA access
to LCS services.
**Location Dependent Interception:** is interception within a PLMN service
area that is restricted to one or several Interception Areas (IA).
**Location Information:** information relating to the geographic, physical or
logical location of a target identity.
**Subject Based Interception:** Interception that is invoked using a specific
Target Identity
**Target Identity:** A technical identity that uniquely identifies a target of
interception. One target may have one or several identities.
## 3.2 Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[19] and the following apply:
CAT Customized Alerting Tone
CC Content of Communication
CRS Customized Ringing Signal
CS Circuit Switched
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
CSP Communications Service Provider
HeNB Home eNodeB
H(e)NB HNB and HeNB
HNB Home NodeB
IA Interception Area
IP Internet Protocol
IRI Intercept Related Information
LALS Lawful Access Location Services
LDI Location Dependent Interception
LEA Law Enforcement Agency
LEMF Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility
LI Lawful Interception
MMS Multimedia Messaging Services
MS Mobile Station
PS Packet Switched
QoS Quality of Service
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
UTC Coordinated Universal Time
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
# 4 Relationship to regional requirements
Interception requirements are subject to national law and international
treaties and should be interpreted in accordance with applicable national
policies.
Requirements universally called out in regional interception regulatory
requirements are supported by the system defined in this document.
Requirements unique to a specific region are not addressed (some examples are
given in Section 2 as references).
The intercept system defined here provides subject based interception. Other
techniques are outside the scope of this specification.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Description of requirements
The present subclause gives the general description of lawful interception
requirements.
### 5.1.1 General technical requirements
Figure 1 shows the general system for interception. Technical interception is
implemented within a 3GPP network by special functionality on network elements
shown in the figure. Specific lawful interception architecture and functions
are found in TS 33.107 [9].
Figure 1: General model for interception
### 5.1.2 General principles
A 3GPP network shall provide access to the intercepted Content of
Communications (CC) and the Intercept Related Information (IRI) of the mobile
target and services related to the target (e.g. Call Forwarding) on behalf of
Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs).
A target of a given 3GPP network can be a user subscribed to and operating in
that 3GPP network, a user equipment operating in that 3GPP network (which is
either the HPLMN or a VPLMN), or a user roaming from another 3GPP network or
from any other network capable of using that 3GPP network. The intercepted CC
and the IRI can only be delivered for activities on that given 3GPP network.
Interception may be performed in the network access (all or selected APNs)
and/or by intercepting a specific service at the application layer (e.g.
VoIP). When interception is done on a per-service basis, only the IRI and CC
defined for that service shall be delivered to the LEA, if authorized.
National regulations will define the service to be intercepted.
For interception, there needs to be a means of identifying the target,
correspondent and initiator of the communication. Target identities used for
interception for each domain and service are target service and equipment
associated with target use or any derived IDs from such elements that are to
be defined in TS 33.107 [9] and TS 33.108 [10]. Examples of these identities
are IMSI, MSISDN, NAI, Tel URI, SIP URI, for the target service and IMEI, MAC
for the equipment.
NOTE: Identifiers available in 3GPP networks may have different levels of
authenticity. For LI purposes, no additional authentication procedures for
target identities are required.
When encryption is provided and managed by the network, it shall be a national
option as to whether the network provides the intercepted communication to the
LEA decrypted, or encrypted with keys and additional information to make
decryption possible. End-to-end encryption implemented in the user equipment
based on encryption features provided by the operator is considered to be a
network-managed encryption and is subject to the same requirements. See
subclause 5.7 for additional requirements.
Encryption not provided or managed by the network, e.g. user provided end-to-
end encryption, cannot be removed by the network. In the case that the
Communication Service Provider (CSP) provides encryption keys to the
subscriber or customer but does not provide the encryption itself, the CSP
shall provide the keys to the LEA if required by national regulations.
When compression is provided and managed by the network, it shall be a
national option as to whether the network provides the intercepted
communication to the LEA decompressed, or compressed with information to make
decompression possible.
When encoding is provided and managed by the network, it shall be a national
option as to whether the network provides the intercepted communication to the
LEA decoded, or encoded with capability (e.g., codec information) to make
decoding possible.
Location Dependent Interception, (LDI) allows a 3GPP network to service
multiple interception jurisdictions within its service area. Multiple law
enforcement agencies with their own interception areas can be served by the
3GPP network. All the information or rules given for interception within a
3GPP network apply to interception within an Interception Area (IA) when LDI
is invoked. A target may be marked in one or more different IAs within the
same 3GPP network. Interception is neither required nor prohibited by this
standard when LDI is active and the location of the target is unknown or
unavailable.
National regulations may require that an operator is able to intercept any
communication passing through its network based on any visible identity not
connected to the operator network. It shall be based on a match between this
target identity and identity type (e.g. IMPU) with the detected party fields.
This identity is referred as a Non-Local Identity.
### 5.1.3 Applicability to telecommunication services
The requirement for lawful interception is that all telecommunications
services in the 3GPP network standards should be capable of meeting the
requirements within this document.
It is a national option that LI, as delivered to the LEMF, may be restricted
to specific target subscribed services offered by the CSP or third party
providers with a service level agreement with the CSP.
### 5.1.4 Interception within the Home and Visited Networks for roaming
scenarios
The requirements in this clause are additional to the requirements described
elsewhere in this specification which apply to the home network in a roaming
scenario.
National regulations cover the definition of services and the definition of
service provider categories which are subject to LI obligations. This can
include how and which IMS services are considered to be covered. For the
purpose of roaming, IMS VoIP Service or other 3GPP operator services (CS voice
replacement) shall be considered equivalent to a CS voice service and
therefore all requirements applicable to legacy CS voice (e.g. interception of
voice in isolation from other services) shall be applicable to IMS VoIP
Service or other equivalent services.
It shall be possible to intercept all basic voice, data and messaging services
provided to a target by a network. The visited network shall be able to
support the interception of all services without home network assistance or
visibility. However, the visited network is not required to be able to
intercept supplementary services (e.g. voicemail, home network based call
forwarding) or 3rd party services not directly provided by the visited
network. However, national regulation may specify minimum LI capabilities, if
such services are in the visited network then they shall be considered in
scope for interception (subject to an applicable lawful authorisation).
National regulations may require interception to take place in the home
network for outbound roamers, where the user session is routed via the home
network. There is no requirement to force traffic to the home network for this
purpose.
National regulations may limit delivery of communications (CC and
communications--associated IRI) of an outbound international roaming target by
the HPLMN based on roaming specific interception constraints (e.g., roaming
outside national border). To support these scenarios, it is a national option
for the HPLMN to be able to support a mechanism to apply on a per-warrant/per-
intercept to limit the delivery of the communications (CC and communications--
associated IRI) to LE of an outbound international roaming target based on
roaming specific interception constraints (e.g., roaming outside a national
border). The default setting is determined based on a national option.
Communications originated by the roaming target are subject to this mechanism.
Communications incoming to the target that are answered by the target are
subject to this mechanism. Communications incoming to the target that are not
answered by the target (e.g., due to call forwarding) are not subject to this
mechanism. Non-communications-associated IRI (e.g., serving system event) are
not affected by this requirement.
All these requirements are based on conditions and definitions contained in
national regulations.
> NOTE: The requirement of interception by serving network of non 3GPP access
> and associated services is not defined in this release.
## 5.2 Normal operation
This section gives the expected operation for lawful interception.
### 5.2.1 Intercept administration requirements
As depicted in Figure 1, the Law Enforcement Agency (LEA) provides the
intercept request (e.g., lawful authorization or warrant) to the CSP. The
intercept request identifies, at a minimum, the target, the type of intercept
(i.e., IRI-only, or IRI and CC) ; the service to be intercepted (e.g. 3G PS
network access(es) and/ or the services (e.g. VoIP)) that is authorized, the
authorized period for interception, and the LEA delivery address(es) for the
intercepted information
NOTE: In some situations IRI may contain CC-information. In case of a IRI only
intercept the IRI delivery may take place without the CC-information.\ In
other situations the CC-delivery may provide metadata not sent in the IRI. In
case of a IRI only intercept the CC-delivery may take place without the actual
content.\ It is upon national regulations to implement any of these options.
The CSP shall securely administer the intercept (e.g., to activate,
deactivate, show, or list targets) within the 3GPP network as quickly as
possible. The CSP's administration function shall use appropriate
authentication and audit procedures. When LDI is used, the administration
function shall allow specific IAs to be associated with targets.
#### 5.2.1.1 Activation of LI
For the specified target and based on the warrant, the 3GPP network shall
activate the delivery of either IRI, or both the IRI and the CC to the
designated LEA destination addresses.
#### 5.2.1.2 Deactivation of LI
As a result of deactivation, the 3GPP network shall to stop all, or a part of,
interception activities for the specified target.
#### 5.2.1.3 Security of processes
The intercept function shall only be accessible by authorised personnel.
Only authorised personnel can be aware that an intercept function has been
activated on a target. No indication shall be given to any person except
authorised personnel that the intercept function has been activated on a
target. To be effective, interception must take place without the knowledge of
any party to the communication.
Authentication, encryption, log files and other mechanisms may be used to
maintain security in the system.
CSPs shall ensure that its equipment, facilities, or services that provide a
subscriber with the ability to originate, terminate, or direct communications
are capable of facilitating authorized communications interceptions and access
to intercept related information unobtrusively and with a minimum of
interference with any subscriber\'s telecommunications service and in a manner
that protects:
\- the privacy and security of communications (both signalling and content of
communication) not authorized to be intercepted; and
\- information regarding the LEA's interception of communications.
Audit procedures, performed by the CSP, should have access to accurate logs of
administration commands and accesses to functions and interception
information. Log files shall only be accessible by authorised personnel.
National regulation may require methods to reduce overloading of the LEMF or
LI equipment (e.g. ICEs).
### 5.2.2 Intercept invocation
#### 5.2.2.0 General
The 3GPP network shall provide the means to allow correlation of different
phases (e.g., changes in domains or radio access) of a target's intercepted
communication.
#### 5.2.2.1 Invocation events for lawful interception
In general, Lawful interception should be invoked when the transmission of
information or an event takes place that involves the target. Examples of when
Lawful interception could be invoked are when:
\- A voice call request is originated from, terminated to, or redirected by
the target;
\- Location information related to the target facility is modified by the
subscriber attaching or detaching from the network, or if there is a change in
location;
\- An SMS transfer is requested - either originated from or terminated to the
target;
\- An MMS transfer is requested - either originated from or terminated to the
target;
\- A data packet is transmitted to or from a target;
\- A Conference Call is targeted ;
\- Modification and management of the target's IMS supplementary service
settings (e.g., multimedia telephony supplementary service settings as defined
in TS 22.173 [25]).
#### 5.2.2.2 Invocation and removal of interception regarding services
The invocation of lawful interception shall not alter the operation of a
target\'s services or provide indication to any party involved in a target's
communication or to any others (e.g., non-authorized personnel). Lawful
interception shall not alter the services available for the subscribers.
If lawful interception is activated during a CS service, the currently active
CS service is not required to be intercepted. If lawful interception is
deactivated during a CS service, all ongoing intercepted activities may
continue until they are completed.
If lawful interception is activated when a packet switched (PS) service is
already in use, the next packets transmitted shall be intercepted. If lawful
interception is deactivated during a PS service, the next packets shall not be
transmitted to the LEMF.
If lawful interception is activated during an IMS session (including IMS
VoIP), the currently active IMS session is required to be intercepted.
However, reporting of call information (e.g., identities of parties) by the
CSP depends on its availability. If lawful interception is deactivated during
an IMS session, interception should be ceased expeditiously.
#### 5.2.2.3 Correlation of information and product
When only IRI is delivered, an unambiguous correlation shall be established
between associated IRI within the single domain for the same communication or
session (for example, different legs in CS).
When both IRI and CC are delivered, an unambiguous correlation shall be
established between associated IRI, IRI and CC, and associated CC within the
single domain (for example different legs in CS or different packets in PS).
Correlation shall be provided to the target's intercepted communications that
undergo access technology change or a domain change with Service Continuity.
#### 5.2.2.4 Timing
The IRI and CC shall be delivered in as near real time as possible.
NOTE: There may be regional or national requirements on the timing
requirements for delivery of IRI and CC. This includes the requirement for the
CSP to timestamp IRI and CC delivery with a time zone indication (e.g., UTC
offset) as part of the timestamp.
## 5.3 Exceptional procedures
A failure with the establishment of the connection towards the LEMF shall not
result in any interruption of the target's on-going telecommunications
service.
It is a national option to have buffering of IRI and/or CC to cope with
interruptions in the connection to the LEMF.
## 5.4 Interworking considerations
The 3GPP network, home or visited, shall not be responsible to interpret the
protocol used by the target, or to remove user level compression or encryption
if these were not provided by the 3GPP network.
If the target accesses the 3GPP network via another access network the 3GPP
network shall provide the LEA with the identity of the access network (as
known by the 3GPP operator). When the target's communications or signalling
information is no longer available to the 3GPP network due to redirection or
handover to another network operator, it is a national option that the 3GPP
network shall provide, when available, the LEA with the identity of the
network operator that has access to the target's communications or signalling
information.
National regulations may require the home network to report:
\- subscriber profile change events such as change of identifiers associated
with a target (i.e. HLR/HSS target identity change);
\- location related events related to the target in the visited network:
\- register location / registration/access control to a new serving network
even if such information is coming from a non 3GPP network; or from the
previous serving network, happening after the provisioning of the target by
the CSP with the received warrant;
\- cancel or purge location;
\- location information request or query from other 3GPP networks.
NOTE: Some other national regulations may prohibit the interception when the
target is physically outside the jurisdiction of the warrant.
## 5.5 Charging aspects
The 3GPP network shall be capable of producing charging data related to
interception , including the following mechanisms.
\- Use of network resources;
\- Activation and deactivation of the target;
\- Every intercept invocation,
\- Flat rate charging.
It shall be possible to produce this data in such a way that access by non-
authorised personnel or the target is precluded.
## 5.6 Minimum service requirements
Quality of service (QoS), capacity, and, integrity of the delivered IRI and CC
are the subject of bilateral agreement between the relevant authorities and
the CSP. Security is an attribute of the negotiated delivery mechanism between
the CSP and the LEA. The QoS towards the delivery function provided by the
network must be at a minimum, the same QoS as what the network provides to the
target.
The LI service's need to provide high availability and high reliability of the
near-real-time transport mechanism of the LI data from the CSP to LEMF is
subject to bilateral agreement between the relevant authorities and the CSP.
## 5.7 LI Requirements for encrypted services
Clause 5.1.2 provides a general description of requirements relating to
network applied encryption. The additional requirements in this section do not
apply where encryption is provided by the network between any network nodes or
user equipment (e.g., hop by hop IMS signaling security or End to Access Edge
radio bearer encryption), where this encryption does not affect the ability of
the core network to perform interception according to the requirements
provided by this specification. In addition to the general requirments, the
following additonal LI requirements shall apply to network provided and/or
network administered end to end or end to middle encryption, where this
encryption prevents en-clair capture of communications required to be
intercepted.
1\. When an encryption service is provided by the PLMN, lawful interception
shall take place as for an unencrypted communications.
a. In addition, encrypted communications shall be decrypted, or the decryption
keys and any required associated information (see Note 0) shall be provided to
the LEMF.
b. For the specific case where a key server based solution is used, it is a
national option for the operator to make keys and any associated information
(see Note 0) directly available to the LEMF to support the decryption of
communications.
Note 0: Examples of associated encryption information: encryption algorithm,
key length, block cipher mode of operation, initialization vector, salt,
crypto parameters, padding or roll over counters.
2\. Interception shall be performed in such a manner as to avoid detectability
by the Target or others. In particular:
a. There shall be no significant difference in latency during call setup or
during communications compared to a non-intercepted communications.
b. Interception of a Target shall not prevent the use of key exchange
applications which provide a user key confirmation mechanism.
NOTE 1: Key confirmation mechanisms such as an authentication string to be
exchanged verbally are commonly used to provide additional assurance of
authentication.
c. Should interception fail during a call (or during call setup), the call
shall be unaffected.
3\. Where the CSP provides decryption of the communication, it is the
operator's choice where in the network this decryption is performed. However,
following decryption, all IRI and CC shall be provided to the LEMF using
handover mechanisms as per an unencrypted communication.
4\. An encryption solution shall not prohibit commencement of Interception and
decryption of an existing communication.
5\. If key material and any associated information are available, it shall be
possible to retrospectively decrypt encrypted communications.
NOTE 2: If the associated IRI and CC have been delivered to the LEMF, the
operator is not required to retain key material or any target related
communications after the end of a communication unless national regulations
require otherwise.
For requirements in the present clause and clause 5.1.2, the CSP is not
obligated to comply with the requirements for any encryption which a Target
may use which is outside the control of the CSP (e.g. 3^rd^ party end to end
VOIP software).
## 5.8 Lawful Interception for Customized Alerting Tone (CAT)
CAT is a service defined in TS 22.182 [12], TR 23.872 [13], TS 24.182 [14],
and TR 29.882 [15]. The target may participate in the service as either the
calling or the called party. The CSP providing the CAT service, and doing the
interception, should report the following:
\- When the target activates, modifies (e.g., changes to content, content
descriptors, and timing descriptors), and deactivates CAT settings
\- When the target invokes the function of copying of another subscriber's CAT
\- When the target invokes the up loading or down loading CAT and is not part
of CAT delivery to the calling party, the CAT should be delivered to the LEMF.
> \- The identity whose CAT is played to the target
Additionally when the target is a User, the CSP providing the CAT service, and
doing the interception, should report the following:
  * The CAT sent to the calling party
  * When another subscriber copies the target's CAT
\- When available, the access method (e.g., via UE or web) the target used to
activate, modify, and deactivate their CAT settings.
Intercepted CAT may, depending on national regulations, be:
\- \"played\" as part of the CC, during a call set up or,
\- Delivered as a file in the IRI Record.
NOTE: Depending on national regulations, intercepted CAT media may be
considered content or a signalling.
## 5.9 Lawful Interception for Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
CRS is a service defined in TS 22.183 [16] and TS 24.183 [17]. The target may
participate in the service as either the calling or the called party. The CSP
providing the CRS service, and doing the interception, should report the
following:
\- The CRS, when invoked by the target, is sent to the called party
\- When the target activates, modifies (e.g., changes to content, content
descriptors, and timing descriptors), and deactivates their CRS settings
\- When the target invokes the function of copying another subscriber's CRS
\- When the target invokes the up loading or down loading CRS, and is not part
of CRS delivery to the called party the CRS should be delivered
> The identity whose CRS is played to the target
Additionally for when the target is a User, the CSP providing the CRS service,
and doing the interception, should report the following:
> \- When another subscriber copies the target's CRS
\- When available, the access method (e.g., via UE or web) the target used to
activate, modify, and deactivate their CRS settings.
Intercepted CRS may, depending on national regulations, be:
\- \"played\" as part of the CC, during a call set up or,
\- Delivered as a file in the IRI Record.
NOTE: Depending on national regulations, intercepted CRS media may be
considered content or a signalling.
## 5.10 Lawful Interception for Home Node B and Home enhanced Node B (H(e)NB)
HNB and HeNB are jointly referred to as H(e)NB, as defined in TS 22.220 [11].
The location of the H(e)NB is the location information used by the operator to
verify the location for H(e)NB activation.
For the purpose of LI, a target may be a user or user equipment attached to a
H(e)NB, a Closed Subscriber Group (CSG), or it is a national option to allow
targeting a H(e)NB itself.
The LI requirements for H(e)NB local routing, selected IP traffic offload
(SIPTO) or local IP access (LIPA) are FFS.
Interception should be done in such a manner to avoid detectability by the
target or others.
When a target receives service from the PLMN via a H(e)NB, the following
applies:
\- the interception capabilities shall take place as for normal PLMN use
\- H(e)NB information (e.g., location and identification) shall also be
provided to the LEMF
\- If available, the location reported for the target attached to a H(eNB) is
the H(e)NB's location
\- Target attachment to the H(e)NB and handovers to/from the H(e)NB shall be
reported to the LEMF
\- There may be national requirements to identify specific information that is
required to be reported
When the target is the CSG, the CSP shall report the following:
\- modifications (e.g., additions, deletions, changes in time limits for
temporary CSG Members) of the CSG list for the H(e)NB
\- When available, the access method (e.g., via UE or web) the H(e)NB Hosting
Party used to modify the CSG list, if multiple access methods are allowed
\- CSG member's handovers to/from the H(e)NB
\- CSG members attachments to the H(e)NB
\- CSG members communications via the H(e)NB
\- It is a national option whether interception on CSG members' communications
continues after handover occurs from the H(e)NB
NOTE 1: The requirements for the CSG are FFS.
When the target is the H(e)NB, then the CSP shall report the following:
\- activation and deactivation of the targeted H(e)NB
\- IP address information regarding the secure tunnel endpoints between the
H(e)NB and the Femto Security Gateway in the home network
\- modifications (e.g., additions, deletions, changes in time limits for
temporary CSG Members) of the CSG list for the H(e)NB
\- When available, the access method (e.g., via UE or web) the target used for
the modification of the CSG list, if multiple access methods are allowed
\- handovers to/from the H(e)NB.
\- UE registrations on the H(e)NB
\- communications via the H(e)NB
\- It is a national option whether interception on H(e)NB communications
continues after handover occurs from the H(e)NB
NOTE 2: The requirements for the CSG are FFS.
## 5.11 Location information
### 5.11.1 General
Depending on national requirements, the CSP may be required to report the
location of the Target at the beginning and end of CS calls and PS and IMS
sessions on a per warrant or per intercept basis. It may also be a national
requirement for the CSP to report the location of the Target :
\- during on-going communications;
\- for any mobility management event detected in the 3GPP core network which
includes a target's location change or update.
NOTE 1: Currently, in some cases, the location of the Target might not be
available.
The location information associated with target communication reported to the
LEMF shall be at least location information trusted by the 3GPP network (i.e.,
the location information is either 3GPP network derived or verified).
National regulation may require that the location information source be
provided if known by the CSP.
The 3GPP access network derived or verified location information shall be the
location(s) of the access point(s) to which the Target is connected in the
access network(s). The location shall be the access network identifier like
the radio cell identity.\ For non 3GPP access networks, the location
information shall be at least the identity of entry point into the 3GPP core
network (e.g. fire wall or security gateway). The location information of the
non-3GPP access network shall be provided if this information is available to
the CSP.
National regulation may require that third party provided location information
associated with target communication, that may be available in the 3GPP
network, is reported to the LEMF.
If required by national regulation the geographic location and/or civic
address information shall be reported to the LEMF. This can include additional
radio coverage information.
### 5.11.2 Location Services
In addition to the 3GPP network derived or verified location information as
described in 5.11.1. target location information from Location Services (LCS,
as described in 3GPP TS 22.071 [23] and 3GPP TS 23.271 [24]) may be used
additionally to provide location information to the LEMF if available.
Additional requirements applicable are in Annex B.
## 5.12 LI requirements for IMS VoIP Service
The 3GPP network shall be able to support the delivery of IMS VoIP, and the
IMS VoIP supplementary services (e.g., call forwarding), to the LEMF via one
of the following two methods:
\- Intercepted IMS VoIP communications (e.g., IRI or IRI/CC) are delivered
separately from other IMS services,
\- Intercepted IMS VoIP communications are delivered as part of all other
services.
It is a national option as to which of the two options is applicable.
NOTE 1: If a 3GPP network operator voice service replaces a legacy CS voice
service, or is equivalent to a CS voice service, then it is considered to be a
CS voice service for LI purposes.
> NOTE 2: Delivery of LI data for non-voice IP Multimedia services separately
> from PS data and separated from IMS VoIP service is not defined in this
> release.
## 5.13 Delivery requirements for messaging
The 3GPP network shall be able to support the separate delivery of intercept
information (IRI or IRI/CC) for messaging services, to the LEMF from other
targeted services. This requirement is applicable for the following messaging
services:
\- SMS (3GPP TS 23.040 [21]); and
\- MMS ([22]).
Message service delivery is independent from network access technology.
## 5.14 LI requirements for management of IMS supplementary services settings
The IMS network and related service platforms shall be able to support the
reporting of IRI for the modification and management of the target's IMS
supplementary services settings.
# 6 Handover interface requirements
Handover interface requirements are defined in TS 33.108 [10]. There may be
national or regional specifications (e.g., see ETSI ES 201 671 [4] , ETSI TS
101 671 [18], ETSI TS 102 232-7 [20] and J‑STD‑025‑A [8].
###### ## Annex A (informative): Bibliography
The documents listed below are not explicitly cited in this specification but
are provided for background and for historical information.
> 3GPP TR 41.033: \"Lawful Interception requirements for GSM\".
>
> 3GPP TS 42.033: \"Lawful Interception - stage 1\".
>
> 3GPP TS 43.033: \"Lawful Interception; stage 2\".
>
> European Union Council Resolution on the Lawful Interception of
> Telecommunications (17 January 1995).
>
> ETSI TS 101 331: \"Lawful Interception (LI); Requirements of Law Enforcement
> Agencies\".
>
> ETSI ES 201 158: \"Lawful Interception; Requirements for network
> functions\".
###### ## Annex B (normative): Lawful access usage of Location Services (LCS)
Additional Location information can be reported for various instances; the use
of services; the use of network and or radio resources, the loss of a service;
requested commercial LCS queries by the user, associates, or other
application; and or from network and radio functions providing varying degrees
of granularity and accuracy.
Location Service may provide a higher degree of location granularity and
accuracy than the existing network based Lawful Interception location
capabilities described in clause 5.11.1.
National regulation may impose the following requirements defined in TS 22.071
[23] apply to LCS when invoked as part of LALS (Lawful Access Location
Services):
\- Any UE (including inbound roamers) served by the PLMNand supported by the
serving PLMN LCS (including coverage) shall be targetable by LALS
\- If the location positioning for the target UE has failed, the LCS server
shall report the reason for failure, if known.
\- For LALS Target UEs may be positioned under all circumstances required by
national regulatory requirements.
> The target UE user shall not be notified of any LALS location attempt.
LALS location information provided should be the most recent if requested and
available.
\- The invocation, use and collection of LALS location should not cause target
User service interruptions except for LCS prioirity described in clauses 4.5
and 7.3 of TS 22.071 [23]. In the case of LCS priority, national regulations
may override the definitions in TS 22.071 [23].
-` Support for LALS Location shall apply for both active and idle UEs.
\- LCS shall support LALS requests for the current (updated), or the last
known position of an UE.
\- The network should be sufficiently flexible to accommodate evolving LCS
enabling mechanisms and LALS service requirements.
\- Only authorized LALS network functions, resources and LI-LCS Clients shall
provide LALS information~~.~~
\- LALS shall support location of UEs in either circuit switched and packet
switched domains.
NOTE: For the purposes of this specification, the portion of LALS dealing with
positioning of a target can be considered equivalent to lawful intercept use
of LCS described in TS 22.071 [23]. Other aspects such as delivering a
target\'s position to a LEA is beyond the scope of TS 22.071 [23].
National regulations may impose the following requirements in addition to
those defined in TS 22.071 [23] to apply to LCS when invoked as part of LALS:
\- No LCS subscription is required for any UE within the PLMN for providing
LALS location.
The LALS positioning information shall be provided to the collection
function~~s~~ in a secure and reliable manner, such that the location
information is neither lost, corrupted, nor made available to any unauthorized
third party.
\- The LI-LCS Client shall support periodic target UE location reporting to
the LEA.
\- LALS shall support different location update periods per target for
multiple LEAs.
LALS shall support identifying a target UE using any one of the following:
\- MSISDN
\- Tel URI/SIP URI
\- IMPI / IMPU
\- IMSI
\- IMEI
\- Providing LALS location of an UE attached to a 3GPP network, using an IMEI
identifier is required by some national regulations. In such case, IMEI may be
mapped dynamically by a suitable identity such as IMSI or MSISDN (but is
beyond the scope of this standard). Target identities which may be provided by
the LI-LCS client to the LCS server are specified by TS 22.071 [23] and TS
23.271 [24].
\- LALS shall re-use LCS supported positioning technologies defined in 3GPP,
including positioning technology specific limitations, policies, procedures
and operations. The specifc positioning technology selected and deployed to
support LCS and LALS will vary from operator to operator and even PLMN to
PLMN.
\- National Regulation may require LALS provide higher accuracy and security
than Commercial LCS Services
LALS shall support multiple requests and obtain the location of the same
target UE at the same time from different LEAs.
NOTE 1: The Location Services load which may include LALS for specific target
UE(s) (e.g. multiple requests, multiple periodic updates, short period
updates) may impact network and UE performance (e.g. UE battery performance)
and may require establishing operator imposed limits to LALS Location Services
requests
Editor's Note: The above list of requirements needs to be checked for
concistency and for stage 2 requirements, after completion of stage 2 in 33
107.
NOTE 2: Void.
Editor's Note: For Lawful Access Location Services (where required by national
regulatory requirements), the PLMN support of positioning of unauthorized UEs
(i.e. including stolen UEs and MEs) where such devices are readily accessible
by the LCS in the PLMN is for further study.
#