# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the security architecture, procedures and
information flows needed to protect the mission critical push to talk (MCPTT)
service. The architecture includes mechanisms for authentication, protection
of MCPTT signalling and protection of MCPTT media. Security for both MCPTT
group calls and MCPTT private calls operating in on-network and off-network
modes of operation is specified.
The functional architecture for MCPTT is defined in 3GPP TS 23.179 [2], the
corresponding service requirements are defined in 3GPP TS 22.179 [3].
The MCPTT service can be used for public safety applications and also for
general commercial applications e.g. utility companies and railways. As the
security model is based on the public safety environment, some security
features may not be applicable to MCPTT for commercial purposes.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.179: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
mission critical communication services; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over LTE; Stage
1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.210: \'\'3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\'\'.
[5] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[7] Void.
[8] 3GPP TS 33.328: \'\'IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) media plane
security\'\'.
[9] IETF RFC 6507: \'\'Elliptic Curve-Based Certificateless Signatures for
Identity-Based Encryption (ECCSI)\'\'.
[10] IETF RFC 6508: \'\'Sakai-Kasahara Key Encryption (SAKKE)\'\'.
[11] IETF RFC 6509: \'\'MIKEY-SAKKE: Sakai-Kasahara Key Encryption in
Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY)\'\'.
[12] IETF RFC 3550: \'\'RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
Applications\'\'.
[13] IETF RFC 3711: \"The Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
architecture\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 33.222: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
network application functions using Hypertext Transfer Protocol over Transport
Layer Security (HTTPS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[18] NIST FIPS 180-4: \"Secure Hash Standard (SHS)\".
[19] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[20] IETF RFC 6750: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token
Usage\".
[21] OpenID Connect 1.0: \"OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set
1\", http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html.
[22] IETF RFC 3830: \"MIKEY: Multimedia Internet KEYing\".
[23] IETF RFC 3602: \"The AES-CBC Cipher Algorithm and Its Use with IPsec\".
[24] IETF RFC 4771: \"Integrity Transform Carrying Roll-Over Counter for the
Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\".
[25] IETF RFC 6043: \"MIKEY-TICKET: Ticket-Based Modes of Key Distribution in
Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY)\".
[26] IETF RFC 7714: \'\'AES-GCM Authenticated Encryption in the Secure Real-
time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\'\'.
[27] W3C: \"XML Encryption Syntax and Processing Version 1.1\",
https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlenc-core1/.
[28] W3C: \"XML Signature Syntax and Processing (Second Edition)\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/xmldsig-core/.
[29] IETF RFC 5905: \"Network Time Protocol Version 4: Protocol and Algorithms
Specification\".
[**30]** IETF **RFC 5480:** \"Elliptic Curve Cryptography Subject Public Key
Information\".
**[31] IETF RFC 6090:** \"Fundamental Elliptic Curve Cryptography
Algorithms\".
[32] IETF RFC 7519: \"**JSON Web Token (JWT)** \".
[33] IETF RFC 7662: \"**OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection** \".
[34] IETF RFC 3394: \"Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Key Wrap Algorithm\".
[35] IETF RFC 7515: \"JSON Web Signature (JWS)\".
**[36]** NIST Special Publication 800-38D: \"Recommendation for Block Cipher
Modes of Operation: Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) and GMAC\".
[37] IETF RFC 2045: \"Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part One:
Format of Internet Message Bodies\".
[38] IETF RFC 2392: \"Content-ID and Message-ID Uniform Resource Locators\".
[39] 3GPP TS 24.380: \" Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) media plane
control; Protocol specification\".
[40] IETF RFC 3711 Errata ID 3712, https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/eid3712.
[41] IANA: \"Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY) Payload Name Spaces\",
https://www.iana.org/assignments/mikey-payloads/mikey-payloads.xhtml.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Floor:** Floor(x) is the largest integer smaller than or equal to x.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CSC Common Services Core
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
GMK Group Master Key
GMK-ID Group Master Key Identifier
GMS Group Management Server
GUK-ID Group User Key Identifier
IdM Identity Management
IdMS Identity Management Server
KMS Key Management Server
MBCP Media Burst Control Protocol
MCPTT Mission Critical Push to Talk
MKI Master Key Identifier
MSCCK MBMS subchannel control key
NGMI Next Generation Mobile Intelligence
OIDC OpenID Connect
PCK Private Call Key
PCK-ID Private Call Key Identifier
PSK Pre-Shared Key
SPK Signalling Protection Key
SRTCP Secure Real-Time Transport Control Protocol
SRTP Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol
SSRC Synchronization Source
TBCP Talk Burst Control Protocol
TrK KMS Transport Key
UID User Identifier for MIKEY-SAKKE (referred to as the \'Identifier\' in RFC
6509 [11])
XPK XML Protection Key
# 4 Overview of MCPTT security
## 4.1 General
The MCPTT security architecture defined in this document is designed to meet
the security requirements defined in Annex A. The MCPTT security architecture
provides signalling and application plane security mechanisms to protect
metadata and communications used as part of the MCPTT service. The following
signalling plane security mechanisms are used by the MCPTT service:
\- Protection of the signalling plane used by the MCPTT Service, defined in
clause 6.
\- Protection of inter/intra domain interfaces, defined in clause 8.
The following application plane security mechanisms are used by the MCPTT
service:
\- Authentication and authorisation of users to the MCPTT Service, defined in
clause 5.
\- Protection of sensitive application signalling within the MCPTT Service,
defined in clause 9.
\- Security of floor control within the MCPTT Service, defined in clause 7.
\- End-to-end security of user media within the MCPTT Service, also defined in
clause 7.
Security mechanisms in the signalling and application plane are independent of
each other, but are both required for a secure MCPTT system.
## 4.2 Signalling plane security architecture
Within MCPTT, signalling plane security protects the interfaces used by the
MCPTT application. Figure 4.2-1 provides an overview of these interfaces.
Figure 4.2-1: Signalling plane security architecture
MCPTT signalling from the UE is passed over both HTTP and SIP. The signalling
plane security mechanisms for UE to Server interfaces are defined in clause 6.
Additionally, MCPTT data is passed between MCPTT network elements, either
inter or intra MCPTT domain. The security mechanism for protecting data
between MCPTT network elements is defined in clause 8.
## 4.3 Application plane security architecture
### 4.3.1 General
Application plane security provides protection both between MCPTT clients,
between the MCPTT client and the MCPTT domain, and also between MCPTT domains.
Application plane security on the client is bound to the MCPTT user associated
with the client and not to the MCPTT UE. Consequently, user authentication and
authorisation to the MCPTT domain is required prior to access to the majority
of MCPTT services.
Application plane signalling security allows protection of MCPTT-specific
signalling from non-MCPTT entities (including the SIP core). Application plane
signalling security is applied from the MCPTT client to the client\'s primary
MCPTT domain. It may also be applied between MCPTT domains.
Media security allow protection of MCPTT media within the MCPTT system. It is
applied end-to-end between MCPTT clients. It is a configuration option whether
MCPTT network entities, including the MCPTT Server is able to access the
content of MCPTT media.
Additionally, signalling plane protection is applied to all HTTP and SIP
connections into the MCPTT domain. While signalling plane protection and
signalling plane entities are not shown in this subclause, including the SIP
core and HTTP proxy, it is assumed that signalling plane protection mechanisms
are in use.
### 4.3.2 User authentication and authorisation
Prior to connecting to the MCPTT domain, the MCPTT user application requires a
\'token\' authorising its access to MCPTT services. To obtain authorisation
token(s), the MCPTT user application authenticates the MCPTT user to an
Identity Management Server which provides the authorisation token.
The authorisation token is provided to MCPTT network entities, such as the
MCPTT Server, over an MCPTT signalling interface (either a HTTP interface or
SIP interface). The MCPTT network entity will provide access to MCPTT services
based upon the token provided.
The architecture for user authentication and authorisation is shown in Figure
4.3.2-1.
Figure 4.3.2-1: User authentication and authorisation
While not shown in Figure 4.3.2-1, authorisation occurs over HTTP or SIP and
hence uses signalling plane protection to encrypt HTTP to a HTTP proxy and to
encrypt SIP to a SIP core.
The mechanism to perform user authentication and authorisation is defined in
clause 5.
### 4.3.3 Identity keying of users and services
Once a MCPTT client has obtained user authorisation to access the MCPTT
domain, the client may obtain key material associated with the user\'s
identity using the authorisation token. Identity keys are required to support
key distribution for application signalling, floor control and media. Identity
key material is obtained via an HTTP request to a Key Management Server as
shown in Figure 4.3.3-1.
Identitiy keying is repeated periodically (e.g. monthly). This ensures that
user identities are regularly verified and that users that are no longer part
of the MCPTT domain are removed from the system.
Figure 4.3.3-1: Identity keying of MCPTT entities
While not shown in Figure 4.3.3-1, the connection to the KMS is over HTTP and
hence is secured up to the HTTP proxy. Additionally, key material may be
wrapped using a transport key distributed out-of-band.
A number of MCPTT network entities also require identity key material
including the MCPTT server and Group Management Server. This key material is
obtained via the same HTTP interface.
The mechanism to perform identity keying is defined in clause 7.2.
### 4.3.4 Protection of application plane signalling
Application plane signalling security protects application signalling between
the MCPTT user application and the MCPTT server. Key distribution for
application signalling is performed by sending a key material from the MCPTT
client to the MCPTT Server over the SIP interface. The key is secured using
the identity key material provisioned by the Key Management Server. The
security architecture is shown in Figure 4.3.4-1.
The mechanism to provide application plane signalling is defined in clause 9.
Figure 4.3.4-1: Application plane signalling security
Application plane signalling security can also be applied between MCPTT
servers. In this case the MCPTT servers are keyed manually. While not shown in
Figure 4.3.4-1, application plane signalling uses SIP and HTTP and hence is
also secured up to the SIP core and HTTP proxy respectively.
### 4.3.5 Media security
#### 4.3.5.1 General
Media security establishes an end-to-end security context between MCPTT users
to support group communications and private calls. The intention is for media
to be able to be encrypted end-to-end between MCPTT clients, irrespective of
whether the media is routed unicast via the media distribution server,
multicast via the media distribution server, or transmitted over a direct
connection.
Key distribution for groups is performed by the Group Management Server. Key
distribution for private calls is performed by the initiating MCPTT client.
Once a security context is established, the method for encrypting media for
groups and private calls is the same. Aditionally, when MCPTT UEs are offline,
the security context that is used to protect media security is also used to
protect floor control signalling.
#### 4.3.5.2 Media security for group communications.
Media security for groups is secured by establishing a shared group security
context between group members. Key distribution for the group security context
is performed by a Group Management Server. The Group Management Server sends a
group keys and group security parameters over SIP as part of group management.
Group keys and security parameters are encrypted by the Group Management
Server to individual MCPTT users that are members of the group. The Group
Management Server may choose to distribute the group key to MCPTT Server(s) to
allow the media mixing function within the MCPTT Server(s) to be used. MCPTT
users and MCPTT services require identity keying by a KMS prior to performing
group management.
Figure 4.3.5.2-1 provides an overview of the group keying process. Details of
the process may be found in clause 7.3.
Figure 4.3.5.2-1: Group keying for media security
Once a group key has been shared with MCPTT users, keys are derived from that
group key to protect media (and floor control when the UE is offline). Key
derivation is based on the MCPTT users\' identity, hence every member of the
group encrypts media using a different key.
Media is encrypted using the SRTP protocol. When the MCPTT UE has a network
connection the encrypted media is routed to other MCPTT clients via the media
distribution function in the MCPTT Server. Media may be distributed over
unicast (MCPTT-7) or multicast (MCPTT-8). When the MCPTT UE is offline, the
encrypted media is routed directly to MCPTT clients on other MCPTT UEs. The
security procedure for protecting media is the same in either case. Details of
media encryption is provided in clause 7.5.
Floor control is encrypted using the SRTCP protocol. Unlike media, floor
control is protected differently when the UE has a network connection and when
it is offline. When the UE has a network connection, floor control traffic is
encrypted to the floor control server within the MCPTT Server. When it is
offline, floor control is encrypted directly to group UEs using a key derived
from the group security context. Details of floor control encryption is
provided in clause 7.6. Media control is protected in the same way as floor
control.
Figure 4.3.5.2-2 provides an overview of how media is protected for group
communications.
Figure 4.3.5.2-2: Group media protection
#### 4.3.5.3 Media security for private calls
As part setting up a private call, the call initiator provides a key to the
terminating client. The key is encrypted to the MCPTT user that is currently
registered on the terminating client. As a result, MCPTT users require
identity keying by a KMS prior to performing group management.
Figure 4.3.5.3-1: Media security for private calls
Figure 4.3.5.3-1 provides an overview of media protection for private calls.
For clarity, MCPTT network entities will not have the private call key
material and hence will not be able to decrypt the media for the private call
communication (unless the monitoring function is specifically authorised for
either user).
Details of private call key distribution are provided in clause 7.4.
Once private call key distribution has been completed, media, floor control
and media control is protected as described for group communications in clause
4.3.5.2. Media will be routed via the media distribution function in the MCPTT
Server when the UE is online, and directly when the UE is offline. The media
security context shall also be used to protect floor and media control when
the MCPTT UE is offline. Details of media and floor control protection may be
found in clauses 7.5 and 7.6 respectively.
# 5 Authentication and authorization
## 5.1 General
The generic steps for MCPTT authentication is shown in figure 5.1-1.
Figure 5.1-1: MCPTT Authentication
At UE power-on, the MCPTT UE performs LTE authentication as specified in TS
33.401 [14]. The MCPTT UE then performs the following authentication
procedures to successfully complete the MCPTT service registration and
identity binding between signalling layer identities and the MCPTT user
identities.
\- A: MCPTT user authentication.
\- B: SIP Registration and Authentication.
\- C: MCPTT Service Authorization.
These procedures are described in more detail in subsequent clauses.
Steps A and B may be performed in either order or in parallel. For scenarios
where this order has an impact on the identity bindings between signalling
layer identities and the MCPTT user identities, a re-registration (Step B) to
the SIP Core may be performed to update the registered signalling layer
identity.
If an MCPTT UE completes SIP registration in Step B prior to performing MCPTT
user authentication in Step A and MCPTT user service authorization in Step C,
the MCPTT UE shall be able to enter a \'limited service\' state. In this
limited state, where the MCPTT user is not authorized with the MCPTT service,
the MCPTT UE shall be able to use limited MCPTT services (e.g. an anonymous
MCPTT emergency call). The MCPTT Server is informed of the registration of the
MCPTT UE with the SIP core though Step B-2.
Additionally, an HTTP-1 authentication mechanism is used.
NOTE: Mechanisms for confidentiality and integrity protection (not defined in
this clause) may be combined only with certain authentication procedures.
## 5.2 LTE access authentication and security mechanism
MCPTT UE shall perform the authentication and security mechanisms as specified
in 3GPP TS 33.401 [14] for LTE network access security.
## 5.3 Authentication for SIP core access
This clause specifies the mutual authentication between the UE and the SIP
core.
IMS AKA authentication shall be performed as specified in 3GPP TS 33.203 [6]
for SIP core access. IMS AKA authentication mechanism as specified in 3GPP TS
33.203 [6] shall be performed irrespective of whether SIP core architecture is
compliant with 3GPP TS 23.228 [15] or not.
Authentication related information shall be provided by SIP database that may
be part of the HSS or may be part of the MCPTT service provider\'s SIP
database depending on the SIP core deployment scenarios specified in 3GPP TS
23.179 [2].
Implementation options and requirements on the ISIM or USIM application to
support SIP core access security are specified in 3GPP TS 33.203 [6].
## 5.4 Authentication for HTTP-1
For authentication of the HTTP-1 reference point, one of the following
authentication mechanisms shall be performed between the HTTP Client in the
MCPTT UE and the HTTP server endpoint (MCPTT proxy, IdM server or KMS):
\- one-way authentication of the HTTP server endpoint based on the server
certificate;
\- mutual authentication based on client and server certificates;
\- mutual authentication based on pre-shared key.
Certificate based authentication shall follow the profiles given in 3GPP TS
33.310 [5], clauses 6.1.3a and 6.1.4a. The structure of the PKI used for the
certificate is out of scope of the present document. Guidance on certificate
based mutual authentication is provided in 3GPP TS 33.222 [16], annex B.
The usage of Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for Transport Layer Security (TLS-
PSK) is specified in the TLS profile given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [5], annex E.
## 5.5 User authentication
### 5.5.1 Identity management functional model
The Identity Management functional model for MCPTT is shown in figure 5.5.1-1
and consists of the identity management server located in the MCPTT common
services core and the identity management client located in the MCPTT UE. The
IdM server and the IdM client in the MCPTT UE establish the foundation for
MCPTT user authentication and user authorization.
The CSC-1 reference point, between the MCPTT IdM client in the UE and the
Identity Management server, provides the interface for user authentication.
CSC-1 is a direct HTTP interface between the IdM client in the UE and the IdM
server and shall support OpenID Connect 1.0 ([19], [20] and [21]).
The OpenID Connect profile for MCPTT shall be implemented as defined in annex
B. MCPTT user authentication, MCPTT user authorization, OpenID Connect 1.0,
and the OpenID Connect profile for MCPTT shall form the basis of the MCPTT
identity management architecture.
In alignment with the OpenID Connect 1.0 [21] and OAuth 2.0 standards [19] and
[20], CSC-1 shall consist of two identity management interfaces; the
authorization endpoint and the token endpoint. These endpoints are separate
and independent from each other, requiring separate and independent IP
addressing. The authorization endpoint server and the token endpoint server
may be collectively referred to as the IdM server in this document.
The HTTP connection between the Identity Management client and the Identity
management server shall be protected using HTTPS.
Figure 5.5.1-1: Functional Model for MCPTT Identity Management
To support MCPTT user authentication, the IdM server (IdMS) shall be
provisioned with the user\'s MC ID and MCPTT ID (the MCPTT ID may be the same
as the MC ID). A mapping between the MC ID and MCPTT ID shall be created and
maintained in the IdMS. When an MCPTT user wishes to authenticate with the
MCPTT service, the user is directed to provide their MC ID and credentials via
the UE IdM client to the IdMS (note that the primary authentication method
used to obtain the MC ID and credentials is out of scope of the present
document). The IdMS receives and verifies the user\'s MC ID and credentials,
and if valid returns an id token, refresh token, and access token to the UE
IdM client specific to that user. The IdM client learns the user\'s MCPTT ID
from the id token. Table 5.5.1-1 shows the MCPTT tokens and their usage.
Table 5.5.1-1: MCPTT tokens
* * *
Token Type Consumer of the Token Description (See Annex B for details) Id
token UE client(s) Contains MCPTT ID and whatever info related to the user
that is useful to the client. Access token KMS, MCPTT server, etc. (Resource
Server) Short-lived token (definable in the IdMS) that conveys the user\'s
identity. This token contains the MCPTT ID. Refresh token IdM server
(Authorization Server) Allows UE to obtain a new access token without forcing
user to log in again.
* * *
In support of MCPTT user authorization, the access token(s) obtained during
user authentication is used to gain MCPTT services for the user. MCPTT user
service authorisation is defined in clause 5.6.
To support the MCPTT identity functional model, the MCPTT ID shall be:
\- Provisioned into the IdM database and mapped to MC IDs.
\- Provisioned into the KMS and mapped to identity associated keys.
\- Provisioned into the MCPTT user database and mapped to the user profile;
and
\- Provisioned into the GMS and mapped to Group IDs.
Further details of the user authorization architecture are found in clause
5.6.
### 5.5.2 User authentication framework
The framework utilises the MCPTT CSC-1 reference point as depicted in Figure
5.5.2-1:.
Figure 5.5.2-1: MCPTT User Authentication Framework
The User Authentication procedure in Step A of Figure 5.1-1 is further
detailed into 3 sub steps that comprise the MCPTT user authentication
framework:
\- A-1 - Establish a secure tunnel between the MCPTT UE and Identity
Management (IdM) server. Subsequent steps make use of this tunnel.
\- A-2 - Perform the User Authentication Process (User proves their identity).
\- A-3 - Deliver the credential, that uniquely identifies the MCPTT user, to
the MCPTT client.
Following step A-3, the MCPTT client uses the credential(s) obtained from step
A-3 to perform MCPTT service authorization as per procedure C in figure 5.1-1.
The framework supporting steps A-2 and A-3 shall be implemented using OpenID
Connect 1.0 ([19], [20] and [21]).
NOTE: MCPTT service authorization in step C of Figure 5.1-1 is outside the
scope of the User Authentication framework.
### 5.5.3 OpenID Connect (OIDC)
#### 5.5.3.1 General
Figure 5.5.3.1-1 describes the MCPTT User Authentication Framework using the
OpenID Connect protocol. Specifically, it describes the steps by which an
MCPTT user authenticates to the Identity Management server (IdMS), resulting
in a set of credentials delivered to the UE uniquely identifying the MCPTT
user\'s identity. The means by which these credentials are sent from the UE to
the MCPTT services are out of scope of this authentication framework. The
authentication framework supports extensible user authentication solutions
based on MCPTT service provider policy (shown in step 3), with
username/password-based user authentication as a mandatory supported method.
Other user authentication methods (in step 3; e.g. biometrics, secureID, etc.)
are possible but not defined here. A detailed OpenID Connect flow can be found
in annex C.
Figure 5.5.3.1-1: OpenID Connect (OIDC) flow supporting MCPTT user
authentication
Step 1: UE establishes a secure tunnel with the Identity Management server
(IdMS).
Step 2: UE sends an OpenID Connect Authentication Request to the IdMS. The
request may contain an indication of authentication methods supported by the
UE.
Step 3: User Authentication is performed.
NOTE: The primary credentials for user authentication (e.g. biometrics,
secureID, OTP, username/password) are based on MCPTT service provider policy.
The method chosen by the MCPTT service provider is not defined nor limited by
the present document.
Step 4: IdMS sends an OpenID Connect Authentication Response to the UE
containing an authorization code.
Step 5: UE sends an OpenID Connect Token Request to the IdMS, passing the
authorization code.
Step 6: IdMS sends an OpenID Connect Token Response to the UE containing an
id_token and an access_token (each which uniquely identify the user of the
MCPTT service). The id_token is consumed by the UE to personalize the MCPTT
client for the MCPTT user, and the access_token is used by the UE to
communicate the identity of the MCPTT user to the MCPTT server(s).
#### 5.5.3.2 User authentication example using Username/Password
Figure 5.5.3.2-1 shows the OIDC MCPTT flow when Username/Password is used as
the user authentication method.
Figure 5.5.3.2-1: OpenID Connect (OIDC) Example Using Username/Password
Step 1: UE establishes a secure tunnel with the Identity Management server
(IdMS).
Step 2: UE sends an OpenID Connect Authentication Request to the IdMS. The
request may contain an indication of authentication methods supported by the
UE.
Step 3a: IdMS sends an HTML form to UE prompting the user for their username &
password.
Step 3b: UE sends the username & password (as provided by the user) to the
IdMS.
Step 4: IdMS sends an OpenID Connect Authentication Response to the UE
containing an authorization code.
Step 5: UE sends an OpenID Connect Token Request to the IdMS, passing the
authorization code.
Step 6: IdMS sends an OpenID Connect Token Response to the UE containing an
id_token and an access_token (each which uniquely identify the user of the
MCPTT service). The id_token is consumed by the UE to personalize the MCPTT
client for the MCPTT user, and the access_token is used by the UE to
communicate the identity of the MCPTT user to the network entities.
## 5.6 MCPTT user authorization
### 5.6.1 General
This clause expands on the MCPTT User Service Authorization step shown in
figure 5.1-1 step C.
MCPTT User Service Authorization is the MCPTT function that validates whether
or not a MCPTT user has the authority to access certain MCPTT services. In
order to gain access to MCPTT services, the MCPTT client in the UE presents an
access token (acquired during user authentication as described in subclause
5.5) to each service of interest (i.e. MCPTT Key Management, MCPTT user
services, etc.). If the access token is valid, then the user is granted the
use of that service. Figure 5.6.1-1 shows the flow for user authorization,
which covers key management authorization, MCPTT user service authorization,
configuration management authorization, and group management authorization.
NOTE: All HTTP traffic between the UE and KMS, and all HTTP traffic between
the UE and HTTP proxy is protected using HTTPS.
For key management authorization, the KM client in the UE presents an access
token to the KMS over HTTP. The KMS validates the access token and if
successful, provides user specific key material back to the UE KM client based
on the MCPTT ID of the user. This includes identity based key information used
for media and signalling protection.
For user service authorization, the MCPTT client in the UE presents an access
token to the MCPTT server over SIP. The MCPTT server validates the access
token and if successful, authorizes the user for full MCPTT services and sends
an acknowledgement back to the MCPTT client. The MCPTT server then maps and
maintains the IMPU to MCPTT ID association. The MCPTT ID to IMPU association
shall only be known to the application layer. The SIP message used to convey
the access token from the MCPTT client to the MCPTT server may be either a SIP
REGISTER or SIP PUBLISH message.
The UE can now perform configuration management authorization and download the
user profile. Following the flow described in subclause 10.1.4.2 of 3GPP TS
23.179 [2] \"MCPTT user obtains the user profile (UE initiated)\", the
Configuration Management (CM) client in the UE sends an access token in the
user profile query to the Configuration Management server over HTTP. The CM
server receives the request and validates the access token, and if valid, the
CM server uses the MCPTT ID to obtain the user profile from the MCPTT user
database. The CM server then sends the user profile back to the CM client over
HTTP.
Upon receiving the user\'s profile, the Group Management (GM) client in the UE
can now perform group management authorization. The GM client obtains the
user\'s group membership information from the user\'s profile, and following
the flow shown in clause 10.1.5.2 of 3GPP TS 23.179 [2] \"Retrieve group
configurations at the group management client\", the Group Management (GM)
client in the UE sends an access token in the Get group configuration request
to the host GM server of the group membership over HTTP. The GM server
validates the access token, and if valid, completes the flow. As part of group
management authorization, group key information is provided as per subclause
7.3.2 of the present document.
Figure 5.6.1-1: MCPTT user authorization
The user authorization procedure in Step C of Figure 5.1-1 is further detailed
into 5 sub steps that comprise the MCPTT user service authorization process:
Step C-1: If not already done, establish a secure HTTP tunnel using HTTPS
between the MCPTT UE and MCPTT proxy server. Subsequent HTTP messaging makes
use of this tunnel.
Step C-2: The KMS client in the UE presents an access token to the KMS over
HTTP. The KMS authorizes the user for key management services and replies to
the client with identity specific key information.
Step C-3: The MCPTT client in the UE presents an access token to the MCPTT
server over SIP as defined in clause 5.6.2 of the present document.
Step C-4: The CM client in the UE follows the \"MCPTT user obtains the user
profile (UE initiated)\" flow from clause 10.1.4.2 of 3GPP TS 23.179 [2],
presenting an access token in the Get MCPTT user profile request over HTTP. If
the token is valid, then the CM server authorizes the user for configuration
management services. Completion of this step results in the CM server
providing the user\'s profile to the CM client.
Step C-5: The GM client in the UE follows the \"Retrieve group configurations
at the group management client\" flow as shown in clause 10.1.2 of 3GPP TS
23.179 [2], presenting an access token in the Get group configuration request
over HTTP. If the token is valid, the CM server authorizes the user for group
management services. Completion of this step results in the GMS sending the
user\'s group policy information and group key information to the GM client.
### 5.6.2 MCPTT user service authorization with MCPTT Server
#### 5.6.2.0 General
Depending on implementation, MCPTT user service authorization may be performed
by sending the access token to the MCPTT server over the SIP-1 and SIP-2
reference points using either a SIP REGISTER message or a SIP PUBLISH message.
Clause 5.6.2.1 describes how to use the SIP REGISTER message to transport the
access token to the MCPTT server and clause 5.6.2.2 describes how to use the
SIP PUBLISH message to transport the access token to the MCPTT server.
During initial SIP registration, the SIP REGISTER message shall not be delayed
for lack of an access token. If an access token is not available then SIP
registration shall proceed without the inclusion of the access token and the
access token shall be transmitted to the MCPTT server as per Step C-3 in
figure 5.6.1-1.
If an access token is available before SIP registration, or if the UE becomes
de-registered and a SIP re-registration is required, the SIP REGISTER message
may include the access token without requiring the user to re-authenticate.
The access token may be sent over SIP to the MCPTT server to re-bind an IMPU
and MCPTT ID if either have changed (e.g. IMPU is different due to SIP
deregistration/SIP re-registration, or user logs out and another user logs
onto the same UE).
#### 5.6.2.1 Using SIP REGISTER
The use of a SIP REGISTER message to provide the access token to the MCPTT
server is shown in figure 5.6.2.1-1. The inclusion of an access token in any
particular SIP REGISTER message is optional.
Figure 5.6.2.1-1: MCPTT User Service Authorization using SIP REGISTER message
Step 5 of figure 5.6.2.1-1 shows the access token message passed to the SIP
core in a SIP REGISTER. Upon successful SIP authentication, the SIP core
forwards the access token to the MCPTT server in the third part registration
request message (Step 9).
In Steps 9 through 11, the MCPTT server receives the third part registration
request message, validates the access token, binds the IMPU and MCPTT ID (if
the access token is valid), and responds to the 3^rd^ party registration
message.
#### 5.6.2.2 Using SIP PUBLISH
The use of a SIP PUBLISH message to provide the access token to the MCPTT
server is shown in figure 5.6.2.2-1. The inclusion of an access token in any
particular SIP PUBLISH message is optional.
Figure 5.6.2.2-1: MCPTT User Service Authorization using SIP PUBLISH message
As shown in Step 1 of figure 5.6.2.2-1, the SIP PUBLISH message carries the
access token through the SIP core to the MCPTT server.
In Steps 2 and 3, the MCPTT server receives the SIP PUBLISH message, validates
the access token, binds the IMPU and MCPTT ID (if the access token is valid),
and responds to the SIP PUBLISH message.
# 6 Signalling plane protection
## 6.1 SIP-1 interface security
The security mechanisms as specified in 3GPP TS 33.203 [6] for Gm interface
shall be used to provide confidentiality and integrity of signalling on SIP-1
interface.
## 6.2 HTTP-1 interface security
The support of Transport Layer Security (TLS) on HTTP-1 is mandatory. The
profile for TLS implementation and usage shall follow the provisions given in
3GPP TS 33.310 [5], annex E.
If the PSK TLS based authentication mechanism is supported, the HTTP client in
the MCPTT UE and the HTTP Proxy shall support the TLS version, PSK
ciphersuites and TLS Extensions as specified in the TLS profile given in 3GPP
TS 33.310 [5], annex E. The usage of pre-shared key ciphersuites for TLS is
specified in the TLS profile given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [5], annex E.
# 7 End-to-end communication security
## 7.1 Overview
This clause details the procedures for MCPTT users communicating using end-to-
end security. This provides assurance to MCPTT users that no unauthorized
access to communications is taking place within the MCPTT network. End-to-end
communication security can be applied to media and when operating off-network,
to floor and media control signalling.
An MCPTT Key Management Server (KMS) manages the security domain. For any end-
point to use or access end-to-end secure communications, it shall be
provisioned with key material associated to its identity by the KMS. Through
the use of the KMS, MCPTT administrators are able to manage access to
communications within the MCPTT network.
NOTE 1: For the purposes of this release, it is assumed that all MCPTT users
are within a single security domain managed by a single KMS.
Key provisioning for group calls is performed by a group management server,
authorized and provisioned by the KMS. The group management server is
responsible for distributing the key material to MCPTT users within the group.
With the group security context established, MCPTT users can communicate using
end-to-end security.
Prior to protecting group calls during off-network operation, the UE shall
acquire the necessary group key material either while operating on-network or
through offline provisioning.
NOTE 2: It is a deployment option whether the MCPTT Server is included in the
end-to-end security context. Where the MCPTT Server is not included in the
security context, it will be unable to mix content on behalf of the users.
Key provisioning for private calls is performed by the initiating UE as the
call is setup. This creates an end-to-end security context that is unique to
the pair of users involved in the call. With a security context established,
it may be used to encrypt media and, when off-network, floor and media control
traffic between the end-points.
Prior to protecting private calls during off-network operation, the UE shall
acquire the necessary individual key material either while operating on-
network or through offline provisioning.
End-to-end security is independent of the transmission path and hence is
applicable to both on and off-network communications.
## 7.2 Key provisioning and management
### 7.2.1 General
To be able to be involved in end-to-end communication security the MCPTT user
requires key material to be provisioned from a MCPTT Key Management Server
(KMS). In addition, management entities which setup or control the end-to-end
communication, such as the MCPTT Server and group management server, will also
require provisioning of key material.
NOTE: For clarity, an MCPTT KMS provides different functionality to a MIKEY-
TICKET KMS defined in 3GPP TS 33.328 [8].
### 7.2.2 Functional model for key management
#### 7.2.2.0 General
Within the MCPTT architecture, the MCPTT Key Management Server (KMS)
provisions key material associated with a specific MCPTT identity. The MCPTT
KMS has interfaces with the key management clients. A key management client is
responsible for making requests for identity-specific key material. Key
provisioning clients are located in the MCPTT UE, in the MCPTT Server and in
the group management server.
The reference points for the MCPTT KMS are shown in figure 7.2.2.0-1.
Figure 7.2.2.0-1: Reference Points for MCPTT Key Management Server
Figure 7.2.2.0-1 shows the CSC-8, CSC-9 and CSC-10 reference points for the
MCPTT Key Management Server within the MCPTT system.
The KMS may or may not be located within the Common Services Core (CSC) of the
MCPTT domain and may or may not make use of the MCPTT proxy.
If the KMS does not make use of the MCPTT proxy, then a secure HTTP connection
(HTTPS) shall be established directly between the KMS server and the KMS
client. The use of the TrK as defined in clause 9.3 may be used to protect the
key material content in this configuration.
If the KMS does connect to and employ the use of the MCPTT proxy, then for
public safety users the TrK shall be used as defined in clause 9.3 to protect
the key material content.
#### 7.2.2.1 Reference point CSC-8 (between key management server and the key
management client within the MCPTT UE)
The CSC-8 reference point, between the key management client in the MCPTT UE
and the MCPTT KMS, provides identity-specific key material to the MCPTT UE.
If the KMS does not employ the MCPTT proxy, then CSC-8 is a direct HTTP
interface between the KMS server and the KMS client in the UE. CSC-8 therefore
does not pass through the MCPTT proxy.
If the MCPTT proxy is used between the KMS and the KMS client within the MCPTT
UE, then CSC-8 shall use the HTTP-1 and HTTP-2 reference points.
#### 7.2.2.2 Reference point CSC-9 (between the key management server and the
key management client within the MCPTT Server)
The CSC-9 reference point, which exists between the MCPTT key management
server and the MCPTT Server, is used, where necessary, to provide the MCPTT
Server with identity-specific key material to allow the MCPTT Server to be
involved in end-to-end secure communications.
If the KMS does not employ the MCPTT proxy, then CSC-9 is a direct HTTP
interface between the KMS server and the KMS client in the MCPTT server. CSC-9
therefore does not pass through the MCPTT proxy.
If the MCPTT proxy is used between the KMS and the KMS client within the MCPTT
Server, then CSC-9 shall use the HTTP-1 and HTTP-2 reference points for the
transport of key material.
#### 7.2.2.3 Reference point CSC-10 (between the key management server and the
key management client within a group management server)
The CSC-10 reference point, which exists between the MCPTT key management
server and a group management server, is used to provide the group management
server with identity-specific key material to allow the group management
server to distribute key material to support group communications.
If the KMS does not employ the MCPTT proxy, then CSC-10 is a direct HTTP
interface between the KMS server and the KMS client in the group management
server. CSC-10 therefore does not pass through the MCPTT proxy.
If the MCPTT proxy is used between the KMS and the KMS client within a group
management server, then CSC-10 shall use the HTTP-1, and HTTP-2 signalling
reference points for the transport of key material.
### 7.2.3 Security procedures for key management
The procedure for the provision of identity-specific key material when the
MCPTT proxy is supported between the KMS and the KMS client is described in
figure 7.2.3-1. The procedure is the same whether the key management client in
the MCPTT UE, MCPTT Server or group management server is making the request.
Figure 7.2.3-1: Provisioning of key material via the HTTP proxy
The procedure in figure 7.2.3-1 is now described step-by-step.
0) The key management client establishes a connection to the MCPTT KMS. As
with other elements in the Common Services Core, the connection routed via,
and secured by, the HTTP Proxy. The message flow below is within this secure
connection.
NOTE: Additionally, the connection between the MCPTT KMS and the HTTP Proxy is
secured according to clause 8.
1) The key management client makes a request for user key material from the
MCPTT KMS. The request contains details of the identity (e.g. the MCPTT ID)
requested for key management, and the time for which the key material is
required.
2) The KMS provides a response containing key material. The response includes
the type of key material, the period of use for the material and any domain-
specific parameters required for its use. For public safety use, the key
material itself shall be wrapped using a 256-bit transport key (TrK). The TrK
is distributed via an out-of-band mechanism along with a 32-bit identifier,
TrK-ID.
The procedure for the provisioning of identity-specific key material when the
MCPTT proxy is not used between the KMS and the KMS client is as described in
Figure 7.2.3-2.
Figure 7.2.3-2: Provisioning of key material without a proxy
The procedure in Figure 7.2.3-2 is now described step-by-step:
0) The key management client establishes a direct HTTPS connection to the
MCPTT KMS. The following message flow is within this secure connection.
1) The key management client makes a request for user key material from the
MCPTT KMS. The request contains details of the identity requested for key
management, and the time at which the key material is required.
2) The KMS provides a response containing key material. The response includes
the type of key material, the period of use for the material and any domain-
specific parameters required for its use. Optionally, the key material itself
may also be wrapped using a 256-bit transport key (TrK), distributed via an
out-of-band mechanism along with a 32-bit identifier (TrK-ID).
As a result of this procedure, the key management client has securely obtained
key material for use within the MCPTT system.
### 7.2.4 Provisioned key material to support end-to-end communication
security
End-to-end communication security for either group or private calls requires
the provisioning of key material from the KMS. The key material required to be
provisioned to each user is listed below:
\- Domain specific key material, also known as a MCPTT KMS Certificate, which
includes:
\- The MCPTT KMS Public Authentication Key (KPAK in IETF RFC 6507 [9]).
\- The MCPTT KMS Public Confidentiality Key (Z_T in IETF RFC 6508 [10]).
\- The UID conversion (as described below).
\- Choice of cryptographic domain parameters (such as those listed in IETF RFC
6509 [8]).
\- The time period for which this information is valid.
\- A user signing key for each UID for the upcoming time period (SSK and PVT
in IETF RFC 6507 [9]).
\- A user decryption key for each UID for the upcoming time period (RSK in
IETF RFC 6508 [10]).
\- The time period, for which the user key material is valid (e.g. month).
The UID conversion mechanism defines how UIDs are generated. Using this
information a MCPTT client can take a user identifier (e.g. an MCPTT ID), and
the current time, (e.g. the year and month) and convert these to a UID.
EXAMPLE: UID = Hash (MCPTT ID, KMS URI, validity period info).
As a consequence, there is a one-to-one correspondence between MCPTT IDs and
UIDs during each time period.
After provisioning, the key material may be stored in the user\'s profile.
## 7.3 Group call key distribution
### 7.3.1 General
To create the group\'s security association, a Group Master Key (GMK) and
associated identifier (GMK-ID) is distributed to MCPTT UEs by a Group
Management Server (GMS). The GMK is distributed encrypted specifically to a
user and signed using an identity representing the Group Management Server.
Prior to group key distribution, each MCPTT UE within the group shall be
provisioned by the MCPTT Key Management Server (KMS) with time-limited key
material associated with the MCPTT User as described in clause 7.2. The Group
Management Server shall also be provisioned by the MCPTT KMS with key material
for an identity which is authorized to create groups.
The GMK is distributed within a Group Key Transport payload. This payload is a
MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGE, as defined in IETF RFC 6509 [11], which ensures the
confidentiality, integrity and authenticity of the payload. The GMK is
distributed with a 32-bit Group User Key Identifier (GUK-ID). The GUK-ID is
generated from the GMK-ID and a User Salt derived from the user\'s MCPTT ID.
The GMK is encrypted to the user identity (UID) associated to the MCPTT UE.
The UID used to encrypt the data will be derived from the user\'s MCPTT ID and
a time stamp as described in clause 7.2. The user\'s MCPTT ID is added to the
recipient field (IDRr) of the message.
The Group Key Transport payload is signed using (the KMS-provisioned key
associated to) the identity of the Group Management Server (GMS). This
identity is derived from the GMS\'s URI (e.g.
[sip:]{.underline}gp.manager\@mcptt.example.org) and a time stamp. The GMS\'s
URI is added to the initiator field (IDRi) of the message.
The GMK is provided together with an activation time, which is the time from
which the key should be used for transmission of group communications,
replacing previous keys assigned to that group; the group identity for
confirmation of the association of the GMK to the group; and an optional text
payload which may be used to provide user-readable text. These associated
parameters are encrypted by the GMK and carried in the MIKEY-SAKKE I_Message
in the group key transport payload.
The security processes are summarized in figure 7.3.1-1 and further detailed
below.
Figure 7.3.1-1: Generation of a group key transport message (encapsulation of
GMK)
At the MCPTT UE, the GMS\'s URI is extracted from the initiator field (IDRi)
of the message. Along with the time, this is used to check the signature on
the Group Key Transport message. If valid, the UE extracts and decrypts the
encapsulated GMK using the (KMS-provisioned) user\'s UID key. The MCPTT UE
also extracts GUK-ID and xors the GUK-ID and User Salt together to extract the
GMK-ID. If the Status field in the GMK parameters indicate the GMK has been
revoked, the GMK and GMK-ID shall not be used.
The extraction procedure is described in figure 7.3.1-2.
Figure 7.3.1-2: Processing of a group key transport message (extraction of
GMK)
Following successful extraction of the GMK, the MCPTT UE decrypts and extracts
the MCPTT group ID carried in the encapsulated associated parameters payload.
The MCPTT UE stores the GMK together with the group identity, activation time
and optional text field. If the decryption process for the encapsulated
associated parameters fails, the GMK is rejected.
The Group Key Transport payload includes the Group User Key Identifier (GUK-
ID) within the CSB-ID field. The GMK is unique within the MCPTT system and is
identified by a GMK Identifier (GMK-ID) from which the GUK-ID is derived. On
creating the GMK, the Group Manager generates a GMK-ID as follows. The 4 most
significant bits of the GMK-ID is the \'purpose tag\' which defines the
purpose of the GMK. The 28 least significant bits of the GMK-ID is a 28-bit
randomly-generated value.
For each user, the GMS creates a 28-bit User Salt by hashing the user\'s MCPTT
ID through a KDF using the GMK as the key as defined in clause F.1.3. The User
Salt is xor\'d with the 28 least-significant bits of the GMK-ID to create the
32‑bit GUK-ID. The process for generating the GUK-ID is summarized in figure
7.3.1-3.
Figure 7.3.1-3: Generating the GUK-ID
The GUK-ID is placed in the CSB ID field within the header of the I_MESSAGE.
NOTE: Knowledge of the GUK-ID, GMK-ID and User Salt does not reveal the MCPTT
ID to receivers without the GMK for the group.
### 7.3.2 Security procedures for GMK provisioning
This procedure distributes a MIKEY payload from the GMS to MCPTT UEs within
the group. The payload is transported as part of the \'Notify group
configuration request\' message defined in clause 10.1.5.3 of 3GPP TS 23.179
[2].
Figure 7.3.2-1 shows the security procedures for creating a security
association for a group.
Figure 7.3.2-1: Security configuration for groups
A description of the procedures depicted in figure 7.3.2-1 follows. For
clarity, step 1 corresponds to step 2 in figure 10.1.5.3-2 of clause 10.1.5.3
of 3GPP TS 23.179 [2].
0) Prior to beginning this procedure the MCPPT client shall be provisioned
with identity-specific key material by a MCPTT KMS as described in clause 7.2.
The GMS shall also be securely provisioned with identity-specific key material
for an identity that is authorized to create groups.
1) The GMS shall send a MIKEY payload to MCPTT clients within the group within
a \'Notify group configuration request\' message. The message shall
encapsulate a GMK for the group. The payload shall be encrypted to the user
identity (MCPTT ID) associated to the MCPTT client and shall be signed by the
GMS. The message shall also provide the GUK-ID. Parameters associated with the
GMK shall be encrypted using the GMK, and sent in the MIKEY payload together
with the encapsulated GMK. This process is shown in Figure 7.1.1-1.
2) On receipt of a MIKEY message, the MCPTT client shall check the signature
on the payload, verify that the GMS is authorized to create groups, extract
the GMK, GUK-ID and GMK-ID and check that the GMK-ID is not a duplicate for an
existing GMK. The MCPTT client shall also extract the group identity,
activation time and text from the encapsulated associated parameters in the
payload using the GMK, and check that decryption is successful. This process
is shown in Figure 7.1.1-2.Should any of these checks fail, an error shall be
returned to the GMS. Upon successful receipt and processing, the MCPTT UE
shall store the GMK, GMK-ID and GUK-ID and respond to the GMS with a \'Notify
group configuration response\' message.
Where multicast floor control is required on the downlink from the MCPTT
Server to the MCPTT client, the procedure may be performed twice, once for
obtaining a GMK for the protection of media, and once for obtaining a
different key for the protection of multicast floor control, the Multicast
Floor Control Key (MKFC). Alternatively, the GMS may distribute the two
different keys (GMK, MKFC) in one procedure by embedding the two MIKEY
payloads in the message. The MKFC shall be treated as a GMK for transport,
using the security procedures defined in clause 7.3.1 and being encapsulated
as defined in Annex E.2.
To revoke a security context, the group management server repeats the above
steps with the Status field of the GMK parameters indicating that the GMK has
been revoked.
### 7.3.3 Key Identification and purpose tags
The \'purpose tag\' within the key identifier (e.g. GMK-ID) shall be the most
significant four bits of the key and shall be used to indicate the use of the
key.
\- 0: the GMK shall be used for group communications.
\- 1: the PCK shall be used to protect Private Call communications.
\- 2: the CSK shall be used to protect application signalling (XML and SRTCP)
between the MCPTT client and MCPTT domain.
\- 3: the SPK shall be used to protect application signalling (XML and SRTCP)
between servers in MCPTT domain(s).
\- 4: The MKFC shall be used to protect multicast floor control signalling
from the MCPTT Server to MCPTT clients.
\- 5: The MSCCK shall be used to protect MBMS subchannel control messages from
the MCPTT Server to MCPTT clients.
\- 6-15: not defined.
In this way, the MCPTT UE is able to identify the purpose of the key.
### 7.3.4 Group creation procedure
Group creation procedure is described in clause 10.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.179 [2].
To create the security context for the group, the GMS follows the procedures
in clause 7.3.1, creating a new GMK and GMK-ID for the temporary group.
An encapsulated GMK and GUK-ID is sent to group members by the GMS within a
notification message (step 4 within clause 10.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.179 [2]). The
procedure is equivalent to that described in clause 7.3.2.
### 7.3.5 Dynamic group keying
#### 7.3.5.1 General
In the GMK distribution procedures described in this clause, the GMS is
provisioned with the same information as any MCPTT UE by the KMS as described
in clause 7.2; the only distinguishing feature is that the GMS\'s identity is
authorized to create groups.
NOTE: This authorization could be conveyed within the identity itself. For
example, via a specific string within the URI such as \'group\'. For example,
the identity [sip:]{.underline}user.001.group\@mcptt.example.org may be
authorized to create a group, whereas
[sip:]{.underline}user.001\@mcptt.example.org may not.
Additionally, the only information the GMS requires to create the group are
the MCPTT IDs of the group members. These two features combined allow groups
to be created and keyed at any time, by any authorized entity.
Such flexibility is required to support a number of group procedures within
3GPP TS 23.179 [2].
NOTE: The dynamic group keying mechanisms may not support off-network
scenarios.
#### 7.3.5.2 Group regrouping procedures (within a single MCPTT system)
Group Regroup procedures are described in clause 10.6.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.179
[2]. To create the security context for the temporary group, the GMS follows
the procedures in clause 7.3.1, creating a new GMK and GMK-ID for the
temporary group.
An encapsulated GMK and GUK-ID is sent to group members by the GMS within a
notification message (step 5 within clause 10.6.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.179 [2]).
The procedure is equivalent to that described in clause 7.3.2.
#### 7.3.5.3 Group regrouping procedures (involving multiple MCPTT systems)
Group Regroup procedures involving multiple MCPTT systems are described in
clause 10.6.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.179 [2]. figure 7.3.5.3-1.
Figure 7.3.5.3-1: Group Regroup security procedures (multiple MCPTT systems)
0) Prior to beginning the procedure, the MCPTT UEs, primary GMS and partner
GMSare provisioned by a KMS as described in clause 7.2.
1) To create the security context for the temporary group, the primary GMS
creates a new GMK and GMK-ID for the temporary group. The primary GMS notifies
the affiliated users within its own MCPTT system (Step 8 of clause 10.6.2.2 in
3GPP TS 23.179 [2]). Within this message, the primary GMS includes a Group Key
Transport payload including a GMK and GUK-ID following the procedures in
clause 7.3.1. The GMK is encrypted to the identity of the MCPTT user and is
signed using the identity of the primary GMS.
2) The MCPTT UEs acknowledge the notification.
3) The primary GMS then notifies the partner GMS of the group regroup
operation (Step 9 of clause 10.6.2.2 in 3GPP TS 23.179 [2]). Within this
message, the primary GMS includes a Group Key Transport payload following the
procedures in clause 7.3.1, treating the partner GMS as another user within
the group. Accordingly, the payload encrypts the new GMK to the identity of
the partner GMS and is signed using the identity of the primary GMS. The GUK-
ID is derived using the User Salt generated from the partner GMS\'s URI.
4) The partner GMS extracts the GMK and GMK-ID from the notification. The
partner GMS then notifies the affiliated users within the partner MCPTT system
(Step 11 of clause 10.6.2.2 in 3GPP TS 23.179 [2]). The partner GMS re-
encrypts the GMK to the identity of the affiliated users in the partner
system, generates new GUK-IDs for each user and signs using its identity (the
identity of the partner GMS) following the procedure in clause 7.3.1.
5) The partner MCPTT UEs acknowledge the notification.
6) The partner GMS acknowledges the notification to the primary GMS.
Where multicast floor control is required on the downlink from the MCPTT
Server to the MCPTT client, the procedure may be performed twice, once for
obtaining a GMK for the protection of media, and once for obtaining a
different key for the protection of multicast floor control, the Multicast
Floor Control Key (MKFC). Alternatively, the GMS may distribute the two
different keys (GMK, MKFC) in one procedure by embedding the two MIKEY
payloads in the message. The MKFC shall be treated as a GMK for transport,
using the security procedures defined in clause 7.3.1 and being encapsulated
as defined in Annex E.2. For transport, the GMK-ID shall be the MKFC-ID and an
all-zero user salt shall be used such that that GUK-ID is also the MKFC-ID.
### 7.3.6 Derivation of SRTP/SRTCP master keys
As a result of this mechanism, the group members share a GMK and GUK-ID. The
GMK shall be used as the MIKEY Traffic Generating Key (TGK), the GUK-ID shall
be used as the MIKEY CSB ID. These shall be used to generate the SRTP Master
Key and SRTP Master Salt as specified in IETF RFC 3830 [22]. The key
derivation function defined in section 4.1. 3 of IETF RFC 3830 [22] using the
PRF-HMAC-SHA-256 Pseudo-Random Function as described in IETF RFC 6043 [25],
section 6.1 shall be supported for generating the SRTP Master Key and Salt.
Figure 7.3.6-1: Key Derivation for media stream protection
To identify the security context from the media stream a SRTP Master Key
Identifier (MKI) is required. The MKI should be a 64-bit value formed by
concatenating the GMK-ID with the GUK-ID (GMK-ID \|\| GUK-ID). The GMK-ID
shall have a purpose-tag of \'0\'.
Where the transmitting user is known through other means, the MKI may be
solely the 32-bit GMK-ID. In this case the terminating user extracts the GUK-
ID by calculating the User Salt and xor\'ing this value with the GMK-ID.
When the MCPTT client is operating off network, the GMK is used to derive keys
for floor and media control (SRTCP). Thus, the Master Key and Master Salt used
for SRTCP is the same with the Master Key and Master Salt used for SRTP, so is
the MKI.
See clause 9.4 for key derivation procedures for floor and media control
(SRTCP) when the MCPTT client is operating on-network.
### 7.3.7 Group member GMK management
In some situations, the membership of a group may be modified whereby an MC
user may be added to or removed from an MCX group. Users are alerted to these
changes by a user profile update from the CMS for which they are subscribed.
The updated user configuration profile indicates the group ID to which the
group membership change is associated.
When users are added to a new or existing group they may be implicitly
affiliated to that group in which case the user is automatically subscribed to
group configuration updates from the GMS. The user shall be authorised for
group management services to the GMS before the GMS provides the associated
group management records and the GMK. Once the user is authorised, the GMS
sends the group management record as well as the GMK to the UE. The user may
join in on the group communication immediately after receiving the group
update and GMK.
When the user configuration record indicates the user has been added to a new
or existing group but is required to explicitly affiliate to the group, the
MCX client shall authorise the user to the GMS for group management services
followed by a subscription to group updates from the GMS. The authorisation
for group management services and the subscription shall be validated before
the GMS provides group management records and the GMK. Once the user is
authorised and the subscription processed by the GMS, the GMS sends the group
management record and the GMK to the UE. The user may then join in on the
group communication immediately after receiving the group update and GMK.
When a new user is added to an existing group, the Group Management Server may
choose to update the GMK associated with the group ID (depending on the
security profile of the group) to ensure previous group communications are
separately protected from the new user.
When a user is removed from a group, the UE receives a user profile update
from the CMS indicating the user is no longer a member of the specified group
ID(s). Upon receiving the user profile update, ending of any group
communication(s) associated with that group, and if the GMK associated with
the group ID is not associated with another group that the user remains a
member, the UE shall immediately and securely delete the GMK associated with
that group ID. If the group ID is associated to more than one service (i.e.
MCPTT, MCData and/or MCVideo) then upon the ending of any group
communication(s) associated with that group ID, and if the GMKs associated
with that group ID is not associated with another group that the user remains
a member, the GMKs associated with that group ID shall be immediately and
securely deleted.
When a user is removed from the group, the Group Management Server may choose
to update the GMK associated with the group ID (depending on the security
profile of the group).
## 7.4 Private call key distribution
### 7.4.1 General
The purpose of this procedure is to allow two MCPTT UEs to create an end-to-
end security context to protect an MCPTT private call. To create the security
context, the initiating MCPTT UE generates a Private Call Key (PCK) and
securely transfers this key, along with a key identifier (PCK-ID), to the
terminating MCPTT UE.
The PCK is distributed encrypted specifically to the terminating user and
signed by the initiating user. Prior to call commencement, both MCPTT UEs
shall be provisioned by the KMS with time-limited key material associated with
the MCPTT User. The PCK is distributed with a 32-bit Key Identifier (PCK-ID)
within a MIKEY payload within the SDP content of the Private Call Request.
This payload is a MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGE, as defined in IETF RFC 6509 [11],
which ensures the confidentiality, integrity and authenticity of the payload.
The PCK is encrypted to the user identity (UID) associated to the terminating
MCPTT UE. The UID used to encrypt the data will be derived from the
terminating user\'s URI (e.g. sip:user.002\@mcptt.example.org) and a time-
related parameter (e.g. the current year and month). The terminating user\'s
URI is added to the recipient field (IDRr) of the message.
The payload includes the encrypted PCK and the key identifier (PCK-ID). The
PCK is unique within the MCPTT system. On creating the PCK, the initiator
generates a 32-bit PCK Identifier (PCK-ID). The 4 most significant bits of the
PCK-ID shall indicate the purpose of the PCK is to protect Private call
communications, the other 28-bits shall be randomly generated.
The payload is signed using (the KMS-provisioned key associated to) the
identity of the initiating user. This identity is derived from the initiating
user\'s URI (e.g. [sip:]{.underline}user.001\@mcptt.example.org) and a time-
related parameter (e.g. the current year and month). The initiating user\'s
URI is added to the initiator field (IDRi) of the message.
The security processes are summarized in figure 7.4.1-1.
Figure 7.4.1-1: Security information within a Private Call Request
Via this mechanism, PCK distribution is confidentiality protected,
authenticated and integrity protected.
At the terminating MCPTT UE, the initiating user\'s URI is extracted from the
initiator field (IDRi) of the message. This is converted to a UID and used to
check the signature on the MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGE. If valid, the UE extracts
and decrypts the encapsulated PCK using the (KMS-provisioned) user\'s UID key.
The MCPTT UE also extracts the PCK-ID. This process is shown in figure
7.4.1-2.
Figure 7.4.1-2: Processing the security content of a private call request
With the PCK successfully shared between the two MCPTT UEs, the UEs are able
to use SRTP/SRTCP to create an end-to-end secure session.
NOTE: This solution is for the end-to-end protection of PCKs and does not
protect the identities transmitted. These may be protected by other means.
### 7.4.2 Security procedures (on-network)
The security procedures provide a mechanism for establishing a security
context as part of the Private Call Request sent from the initiating UE to the
terminating UE. 3GPP TS 23.179 [2] contains four procedures for the commencing
a MCPTT private call; manual or automatic commencement for a single or
multiple MCPTT systems. As the security procedures are the same in each of
these cases, the procedures below apply to each of the four procedures in 3GPP
TS 23.179 [2].
The security processes for securing an on-network private call are summarized
in figure 7.4.2-1. The intent of these procedures is to transfer a PCK and
PCK-ID to the terminating UE.
Figure 7.4.2-1: Private Call security procedures for on-network PCK
distribution
The procedure in figure 7.4.2-1 is now described step-by-step.
0\. Prior to beginning this procedure it is assumed that the MCPTT UEs have an
authenticated MCPTT user and that the MCPTT UEs have been provisioned with key
material associated with a user\'s MCPTT IDs by a MCPTT KMS as described in
clause 7.2.
1\. The initiating MCPTT UE generates the PCK and sends a MCPTT private call
request to the terminating MCPTT UE. This message is created in Step 3 of
clause 10.10.2.1.1, clause 10.10.2.1.2, clause 10.10.2.2.1 and clause
10.10.2.2.2 within 3GPP TS 23.179 [2]. The message is transferred via one or
more MCPTT Servers, for example steps 3, 5, 8 of Clause 10.10.2.2.2 within
3GPP TS 23.179 [2]. Within this message is a SDP offer within which the
initiating MCPTT UE includes a MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGEs as defined in IETF RFC
6509 [11]. The I_MESSAGE encapsulates the PCK for the terminating MCPTT user,
encrypting the key to the UID of the terminating user (derived from the
user\'s URI). The I_MESSAGE also contains an identifier for the PCK (PCK-ID).
The I_MESSAGE is signed using (the key associated with) the initiating user\'s
UID.
NOTE 1: This message may be pre-generated to increase the efficiency of the
communication.
NOTE 2: Optionally, the MCPTT UE may attach an additional SAKKE component
which encrypts the PCK to the initiating user (in addition to the terminating
user).
2\. Further session signalling occurs as defined in 3GPP TS 23.179 [2].
With the PCK and PCK-ID shared between the initiating and terminating users,
the media communicated between the UEs may be protected using the PCK.
### 7.4.3 Security procedures (off-network)
The security processes for securing an off-network private call are summarized
in figure 7.4.3-1. As part of this process, the PCK and PCK-ID are securely
transferred to the terminating UE.
Figure 7.4.3-1: Private Call security procedures for off-network PCK
distribution
The procedure in figure 7.4.3-1 is now described step-by-step.
0\. Prior to beginning this procedure the MCPTT UEs may have performed a
discovery procedure. Additionally, the MCPTT UEs have been provisioned with
key material associated with a user\'s MCPTT IDs by a MCPTT KMS as described
in clause 7.2.
1\. The initiating MCPTT UE generates the PCK and sends a Call Setup Request
to the terminating MCPTT UE (Step 4 of Clause 10.10.3.1 within 3GPP TS 23.179
[2]). Within this message, the initiating MCPTT UE includes a MIKEY-SAKKE
I_MESSAGEs as defined in IETF RFC 6509 [11]. The I_MESSAGE encapsulates the
PCK for the terminating MCPTT user, encrypting the key to the UID of the
terminating user (derived from the user\'s URI). The I_MESSAGE also contains
an identifier for the PCK (PCK-ID). The I_MESSAGE is signed using (the key
associated with) the initiating user\'s UID.
NOTE 1: This message may be pre-generated to increase the efficiency of the
communication.
NOTE 2: Optionally, the MCPTT UE may attached an additional SAKKE component
which encrypts the PCK to the initiating user (in addition to the terminating
user).
2\. A Call Setup Response is returned to the initiating UE as defined in 3GPP
TS 23.179 [2].
With the PCK and PCK-ID shared between the initiating and terminating users,
the media communicated between the UEs may be protected using the PCK.
### 7.4.4 Derivation of SRTP/SRTCP master keys
As a result of this mechanism, the group members share a PCK and PCK-ID. The
PCK shall be used as the MIKEY Traffic Generating Key (TGK), the PCK-ID shall
be used as the MIKEY CSB ID. These shall be used to generate the SRTP Master
Key and SRTP Master Salt as specified in IETF RFC 3830 [22]. The key
derivation function defined in section 4.1. 3 of RFC 3830 [22] using the PRF-
HMAC-SHA-256 Pseudo-Random Function as described in IETF RFC 6043 [25],
section 6.1 shall be supported for generating the SRTP Master Key and Salt.
Figure 7.4.4-1: Key Derivation for media stream protection
To identify the security context from the media stream a SRTP Master Key
Identifier (MKI) is required. The MKI shall be the32-bit PCK-ID which has a
purpose tag of \'1\'.
When the MCPTT client is operating off network, the PCK is used to derive keys
for floor and media control (SRTCP). Thus, the Master Key and Master Salt used
for SRTCP is the same with the Master Key and Master Salt used for SRTP, so is
the MKI.
See clause 9.4 for key derivation procedures for floor and media control
(SRTCP) when the MCPTT client is operating on-network.
### 7.4.5 Void
## 7.5 Protection of media stream (SRTP)
### 7.5.1 General
The following mechanism shall be used to protect MCPTT communications which
use the Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP), cf. IETF RFC 3550 [12]. The
integrity and confidentiality protection for MCPTT communications using RTP
shall be achieved by using the Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol (SRTP),
IETF RFC 3711 [13].
The key management mechanism for SRTP is described elsewhere. As a result of
this mechanism, those communicating will have shared the following:
1) A SRTP Master Key.
2) A SRTP Master Salt.
3) A SRTP Master Key Identifier (MKI) referencing the above two values.
The mechanism described in IETF RFC 3711 [13] is used to encrypt the RTP
payload. A diagram of the key derivation mechanism (as described in IETF RFC
3711) is shown in figure 7.5.1-1.
Figure 7.5.1-1: Security mechanism for media stream protection
The AES-CM-128 algorithm as defined in IETF RFC 3711 [13] shall be supported
as the SRTP PRF (which is used to derive the SRTP session key and salt). A
SRTP key derivation rate of 0 shall be used to indicate that session keys and
salts shall not be refreshed. The AEAD_AES_128_GCM algorithm as defined in
IETF RFC 7714 [26] shall be supported for providing confidentiality and data
authentication of SRTP packets. The AEAD_AES_128_GCM algorithm requires that
the SRTP session key is 16 octets in length, and the SRTP session salt is 12
octets in length.
The SRTP authentication tag may be appended to every \'rth\' packet as defined
in IETF RFC 4771 [24] to provide the SRTP ROC counter to MCPTT UEs performing
a late-entry to the communication. A \'mode 3\' integrity transform (RCCm3)
shall be supported for transmitting the ROC within a 4 octet SRTP
authentication tag.
NOTE: The ROC and MKI fields of the SRTP packet are not authenticated as part
of the AEAD_AES_128_GCM algorithm. However, modification of these fields would
cause a failure to validate the AEAD authentication tag which would cause the
packet to be correctly rejected by the receiver. Should an unauthenticated
SRTP encryption mode be used, the impact of a malicious modification of the
ROC or MKI packets should be considered.
### 7.5.2 Security procedures for media stream protection
Media stream protection does not require any signalling mechanism to convey
information. The information is provided within each SRTP Packet.
Figure 7.5.2-1: Security procedure for media stream protection
Figure 7.5.2-1 shows the security mechanism.
0) Prior to beginning this procedure the MCPPT UEs involved in the
communication shall have established a security context (SRTP Master Key, SRTP
Master Salt, MKI).
1) Transmitting UEs shall send SRTP packets using the format described in IETF
RFC 3711 [13]. The packet shall include a Master Key Identifier (MKI) field
which contains the information required to locate the SRTP Master Key and
Master Salt, and may include the SRTP ROC as defined in IETF RFC 4771 [24]. On
receipt of a SRTP packet, a terminating UE shall use the contents of the MKI
to look up the appropriate SRTP Master Key and salt and generate the
appropriate SRTP session key and salt if it satisfies the key derivation rate
criteria as specified in IETF RFC3711. If it appears in the SRTP packet, the
terminating UE shall use the contents of the SRTP authentication tag to
establish the SRTP ROC as defined in IETF RFC 4771 [24].
NOTE 1: Assuming members of the group have been keyed/pre-provisioned at some
point in the past, this security mechanism is entirely stateless.
NOTE 2: The receiver does not need to generate an appropriate SRTP session key
and salt every time when it receives a SRTP packet. The key derivation rate
defined in IETF RFC3711 [13] determines the session key generation frequency.
Refer to RFC3711 for more information.
NOTE 3: As the SRTP synchronization source identifier (SSRC) is used for
encryption and decryption, the SSRC value in the SRTP packet needs to be
maintained from the transmitting UE to the receiving UE. This includes the
uplink and the downlink, over unicast or multicast.
A diagram of the SRTP packet format is within figure 7.5.2-2.
Figure 7.5.2-2: SRTP packet format showing security parameters
The length of the MKI field is defined by the key distribution procedure used
to create the original security context.
## 7.6 Protection of offline floor and media control signalling (SRTCP)
### 7.6.1 General
Floor control signalling is sent from the MCPTT UE to a Floor Arbitrator. The
Floor Arbitrator will be part of the MCPTT server when MCPTT group
communications are online. When MCPTT group communications are offline, the
Floor Arbitrator will be an MCPTT client. Floor control signalling is
transmitted using MBCP or TBCP, both of which use RTCP, cf. IETF RFC 3550
[12]. The integrity and confidentiality protection for one-to-many
communications using RTCP may be achieved by using SRTCP, IETF RFC 3711 [13].
Media control signalling is also protected using SRTCP.
For online communications, the connection between the MCPTT UE and the Floor
Arbitrator (MCPTT Server) is protected by using SRTCP which key agreement is
specified in clause 9.4. This clause provides a mechanism for protecting
offline floor control signalling during the group call or the private call.
When the MCPTT client is operating off network, the key management as well as
the Master Key and Master Salt for SRTCP is the same with that for SRTP. As a
result of this mechanism, the group members in the group call or MCPTT UEs in
the private call share a Master Key, a Master Salt and an MKI for the
protection of SRTCP.
The mechanism described in IETF RFC 3711 [13] is used to encrypt the RTCP
payload. A diagram of the key derivation mechanism (as described in IETF RFC
3711 [13]) is shown in figure 7.6.1-1.
Figure 7.6.1-1: Security mechanism for floor control protection
The AES-CM-128 algorithm as defined in IETF RFC 3711 [13] shall be supported
as the SRTCP PRF (which is used to derive the SRTCP session key and salt). A
SRTP key derivation rate of 0 shall be used to indicate that session keys and
salts shall not be refreshed. The AEAD_AES_128_GCM algorithm as defined in
IETF RFC 7714 [26] shall be supported for providing confidentiality and data
authentication of SRTCP packets. The AEAD_AES_128_GCM algorithm requires that
the SRTCP session key is 16 octets in length and the session salt is 12 octets
in length.
NOTE: Some SRTCP implementations are not compliant with RFC 3711 [13] due to
the size of the SRTCP index, as discussed in RFC 3711 Errata ID 3712 [40].
### 7.6.2 Security procedures for offline floor and media control protection
Floor and media control protection does not require any signalling mechanism
to convey information. The information is provided within each SRTCP Packet.
Figure 7.6.2-1: Security procedure for media stream protection
Figure 7.6.2-1 shows the security mechanism.
0) Prior to beginning this procedure the MCPTT UEs involved in the
communication shall have established a security context for SRTCP (Master Key,
Master Salt, MKI).
1) Transmitting UEs shall send SRTCP packets using the format described in
IETF RFC 3711 [13]. The packet shall include a Master Key Identifier (MKI)
field which contains the information required to locate the Master Key and
Master Salt. On receipt of a SRTCP packet, a terminating UE shall use the
contents of the MKI to look up the appropriate Master Key and Salt and
generate the appropriate SRTCP session key and salt if it satisfies the key
derivation rate criteria as specified in IETF RFC 3711 [13].
NOTE 1: Assuming members of the group or private call MCPTT UEs have been
keyed/pre-provisioned at some point in the past, this security mechanism is
entirely stateless.
NOTE 2: The receiver does not need to generate an appropriate SRTCP session
key and salt every time when it receives a SRTCP packet. The key derivation
rate defined in IETF RFC 3711 [13] determines the session key generation
frequency. Refer to RFC3711 for more information.
A diagram of the SRTCP packet format is within figure 7.6.2-2.
Figure 7.6.2-2: SRTCP packet format showing security parameters
The length of the MKI is determined by the key distribution mechanism.
## 7.7 Protection of MBMS subchannel control messages (SRTCP)
### 7.7.1 General
When MBMS is used, the MCPTT Server generates MBMS subchannel control messages
as described in clause 4.2.3 of TS 24.380 [x]. These messages together with
the RTP media packets and floor control messages are distributed over MBMS
bearers. The MBMS subchannel control messages are for example used to signal
to MCPTT UEs participating in a group call when to switch from unicast to
multicast bearer or viceversa. The format and type of MBMS subchannel control
messages is described in clause 8.4 of TS 24.380 [39].
In order to protect MBMS subchannel control messages, each time a bearer is
activated, the MCPTT Server generates an MBMS subchannel control key (MSCCK)
The MSCCK is distributed encrypted specifically to a user and signed using an
identity representing the MCPTT Server. Prior to group key distribution, each
MCPTT UE within the group shall be provisioned by the MCPTT KMS with time-
limited key material associated with the MCPTT User as described in clause
7.2. The MCPTT Server shall also be provisioned by the MCPTT KMS with key
material for an identity which is authorized to manage MBMS bearers.
### 7.7.2 Key distribution
The MSCCK is distributed with a 32-bit Key Identifier (MSCCK-ID) within a
MIKEY payload within the SDP content of the MBMS bearer announcement message
described in TS 23.179 [2] clause 10.10. This payload is a MIKEY-SAKKE
I_MESSAGE, as defined in IETF RFC 6509 [11], which ensures the
confidentiality, integrity and authenticity of the payload.
The payload is constructed in a similar manner to how it is done for private
call keys. The difference is that it is signed using (the KMS-provisioned key
associated to) the identity of the MCPTT Server. The security processes are
summarized in figure 7.7.2-1.
{width="5.239583333333333in" height="3.4875in"}
Figure 7.7.2-1: Security information within an MBMS bearer announcement
message
At the MCPTT UE, the MCPTT Server\'s URI is extracted from the initiator field
(IDRi) of the message. Along with the time, this is used to check the
signature on the message. If valid, the UE extracts and decrypts the
encapsulated MSCCK using the (KMS-provisioned) user\'s UID key. The MCPTT UE
also extracts MSCCK-ID. This process is shown in figure 7.7.2-2.
{width="5.05625in" height="2.229861111111111in"}
Figure 7.7.2-2: Processing the security content of an MBMS bearer announcement
As a result of this mechanism, the MCPTT UEs that have received a bearer
announcement management for a particular bearer (identified by the TMGI) will
share an MSCCK and an MSCCK-ID with the MCPTT server.
### 7.7.3 Derivation of SRTCP master keys
The derivation of the SRTCP master key and the SRTCP master salt for the
protection of the MBMS subchannel control messages shall proceed as described
in clause 7.4.4 where the MSCCK is used as the MIKEY TGK and the MSCCK-ID as
the MIKEY CSB-ID.
# 8 Inter/Intra domain interface security
## 8.1 General
For all interfaces between network elements within trusted domain or between
the trusted domains, namely HTTP‑2, HTTP-3, SIP-2 and SIP-3:
\- 3GPP TS 33.210 [4] shall be applied to secure signalling messages on the
reference points unless specified otherwise; and
\- 3GPP TS 33.310 [5] may be applied regarding the use of certificates with
the security mechanisms of 3GPP TS 33.210 [4] unless specified otherwise in
the present document.
> NOTE: For the case of an interface between two network elements in the same
> trusted domain, 3GPP TS 33.210 [4] does not mandate the protection of the
> interface by means of IPsec. However, it is up to the domain
> administrator\'s policy to also protect interfaces within the same trusted
> domain.
SEG as specified in 3GPP TS 33.210 [4] may be used in the trusted domain to
terminate the IPsec tunnel.
# 9 Protection of floor control and sensitive application signalling
## 9.1 Key agreement for protection of floor control and sensitive application
data (Client to Server)
### 9.1.1 Identity-based key management for Client Server Key (CSK)
A Client-Server Key is required to protect floor and media control signalling
between the MCPTT client and the MCPTT Server.
Additionally, the MCPTT Service provider may require that MCPTT related
identities and other sensitive information transferred between clients and
MCPTT domain on the SIP-1 and SIP-2 interfaces be protected at the application
layer from any viewing, including protection from viewing at the SIP
signalling layer. Symmetric key based protection of SIP payload using CSK may
be used to satisfy this requirement.
Identity based Public Key Cryptography (IDPKC) based on MIKEY-SAKKE IETF RFC
6509 [11] may be used to establish the CSK between two SIP endpoints. Before
IDPKC can be used by client to securely share the encryption key, the MCPTT
user shall first be authorized by KMS for MCPTT key management services. Once
the MCPTT user is authorized, the KMS distributes the user\'s key material to
the client as specified in clause 7.2.3.
MIKEY-SAKKE IETF RFC 6509 [11] shall be used by the client to securely
transport the CSK over SIP to all the servers within an MCPTT domain.
The server receives the SIP message with the protected CSK and retrieves it
from the message. It associates the MCPTT User\'s SIP Core identity (IMPU),
MCPTT ID and the received CSK. Identity binding is used to uniquely identify
the CSK used in protection of the SIP payload in subsequent SIP messages sent
by both the client and the servers within an MCPTT domain.
The purpose of the CSK is the following:
\- Protection of floor and media control signalling between the MCPTT client
and MCPTT Server.
\- Protection of sensitive MCPTT application data in the signalling plane.
\- Protection of the Access Token in the signalling plane.
The uses of the CSK are shown in Figure 9.1-1:
Figure 9.1-1: Uses of the Client-Server Key
### 9.1.2 Creation of the CSK
The 128-bit CSK is generated by the client and provided encrypted to the
server through the SIP interface along with the CSK-ID identifying the CSK.
The key remains in use until: a new CSK is required, the SIP session is torn
down, the MCPTT user logs off, or some other indication. If during the active
SIP session an update of the CSK is required, the client may establish a new
CSK and provide it to the server.
### 9.1.3 Secure distribution of the CSK
#### 9.1.3.0 General
The CSK is created by the client and distributed to the servers within an
MCPTT domain using MIKEY-SAKKE IETF RFC 6509 [11].The shared CSK is
distributed in the MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGE, as defined in IETF RFC 6509 [11],
which ensure the confidentiality, integrity and authenticity of the payload.
#### 9.1.3.1 MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGE
The key is encrypted to the identity associated to the MCPTT domain (UID), and
inserted in the SAKKE payload of the I_MESSAGE. The UID used to encrypt the
data will be derived from the MCPTT Domain Security Identifier (MDSI) and a
time-related parameter (e.g. the current year and month) as described in
clause 7.2. The MDSI is added to the recipient field (IDRr) of the message.
The I_MESSAGE message also contains a signature in the SIGN payload, which is
based on the user identity (UID) of the MCPTT User. This identity is derived
from the MCPTT ID of the user and a time-related parameter (e.g. the current
year and month). The MCPTT ID is added to the initiator field (IDRi) of the
message. Where the MCPTT ID is sensitive, the identity mechanism defined in
clause E.7 is used to define the initiator field of the message.
Clause E.4 provides MIKEY message structure for CSK distribution.
The resulting MIKEY-SAKKE message is sent over SIP (for example, during MCPTT
User authorization).
#### 9.1.3.2 Distribution of CSK during MCPTT Service Authorization and group
subscription
The client shall include the MIKEY message, containing the CSK, in the SIP
message that is used to perform the MCPTT user authorization procedure.
An illustration is provided below as an example of how this message in
included in the body of the SIP REGISTER message.
EXAMPLE:
> REGISTER _Server_PSI SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP den3.level3.com
>
> Max-Forwards:70
>
> From: MCPTT client IMPU
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID: \<>
>
> CSeq: 1 REGISTER
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Type: multipart/mixed;boundary=\"boundary1\"
>
> Content-Length: 619
>
> \--boundary1
>
> Content-Type: application/mikey
>
> MIKEY I_MESSAGE
>
> \--boundary1
>
> Content-Type: application/...
>
> Encrypted Access token, MCPTT ID
>
> \--boundary1---
The MIME media type \"application/mikey\" IETF RFC 3830 [22], is used in this
example to insert MIKEY I_MESSAGE in the SIP payload.
#### 9.1.3.3 Obtaining CSK from the I_MESSAGE
The server performs the following steps when it receives the SIP message with
the MIKEY I_MESSAGE containing the encrypted CSK:
1\. Where the MCPTT ID is sensitive and is encrypted with CSK key,use the
client\'s UID obtained from the IDRi field in the message to compute the
signature and verify it with the value in the SIGN payload of the MIKEY
message.
2\. The SAKKE based encryption scheme defined in IETF RFC 6509 [11], is used
to extract the CSK from the SAKKE payload of the MIKEY message.
3\. Compute client\'s UID based on the MCPTT ID decrypted using the CSK key,
and compare the UID with the UID obtained from the IDRi field of the MIKEY
message.
#### 9.1.3.4 Procedure
The following steps describe how the client obtains the user specific key
material and securely transfers the CSK to a server within the MCPTT domain.
Prior to beginning of this procedure, the client would have obtained user-
specific key material from the KMS.
1) The client randomly generates the CSK. The client computes MCPTT Domain UID
from the MCPTT Domain Security Identifier (MDSI) and uses it to encrypt the
CSK based on SAKKE based encryption IETF RFC 6509 [11].
2) The client generates MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGE. The message shall encapsulate
the encrypted CSK and shall be signed using the key associated with the MCPTT
User\'s UID generated from the MCPTT ID.
3) The client includes the I_MESSAGE in the SIP payload and sends the SIP
message addressed to the PSI of the server.
The following steps describe how the server retrieves the encryption key from
the SIP message:
1) The server receives the SIP message with the I_MESSAGE embedded in the SIP
payload.
2) The server checks the signature on the I_MESSAGE message using client\'s
UID.
3) If the signature is valid, the server extracts and decrypts the
encapsulated CSK using the key associated with the MCPTT Domain's UID
generated from the MCPTT Domain Security Identifier (MDSI).
4) Once the CSK has been extracted, MCPTT specific information including
access token protected in the SIP message as defined in clause 9.3.4, may be
decrypted.
Figure 9.1.3-.4-1 shows the functional diagram for the client and a server
within the MCPTT domain. The server is shown in this example.
Figure 9.1.3.4-1: Functional diagram for Identity based distribution of CSK
## 9.2 Key agreement for protection of floor control and sensitive application
data between servers
Floor and media control between MCPTT servers may need to be protected.
Additionally, certain values and identifiers transferred in the signalling
plane between servers within an MCPTT domain, or between MCPTT domains may be
treated as sensitive by public safety users.
To protect information from all other entities outside of the MCPTT domain(s),
a shared 128-bit Signalling Protection Key (SPK) needs to be established
between the servers. The SPK is provided along with a 32-bit identifier, the
SPK-ID and 128-bit random value SPK-RAND. The most significant four bits of
the identifier (the Purpose Tag) of the SPK-ID shall be \'3\' to denote the
purpose of the SPK is for signalling protection, as described in clause 7.3.3.
The SPK and associated values shall be directly provisioned into the
communicating servers, along with the SPK-ID. With the SPK provisioned, floor
and media control and XML content within the SIP may be protected as defined
in clause 9.3.
NOTE: The XML protection mechanism specified in this clause is for public-
safety use only.
The uses of the SPK for inter-server protection are shown in Figure 9.2-1.
Figure 9.2-1: Uses of the Signalling Protection Key
## 9.3 Protection of XML content
### 9.3.1 General
Certain values, keys and identifiers transferred in XML between a server in
the MCPTT domain and client may be treated as sensitive by public safety
users. To protect these values from all other entities outside of the MCPTT
Domain, this clause defines an optional mechanism to provide confidentiality
protection on these values using XML encryption. Additionally, as some public
safety users may require integrity protection on transmitted content, this
clause defines an optional mechanism to provide integrity protection using XML
signatures.
NOTE 1: The protection mechanism specified in this clause is for public-safety
use only.
NOTE 2: The introduction of XML security mechanisms increases the size of the
XML document. Consideration should be given to the impact of this size
increase.
Editor\'s Note: It needs to be confirmed that the virtual proxy techniques
being studied in SA3-LI (LIV8 S8HR study) can be extended to control use of
MCPTT encryption in VPLMN roaming scenarios.
### 9.3.2 Protected content
Confidentiality protection may only be applied to the following identifiers
and values:
\- MCPTT ID.
\- MCPTT Group ID.
\- User location information.
\- Alerts.
\- Access token.
\- KMS provisioned key material.
Integrity protection may be applied to the entire XML document, and to
individual KMS certificates.
### 9.3.3 Key agreement
The protection mechanisms defined rely on a shared XML Protection Key (XPK) to
be able to encrypt and sign XML.
For connections between the client and the MCPTT Domain the XPK shall be the
128-bit shared Client-Server Key (CSK) established as defined in clause 9.1.
The XPK-ID shall be the CSK-ID.
For connections between servers inside and across MCPTT Domains the XPK shall
be the128-bit manually provisioned Signalling Protection Key (SPK) established
as defined in clause 9.2. The XPK-ID shall be the SPK-ID
For connections between the KMS and the MCPTT client, the XPK shall be the
256-bit manually provisioned TrK, described in clause 7.2.3. The XPK-ID shall
be the TrK-ID.
The integrity key and confidentiality key for application data protection
shall be derived from the XPK as defined in clause F.1.4. The XPK-ID may be
listed in the XML to aid decryption.
### 9.3.4 Confidentiality protection using XML encryption (xmlenc)
#### 9.3.4.1 General
This clause defines an optional mechanism to allow specific XML content within
the XML elements and XML URI attributes to be encrypted between the client and
the server.
> NOTE: Only encryption of XML simple content within XML elements and XML URI
> attributes is supported. Encryption of XML tags is not supported.
#### 9.3.4.2 XML content encryption
XML content within XML elements is encrypted as defined by XML Encryption
Syntax, Version 1.1 [27].
To encrypt content within a specific XML element, the content shall be
replaced with the \ element. The \ element shall
contain a \ element, containing a \ element
containing the encrypted content. Encryption shall be performed as defined in
[27] using the CSK as the cipher key.
Where protecting content, the \ element may:
\- Use the \'Type\' attribute specifying that content is encrypted
(\'http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmlenc#Content\').
\- Contain \\ element containing the base64 encoded XPK-ID.
\- Contain \ element listing the encryption algorithm used
for encrypting the XML content. The AES-128-GCM algorithm shall be supported,
as identified by the algorithm identifier:
\'http://www.w3.org/2009/xmlenc11#aes128-gcm\'.
Where protecting key material, the \ element may:
\- Use the \'Type\' attribute specifying that content is encrypted
(\'http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmlenc# EncryptedKey\').
\- Contain \\ element containing the base64 encoded XPK-ID.
\- Contain \ element listing the encryption algorithm used
for encrypting the XML key material. The AES-256 key wrap algorithm as defined
in RFC 3394 [34] shall be supported, as identified by the algorithm identifier
\'http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmlenc#kw-aes256\'.
Where these elements do not occur, the information they contain shall be known
to both the client and server in the MCPTT domain through other means.
The following is an example of unprotected XML content:
EXAMPLE:
\
sensitive.data\@example.org
\
When XML encryption is applied, the following is an example of the encrypted
content:
EXAMPLE:
\
\
\
\
\base64XpkId\
\
\
\A23B45C56\
\
\
\
#### 9.3.4.3 XML URI attribute encryption
XML attribute encryption shall be performed by encrypting the URI and
embeddeding the encrypted ciphertext within a new URI. The appended domain
name of the new URI identifies the attribute as having MCPTT confidentiality
protection. Encryption shall be performed using the AES-128-GCM [36], as the
encryption algorithm, XPK as the key, and the use of a 96 bit randomly
selected IV.
The output URI is structured to contain:
\- the base64 encoded encrypted URI;
\- the string \";iv=\" followed by the base64 encoded 96-bit random
initialisation vector (IV) which is used by the AES-128 encryption algorithm
(as described in TS 33.203 subclause 6.4).
\- the string \";key-id=\" followed by the base64 encoded encryption key
identifier (XPK-ID);
\- the string \";alg=\" followed by the encryption algorithm identifier
(128-bit encryption algorithm \"128-AES-GCM\");
\- the appended domain name of the new URI e.g.
"\@mc1-encryption.3gppnetwork.org".
An example of the resultant sip-uri after encryption is:
> sip:98yudFG45tx_89TYGedb4ujF;iv=FGD567kjhfH7d4-D;key-id=eV9kl7;alg=128-aes-
> gcm\@mc1-encryption.3gppnetwork.org
The following is an example of unprotected XML URI content within XML
attributes:
EXAMPLE:
Content-Type: application/pidf+xml
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
When XML URI attribute encryption is applied, the following is an example of
encrypted URIs within XML attributes:
EXAMPLE:
Content-Type: application/pidf+xml
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### 9.3.5 Integrity protection using XML signature (xmlsig)
Where integrity protection is required, an XML HMAC signature may be applied
using the XPK to key the HMAC to a whole XML MIME body.
The XML Signature syntax is defined by W3C in [28]. The HMAC-SHA256 signature
method shall be supported.
When integrity protection is enabled, all XML MIME bodies transported in SIP
requests and responses are integrity protected. If one or more of the XML MIME
bodies are included in a SIP request or SIP response, then a MIME body is
included in the SIP request or SIP response containing one or more signatures
pointing to those XML MIME bodies as illustrated in the figure 9.3.5-1.
In order to integrity protect the XML MIME bodies in SIP requests and SIP
responses, the MCPTT client and MCPTT server shall for each MIME body, include
the Content-ID header field as specified in IETF RFC 2045 [37] containing a
Content-ID (\"cid\") Uniform Resource Locator (URL) as specified in IETF RFC
2392 [38].
Figure 9.3.5-1: Integrity Protection of XML MIME bodies in SIP requests and
SIP responses
Each MIME body that is integrity protected is assigned a unique signature
contained in a \ element.
The \ element shall contain the following child element:
\- \ HMAC signature of the content.
The \ element may contain the following child elements:
\- \ element listing an appropriate algorithm.
\- \ element listing an appropriate algorithm. HMAC-SHA256
shall be supported for signatures.
\- \\ element containing the base64 encoded XPK-ID.
\- \ element containing a URI identifying the content to be signed
and the method for hashing the content. SHA-256 shall be supported for hashing
content.
Where these elements do not occur, the information they contain shall be known
to both the client and server in the MCPTT domain through other means.
## 9.4 Key agreement for online floor control (SRTCP)
## 9.4.1 General
Floor control encryption is required between the MCPTT UE and MCPTT Server and
between a pair of MCPTT Servers. Floor control security is protected hop-by-
hop, meaning that floor control traffic is always decrypted by the floor
control server within the MCPTT server and then re-encrypted to its
destination.
The purpose of key agreement is to establish a Key for Floor Control (KFC)
from which the master key for the SRTCP protocol can be derived. A 32-bit
identifier for the key (KFC-ID) and a 128-bit random value (KFC-RAND) is also
established. Media control is protected in the same way as floor control,
using the same key material.
## 9.4.2 Key agreement between MCPTT client and MCPTT Server
In Clause 9.1, a Client-Server Key is generated and shared between the MCPTT
client and MCPTT Server, along with the identifier (CSK-ID). For floor and
media control, the KFC shall be the CSK and the KFC-ID shall be the CSK-ID.
KFC-RAND shall be the MIKEY RAND value transmitted in the MIKEY message used
to distribute the CSK.
## 9.4.3 Key agreement between MCPTT Servers
In Clause 9.2, a Signalling Protection Key (SPK) is shared between MCPTT
Servers along with a SPK-ID. For floor and media control signalling
transferred between MCPTT Servers, the KFC shall be the SPK, the KFC-ID shall
be the SPK-ID and the KFC-RAND shall be the SPK-RAND.
## 9.4.4 Key agreement for multicast from MCPTT Server
In clause 7.3.2, a Multicast Key for Floor Control (MKFC) is generated and
shared from the GMS to the MCPTT Server and MCPTT client, along with an
identifier (MKFC-ID). For the protection of multicast floor control, the KFC
shall be the MKFC and the KFC-ID shall be the MKFC-ID. KFC-RAND shall be the
MIKEY RAND value transmitted in the MIKEY message used to distribute the MKFC.
## 9.4.5 Derivation of SRTCP key material
As a result of the key agreement process, the entities (MCPTT client and
server, or MCPTT servers) shall share a KFC, a KFC-ID and a KFC-RAND. The KFC
shall be used as the MIKEY Traffic Generating Key (TGK), the KFC-ID shall be
used as the MIKEY CSB ID and the KFC-RAND shall be used as the MIKEY RAND
value. These shall be used to generate the SRTCP Master Key and SRTCP Master
Salt as specified in IETF RFC 3830 [22]. The key derivation function defined
in section 4.1. 3 of IETF RFC 3830 [22] using the PRF-HMAC-SHA-256 Pseudo-
Random Function as described in IETF RFC 6043 [25], section 6.1 shall be
supported for generating the SRTCP Master Key and Salt. SRTCP session keys are
generated from the SRTCP Master Key and Salt as defined in Clause 7.6.
NOTE: Within RFC 3830 [22], the SRTCP Master Key and SRTCP Master Salt are
referred to as the SRTP Master Key and the SRTP Master salt respectively.
{width="5.834722222222222in" height="3.127083333333333in"}
Figure 9.4.5-1: Key derivation for on-network floor and media control
protection
To identify the security context from the media stream a SRTCP Master Key
Identifier (MKI) is required. The MKI shall be the 32-bit KFC-ID.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Security requirements
# A.0 Introduction
Stage 1 requirements pertaining to MCPTT security are found in 3GPP TS 22.179
[3], Stage 2 Architectural requirements pertaining to MCPTT security are found
in 3GPP TS 23.179 [2]. The following are MCPTT derived security requirements:
# A.1 Configuration & service access
[33.179 MCPTT-A.1-001] The MCPTT UE and the network entity providing the MCPTT
configuration data, shall mutually authenticate each other prior to MCPTT UE
configuration to use the MCPTT service.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.1-002] The MCPTT User and the MCPTT Service shall mutually
authenticate each other prior to providing the MCPTT UE with the MCPTT User
profile and access to user-specific services.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.1-003] The transmission of configuration data and user profile
data between an authorized MCPTT server in the network and the MCPTT UE shall
be confidentiality protected, integrity protected and protected from replays.
# A.2 Group key management
[33.179 MCPTT-A.2-001] Group key material shall be integrity and
confidentiality protected for a specific MCPTT User during distribution from
the MCPTT service to MCPTT UEs.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.2-002] Group key material shall be authenticated as coming
from a valid, authorized source. The authorized source may be an MCPTT
Administrator or may be another authorized entity (e.g. an authorized MCPTT
User or Dispatcher).
[33.179 MCPTT-A.2-003] It shall be possible for authorized entities to
dynamically create and distribute a new group security context at any time.
This may be as part of a group creation process, be due to a periodic update
to maintain key freshness, or due to compromise of group key material.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.2-004] The creation of a new group security context (e.g. via
User-Regroup operation) shall not change or compromise an existing group
security context.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.2-005] It shall be possible for an authorized, authenticated
entity to revoke and update a group security context from use.
# A.3 On-network operation
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-001] All users of the MCPTT service shall be authenticated
to prevent an adversary impersonating a user for the purpose of denial of
service.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-002] The MCPTT service should take measures to detect and
mitigate DoS attacks to minimize the impact on the network and on MCPTT users.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-003] The MCPTT user shall be authenticated by the MCPTT
application.authorized
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-004] A mechanism shall exist that allows the MCPTT
application to be authenticated by the MCPTT user.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-005] The MCPTT UE and MCPTT service should enforce the
result of the authentication for the duration of communications (e.g. by
integrity protection or implicit authentication by encryption with a key that
is derived from the authentication and is unknown to the adversary).
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-006] The security solution should minimize the impact of a
compromised MCPTT UE on other MCPTT UEs.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-007] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means to ensure
integrity of all MCPTT user signalling at the application layer.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-008] The MCPTT Service shall protect the administrative and
security management parameters from manipulation by individuals who are not
explicitly authorized by the Mission Critical Organization.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-009] The MCPTT service shall provide a means to support
confidentiality of MCPTT user identities from all entities outside the MCPTT
service.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-010] The MCPTT service shall provide a means to support
confidentiality of MCPTT signalling from all entities outside the MCPTT
service.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-011] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means to support end-
to-end confidentiality and integrity protection for all media traffic
transmitted between MCPTT UEs.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.3-012] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means to support the
confidentiality and integrity protection of location information transmitted
from the MCPTT UE to the MCPTT application server.
# A.4 Ambient listening
[33.179 MCPTT-A.4-001] Specific roles in the organization and shall be
identified to authorize and activate Ambient Listening and privileges shall be
assigned to these roles to activate and register the use of ambient listening.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.4-002] The activation of the Ambient Listening functionality
shall be automatically registered by the system and will be stored as an
\'event\' by the system.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.4-003] Any decision to activate Ambient Listening, or review
of such a decision, may also be recorded in a suitable incident log unless to
do so would interfere with the purpose for which the functionality is being
used i.e. an investigation tool for evidence gathering in cases of suspected
gross misconduct of staff or evidence gathering in criminal cases. If this is
the case the authorization needs to be recorded elsewhere as appropriate.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.4-004] A radio user should be told as soon as possible that
they are, or have been, subject to Ambient Listening and the reason why the
functionality was activated. The fact they have been informed, by whom and
when, should be recorded in a suitable log.
# A.5 Data communication between MCPTT network entities
[33.179 MCPTT-A.5-001] A security mechanism shall exist that allows
transmission of data between 3GPP MCPTT network entities to be authenticated,
confidentiality protected, integrity protected and protected from replays.
NOTE: UE-to-UE and UE-to-network relays are not considered to be \'network
entities\'.
# A.6 Key stream re-use
[33.179 MCPTT-A.6-001] The MCPTT system shall ensure that key streams are not
reused.
# A.7 Late entry to group communication
[33.179 MCPTT-A.7-001] An authorized MCPTT User shall be able to obtain the
information necessary to derive the group security context for the MCPTT Group
while an MCPTT Group communication is on-going. As a result, the MCPTT User
shall be able to listen to the group communication within 350ms. This
requirement applies for both on-network and off-network MCPTT operation.
# A.8 Private call confidentiality
[33.179 MCPTT-A.8-001] It shall be possible to establish a unique Private Call
security context between any pair of authorized MCPTT users within the MCPTT
system. The security context shall not be available to other MCPTT users,
except, where necessary, authorized MCPTT monitoring functions (e.g. LI,
Discreet Listening). If the security context is made available to monitoring
functions, appropriate controls and logging shall exist. This requirement
applies when MCPTT UEs are operating both on-network and off-network.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.8-002] The Private Call security context shall provide a means
to provide confidentiality and integrity protection of user traffic, and
authenticate the MCPTT users involved in the Private Call.
# A.9 Off-network operation
[33.179 MCPTT-A.9-001] The MCPTT service should take measures to detect and
mitigate DoS attacks to minimize the impact to relays and to off-network MCPTT
users.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.9-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means to support end-
to-end security for all media traffic transmitted between MCPTT UEs, including
where relays are used.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.9-003] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means to support the
confidentiality and integrity protection of location information transmitted
from the MCPTT UE to the MCPTT application server, including where relays are
used.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.9-004] MCPTT off-network UEs shall be explicitly or implicitly
authenticated to each other.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.9-005] MCPTT off-network UEs and MCPTT relays shall be
explicitly or implicitly authenticated to each other.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.9-006] The security solution should minimize the impact of a
compromised MCPTT UE on other MCPTT UEs.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.9-007] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means to ensure
integrity of all MCPTT user signalling at the application layer.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.9-008] The MCPTT service shall provide a means to support
confidentiality of MCPTT user identities from all entities outside the MCPTT
service.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.9-009] The MCPTT service shall provide a means to support
confidentiality of MCPTT signalling from all entities outside the MCPTT
service.
# A.10 Privacy of MCPTT identities
[33.179 MCPTT-A.10-001] The MCPTT identities of each plane shall be used
within the corresponding plane and concealed to other planes.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.10-002] When required by the MCPTT Service provider, MCPTT
application services layer identities (such as the Mission Critical user
identity, MCPTT-ID and MCPTT Group ID) and other application services
sensitive information (as further described in 3GPP TS 23.179 [2], clause
8.1), shall be contained within the application plane and shall provide a
means to support confidentiality and integrity of the application plane from
the SIP signaling plane.
[33.179 MCPTT-A.10-003] When protection of identities and other sensitive
MCPTT application information is NOT required by the MCPTT Service provider,
the MCPTT application services layer identities (such as the Mission Critical
user identity, MCPTT-ID and MCPTT Group ID) and other application services
sensitive information (as further described in 3GPP TS 23.179 [2], clause
8.1), shall remain contained within the application plane. While
confidentiality protection is not required, integrity protection may be
applied.
# A.11 User authentication and authorization requirements
The solution for user authentication and authorization described in the
present document shall satisfy the following requirements:
Interoperability between different networks and different manufacturers\'
clients and servers:
\- Satisfy requirements for MCPTT roaming and migration.
Flexibility in deployment models (see 3GPP TS 23.179 [2]):
\- Support all deployment models listed in 3GPP TS 23.179 [2].
Support for interchangeable MCPTT user authentication solutions:
\- Allow implementations to use different means to authenticate the user, e.g.
Web SSO, SIP digest, GBA, biometric identifiers, username+password.
Scalability (number of users):
\- Provide efficient support for small MCPTT systems with few users, to large
MCPTT systems with hundreds of thousands of users.
Extensibility:
\- Be extensible to provide authorization for further mission critical
services including group aware services, additional interfaces, etc.
###### ## Annex B (normative): OpenID connect profile for MCPTT
# B.0 General
The information in this annex provides a normative description of the MCPTT
Connect Authentication and Authorization framework based on the OpenID Connect
1.0 standard. Characterization of the id token, access token, how to obtain
tokens, how to validate tokens, and how to use the refresh token is explained.
The OpenID Connect 1.0 standard provides the source of the information
contained in this annex. MCPTT Connect profiles the OpenID Connect standard
and includes the MCPTT ID in the id token and the access token, as well as the
definition of MCPTT specific scopes for key management, MCPTT service,
configuration management, and group management. This profile is completely
standard compliant with OpenID Connect.
# B.1 MCPTT tokens
## B.1.1 ID token
### B.1.1.0 General
The ID Token shall be a JSON Web Token (JWT) and contain the following
standard and MCPTT token claims. Token claims provide information pertaining
to the authentication of the MCPTT user by the IdM server as well as
additional claims. This clause profiles the required standard and MCPTT claims
for the MCPTT Connect profile.
### B.1.1.1 Standard claims
These standard claims are defined by the OpenID Connect 1.0 specification and
are REQUIRED for MCPTT. Other claims defined by OpenID Connect are optional.
The standards-based claims for an MCPTT id token are shown in table B.1.1.1-1.
Table B.1.1.1-1: ID token standard claims
* * *
Parameter Description iss REQUIRED. The URL of the IdM server. sub REQUIRED. A
case-sensitive, never reassigned string (not to exceed 255 bytes), which
uniquely identifies the MCPTT user within the MCPTT server provider\'s domain.
aud REQUIRED. The OAuth 2.0 client_id of the MCPTT client exp REQUIRED.
Implementers MAY provide for some small leeway, usually no more than a few
minutes, to account for clock skew (not to exceed 30 seconds) iat REQUIRED.
Time at which the ID Token was issued. Its value is a JSON number representing
the number of seconds from 1970-01-01T0:0:0Z as measured in UTC until the
date/time.
* * *
### B.1.1.2 MCPTT claims
The MCPTT Connect profile extends the OpenID Connect standard claims with the
additional claims shown in table B.1.1.2-1.
Table B.1.1.2-1: ID token MCPTT claims
* * *
Parameter Description mcptt_id REQUIRED. The MCPTT ID of the current MCPTT
user of the MCPTT client.
* * *
## B.1.2 Access token
### B.1.2.0 Introduction
The access token is opaque to MCPTT clients and is consumed by the MCPTT
resource servers (i.e. KMS, MCPTT server, etc). The access token shall be
encoded as a JSON Web Token as defined in IETF RFC 7519 [32]. The access token
shall include the JSON web digital signature profile as defined in IETF RFC
7515 [35].
### B.1.2.1 Standard claims
MCPTT access tokens shall convey the following standards-based claims as
defined in IETF RFC 7662 [33].
Table B.1.2.1-1: Access token standard claims
* * *
Parameter Description exp REQUIRED. Implementers MAY provide for some small
leeway, usually no more than a few minutes, to account for clock skew (not to
exceed 30 seconds). scope REQUIRED. A JSON string containing a space-separated
list of the MCPTT authorization scopes associated with this token. client_id
REQUIRED. The identifier of the MCPTT client making the API request as
previously registered with the IdM server.
* * *
### B.1.2.2 MCPTT claims
The MCPTT Connect profile extends the standard claims defined in IETF RFC 7662
[33] with the additional claims shown in table B.1.2.2-1.
Table B.1.2.2-1: Access token MCPTT claims
* * *
Parameter Description mcptt_id REQUIRED. The MCPTT ID of the current MCPTT
user of the MCPTT client.
* * *
# B.2 MCPTT client registration
Before an MCPTT client can obtain ID tokens and access tokens (required to
access MCPTT resource servers) it shall first be registered with the IdM
server of the service provider as required by OpenID Connect 1.0. The method
by which this is done is not specified by this profile. For native MCPTT
clients, the following information shall be registered:
\- The client is issued a client identifier. The client identifier represents
the client\'s registration with the authorization server, and enables the IdM
server to reference parameters associated with that client\'s registration
when being requested for an access token by the MCPTT client.
\- Registration of the client\'s redirect URIs.
Other information about the MCPTT client such as (for example): application
name, website, description, logo image, legal terms to be consented to, may
optionally be registered.
# B.3 Obtaining tokens
## B.3.0 General
Once an MCPTT client has been successfully registered with the IdM server of
the MCPTT service provider, the MCPTT client may request ID tokens and access
tokens (as required to access MCPTT resource servers such as PTT and KMS).
MCPTT Connect will support a number of different MCPTT client types,
including: native, web-based, and browser-based. Only native MCPTT clients are
defined in this first version of the MCPTT Connect profile. The exact method
in which an MCPTT client requests the access token depends upon the client
profile. The MCPTT client profiles, along with steps required from them to
obtain OAuth access tokens, are explained in technical detail below.
## B.3.1 Native MCPTT client
### B.3.1.0 General
This conforms to the Native Application profile of OAuth 2.0 as per IETF RFC
6749 [19].
MCPTT clients fitting the Native application profile utilize the authorization
code grant type with the PKCE extension for enhanced security as shown in
figure B.3.1.0-1.
Figure B.3.1.0-1: Authorization Code flow
### B.3.1.1 Authentication Request
As described in OpenID Connect 1.0, the IdM client constructs a request URI by
adding the following parameters to the query component of the authorization
endpoint\'s URI using the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format,
redirecting the user\'s web browser to the authorization endpoint of the IdM
server. The standard parameters shown in table B.3.1.1-1 are required by the
MCPTT Connect profile. Other parameters defined by the OpenID Connect
specification are optional.
Table B.3.1.1-1: Authentication Request standard required parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | response_type | REQUIRED. For native IdM clients | | | the value shall be set to | | | \"code\". | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | client_id | REQUIRED. The identifier of the | | | IdM client making the API | | | request. It shall match the | | | value that was previously | | | registered with the IdM server | | | of the MCPTT service provider. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | scope | REQUIRED. Scope values are | | | expressed as a list of | | | space-delimited, case-sensitive | | | strings which indicate which | | | MCPTT resource servers the | | | client is requesting access to | | | (e.g. MCPTT, KMS, etc.). If | | | authorized, the requested scope | | | values will be bound to the | | | access token returned to the | | | client. | | | | | | The scope value \"openid\" is | | | defined by the OpenID Connect | | | standard and is mandatory, to | | | indicate that the request is an | | | OpenID Connect request, and that | | | an ID token should be returned | | | to the MCPTT client. | | | | | | This profile further defines the | | | following additional | | | authorization scopes: | | | | | | - _\"_ 3gpp:mc:ptt_service _\"_ | | | (service authorization) | | | | | | _\- | | | \"_ 3gpp:mc:p | | | tt_key_management_service _\"_ | | | (key management authorization) | | | | | | _\- | | | \"_ 3gpp:mc:ptt\ | | | _config_management_service _\"_ | | | (config mgmt authorization) | | | | | | _\- | | | \"_ 3gpp:mc:ptt | | | _group_management_service _\"_ | | | (group mgmt authorization) | | | | | | Others may be added in the | | | future as new MCPTT resource | | | servers are introduced by 3GPP | | | (see note). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | redirect_uri | REQUIRED. The URI of the MCPTT | | | client to which the IdM server | | | will redirect the MCPTT | | | client\'s IdM Client in order to | | | return the authorization code to | | | the IdM client. The URI shall | | | match the redirect URI | | | registered with the IdM server | | | during the client registration | | | phase. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | state | REQUIRED. An opaque value used | | | by the MCPTT client to maintain | | | state between the authorization | | | request and authorization | | | response. The IdM server | | | includes this value in its | | | authorization response. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | acr_values | REQUIRED. Space-separated string | | | that specifies the acr values | | | that the IdM server is being | | | requested to use for processing | | | this authorization request, with | | | the values appearing in order of | | | preference. For minimum | | | interoperability requirements, a | | | password-based ACR value is | | | mandatory to support. | | | \"3gpp:acr:password\" as per the | | | OpenID Connect 1.0 specification | | | [21]. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | code_challenge | REQUIRED. The base64url-encoded | | | SHA-256 challenge derived from | | | the code verifier that is sent | | | in the authorization request, to | | | be verified against later. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | code_challenge_method | REQUIRED. The hash method used | | | to transform the code verifier | | | to produce the code challenge. | | | This profile current requires | | | the usage of \"S256\" | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: The order in which they | | | are expressed does not matter. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
An example of an authentication request for MCPTT Connect might look like:
EXAMPLE:
GET/as/authorization.oauth2?response_type=code&client_id=idm_client&scope=openid
3gpp:mcptt:ptt_server&redirect_uri=[e
http://3gpp.mcptt/cb&state=abc123&acr_values=3gpp:acr:password&code_challenge=0x123456789abcdef&code_challenge_method=S256]{.underline}
HTTP/1.1\ Host: IdMS.server.com:9031\ Cache-Control: no-cache\ Content-Type:
application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Upon receiving the authentication request from the IdM client, the IdM server
performs user authentication. Note that user authentication is completely
opaque to the IdM client (which never sees any of it, as it is run directly
between the IdM server and the IdM client on the UE).
### B.3.1.2 Authentication response
The authorization endpoint running on the IdM server issues an authorization
code and delivers it to the MCPTT client. The authorization code is used by
the MCPTT client to obtain an ID token, access token and refresh token from
the IdM server. The authorization code is added to the query component of the
redirection URI using the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format. The
authorization code standard parameters are shown in table B.3.1.2-1.
Table B.3.1.2-1: Authentication Response standard required parameters
* * *
Parameter Values code REQUIRED. The authorization code generated by the
authorization endpoint and returned to the MCPTT client via the authorization
response. state REQUIRED. The value shall match the exact value used in the
authorization request. If the state does not match exactly, then the NGMI API
client is under a Cross-site request forgery attack and shallreject the
authorization code by ignoring it and shall not attempt to exchange it for an
access token. No error is returned.
* * *
An example of an authentication response for MCPTT Connect might look like.
EXAMPLE:
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: [http://mcptt_client/cb]{.underline}?
code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA
&state=abc123
### B.3.1.3 Token request
In order to exchange the authorization code for an ID token, access token and
refresh token, the MCPTT client makes a request to the authorization server\'s
token endpoint by sending the following parameters using the
\"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format, with a character encoding of
UTF-8 in the HTTP request entity-body. Note that client authentication is
REQUIRED for native applications (using PKCE) in order to exchange the
authorization code for an access token. Assuming that client secrets are used,
the client secret is sent in the HTTP Authorization Header. The token request
standard parameters are shown in table B.3.1.3-1.
Table B.3.1.3-1: Token Request standard required parameters
* * *
Parameter Values grant_type REQUIRED. The value shall be set to
\"authorization_code\". code REQUIRED. The authorization code previously
received from the IdM server as a result of the authorization request and
subsequent successful authentication of the MCPTT user. client_id REQUIRED.
The identifier of the client making the API request. It shall match the value
that was previously registered with the OAuth Provider during the client
registration phase of deployment, or as provisioned via a development portal.
redirect_uri REQUIRED. The value shall be identical to the \"redirect_uri\"
parameter included in the authorization request. code_verifier REQUIRED. A
cryptographically random string that is used to correlate the authorization
request to the token request.
* * *
An example of a token request for MCPTT Connect might look like.
EXAMPLE:
POST /as/token.oauth2 HTTP/1.1\ Host: IdM.server.com:9031\ Cache-Control: no-
cache\ Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded\ \
grant_type=authorization_code&code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA&client_id=myNativeApp&code_verifier=0x123456789abcdef&redirect_uri=http://3gpp.mcptt/cb
### B.3.1.4 Token Response
If the access token request is valid and authorized, the IdM server returns an
ID token, access token and refresh token to the MCPTT client; otherwise it
will return an error.
An example of a successful response might look like:
EXAMPLE:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
Cache-Control: no-store
Pragma: no-cache
{\
\"access_token\":\"eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9.eyJtY3B0dF9pZCI6ImFsaWNlQG9yZy5jb20iLCJleHAiOjE0NTM1MDYxMjEsInNjb3BlIjoib3BlbmlkIDNncHA6bWNwdHQ6cHR0X3NlcnZlciIsImNsaWVudF9pZCI6Im1jcHR0X2NsaWVudCJ9.yXGl0gu3SsRQ_VUrDTWuEp-X8wrj-
xUzXzWhTnqntXn0fI6xLR0i6VHtY3L25w81u260bsOFUMiYLLBC0LOKi-
SOcwMqrzH6_BZwjkRhExiAciHZNtwgIlHWYwpCuxQII0dcg7_bw_YAFEQQC9IDzsifPXl9JmazI8YMtGcAWohoiSi0KY1pnbORUDBSPLLFlekQH5aOWbe_6EF4pDbm5pH8GXLd_ZtxS7jC6tAAMsCvsRy7Pb_GeDr_jT8-IevGKWO82of7gaUQkF8qnKVagr4-qc2FJeSDuhj4ZvfL510cgcRGy4NJ_7xxS10bzFNLavfqOlgOelJv0KA9IAd-1Q\",
\"refresh_token\":\"Y7NSzUJuS0Jp7G4SKpBKSOJVHIZxFbxqsqCIZhOEk9\",
\"id_token\":\"eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwiYXVkIjoibWNwdHRfY2xpZW50IiwiaXNzIjoiSWRNUy5zZXJ2ZXIuY29tOjkwMzEiLCJpYXQiOjE0NTM0OTgxNTgsImV4cCI6MTQ1MzQ5ODQ1OCwibWNwdHRfaWQiOiJhbGljZUBvcmcuY29tIn0.Dpn7AhIMaqMEgg12NYUUfJGSFJMPG8M2li9FLtPotDlHvwU2emBws8z5JLw81SXQnoLqZ8ZF8tIhZ1W7uuMbufF4Wsr7PAadZixz3CnV2wxFV9qR_VA1-0ccDTPukUsRHsic0SgZ3aIbcYKd6VsehFe_GDwfqysYzD7yPwCfPZo\",\
\"token_type\": \"Bearer\",\ \"expires_in\": 7199\ }
The MCPTT client may now validate the user with the ID token and configure
itself for the user (e.g. by extracting the MCPTT ID from the ID Token). The
MCPTT client then uses the access token to make authorized requests to the
MCPTT resource servers (MCPTT server, KMS, etc.) on behalf of the end user.
# B.4 Refreshing an access token
## B.4.0 General
To protect against leakage or other compromise, access token lifetimes are
typically short lived (though it is ultimately a matter of security policy &
configuration by the service provider). Some client types can be issued
longer-lived refresh tokens, which enable them to refresh the access token and
avoid having to prompt the user for authentication again when the access token
expires. Refresh tokens are available only to clients utilizing the
authorization code grant type (native MCPTT clients and web-based MCPTT
clients). Refresh tokens are not given to clients utilizing the implicit grant
type (browser-based MCPTT clients). Figure B.4.0-1 shows how Native MCPTT
clients can use the refresh token as a grant type to obtain new access tokens.
Figure B.4.0-1: Requesting a new access token
## B.4.1 Access token request
To obtain an access token from the MCPTT IdM server using a refresh token, the
MCPTT client makes an access token request to the token endpoint of the IdM
server. The MCPTT client does this by adding the following parameters using
the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format, with a character encoding of
UTF-8 in the HTTP request entity-body. The access token request standard
parameters are shown in table B.4.1-1.
Table B.4.1-1: Access token request standard required parameters
* * *
Parameter Values grant_type REQUIRED. The value shall be set to
\"refresh_token\". scope Space-delimited set of permissions that the MCPTT
client requests. Note that the scopes requested using this grant type shall be
of equal to or lesser than scope of the original scopes requested by the MCPTT
client as part of the original authorization request.
* * *
An example of a token request for MCPTT Connect might look like:
EXAMPLE:
POST /as/token.oauth2 HTTP/1.1\ Host: IdM.server.com:9031\ Cache-Control: no-
cache\ Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded\ \
grant_type=refresh_token&refresh_token=Y7NSzUJuS0Jp7G4SKpBKSOJVHIZxFbxqsqCIZhOEk9&scope=3gpp:mcptt:ptt_server
If the MCPTT client was provided with client credentials by the MCPTT IdM
server, then the client shall authenticate with the token endpoint of the IdM
server utilizing the client credential (shared secret or public-private key
pair) established during the client registration phase.
## B.4.2 Access token response
In response to the access token request (above) the token endpoint on the IdM
server will return an access token to the MCPTT client, and optionally another
refresh token.
An example successful response for MCPTT Connect might look like:
EXAMPLE:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
Cache-Control: no-store
Pragma: no-cache
{
\"access_token\":\"eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9.eyJtY3B0dF9pZCI6ImFsaWNlQG9yZy5jb20iLCJleHAiOjE0NTM1MDYxMjEsInNjb3BlIjoib3BlbmlkIDNncHA6bWNwdHQ6cHR0X3NlcnZlciIsImNsaWVudF9pZCI6Im1jcHR0X2NsaWVudCJ9.yXGl0gu3SsRQ_VUrDTWuEp-X8wrj-
xUzXzWhTnqntXn0fI6xLR0i6VHtY3L25w81u260bsOFUMiYLLBC0LOKi-
SOcwMqrzH6_BZwjkRhExiAciHZNtwgIlHWYwpCuxQII0dcg7_bw_YAFEQQC9IDzsifPXl9JmazI8YMtGcAWohoiSi0KY1pnbORUDBSPLLFlekQH5aOWbe_6EF4pDbm5pH8GXLd_ZtxS7jC6tAAMsCvsRy7Pb_GeDr_jT8-IevGKWO82of7gaUQkF8qnKVagr4-qc2FJeSDuhj4ZvfL510cgcRGy4NJ_7xxS10bzFNLavfqOlgOelJv0KA9IAd-1Q
\",\ \"refresh_token\": \"iTxQYALqlc7uLyFGpnl8tR8Y9gkw91mFy2qC9Yywkz\",\
\"token_type\": \"Bearer\",\ \"expires_in\": 7199\ }
It is possible to configure the IdM server to confirm that the user account is
still valid each time the refresh token is presented, and to revoke the
refresh token if not. This security practice is RECOMMENDED.
# B.5 Using the token to access MCPTT resource servers
MCPTT Connect shall initially support the bearer access token type. Access
tokens of type \"bearer\" are communicated from the MCPTT client to MCPTT
resource servers by including the access token in the HTTP Authorization
Header, per IETF RFC 6750 [20].
The access token is opaque to the MCPTT client, meaning that the client does
not have any knowledge of the access token itself. The client will be given
some metadata corresponding to the access token, such as its expiration time,
so that it does not send an expired access token to MCPTT resource servers. If
the access token is presented to an MCPTT resource server and the scope is
invalid or the token is expired or revoked, the MCPTT resource server should
return an error message indicating such to the MCPTT client.
# B.6 Token validation
## B.6.1 ID token validation
The MCPTT client shall validate the id token as per section 3.1.3.7 of the
OpenID Connect 1.0 specification.
## B.6.2 Access token validation
MCPTT resource servers shall validate access tokens received from the MCPTT
client according to IETF RFC 7519 [32].
# B.7 IdMS interface security
The support of Transport Layer Security (TLS) between the IdM client in the MC
UE and the IdM server is mandatory. The profile for TLS implementation and
usage shall follow the provisions given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [5], annex E.
If PSK TLS based authentication is supported, the IdM client in the MC UE and
the IdMS shall support the TLS version, PSK ciphersuites and TLS Extensions as
specified in the TLS profile given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [5], annex E. The usage
of pre-shared key ciphersuites for TLS is specified in the TLS profile given
in 3GPP TS 33.310 [5], annex E.
###### ## Annex C (informative): OpenID connect detailed flow
# C.1 Detailed flow for MCPTT user authentication and registration using
OpenID Connect
Figure D.1-1 shows the detailed flow for MCPTT User Authentication and
Registration using the OpenID Connect messages as described in annex B.
Figure C.1-1: OpenID Connect MCPTT User Authentication and Registration
Step 0: The UE attaches to the network, establishes normal connectivity, and
sets up network security as defined in 3GPP TS 33.401 [14]. Local P-CSCF in
the Home IMS network is discovered at this point.
Step 1: The UE IMS Client authenticates with the Home IMS network. For IMS
authentication, 3GPP TS 33.203 [9] applies.
Step 2: The SIP core sends a SIP 3rd Party Registration to the MCPTT
application Server, notifying it of the MCPTT UE SIP registration. The 3^rd^
party REGISTER message includes the registered IMPU and S-CSCF\'s SIP-URI or
IP Address.
Step 3a: The IdM client in the UE issues a HTTPS Authentication request to the
OIDC based IdM Server in the MCPTT network. The client includes the
code_challenge value in this request.
Step 3b: The user provides the MCPTT User Identity and associated credentials
to the IdM server. The user is successfully authenticated (and optionally
authorized) by the IdM Server.
Step 3c: The IdM Server may optionally request user consent for granting the
MCPTT client access to MCPTT services in the MCPTT Server.
Step 3d: The IdM Server generates an authorization code that is associated
with the code_challenge provided by the client. It sends a browser redirect
HTTP message with the Authorization Response containing the authorization
code.
Step 3e: The UE IdM Client performs a HTTP POST request to exchange the
authorization code for an access token. In the request, the client includes
the code-verifier string. This string is cryptographically associated with the
code_challenge value provided in the Authorization Request in Step 3a.
Step 3f: The IdM Server verifies the IdM Client based on the received code-
verifier string and issues a 200 OK with an access token and ID token
(specific to the MCPTT user and MCPTT services) included in it.
NOTE: The server verifies by calculating the code challenge from the received
code_verifier and comparing it with the code_challenge value provided by the
client in Step 3a.
Step 3g: The access token and ID token are provided to the MCPTT client.
Step 4: The MCPTT UE performs user authorization.
###### ## Annex D (Normative): KMS provisioning messages to support MCPTT
# D.1 General aspects
This annex specifies the key management procedures between the KMS and the key
management client that allows keys to be provisioned to the key management
client based on a identity. It describes the requests and responses for the
authorization following provisioning messages:
\- KMS Initialize.
\- KMS KeyProvision.
\- KMS CertCache.
All KMS communications are made via HTTPS. The MCPTT key management client is
provisioned via XML content in the KMS\'s response. The XML content is
designed to be extendable to allow KMS/client providers to add further
information in the XML. Where the interface is extended, a different XML
namespace should be used (so that may be ignored by non-compatible clients).
It is assumed that transmissions between the KMS and the key management client
are secure and that the KMS has authenticated the identity of the key
management client.
Additionally, to allow the transmission of key material securely between a
secure element within the KMS and a secure element within the key management
client, a security extension is defined which allows messages to be signed and
key material to be encrypted using a shared Transport Key (TrK).
# D.2 KMS requests
Requests to the KMS are made to specific resource URIs. Resource URIs are
rooted under the tree \"/keymanagement/identity/v1\" for a particular domain.
For example the resource path to initialize a user within the domain
\"example.org\" is:
EXAMPLE 1:
http://example.org/keymanagement/identity/v1/init
To make a \"KMS Initialize\" request the key management client shall make a
HTTP POST request to the subdirectory \"init\" i.e. Request-URI takes the form
of:
EXAMPLE 2:
.../keymanagement/identity/v1/init
To make a \"KMS KeyProvision\" request the key management client shall make a
HTTP POST request to the subdirectory \"keyprov\" i.e. Request-URI takes the
form of
EXAMPLE 3:
.../keymanagement/identity/v1/keyprov
Optionally, the Request-URI of the POST request may contain a specific user or
group URI which the key management client would like the KMS to provision. The
URI shall be within a subdirectory of \"keyprov\". For example, the user URI
\"u sip:ser\@example.org\" is provisioned via a request to:
\"/keymanagement/identity/v1/keyprov/usip%3Aser%40example.org\". Additionally,
if the Request-URI contains a specific URI, the client may also request a
specific time which the client would like the KMS to provision. The time URI
shall be the same time as used in the MIKEY payload, a NTP-UTC 64-bit
timestamp as defined in IETF RFC 5905 [29]. For example, if the user required
keys specifically for 23^rd^ Feb 2014 at 08:39:14.000 UTC, the request would
be:
EXAMPLE 4:
.../keymanagement/identity/v1/keyprov/sip%3Auser%40example.org/D6B4323200000000
To make a \"KMS CertCache\" request the key management client shall make a
HTTP POST request to the subdirectory \"certcache\". For example, the request-
URI takes the form of \"/keymanagement/identity/v1/certcache\". If a cache has
been previously received, the request URI may optionally be directed to the
subdirectory indicating the number of the client\'s latest version of the
cache. For example, the request-URI takes the form of
EXAMPLE 5:
.../keymanagement/identity/v1/certcache/12345
If the optional security extension is used, requests may be authenticated
using the shared Transport Key (TrK). To achieve this, the request should be
accompanied with an XML payload containing details of the request, signed by
the shared TrK.
# D.3 KMS responses
## D.3.0 General
This clause defines the HTTP responses made by the KMS to the three KMS
requests. The KMS attaches XML content to the HTTP responses. The XML serves
to provision the client based upon its request.
Though a \"KmsResponse\" message containing a \"KmsMessage\" Type is the
general response to any request, the content of the "KmsMessage" varies
depending on the exact response type (i.e. KmsInit, KmsKeyProv, KmsCertCache).
The content provided within a KmsInit, KmsKeyProv or KmsCertCache may include
a TrK, (public) KMS Certificates, (private) user Key Set provisioning, or
combinations thereof.
The \"KmsResponse\" message is shown in Table D.3.0-1.
Table D.3.0-1: Contents of a \"KmsResponse\" message
* * *
Name Description UserUri URI of the user for which the response is intended.
KmsUri The URI of the KMS sending the response. KmsId (Optional) The ID of the
KMS providing the response message. Time Date/time that the response is sent
by the KMS. ClientReqUrl The resource client URI from where the request
originated. KmsMessage One of the following response types: KmsInit,
KmsKeyProv or KmsCertCache.
* * *
In response to a \"KMS Initialize\" request, the KMS shall respond with the
KMS\'s own certificate (the Root KMS certificate) within a \"KMSInit\" tag.
In response to a \"KMS KeyProvision\" request, the KMS shall provision
appropriate user Key Sets within a \"KMSKeyProv\" tag.
In response to a \"KMS CertCache\" request, the KMS shall provision a cache of
KMS certificates allowing inter-domain communications within a
\"KMSCertCache\" tag.
This payload may be signed using the TrK. The XML schema for the
SignedKmsRequestType is provided in Clause D.3.4.1.
## D.3.1 KMS certificates
### D.3.1.1 Description
A KMS Certificate is a certificate that applies to an entire domain of users.
A Certificate consists of XML containing the information required to encrypt
messages to a domain of users and verify signatures from the domain of users.
A KMS has exactly one root certificate, which contains the public keys used by
the KMS. The root certificate is the only certificate for which the KMS has
the private keys and is able to issue user-specific key material. Should the
root certificate need to be updated, a new KMS with a new KMS URI should be
established with a new root certificate.
It is assumed that the MCPTT user is managed by a single KMS. The root
certificate for this KMS is required to encrypt messages to the MCPTT user,
and verify signatures from the MCPTT user.
The KMS may also provision a number of \'external\' KMS certificates to allow
inter-domain communications.
### D.3.1.2 Fields
The KMS Certificate shall be within a XML tag named \"KmsCertificate\". This
type shall have the following subfields.
Table D.3.1.2-1: Contents of a KMS Certificate
* * *
Name Description Version (Attribute) The version number of the certificate
type (1.1.0). Role (Attribute) This shall indicate whether the certificate is
a \"Root\" or \"External\" certificate. CertUri (Optional) The URI of the
Certificate (this object). KmsUri The URI of the KMS which issued the
Certificate. Issuer (Optional) String describing the issuing entity. ValidFrom
(Optional) Date from which the Certificate may be used. ValidTo (Optional)
Date at which the Certificate expires. Revoked (Optional) A Boolean value
defining whether a Certificate has been revoked. UserIDFormat Shall contain
the value \'2\', indicating that the generation mechanism defined in clause
F.2.1 shall be used. UserKeyPeriod The number of seconds that each user key
issued by this KMS should be used (e.g. \'2419200\'). UserKeyOffset The offset
in seconds from 0h on 1^st^ Jan 1900 that the segmentation of key periods
starts (e.g. \'0\'). PubEncKey The SAKKE Public Key, \"Z_T\", as defined in
[10]. This is an OCTET STRING encoding of an elliptic curve point. PubAuthKey
The ECCSI Public Key, \"KPAK\" as defined in [9]. This is an OCTET STRING
encoding of an elliptic curve point. ParameterSet (Optional) The choice of
parameter set used for SAKKE and ECCSI (e.g. \'1\'). KmsDomainList (Optional)
List of domains associated with the certificate.
* * *
### D.3.1.3 User IDs
To secure communications with a specific user, the initiator shall compose the
User Identifier (UID) to which the message will be encrypted. IETF RFC 6509
[11] defines a UID generation scheme for Tel URIs, however this cannot be used
with MCPTT as MCPTT IDs may not be Tel URIs.
Clause F.2.1 defines the UID generation scheme for MCPTT. This shall be
identified within the KMS certificate by using the value \'2\' within the
UserIDFormat field.
## D.3.2 User Key Provision
### D.3.2.1 Description
User keys are private information associated to a user\'s identity (UserID)
which allow a user to decrypt information encrypted to that identity and sign
information as that identity. User keys are provisioned as XML containing the
key information required and associated metadata.
### D.3.2.2 Fields
The KMS shall provision keys within an XML tag named \"KmsKeySet\". This shall
have the following subfields.
Table D.3.2.2-1: Contents of a KMS Key Set
* * *
Name Description Version (Attribute) The version number of the key provision
XML (1.1.0). KmsUri The URI of the KMS which issued the key set. CertUri
(Optional) The URI of the Certificate which may be used to validate the key
set. Issuer (Optional) String describing the issuing entity. UserUri URI of
the user for which the key set is issued. UserID UID corresponding to the key
set. ValidFrom (Optional) Date and time from which the key set may be used.
ValidTo (Optional) Date and time at which the key set expires. KeyPeriodNo
Current Key Period No. since 1 January 1900 (e.g. 1514) Revoked (Optional) A
Boolean value defining whether the key set has been revoked. UserDecryptKey
The SAKKE \"Receiver Secret Key\" as defined in [10]. This is an OCTET STRING
encoding of an elliptic curve point as defined in section 2.2 of [30].
UserSigningKeySSK The ECCSI private Key, \"SSK\" as defined in [9]. This is an
OCTET STRING encoding of an integer as described in section 6 of [31].
UserPubTokenPVT The ECCSI public validation token, \"PVT\" as defined in [9].
This is an OCTET STRING encoding of an elliptic curve point as defined in
Section 2.2 of [30].
* * *
NOTE: The key may be valid outside of its defined key period of use to enable
decryption of old messages encrypted to the user.
## D.3.3 Example KMS response XML
### D.3.3.1 Example KMSInit XML
If the security extension is used, it is assumed that before this response is
received, the secure element within the KMS and the secure element within the
MCPTT key management client have shared a bootstrap TrK, e.g.
\'tk.11.user\@example.org\'.
In this example, the KMS provides the MCPTT user with the KMS root certificate
and a new TrK to protect future KMS communications. Keys are encrypted and the
message is signed using the bootstrap TrK.
EXAMPLE:
\
\
\
\example:user\@example.org\
\kms.example.org\
\2014-01-26T10:05:52\
\KMSProvider12345\
\http://kms.example.org/keymanagement/identity/v1/init\
\
\
\
\cert1.kms.example.org\
\kms.example.org\
\www.example.org\
\2000-01-26T00:00:00\
\2025-01-26T23:59:59\
\false\
\2\
\2592000\
\0\
\029A2F\
\029A2F\
\1\
\
\sec1.example.org\
\sec2.example.org\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
tk.11.user\@example.org\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\tk.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
tk.11.user\@example.org\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\ink.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\128\
\
\
\
\nnnn\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\tk.11.user\@example.org\
\
\
\
### D.3.3.2 Example KMSKeyProv XML
In this example, the MCPTT user\'s key material is provided for two user
identifiers. The key material includes the UserDecryptKey (see IETF RFC 6508
[10]) and the UserSigningKey and PVT (see IETF RFC 6507 [9]) for each
identifier.
As the security extension has been used, the key material is encrypted and the
message signed using the shared TrK. Additionally, a new TrK is provided as
part of the key provision.
EXAMPLE:
\
\
\
\example:user\@example.org\
\kms.example.org\
\2014-01-26T10:07:14\
\KMSProvider12345\
\http://kms.example.org/keymanagement/identity/v1/keyprov\
\
\
\
\kms.example.org\
\cert1.kms.example.org\
\www.example.org\
\example:user\@example.org\
\0123456789ABCDEF0123456789ABCDEF\
\2015-12-30T00:00:00\
\2016-03-29T23:59:59\
\1514\
\false\
\
\
\
\
\tk.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\tk.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\tk.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\
\
\
\
\kms.example.org\
\cert1.kms.example.org\
\www.example.org\
\example:user.pseudonym\@example.org\
\0011223344556677889900AABBCCDDEEFF\
\2015-12-30T00:00:00\
\2016-03-29T23:59:59\
\1514\
\false\
\
\
\
\
\tk.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\tk.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\tk.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\tk.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\tk.13.user\@example.org\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\128\
\
\
\
\nnnn\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\ink.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\
### D.3.3.3 Example KMSCertCache XML
In this example, a number of \'external\' KMS certificates are provided to the
MCPTT user. These allow the user to encrypt to users managed by a different
KMS.
As the security extension is in use, the message is signed using the TrK.
EXAMPLE:
\
\
\
\example:user\@example.org\
\kms.example.org\
\2014-01-26T10:14:12\
\KMSProvider12345\
\http://kms.example.org/keymanagement/identity/v1/certcache\
\
\
\
\
\cert2.kms.example.org\
\kms.example.org\
\www.example.org\
\2000-01-26T00:00:00\
\2100-01-26T23:59:59\
\false\
\2\
\2592000\
\0\
\029A2F\
\029A2F\
\1\
\
\sec3.example.org\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\nnnn\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\cert1.kms.example.org\
\
\
\
\
\
\cert1.kms.another.example.org\
\kms.another.example.org\
\www.another.example.org\
\2000-01-26T00:00:00\
\2100-01-26T23:59:59\
\false\
\2\
\604800\
\432000\
\029A2F\
\029A2F\
\1\
\
\another.example.org\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\nnnn\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\cert1.kms.example.org\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\128\
\
\
\
\nnnn\
\
\
\DEADBEEF\
\
\ink.12.user\@example.org\
\
\
\
## D.3.4 KMS Response XML schema
### D.3.4.1 Base XML schema
This clause contains the XML schema for KMS responses:
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### D.3.4.2 Security extension to KMS response XML schema
Security extensions to the base XML schema are given as part of the KMS
Response Schema in clause D.3.4.1.
###### ## Annex E (normative): MIKEY message formats for media security
# E.1 General aspects
## E.1.0 Introduction
MIKEY-SAKKE as defined in IETF RFC 6509 [11] is used to transport Group Master
Keys (GMKs) from a Group Management Server to a Group Management Client on a
MCPTT UE and Private Call Keys (PCKs) between MCPTT UEs.
The GMK is encrypted to the UID generated from the receiving user\'s MCPTT ID
and current time period. It is signed using the UID generated from the URI
associated to the Group Management Server and current time period. Similarly,
the PCK is encrypted to the UID generated from the receiving user\'s MCPTT ID
and current time period. It is signed using the UID generated from the
initiating user\'s MCPTT ID and current time period. Details of this process
are defined in IETF RFC 6508 [10] and IETF RFC 6507 [9]. The generation of the
MIKEY-SAKKE UID is defined in clause F.2.1.
The GMK and PCK shall be 16 octets in length.
## E.1.1 MIKEY common fields
If the transmitter requires an ACK for a transmission this is indicated by
setting the V-bit in the MIKEY common header. For distribution of GSKs for
one-to-many communications, the V-bit shall not be set.
Each MIKEY message contains the timestamp field (TS). The timestamp field
shall be TS type NTP-UTC (TS type 0), and hence is a 64-bit UTC time.
# E.2 MIKEY message structure for GMK distribution
The MIKEY-SAKKE message shall include the Common Header payload, Timestamp
payload, RAND payload, IDRi payload, IDRr payload, IDRkmsi payload, IDRkmsr
payload, SAKKE payload and a SIGN (ECCSI) payload. It is recommended that the
message also includes a Security Properties payload. Optionally, the message
may include a General Extension payload containing a second SAKKE message as
described in clause E.5.
In the Common Header payload, the CSB ID field of MIKEY common header shall be
the GUK-ID.
The Security Policy (SP) payload is used to specify the security properties of
group communications using the GMK. Where no security profile is provided, the
following default security profile shall be used.
Table E.2-1: MIKEY Group call SRTP Default Profile
* * *
_SRTP Type_ _Meaning_ _Value_ _Meaning_ 0 Encryption Algorithm 6 AES-GCM 1
Session encryption key length 16 16 octets 2 Authentication algorithm 4 RCCm3
(Use of unauthenticated ROC) 4 Session salt key length 12 12 octets 5 SRTP PRF
0 AES-CM 6 Key derivation rate 0 No session key refresh. 13 ROC transmission
rate 1 ROC transmitted in every packet. 18 SRTP Authentication tag length 4 4
octets for transmission of ROC 19 SRTCP Authentication tag length 0 ROC need
not be transmitted in SRTCP. 20 AEAD authentication tag length 16 16 octets
* * *
Identity payloads shall be IDR payloads as defined in section 6.6 of IETF RFC
6043 [25]. The IDRi payload shall contain the MCPTT identifier associated with
the group management server. The IDRr payload shall contain the MCPTT ID
associated to the group management client. The message shall also include
IDRkmsi and IDRkmsr that contains the URI of the MCPTT KMS used by the group
management server and MCPTT user respectively.
NOTE: In some deployments MCPTT IDs within these payloads may be treated as
private. In this case, the group management server and group management client
should substitute these private identities for public identities via a
privately-defined mapping.
The SAKKE payload shall encapsulate the GMK to the UID generated from the
MCPTT ID of the group management client. Only one GMK key shall be transported
in the SAKKE payload. The same GMK shall be encapsulated to each member of the
group. The ID Scheme in the SAKKE payload shall be \'3GPP MCX hashed UID \' to
reflect the generation scheme defined in clause F.2.1.
The ID Scheme \'3GPP MCX hashed UID\' takes on the IANA assigned value of
\'2\' [41].
The entire MIKEY message shall be signed by including an SIGN payload
providing authentication of the group management server. The signature shall
be of type 2 (ECCSI). The signature shall use the UID generated from the
identifier associated with the group management server.
# E.3 MIKEY message structure for PCK distribution
The MIKEY-SAKKE message shall include the Common Header payload, Timestamp
payload, RAND payload, IDRi payload, IDRr payload, IDRkmsi payload, IDRkmsr
payload, SAKKE payload and a SIGN (ECCSI) payload. It is recommended that the
message also includes a Security Properties payload. Optionally, the message
may include a General Extension payload containing a second SAKKE message as
described in clause E.5.
In the Common Header payload, the CSB ID field of MIKEY common header shall be
the PCK-ID. The CS-ID map type shall be GENERIC-ID as defined in IETF RFC 6043
[25].
The Security Properties payload is used to specify the security properties of
private calls using the PCK. Where no security profile is provided, the
following default security profile shall be used.
Table E.3-1: MIKEY Group call SRTP Default Profile
* * *
_SRTP Type_ _Meaning_ _Value_ _Meaning_ 0 Encryption Algorithm 6 AES-GCM 1
Session encryption key length 16 16 octets 4 Session salt key length 12 12
octets 5 SRTP PRF 0 AES-CM 6 Key derivation rate 0 No session key refresh. 20
AEAD authentication tag length 16 16 octets
* * *
Identity payloads shall be IDR payloads as defined in section 6.6 of IETF RFC
6043 [25]. The IDRi payload shall contain the MCPTT ID associated with the
initiating user. The IDRr payload shall contain the MCPTT ID associated to the
receiving user. The message shall also include IDRkmsi and IDRkmsr that
contains the URI of the MCPTT KMS used by the initiating user and terminating
user respectively.
NOTE: In some deployments MCPTT IDs within these payloads may treated as
private. In this case, the initiating and terminating MCPTT UEs should
substitute these private identities for public identities via a privately-
defined mapping.
The SAKKE payload shall encapsulate the PCK to the UID generated from the
MCPTT ID of the terminating user. The ID Scheme in the SAKKE payload shall be
\'URI Scheme\' to reflect the generation scheme defined in clause F.2.1.
The entire MIKEY message shall be signed by including an SIGN payload
providing authentication of initiating user. The signature shall be of type 2
(ECCSI). The signature shall use the UID generated from the MCPTT ID of the
initiating user.
# E.4 MIKEY message structure for CSK distribution
The MIKEY-SAKKE message shall include the Common Header payload, Timestamp
payload, RAND payload, IDRi payload, IDRr payload, IDRkmsi payload, IDRkmsr
payload, SAKKE payload and a SIGN (ECCSI) payload. The message may also
include a Security Properties payload.
In the Common Header payload, the CSB ID field of MIKEY common header shall be
the CSK-ID. The CS-ID map type shall be GENERIC-ID as defined in IETF RFC 6043
[25].
Identity payloads shall be IDR payloads as defined in section 6.6 of IETF RFC
6043 [25]. The IDRi payload shall contain the MCPTT ID associated with the
initiating user. The IDRr payload shall contain the MDSI of the MCPTT Domain.
The message shall also include IDRkmsi and IDRkmsr that contains the URI of
the MCPTT KMS used by the initiating user and MCPTT Server respectively.
NOTE: Where confidentiality of user identifiers is required, the MCPTT ID may
be replaced with the UID generated from the MCPTT ID as defined in clause
F.2.1.
The SAKKE payload shall encapsulate the CSK to the UID generated from the MDSI
of the MCPTT Domain. The ID Scheme in the SAKKE payload shall be \'URI
Scheme\' to reflect the generation scheme defined in clause F.2.1.
The entire MIKEY message shall be signed by including an SIGN payload
providing authentication of initiating user. The signature shall be of type 2
(ECCSI). The signature shall use the UID generated from the MCPTT ID of the
initiating user.
# E.5 MIKEY general extension payload to support \'SAKKE-to-self\'
In some circumstances it is useful for the initiator to be able to decrypt a
MIKEY-SAKKE payload and recover the key (as well as the receiver). For
example, where the initiating user is attached to the MCPTT service via more
than one MCPTT UE, the other MCPTT UEs associated with the initiating user
will also need the key material to be able to join the communication.
To support this scenario, an optional MIKEY General Extension Payload may be
added to the MIKEY-SAKKE message. This general extension payload has type
\'SAKKE-to-self\'. The contents of the payload will be a full SAKKE payload as
defined in IETF RFC 6509 [11]. Within the second SAKKE payload the key (GMK or
PCK) shall be encapsulated to the UID generated from the MCPTT identifier
associated with the initiating user (either group management server or private
call initiator). The ID Scheme in the SAKKE payload shall be \'3GPP MCX hashed
UID \' to reflect the generation scheme defined in clause F.2.1.
The General Extensions Field Name 'SAKKE-to-self' has an IANA assigned type
value of '6' [41].
EXAMPLE SAKKE-to-self payload:
* 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
* +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
* ! Next [payload]{.underline} ! Type ! Length !
* +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
* ! Next [payload]{.underline} ! SAKKE [params]{.underline} ! ID scheme ! SAKKE data \~
* +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
* \~ length ([cont]{.underline}) ! SAKKE data \~
* +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
The SAKKE-to-self payload encapsulates a SAKKE payload. Consequently, the
SAKKE-to-self payload will contain two \'next payload\' fields. The second
\'next payload\' field, which corresponds to the encapsulated SAKKE payload,
shall be set to zero and ignored.
# E.6 MIKEY general extension payload to encapsulate parameters associated
with a GMK
## E.6.1 General
The parameters associated with a key shall be contained in the \'General
extension payload\' specified in IETF RFC 3830 [22] using the \'3GPP key
parameters \' Type value and contained within the signed envelope of the
MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGE specified in clause E.2. The format and cryptography of
the payload are specified in this subclause.
The General Extensions Field Name '3GPP key parameters' has an IANA assigned
type value of '7' [41].
The payload consist of a series of information elements. The standard format
and encoding rules for the information elements follow that defined for the
MCPTT Off-Network Protocol (MONP) as documented in Annex I of 3GPP TS 24.379
[10].
The four octets consisting of the header of the \'General extension payload\'
shall be formatted according to IETF RFC 3830 [22].
The contents of the \'General extension payload\' shall be a Protected Payload
as defined in Clause E.6.8. The Protected Payload shall encapsulate a \'Key
Parameters\' payload.
The \'Key Parameters\' payload is a type 6 information element composing a 1
byte Key Parameters IEI, a 2 byte length of the Key Parameters payload
contents, and the Key Parameters payload content itself. The Key Parameters
payload content shall be of the format specified in Table E.6.1-1.
Table E.6.1-1: Key Parameters Payload content
+-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Information | Type/Reference | Presence | Format | Length | | Element | | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Key Type | The type of key. | M | V | 1 | | | | | | | | | Clause E.6.11. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Status | The current | M | V | 4 | | | status of the | | | | | | key. | | | | | | | | | | | | Clause E.6.9. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Activation Time | Date and Time | M | V | 5 | | | when the key may | | | | | | start to be used. | | | | | | | | | | | | Clause E.6.4. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Expiry Time | Date and Time | M | V | 5 | | | when the key may | | | | | | no longer be | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | | | | Clause E.6.10. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Text | A human-readable | M | LV-E | 2-x | | | name for the key | | | | | | | | | | | | Clause E.6.5. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Group IDs | The Group IDs | C | LV-E | 2-x | | | associated with | | | | | | the key (if any) | | | | | | | | | | | | Clause E.6.3. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Reserved | Additional | O | TLV-E | x | | | information | | | | | | associated with | | | | | | the key (if any) | | | | | | | | | | | | Clause E.6.6. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+
NOTE: The \'MC group IDs\' IE is only present in the Key Parameters payload if
the key type is \'GMK\' or \'MKFC\'.
The IEs in the Key Parameters Payload are described in the following
subclauses.
## E.6.2 Void
## E.6.3 MCPTT group ID
This field allows distribution of MCPTT Group IDs that are associated with the
current key carried in the MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGE.
The \'Group IDs\' IE is only present in the Key Parameters payload if the key
type is \'GMK\' or \'MKFC\'.
The \'Group IDs\' IE shall be of the format specified in Table E.6.3-1.
Table E.6.3-1: Group IDs IE content
+-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Information | Type/Reference | Presence | Format | Length | | Element | | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Number of Group | Shall be \'1\' or | M | V | 1 | | IDs | \'0\' | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Group ID | The ID for the | O | TLV-E | 3-x | | | group associated | | | | | | with the key. | | | | | | | | | | | | Clause 15.2.5 of | | | | | | TS 24.379 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+
The Number of Group IDs may be \'0\' or \'1\'. Where the key corresponds to a
group ID, the \'Group IDs\' IE shall contain a two octet \'Length\' sub-
element with the value \'4+n\' (where \'n\' is the length of the Group ID
content), followed by a \'Number of Group IDs\' element of value \'1\', and
one \'Group ID\' IE.
Where the key does not correspond to a group ID, the \'Group IDs\' IE shall
contain a two octet \'Length\' sub-element with the value \'1\', followed by a
\'Number of Group IDs\' element of value \'0\', and zero \'Group ID\' IEs.
The \'Group ID\' IE is a type 6 information element comprising a one octet
IEI, a two octet length subfield (containing the length of the \'Group ID\'
contents) and the \'Group ID\' content contained in octet 4 to octet n.
## E.6.4 Activation time
The \'Activation time\' element shall define the time in UTC at which the
associated GMK is to be made active for transmission in seconds since midnight
UTC of January 1, 1970 (not counting leap seconds). It shall be 5 octets in
length.
A value of 0 shall imply the activation time is the timestamp of the received
MIKEY I_MESSAGE.
## E.6.5 Text
The definition and encoding of the Reserved IE is outside of scope of the
present document.
## E.6.6 Reserved
The definition and encoding of the Reserved IE is outside of scope of the
present document.
## E.6.7 Void
## E.6.8 Cryptography
The contents of the MIKEY \'General extension payload\' shall be a Protected
Payload. The Protected Payload shall encapsulate a \'Key Parameters\' payload.
The Protected Payload shall have the format defined in Table E.6.8-1:
Table E.6.8-1: Protected Payload content
+-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Information | Type/Reference | Presence | Format | Length | | Element | | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Message Type | Message type | M | V | 1 | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Date and Time | Date and Time of | M | V | 5 | | | creation of | | | | | | protected | | | | | | payload. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Payload ID | The identifier | M | V | 16 | | | for the payload. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Payload sequence | Shall be \'0\' | M | V | 1 | | number | | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Algorithm ID | Payload | M | V | 1 | | | encryption | | | | | | algorithm | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be \'1\' | | | | | | corresponding to | | | | | | D | | | | | | P_AES_128_GCM. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IV | Initialisation | M | V | 16 | | | vector (or nonce) | | | | | | for message | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Key identifier | The 32-bit CSB-ID | M | V | 4 | | | from the MIKEY | | | | | | I_MESSAGE | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Payload | Encrypted Key | M | TLV-E | x | | | Parameters IE | | | | | | | | | | | | (Clause E.6.1) | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+
The \'Message Type\' is a type 3 element and shall take the value \'10\'.
The \'Date and T ime\' is a type 3 element and shall be the time in UTC when
the Protected Payload was created in seconds since midnight UTC of January 1,
1970 (not counting leap seconds). It shall be 5 octets in length.
The \'Payload ID\' is a type 3 element and shall be a 16 octet unique
identifier for the Protected Payload.
The \'Payload sequence number\' is a type 3 element and shall take the value
\'0\'.
The \'Algorithm ID\' is a type 3 element and shall take the value \'1\',
indicating that the DP_AES_128_GCM algorithm shall be used to protect the
payload.
The \'IV\' is a type 3 element and shall be a 16 octet random value used as
the initialisation vector for the encryption algorithm.
The \'Key identifier\' is a type 3 element and shall contain the 4 octet CSB-
ID used within the encapsulating MIKEY I_MESSAGE.
The \'Payload\' shall be the encrypted Key Parameters IE. The content of this
payload is defined in Clause 6.8.1. The following algorithm shall support the
following algorithms (cipher suites):
Table E.6.8-2: DP_AES_128_GCM algorithm parameters
* * *
Parameter Value/Reference Algorithm ID DP_AES_128_GCM Cipher AEAD_AES_128_GCM
(as defined in RFC 5116 [43]) Key length 128 bits IV length 128 bits AEAD
authentication tag length 128 bits
* * *
In using the above cipher suites as defined in RFC 5116 [43], the plaintext
(the Key Parameters IE), shall be the full original plaintext payload. The
associate data (AD) shall be the Message Type, Date and Time, Payload ID,
Payload sequence number, Algorithm ID, IV, and Key Identifier fields.
## E.6.9 Status
The \'Status\' element shall determine the current status of the GMK. It shall
be 4 octets in length. The following values are defined:
0: Revoked
1: Not-revoked
Undefined bits shall be ignored.
## E.6.10 Expiry time
The \'Expiry time\' element shall define the time in UTC at which the
associated key shall no longer be used in seconds since midnight UTC of
January 1, 1970 (not counting leap seconds). It shall be 5 octets in length.
A value of 0 shall imply the key shall not expire.
## E.6.11 Key Type
The purpose of Key Type IE is to specify the type and purpose of the key.
The value part of the Key type information element is coded as shown in Table
E.6.11-1.
Table E.6.11-1: Key type
* * *
Bits  
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 GMK 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 PCK 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 CSK 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1
SPK 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 MKFC 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 MSCCK All other values are reserved.
* * *
# E.7 Hiding identities within MIKEY messages
In some public-safety use cases there is a requirement to protect MCPTT IDs in
transit. To protect these identifiers in MIKEY-SAKKE messages the following
approach may be taken.
The sensitive MCPTT ID in the IDRr or IDRi field is replaced with the UID
generated from the MCPTT ID as defined in clause F.2.1. In the former case,
the \'role\' of the IDRr field is replaced with a role of IDRuidr. In the
latter case, the \'role\' of the IDRi field is replaced with a role of
IDRuidi.
The hashed initiator (IDRuidi) ID Role has an IANA assigned value of '8' while
the Hashed Responder (IDRuidr) ID Role has an IANA assigned value of '9' [41].
The processing of the MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGE at the initiator stays the same.
If the initiator has hidden its own MCPTT ID, it shall ensure that the SIP
message containing the I_MESSAGE contains the initiator\'s MCPTT ID encrypted
to the receiver.
As a consequence of identity hiding, the receiver of the MIKEY-SAKKE I_MESSAGE
will be able to check the signature based on the initiator\'s UID in the
IDRuidi field, but initially will be unable to confirm the MCPTT ID that has
been used to generate the UID. The receiver will recognize its own UID in the
IDRuidr field, and be able to extract the encapsulated key.
Using the encapsulated key or otherwise, the receiver is able to extract
associated metadata in the message, including the initiator\'s MCPTT ID. On
obtaining the initiator\'s MCPTT ID, the receiver is able to compute the UID
and ensure this matches the UID in the IDRuidi field. By performing this
check, the receiver has authenticated the I_MESSAGE.
###### ## Annex F (normative): Key derivation and hash functions
# F.1 KDF interface and input parameter construction
## F.1.1 General
This annex specifies the use of the Key Derivation Function (KDF) specified in
3GPP TS 33.220 [17] for the current specification. This annex specifies how to
construct the input string, S, to the KDF (which is input together with the
relevant key). For each of the distinct usages of the KDF, the input
parameters S are specified below.
## F.1.2 FC value allocations
The FC number space used is controlled by 3GPP TS 33.220 [17].
## F.1.3 Calculation of the User Salt for GUK-ID generation
When calculating a User Salt using the GMK for generating the GUK-ID from the
GMK-ID, the following parameters shall be used to form the input S to the KDF
that is specified in annex B of 3GPP TS 33.220 [17]:
\- FC = 0x50.
\- P0 = MCPTT ID.
\- L0 = length of above (i.e. 0x00 0x17).
The GMK and MCPTT ID follow the encoding also specified in annex B of 3GPP TS
33.220 [17]. The 28 least significant bits of the 256 bits of the KDF output
shall be used as the User Salt.
## F.1.4 Calculation of keys for application data protection
The two keys used to protect either signalling plane confidentiality, or
signalling plane integrity are derived from the XPK, using the KDF that is
specified in annex B of 3GPP TS 33.220 [17].
The following parameters shall be used to form the input S to the KDF that is
specified in annex B of 3GPP TS 33.220 [27]. The key used by the KDF shall be
the XPK:
\- FC = 0x51, (for signalling plane confidentiality), or
\- FC = 0x52 (for signalling plane integrity).
\- P0 = MCPTT ID.
\- L0 = length of above, expressed in number of bytes (i.e. 0x00 0x17).
\- P1 = XPK-ID.
\- L1 = length of above, expressed in number of bytes (i.e. 0x00 0x17).
The MCPTT ID and XPK-ID follow the encoding also specified in annex B of 3GPP
TS 33.220 [17].
Where the XPK is 128-bits, the output keys shall be 128-bits and hence the 128
least significant bits of the 256 bits of the KDF output shall be used as the
signalling protection key. Where the XPK is 256-bits, the output keys shall be
256-bits and hence the entire output of the KDF shall be used.
# F.2 Hash Functions
## F.2.1 Generation of MIKEY-SAKKE UID
Section 3.2 of IETF RFC 6509 [11] defines an identifier for use in MIKEY SAKKE
in section 3.2, referred to as the UID in the present document. This requires
a Tel-URI as the user\'s URI and monthly key periods. As MCPTT IDs may not be
Tel-URIs, this UID format cannot be used within MCPTT. This clause defines how
the 256-bit MIKEY-SAKKE UID is generated using a generic identifier and
generic key period.
The MIKEY-SAKKE UID is generated by hashing a fixed string, the identifier of
the user, the identifier of the KMS, the key period length, the current key
period number and their respective lengths.
The input to the hash function shall be encoded as specified in clause B.1 of
3GPP TS 33.220 [17]. The hash function shall be SHA-256 as specified in [18].
The full 256-bit output shall be used as the identifier within MIKEY-SAKKE
(referred to as \'ID\' in IETF RFC 6507 [9] and \'a\' or \'b\' within IETF RFC
6508 [10].
FC = 0x00
P0 = The fixed string: \'\'MIKEY-SAKKE-UID\'\'
L0 = Length of P0 value
P1 = Identifier (e.g. MCPTT ID)
L1 = Length of P1 value
P2 = KMS Identifier (e.g. secgroup1.kms.example.org)
L2 = Length of P2 value
P3 = Key Period length in seconds (e.g. 2592000)
L3 = Length of P3 value
P4 = Key Period offset in seconds (e.g. 0)
L4 = Length of P4 value
P5 = Current Key Period No. since 0h on 1 January 1900 (e.g. 553)
L5 = Length of P5 value
> NOTE: The key derivation function defined in clause B.1 of 3GPP TS 33.220
> [17] is not used, therefore the FC value should only be considered as a
> dummy value.
P0 is a fixed 15 character string encoded as described in annex B of 3GPP TS
33.220 [17]. P1 is the identifier, which for MCPTT would be the MCPTT ID. P2
is the identifier of the KMS, and uniquely identifies the public key used for
encryption and signing. P3 is the integer representing the number of seconds
in a key period. P4 is the offset from 0h on 1 January 1900 and shall be less
than P3. It sets the time at which keys are changed over. Both P3 and P4 are
extracted from the KMS certificate and encoded as integers as described in
annex B of 3GPP TS 33.220 [17]. P5 is the integer representing the current key
period number since 0h on 1 January 1900, which may be calculated as:
P5 = Floor ( ( TIME - P4 ) / P3 )
Where TIME is a NTP timestamp, i.e., a number in seconds relative to 0h on 1
January 1900. P4 is encoded as described in annex B of 3GPP TS 33.220 [17].
NOTE 1: When used to generate a UID for encrypting using a MIKEY payload, P1
will commonly be the \'ID Data\' from the IDRr payload, P2 will be the encoded
\'ID Data\' from the IDRkmsr payload, and TIME will be the NTP timestamp
within the MIKEY payload.
NOTE 2: When used to generate a UID for signing a MIKEY payload, P1 will
commonly be the \'ID Data\' from the IDRi payload, P2 will commonly be the
\'ID Data\' from the IDRkmsi payload, and TIME will be the NTP timestamp
within the MIKEY payload.
#