# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures requirements, solution alternatives, evaluations
and conclusions for the SA2-led Rel-13 Features:
  * GROUPE (Group based Enhancements) [4],
  * MONTE (Monitoring Enhancements) [5] and
  * AESE (Architecture Enhancements for Service Capability Exposure [3].
The present document captures the conclusions of the study on security and
privacy implications for the requirements identified in Stage 1 and Stage 2
specifications for the above mentioned Rel-13 MTC features.
Based on the outcome of the present document, any new normative text will be
incorporated in TS 33.187 [2] and/or suitable existing SA3 specifications.
Editor's Note: SA3 is supposed to work only on security solutions for
architectural solutions that are covered in SA2 Rel-13 TRs TR 23.769[4], TR
23.789[5], TR 23.708 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.187: \"Security aspects of Machine-Type Communications (MTC)
and other mobile data applications communications enhancements\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.708: "Architecture Enhancements for Service Capability
Exposure", Rel-13 SA2 Study.
[4] 3GPP TR 23.769: "Group based Enhancements", Rel-13 SA2 Study.
[5] 3GPP TR 23.789: "Monitoring Enhancements", Rel-13 SA2 Study.
[6] 3GPP TS 33.246: "MBMS Security".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.210: "3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security"
[8] OMA-TS-REST_NetAPI_Common-V1_0-20120417-C: "Common definitions for RESTful
Network APIs"
[9] OMA-ER-Autho4API-V1_0-20120327-C: "Authorization Framework for Network
APIs"
[10] 3GPP TS 23.682: "Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Group based Enhancements (GROUPE)
## 4.1 Group message protection
### 4.1.1 Issue details
SA2 is currently working on group based feature which includes the following
key issues: Group based Messaging, Selection of delivery mechanisms for
messaging to a group, Group based Policy Control, "Group-specific NAS Level
Congestion Control" and Group based Addressing and Identifiers. SA2 is
currently considering mechanism to distribute a group message from an SCS to
those members of an MTC group located in a particular geographic area [ 4].
According to the current architecture and solutions, MTC-IWF receives a group
message from SCS and forwards it to the target group of UEs.
As group based messaging can significantly reduce the overhead of network
resource, it may be required to protect the group messages.
For the UEs in one group, each may need to communicate with the network
individually so an independent session key for each device may be needed.
Editor\'s Note: Individual session key establishment per UE in the group need
to be considered and studied further.
For the UEs in one group, the network may need to distribute the same message
(e.g. a trigger request) to those members of one MTC group so a same group
session key may be needed.
Editor\'s Note: The same MTC group session key establishment for all UEs in
the group need to be considered and studied further.
### 4.1.2 Threats
If the broadcast message for a particular group is not protected, then private
information related to particular group are revealed. Therefore a mechanism
should be provided to protect the confidentiality of the group message
broadcasted for a particular group. However confidentiality protection is
subject to regional regulatory requirements.
Group based messaging would be more prone to tampering and fake triggering
attacks, if there is no integrity and replay protection provided by the core
network or by the SCS.
With a group message multiple UEs can be triggered. Therefore an unauthorized
group message may cause much more severe problem compared to what a trigger to
a single UE can cause. Other threats like MitM attack which were considered
for non-group message also apply here with amplified effect.
### 4.1.3 Security requirements
An MTC Group is a group of UEs that can be in the same area and/or have the
same MTC Features attributed and/or belong to the same MTC user. MTC Group
should be identified uniquely across 3GPP networks.
Editor Notes: It should be studied further, to what extent group based
protection and management can be used to save network resource and improve
efficiency.
There should be a mechanism by which an UE can be verified as a legitimate
member of an MTC Group.
Requirements on group based messaging:
\- MTC-IWF should verify if the SCS is authorized to send group message to a
given MTC group.
\- Network should be able to distinguish group message from other messages.
\- Group message that are distributed to the group of UEs should be integrity
protected, replay protected and may be confidentiality protected.
\- Local Group ID should not to be exposed to an entity that is located
outside of 3GPP network. This includes the SCS which is outside of 3GPP
network as well.
### 4.1.4 Solutions
#### 4.1.4.1 Solution 1: Application layer based protection
Security protection applied at MTC application layer is a straightforward
solution. However, the network should trust the SCS and assure/ensure that SCS
protects the group message and MTC application in the UE verifies it.\ In
case, if the security is not applied in the application layer, then there can
be attacks on the network.
SCS should apply encryption, signature and replay protection to the group
message. The MTC application on the UE should verify the source of the group
message and ensure the integrity of the received group message.\ The mechanism
to verify the integrity of the group message, encryption/decryption and replay
protection by the MTC application layer is out of scope of the present
document.
The UE should discard the group message if it is not signed and replay
protected by the SCS.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS, whether key management for application layer based
protection is within scope of 3GPP.
#### 4.1.4.2 Solution 2: Network based protection for cell broadcast
> Editor's Note: Currently SA2 is considering MBMS based delivery mechanism
> for group messaging. If the SA2 decision is changed/modified to include cell
> broadcast based delivery mechanism, then this solution alternative can be
> considered.
SA2 is considering solution related to "Group based messaging using cell
broadcast" (TR 23.769 [4]). In network based protection, SCEF generates the
keys for group message protection and protects the group message. Figure
4.4.2-1 shows the message sequence and describes the mechanism for
GERAN/UTRAN/E-UTRAN.
Figure 4.4.2-1: Network based protection for cell broadcast
1) The Service Capability Server (SCS) / Application Server (AS) can create
new groups with associated group members, and can remove existing groups [4].
The SCEF (Group Management Function (GMF)) generates the group encryption key
for encrypting the group message. SCEF uses the PKI infrastructure for signing
the group message and symmetric key (Gkey) is used for encryption/decryption
of the group messages.
Editor\'s Note: Need to check with SA2 for the specific node in the 3GPP
network responsible for group formation. Based on the SA2 decisions, other
suitable network elements for group key generation and key management are FFS.
2) The SCEF updates the HSS with the public key and the encryption key for a
particular group with the Group ID (Local Group ID/External Group ID). The HSS
maintain/maps the group based feature subscription details along with the UE
subscription data.
3) During individual authentication of the UE, the MME/SGSN fetches
subscription data from the HSS. If the UE is subscribed for group based
feature, then the subscription data contains the group based feature
information (External- Group ID, Group encryption key, public key to verify
the authenticity of the group message and the key index).
4) After successful authentication, the MME/SGSN passes the group security
credentials (group encryption key, public key to verify the group message and
the key index) to the UE. The MME/SGSN sends the group security credentials in
the SMC procedure (step 4A) or using a dedicated NAS signalling message (step
4B).The group security credentials are protected using the security context
available between the UE and MME, UE and SGSN, UE and RNC.
Editor\'s Note: Further study is required on whether the NAS message carrying
the group key requires partial encryption for protecting the group keys.
Editor\'s Note: Further study is required for MBMS based delivery mode,
whether BM-SC or MME/SGSN performs the group security credentials distribution
to the UEs.
5) When the SCS wants to send the group message, it provides the content to be
broadcasted and additional information to SCEF.
6) The SCEF optionally sends Group Information Request (External Group ID)
message, and HSS resolves the associated Local Group ID and sends Group
Information Response (Local Group ID) to SCEF. HSS may send other group
related information (group security credentials), if SCEF does not have it.
The SCEF protects the group message using the group security credentials.
7) The SCEF sends the protected group messages to the selected CBC/BMSC/MTC-
IWF (SCEF may be responsible for the selection of the delivery mode based on
business agreements). The protected group message includes the key ID and also
algorithm ID used for protection.
Editor\'s Note：Mechanisms for signature algorithm selection is FFS.
Editor\'s Note: Further study is required for MBMS based delivery mode,
whether BM-SC or SCEF protects the group message.
#### 4.1.4.3 Solution 3: MBMS based method
MBMS security can provide shared key for data transferring. So it can be used
to protect the group message transferred from one MTC application server/MTC
SCS to multiple UEs in the group when the UEs use shared secret keys for
transferring.
Otherwise, when all UEs in one group need to be authenticated together, or UE
wants to communicate with MTC application server/MTC SCS/network individually,
or UEs wants to send uplink data, the current MBMS security solution can\'t be
applied.
#### 4.1.4.4 Solution 4: Authentication of UEs of a group
There are two options to authenticate UEs of a group. One option is that
network performs two steps authentication: the first is to identify the
individual UE and the second is to associate this UE as a member of MTC
group.\ The other option is that network authenticates all related UE in a
group together at the same time, by which the authentication solution can be
called as group authentication. If such group authentication is used, it can
save network resource to combine the two steps into one step.
Note: When there is group authentication, UE should be mutually authenticated
with network.
Editor Note: whether or not group authentication can save network resource is
FFS.
#### 4.1.4.5 Solution 5: Secure protection for unicast delivery of group
message
For group communication, the message from the application server can be
broadcasted or multicasted by the network to large number of UEs. It is
definitely very useful to save network resources and improve efficiency. But
in some scenarios, unicast delivery of the group message may be also needed.
As mentioned in SA2's TR23.769, when delivering the same message to a group of
devices, it is possible that different UEs that are members to the same group
may have different capabilities. Moreover, message may need to be delivered
across different areas of same PLMN with different capabilities, different
radio access technologies or even spread across different PLMNs. Therefore,
serving PLMN and UE capability, availability of message delivery mechanism(s)
and radio access technology shall be considered. As a result, the group
message may need to be delivered using different delivery mechanisms e.g. some
devices using CBS, some using MBMS, some using unicast SMS e.g. via T4, or
some using EPS bearer via SGi interface.
Since unicast delivery may be used for some cases, the unicast delivery of
group message should be protected.
Actually, MTC-IWF/SCEF would receive group message from application server,
then it determines the delivery mechanisms for messaging to a group UEs,
i.e.CBS or MBMS or unicast SMS via T4 or EPS bearer via SGi interface. So
while unicast mode is chosen, the group message may be delivered to group UEs
in unicast mode via SMSs or EPS bearers.
From security point of view, when hop-by-hop security is applied, for the hop
between security domain of Application server and security domian of
network(MTC-IWF/SCEF), the security mechanism for Tsp interfaces can be used.
For the hop between UE and network, the protection of group message via SMSs
or EPS bearer can be rely on the legacy EPS security mechanism, i.e. in LTE,
the MME would protect the SMSs with UE's NAS security, and eNB would protect
the EPS bearer data with the LTE access security mechanism in air interface.
If end-to-end security is needed between group UEs and Application Server,
application layer security is another option.
#### 4.1.4.6 Solution 6: Secure protection of delivering group message via T4.
SA2 TR23.769 introduces a group message delivery solution called "T4 message
delivery to a group of devices", in which the group message delivery to a
group of devices is based on the T4 device trigger procedure.
More detailed, MTC-IWF will firstly transfer the group ID, included in Group
message from SCS, to HSS/HLR, then the HSS/HLR maps the External Group
Identifier tothe IMSIs of the individual group members and return the IMSIs
list to MTC-IWF. The MTC-IWF would convert the group message to individual
messages based on the IMSIs list, and sends these messages via T4 to the SMS-
SC and further to the group members UEs. The SMS message is a trigger message
containing the application port ID, trigger payload and Trigger Indication,
and an external group ID for addressing the group from the 3rd party service
provider. The trigger payload contains the group message.
For security, the security mechanism for delivering group message via T4 is
similar as that for R12's device trigger.
\- The group message sent from SCS in Tsp interface can be securely protected
by the Tsp interface's security mechanism defined in TS23.682, and the SMSs
that sent from SMS-SC to group member UEs can be protected by the EPS security
mechanism, e.g. for LTE, the MME would protect the short message with UE's NAS
security.
\- Another security issue is the authorisation of the group message delivery.
Similar as the authorisation mechanism defined in R12 device trigger, the MTC-
IWF shall check if SCS is authorised to send group messages, then HSS shall
further check if SCS is authorized to send a group message of specific service
to a certain group identified by Group ID.
\- When the authorisation succeeds, MTC-IWF sends SMSs to SMS-SC via T4
interface. SMS-SC then delivers them to Group member UEs through SMSs.
### 4.1.5 Impacts on existing nodes or functionality
### 4.1.6 Evaluation
Editor Note: it is FFS to see if there are any security threats on the group
authentication.
Editor Note: How to achieve a balance between network resource saving and
solution complexity is FFS.
Solution 1 in clause 4.1.4.1 applies the security protection at MTC
application layer. It can be used independently on top of any security
mechanism at network layer, and is out of 3GPP scope.
Solution 2 in clause 4.1.4.2 provides security protection for SA2 solution of
"Group based messaging using cell broadcast". For CBS type solution, the
security aspect has been studied in SA3 under the topic of PWS security
without any conclusion. Therefore, no conclusion can be made in this release
on solution 2 which applies one of the approaches of PWS security.
Solution 3 in clause 4.1.4.3 reuses existing MBMS security to address security
aspect for SA2 solution of "Group message delivery using MBMS". Hence this is
a good candidate solution having only low system impact.
Solution 4 in clause 4.1.4.4 is a solution for authenticating all UEs in a
group at the same time using one authentication procedure, aiming at reducing
security signalling and saving network resource. However, solution 4 is
actually not a solution for protecting group message, which relies on the
successful authentication of a group of UEs. Hence, it can hardly serve as a
candidate solution for key issue of "Group Message Protection".
Solution 5 in clause 4.1.4.5 reuses existing mechanisms (e.g. legacy EPS
security mechanism, Tsp security, application layer security) to protect the
unicast delivery of group messages. Hence, no new conclusion needs to be drawn
on this solution.
Solution 6 in clause 4.1.4.6 reuses existing security mechanism to protect
group messages delivered via T4 interface. Hence, no new conclusion needs to
be drawn on this solution.
Based on the above analysis, as well as the SA2 conclusion on GROUPE key issue
of "Message delivery to a group of devices", solution 3 is selected as the
basis for normative work for protecting SA2 selected solution, which provides
efficient group message delivery with low system impact. For UEs not
supporting MBMS or UEs in areas without MBMS deployment, solution 5 or
solution 6 can be used whenever applicable based on SA2's conclusion on
unicast-based solution.
# 5 Monitoring Enhancements (MONTE)
## 5.1 Location Management
### 5.1.1 Issue details
UEs may be deployed in locations with high risk, e.g. possibility of theft of
the communication module. There are UEs that should not move from authorized
locations, or should only move in authorized areas. For those UEs, it is
desirable that the network detects and reports events (including location)
caused by those devices that may result, for example, from theft of the
communication module. If such an event is detected, the network might be
configured to perform special actions. There are UEs that can move in a widely
open area without restriction (e.g. UEs that are used to track cargo, animals,
vehicle, etc.).
### 5.1.2 Threats
In the case of an MTC application where the UE should not move from authorized
locations, or should only move in authorized areas (e.g. within a home), there
could be security risks if the device is operated from an unauthorized
location (e.g. as a result of theft of the communication module). For example,
a water metering used in **User A** \'s home to record **User A** \'s water
usage should be fixed in **User A** \'s home. If it is moved to another place
like **User B** \'s home without permission, it could potentially be used to
report **User B** \'s water usage against **User A** \'s account. The primary
method to mitigate this attack should be to bind the identity and
authentication of the UE to the specific user\'s water meter. Detecting or
preventing a change in location of the UE could be a useful secondary security
mechanism.
Another example is fire monitor in the building. When a fire monitor is moved
to another place, wrong location information will be sent to the fire
monitoring server if there is a fire. In this case detecting change of the
location of the UE would be a useful feature.
For mobile UEs used for tracking purposes, the mobile area is not limited for
mobile UEs, the network can not verify if the UE is stolen or controlled by
attackers just by comparing the location identifier of UE and the pre-defined
location identifier stored in the network. As a result, the stolen vehicle
monitor of **User A** may be used for **User B** , or attackers with stolen UE
can report a wrong location identifier to the network, or attackers can use UE
to trace other peoples\' positions, etc.
For those UEs that can be linked to an individual, MTC Monitoring could cause
an invasion of privacy. In particularly, if MTC Monitoring is applied to UEs
that should not be monitored.
### 5.1.3 Security requirements
It is required for the network to provide a location management mechanism for
UEs that should not move from authorized locations, or should only move in s
authorized areas to detect if the device has been moved to an unauthorized
location.
The network should be able to distinguish between UEs that have restriction in
movement and those that do not have restriction and manage their mobility
accordingly, i.e. where they can be used and cannot be used.
The network should be able to prevent MTC monitoring to be activated for those
devices that should or are not monitored by the network.
### 5.1.4 Solutions
#### 5.1.4.1 Solution 1: Location management
The requirement mentioned in clause 5.1.3 of the present document can be met
as follows.
UE reports the location identifier. Network entity (e.g. SGSN/MME) should
store the pre-defined location identifiers and be able to verify the location
identifier by comparing it with the pre-defined location identifiers.
When the UE moves; a network entity (e.g. MSC/SGSN/MME) receives new location
information which is reported by RAN or by the UE explicitly and detects if it
is different from pre-configured location information. Then the network entity
can confirm that the UE has moved to other area and will send a warning
message to the MTC server, which can then take further action.
Editor\'s Note: Multiple solutions are being considered in SA2 about which
network entity detects and reports unauthorized movements.
Editor\'s Note: Granularity of above mentioned location identifiers and the
resulting impact on the ability of the solutions to meet the requirements, as
well as possible other solutions (e.g. solutions relying on network reporting)
are FFS.
### 5.1.5 Impacts on existing nodes or functionality
A network entity should be able to store the pre-configured location
information of UE with low mobility feature.
A network entity should be able to send warning to MTC server that UE is not
in the authorized location/area.
5.1.6 Evaluation
## 5.2 Privacy of UE location information
### 5.2.1 Issue details
SA2 TR 23.789 [5] for MONTE has key issue 1 for Monitoring, which has, among
others, the following required functionality:
_\"- Location of the MTC Device, and change in location of the MTC Device_
_NOTE: Location granularity for event request, or event report, or both could
be at cell level (CGI/ECGI), LA/TA/RA level, Presence Area reporting level, or
other formats e.g. shapes (e.g. polygons, circles etc.) or civic addresses
(e.g. streets, districts etc.) as referenced by OMA Presence API [4].\"_
Key issue 2 in SA2 TR 23.789 [5] is about Reporting the number of UEs present
in a certain area, and it has the following required functionality:
_\"- Service capability exposure framework should allow the 3rd party service
provider to request the number of UEs present in a certain area, with a single
report or regular reporting.\"_
Even though the functionality seems to be about the number of UEs, there is
certain risk that the identities of the UEs might be reported as well. This is
mentioned e.g. in \"Solution 3 - Monitoring via MME/SGSN\" in TR 23.789 [5]
where it is stated:
> **_\"Monitoring Event: Reporting the number of UEs present in a geographic
> area_**
>
> _The SCEF, when requested to report the UEs that locate in a geographic
> area, maps the geographic area to a list of cells and/or RAs/TAs and
> identifies the MMEs/SGSNs serving them....\"_
Editor\'s Note: The applicability of Key issue 2 and related threats with
respect to SA2 procedures is ffs.
### 5.2.2 Threats
Handling of location information of UEs and providing that to 3^rd^ party
application provider can have privacy related threats as follows:
Unauthorized 3^rd^ party application providers could request and get the
location information of a specific UE or information which UEs are present in
a geographic area.
3^rd^ party application providers could request and get the location
information of a specific UE or information which UEs are present in a
geographic area for UEs for which they are not authorized to get the
information.
When the location information of a specific UE or information which UEs are
present in a geographic area is reported, UE specific identities, such as
IMSI, could leak to a 3^rd^ party application providers. This is a threat even
though the 3^rd^ party application provider would be otherwise authorized to
get information on the UE.
Location information of a specific UE or information which UEs are present in
a geographic area could be reported to 3^rd^ party application providers
without user consent.
3^rd^ party application providers could request and get the information of
"authorised locations" and "unauthorised locations" for MTC devices held in
the network for which they are not authorized to get the information.
### 5.2.3 Security requirements
Editor\'s Note: The security requirements are ffs.
### 5.2.4 Solutions
### 5.2.5 Impacts on existing nodes or functionality
### 5.2.6 Evaluation
# 6 Architecture Enhancements for Service capability Exposure (AESE)
## 6.1 Exposure interface Security
### 6.1.1 General
This section address the architecture proposal for AESE described in solution
1 in SA2 TR 23.708 [3].
The Service Capability Exposure Function (SCEF) provides a means to securely
expose the services and capabilities provided by 3GPP network interfaces to
external application providers. The SCEF provides access to network
capabilities through homogenous network application programming interfaces
(e.g. Network API) defined by OMA, GSMA, and possibly other standardisation
bodies. The SCEF abstracts the services from the underlying 3GPP network
interfaces and protocols.
Individual instances of SCEF may vary depending on what service capabilities
are exposed and what API features are supported.
The Service Capability Exposure Function (SCEF) could be within the control of
the 3GPP operator, or it could be controlled by a business partner e.g.
another operator or a 3^rd^ party. The other operator or 3^rd^ party then
expose the network capabilities to applications that can be outside of the
control of the operator or 3^rd^ party or within control.
### 6.1.2 Issue details
SA2 has defined a 'trust domain'. We depict an enhanced version of the SA2
SCEF architecture in Figure 6.1.2-1. The SCEF is always within the trust
domain. An application can belong to the trust domain or may lie outside the
trust domain. There is a trust between the operators or 3^rd^ party
controlling the entities residing within the same trust domain. The trust
domain has been defined in order to separate the entities that are outside of
the control (e.g. in this case some of the applications).
Even if SA2 is talking about a 'trust domain', which seems to be a business
related term, it's the responsibility of SA3 to look at the network security
aspects. It seems that the term 'trust domain' as defined in SA2 does not
correspond to a Security Domain in SA3.
According to section 6.1.1.3 in TR 23.708 v0.3.0, applications operating in a
trust domain can also access network entities directly without the need to go
through the SCEF.
The figure below (Figure 6.1.2-1) has been enhanced with the scenario when the
Application is connected directly to the Network Entity as described in
section 6.1.1.3 in TR 23.708 v 0.3.0. This figure has also been updated in
order to identify the interfaces in this architecture that will be further
discussed below.
Figure 6.1.2-1: Service Capability Exposure Architecture
Four new interfaces have been identified in Figure **6.1.2-1** :
A1: The interface between the SCEF and the 3GPP Network Entity, where the SCEF
could be controlled by the 3GPP operator, or controlled by a business partner
e.g. another operator or a 3^rd^ party, which is trusted by the 3GPP operator,
and within the same trust domain.
A2: The interface between the Application and the SCEF. The Application is
controlled by a 3^rd^ party. The operator(s) controlling the SCEF and 3GPP
Network Entity is/are exposing network capabilities to the application outside
of the control of the operator(s).
A3: The interface between the Application and the SCEF. The Application is
controlled by the 3GPP operator, or controlled by a business partner e.g.
another operator or a 3^rd^ party, which is trusted by the 3GPP operator, and
within the same trust domain. The operator(s) controlling the SCEF and 3GPP
Network Entity is/are exposing network capabilities to the Application.
A4: The interface between the Application and the 3GPP Network Entity, where
the Application could be controlled by the 3GPP operator, or controlled by a
business partner e.g. by another operator or a 3^rd^ party, which is trusted
by the 3GPP operator, and within the same trust domain. The 3GPP operator
controlling the 3GPP Network Entity is exposing network capabilities to the
Application.
Interfaces A1 and A4 are identified as within 3GPP scope. Interfaces A2 and A3
are identified as NOT within 3GPP scope.
### 6.1.3 Threats
#### 6.1.3.1 SCEF
The SCEF may have an authenticated security association with the Application
asking UE and service specific information. However, even authenticated
Applications may query data that they are not authorized to get. In other
words, unauthorized exposure request may be tunnelled via authenticated
security association. For example, an Application that is both authenticated
and authorized for request data related to one UE, may also try to request
data related to another UE that it is not authorized to request data.
#### 6.1.3.2 Interface A1
When the SCEF is controlled by the 3GPP operator or by a business partner e.g.
by another operator than the 3GPP operator controlling the Network Entity or
by a 3^rd^ party, then the communication on the interface between the SCEF and
the 3GPP Network Entity may take place over an insecure link or over a secured
link. In case insecure link, the security threats which may occur on this
interface are:
\- A malicious SCEF may request network data from a 3GPP Network Entity.
\- A SCEF, which is not authorized for getting certain network and/or UE-
related data, may request the data illegitimately from a 3GPP Network Entity.
\- Attackers can eavesdrop the network data on the interface between the SCEF
and a 3GPP Network Entity.
\- Attackers can tamper a request message on the interface between the SCEF
and a 3GPP Network Entity.
\- Attackers can replay a request message on the interface between SCEF and a
3GPP Network Entity.
#### 6.1.3.3 Interface A4
When the Application is controlled by the 3GPP operator or by a business
partner e.g. by another operator than the 3GPP operator controlling the 3GPP
Network Entity or by a 3^rd^ party, then the communication on the interface
between the Application and the 3GPP Network Entity may take place over an
insecure link or over a secured link. In case of an insecure link, the
security threats for this interface A4 are the same as described for interface
A1.
### 6.1.4 Security requirements
#### 6.1.4.1 SCEF
SCEF shall be able to determine whether the Application is authorized to send
requests for network data from the 3GPP Network Entity, where authorization
shall be per UE or optionally per service per UE. SCEF may include
authentication, authorization, and access control list management
functionality [Annex A, 8] or it may rely on the authorization decisions made
by the 3GPP Network Entity via interface A1. The mechanism of such
authorization performed by the SCEF is not specified in 3GPP standards.
However, the mechanisms for fetching authorization information from the HSS by
the SCEF are in the scope of 3GPP.
#### 6.1.4.2 Interface A1
When the SCEF is controlled by the 3GPP operator or a business partner e.g. by
another operator than the 3GPP operator controlling the Network Entity or by a
3^rd^ party, and when the link is over insecure link, then the following
security requirements apply:
\- The 3GPP Network Entity and the SCEF shall be able to mutually authenticate
each other.
\- The 3GPP Network Entity shall be able to determine whether the SCEF is
authorized to send requests for network data from the 3GPP Network Entity.
\- - The 3GPP Network Entity may be able to determine where authorization
shall be per UE, and optionally per service per UE, to send requests for
network data.
Note: How to achieve authorization per UE or per service per UE is specific to
application and network configuration. For example, if the A1 reference point
does not support such authorization, the SCEF may need to contact HSS before
forwarding the request to the 3GPP Network Entity. The mechanism of such
authorization is not specified in 3GPP standards.
\- The signalling messages between the 3GPP Network Entity and the SCEF shall
be integrity protected.
\- The signalling messages between the 3GPP Network Entity and the SCEF should
be confidentiality protected.
\- The signalling messages between the 3GPP Network Entity and the SCEF shall
be protected from replays.
\- Ensure the privacy of the 3GPP user, in particular the 3GPP private user
identity (IMSI/IMPI) shall not be sent outside the 3GPP operator's domain.
[]{.underline}
#### 6.1.4.3 Interface A4
When the Application is controlled by the 3GPP operator or by a business
partner e.g. by another operator than the 3GPP operator controlling the 3GPP
Network Entity or by a 3^rd^ party, then the security requirements for this
interface A4 are the same as for interface A1.
### 6.1.5 Solutions
#### 6.1.5.1 Solution 1 for securing A1 interface
##### 6.1.5.1.1 General
There are three different scenarios:
\- SCEF is controlled by a business partner i.e. another 3GPP operator.
\- SCEF is controlled by a business partner i.e. a 3^rd^ party.
\- SCEF and 3GPP Network Entity are controlled by the same 3GPP operator.
As mentioned in SA2 TR 23.708 the SCEF abstracts the exposed services from the
underlying 3GPP network interfaces and protocols. The specific exposed
services will be implemented by individual instances of SCEF, e.g. for the SMS
service.
Each of the above scenarios can divided into two sub-cases depending if the
individual instance of SCEF is regarded as being part of 3GPP core network,
i.e. 3GPP network function, or not. This distinction is important as NDS/IP,
as defined in TS 33.210 [7], can be applied for the former case. For the
latter case NDS/IP cannot be applied due to the scope defined for TS 33.210
[7]. However, 3GPP has defined security mechanisms for interfaces where one
peer of the interface resides in the 3GPP domain and the other peer resides
outside of 3GPP domain. Examples of this case are the Tsp interface between
the MTC-IWF and SCS, and the MB2 interface between the BM-SC and GCS AS. If
the interface between the Network Entity and an individual instance of SCEF
can be trusted, e.g. physically protected, there is no need to use protection
via cryptographic means mentioned above.
##### 6.1.5.1.2 SCEF is controlled by a business partner i.e. another 3GPP
operator (A1 interface)
In this case the individual instance of SCEF is controlled by a business
partner, i.e. another 3GPP operator than the 3GPP operator controlling the
3GPP Network Entity.
It's a case by case decision what mechanisms to specify in normative phase for
specific exposed services and individual instances of SCEF. The following
options are identified.
If the SCEF and the 3GPP Network Entity are both considered as 3GPP network
functions then this interface should be protected using NDS/IP [TS 33.210]. If
the peers reside in different security domains, Functional entity Security GW
shall be used to authenticate and authorize the individual instance of SCEF
and to secure the interface between the 3GPP Network Entity and the individual
instance of SCEF as shown in the Figure 6.1.5.1.1-1.
Figure 6.1.5.1.1-1 SCEF controlled by a business partner i.e. another 3GPP
operator
If the individual instance of SCEF is not considered as 3GPP network function
then this interface should be protected using mechanisms similar to Tsp in TS
33.187 [2] and MB2 in TS 33.246 [6], i.e. TLS/TCP, DTLS/SCTP or IKE/IPsec.
If the interface between the Network Entity and an individual instance of SCEF
can be trusted, e.g. physically protected, there is no need to use protection
via cryptographic means mentioned above.
##### 6.1.5.1.3 SCEF is controlled by a business partner i.e. a 3rd party (A1
interface)
In this case the individual instance of SCEF is controlled by a business
partner i.e. a 3^rd^ party.
It's a case by case decision what mechanisms to specify in normative phase for
specific exposed services and individual instances of SCEF. The following
options are identified.
If the SCEF and the 3GPP Network Entity are both considered as 3GPP network
functions then this interface should be protected using NDS/IP [TS 33.210].
However, this possibility is not considered to be very likely if the business
partner is not a 3GPP operator.
If the individual instance of SCEF is not considered as 3GPP network function
then this interface should be protected using mechanisms similar to Tsp in TS
33.187 [2] and MB2 in TS 33.246 [6], i.e. TLS/TCP, DTLS/SCTP or IKE/IPsec.
If the interface between the Network Entity and an individual instance of SCEF
can be trusted, e.g. physically protected, there is no need to use protection
via cryptographic means mentioned above.
##### 6.1.5.1.4 SCEF and 3GPP Network Entity are controlled by the same 3GPP
operator (A1 interface)
In this case the individual instance of SCEF and 3GPP Network Entity are
controlled by the same 3GPP operator.
The same consideration apply as for the case \" SCEF is controlled by a
business partner i.e. another operator than the 3GPP operator (A1 interface)\"
above.
#### 6.1.5.2 Solution 2 for securing A4 interface
##### 6.1.5.2.1 General
There are three different scenarios to consider when the Application access
the 3GPP Network Entity directly:
\- Application is controlled by a business partner i.e. another 3GPP operator.
\- Application is controlled by a business partner i.e. a 3^rd^ party.
\- Application and 3GPP Network Entity are controlled by the same 3GPP
operator.
3GPP specifies network functions, and not applications, which is why NDS/IP
cannot be applied due to the scope defined for TS 33.210[7]. However, 3GPP has
defined security mechanisms for interfaces where one peer of the interface
resides in the 3GPP domain and the other peer resides outside of 3GPP domain.
Examples of this case are the Tsp interface between the MTC-IWF and SCS, and
the MB2 interface between the BM-SC and GCS AS. If the interface between the
Network Entity and an application can be trusted, e.g. physically protected,
there is no need to use protection via cryptographic means mentioned above.
##### 6.1.5.2.2 Application accessing 3GPP Network Entity directly and
Application is controlled by a business partner i.e. another 3GPP operator (A4
interface)
In this case the Application is controlled by a business partner i.e. another
3GPP operator than the 3GPP operator controlling the 3GPP Network Entity.
It's a case by case decision what mechanisms to specify in normative phase for
specific applications accessing 3GPP Network Entities. The following options
are identified.
This interface should be protected using mechanisms similar to Tsp in TS
33.187 [2] and MB2 in TS 33.246 [6], i.e. TLS/TCP, DTLS/SCTP or IKE/IPsec.
If the interface between the Network Entity and an individual instance of SCEF
can be trusted, e.g. physically protected, there is no need to use protection
via cryptographic means mentioned above.
##### 6.1.5.2.3 Application accessing 3GPP Network Entity directly and
Application is controlled by a business partner i.e. a 3rd party (A4
interface)
In this case the Application is controlled by a business partner, i.e. a 3^rd^
party.
The same consideration apply as for the case \"Application accessing 3GPP
Network Entity directly and Application is controlled by a business partner
i.e. another 3GPP operator (A4 interface)\" above.
##### 6.1.5.2.4 Application accessing 3GPP Network Entity directly and
Application and 3GPP Network Entity are controlled by the same 3GPP operator
(A4 interface)
In this case the Application and the 3GPP Network Entity are controlled by the
same 3GPP operator.
The same consideration apply as for the case \"Application accessing 3GPP
Network Entity directly and Application is controlled by a business partner
i.e. another 3GPP operator (A4 interface)\" above.
# 7 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: This clause is intended to list conclusions that have been
agreed during the course of the work item activities. This should also capture
the guiding principles and documentation approach for creating CRs to
normative specifications within the responsibility of SA WG3.
## 7.1 GROUPE Conclusion
Based on the evaluation in clause 4.1.6, SA3 agreed on the following
conclusion on security aspects for Rel-13.
For the key issue "Group Message Protection", solution 3 in clause 4.1.4.3 is
adopted, which is inline with the SA2 conclusion (c.f., TS 23.682 [10]).
Solution 3 in clause 4.1.4.3 of this document uses existing MBMS security
mechanisms, therefore, for group message delivery procedures no changes to the
technical specifications required from security perspective for Rel-13.
## 7.2 MONTE Conclusion
Based on SA2 agreed solutions on Monitoring Enhancements (MONTE) feature for
Rel-13 (c.f., TS 23.682 [10]), no stage 2 security and privacy related
security requirement is identified. Therefore, for monitoring procedures no
changes to the technical specifications required from security perspective for
Rel-13.
## 7.3 AESE Conclusion
SA3#80 agreed on the normative texts on security requirements and solutions
for Rel-13 and are included in the TS 33.187 [2].
###### ### Annex A: Information on other SDO's work relevant for SCEF security
architecture
## A.1 General
Interfaces A2 and A3 are assumed to be outside the scope of 3GPP. Protocol
solutions for these interfaces are developed outside 3GPP in other SDOs, like
OMA or GSMA. However, it is still important for 3GPP to understand how the
security can be handled in these interfaces because SCEF will eventually
expose confidential and sensitive information outside the 3GPP network.
## A.2 Using OMA-ER-Autho4API for securing SCEF A2 and A3 interfaces
### A.2.1 General
The solution described in this section does not intend to take a stand how A2
and A3 interfaces are implemented. There are other technologies that can be
used to implement these interfaces. Furthermore, there may be even other ways
to deploy OMA-ER-Autho4API for A2 and A3.
### A.2.2 OMA-ER-Autho4API solution
REpresentational State Transfer (REST) is an architectural style for defining
distributed systems in which entities communicate using the interfaces they
expose. RESTful Network APIs specified in OMA uses HTTP system to transfer
requests and responses to query or change the state of the resources. The
resources are identified and addressed by a Uniform Resource Locator (URL)
[8].
The Authorization Framework for the OMA RESTful Network API is called
Autho4API. It is a delegated authorization framework, which enables a Resource
Owner (the subscriber) owning the network resources to authorize third-party
applications to access the resources on the Resource Owner's behalf (Figure
A.2.2-1). The solution uses authorization tokens that are issued by
Authorization Server, and verified by the Access Control Server before the
resource is exposed to the Autho4API Client [9].
{width="3.185416666666667in" height="1.9159722222222222in"}
Figure A.2.2-1: Autho4API protocol flow
When applied to the SCEF context (Figure A.2.2-2), the Applications behind the
SCEF APIs need to take the Autho4API Client role. From 3GPP point of view,
both the Authorization server and Access Control Server are inside the SCEF
where the access control decisions are enforced. (Note that parts of SCEF can
be implemented in several nodes.) SCEF needs to have access to HSS in order to
verify which UA is authorized to grant access to which piece of network
resource. Note that HSS may have a double role in this context. It makes the
authorization decisions but may also hold information that is being exposed.
Editor's note: Detailed protocol steps, and other ways to deploy Autho4API are
FFS.
Figure A.2.2-2: Autho4API applied to SCEF
#