# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the results of a Stage 2 study and evaluation of
possible 3GPP security solutions in support of Isolated E-UTRAN Operation for
Public Safety (IOPS). The solutions are based on the Stage 1 requirements in
3GPP TS 22.346 [2], the architectural enhancements to support IOPS presented
in the Stage 2 study report 3GPP TR 23.797 [3] and resulting informative Annex
K in 3GPP TS 23.401 [10]. For the current release of specification the
solution in 3GPP TS 23.401 [10] is based on a Local EPC with no backhaul.
The present document identifies key issues, security threats, deduces security
requirements and presents proposed security solutions for IOPS.
Throughout this Technical Report the terms \'IOPS network\' and \'Isolated
E-UTRAN\' are used synonymously.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.346: \"Isolated Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN) operation for public safety; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.797: \"Study on architecture enhancements to support Isolated E
UTRAN Operation for Public Safety\".
[4] 3GPP TR 22.234: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[5] 3GPP TR 31.102: \"Characteristics of the Universal Subscriber Identity
Module (USIM) application\".
[6] 3GPP TR 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
architecture\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G Security; Security architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[10] 3GPP TR 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 22.346 [2], 3GPP TS 23.401 [10] and the following
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Macro EPC:** The EPC which serves an eNB in a \'normal\' mode of operation
[10].
**IOPS-capable eNB:** An eNB that has the capability of IOPS mode operation,
which provides local IP connectivity and public safety services to IOPS-
enabled UEs via a Local EPC when the eNB has lost backhaul to the Macro EPC or
it has no backhaul to the Macro EPC.
**IOPS network:** An IOPS network consists of one or more eNBs operating in
IOPS mode and connected to a Local EPC.
**Local EPC:** A Local EPC is an entity which provides functionality that eNBs
in IOPS mode of operation use, instead of the Macro EPC, in order to support
public safety services.
**Nomadic EPS:** A deployable system which has the capability to provide radio
access (via deployable IOPS-capable eNB(s)), local IP connectivity and public
safety services to IOPS-enabled UEs in the absence of normal EPS.
**IOPS-enabled UE:** An UE that is configured to use networks operating in
IOPS mode.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AMF Authentication Management Field as defined in [7]
IOPS Isolated E-UTRAN Operation for Public Safety
TAI Tracking Area Identifier as defined in [11]
# 4 Overview of IOPS
## 4.1 Introduction
Many national and international Public Safety organizations have endorsed or
are considering LTE as the next generation technology either to augment their
existing systems, or to provide a future migration path. Ensuring the
continued ability of Public Safety users to communicate within mission
critical situations is of the utmost importance even when the fixed
infrastructure is compromised.
The IOPS feature as specified in the Stage 1 normative requirements [2]
provides the ability to:
\- Maintain a level of communications for Public Safety users, via a fixed
infrastructure eNB (or set of connected eNBs), following the total loss of
backhaul communications.
\- Create a serving radio access network without backhaul communications from
a deployment of one or more standalone deployable IOPS-capable eNBs forming a
Nomadic EPS. A Nomadic EPS is intended for Public Safety use providing
coverage or additional capacity where: 1) coverage was never present (e.g.
forest fire or underground rescue) or 2) where, for example, due to natural
disaster coverage is no longer present.
\- Create a serving radio access network, with and without backhaul
communications, from a deployment comprising a combination of eNBs and
deployable IOPS-capable eNBs.
\- Maintain or create a level of communications for Public Safety users in the
scenario where set of eNBs or deployable IOPS-capable eNBs is without normal
backhaul communications but has been provided with an alternative (non-ideal)
limited bandwidth backhaul.
The Isolated E-UTRAN may comprise a single or multiple eNBs. An Isolated
E-UTRAN comprising multiple eNBs, with connections between the eNBs, can
provide communication between UEs across a wider area of coverage than can be
provided by a single isolated eNB. The UEs in the coverage of the Isolated
E-UTRAN are able to continue communicating and provide a restricted set of
services supporting voice, data and group communications, to their Public
Safety users.
An Isolated E-UTRAN may comprise a deployment of one or more deployable IOPS-
capable eNBs. An Isolated E-UTRAN derived from deployable IOPS-capable eNBs
exhibits similar behaviour to an Isolated E-UTRAN derived from eNBs including:
support for Public Safety UEs in the coverage area, communication between
deployable IOPS-capable eNBs and support for limited backhaul connectivity.
Furthermore an Isolated E-UTRAN may also comprise a combination of eNBs and
deployable IOPS-capable eNBs where additional capacity or coverage is provided
by deployable IOPS-capable eNBs in an Isolated eNB infrastructure network.
Realization of the IOPS feature must be able to manage the potentially dynamic
nature of an Isolated E-UTRAN where:
\- Deployable IOPS-capable eNBs or eNBs form, join and leave the Isolated
E-UTRAN in a secure manner;
\- UEs join and leave the Isolated E-UTRAN.
An Isolated E-UTRAN is characterized by having no, or a limited, backhaul
connection. In particular, the IOPS feature enables services to be provided to
Public Safety UEs in the following backhaul scenarios:
  * No backhaul;
  * Limited bandwidth signalling only backhaul;
  * Limited bandwidth signalling and user data backhaul.
## 4.2 Architecture
The architecture of a network for isolated operation of E-UTRAN in Public
Safety is described in 3GPP TR 23.797 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.401, Annex K [10].
From a security point of view, it has been decided to have a USIM application
dedicated exclusively for IOPS mode.
LTE security procedures are followed for IOPS networks as described in 3GPP TS
33.401 [6].
# 5 List of assets
This clause lists assets within an Isolated E-UTRAN. Identification of these
assets helps to define the extent of the Isolated E-UTRAN study in this and
future releases.
The following are assets within an Isolated E-UTRAN:
\- User and any Isolated E-UTRAN Key material. This includes all possible key
material used for authentication, encryption and integrity protection of
communications within an Isolated E-UTRAN.
\- User identity. Used to identify the user in the Isolated E-UTRAN. This may
be a permanent or a temporary identity.
\- Network identity (for example MME identity). Used to identify the Isolated
E-UTRAN. This may be a permanent or a temporary identity.
\- Services supported within the IOPS network. Applications that support local
services within the Isolated E-UTRAN.
\- Bearer-level traffic. User to network traffic within the Isolated E-UTRAN.
In particular, any traffic that is carried by the PDCP layer.
\- Radio Parameters. These parameters are FFS.
\- Backhaul links and eNBs and existing network elements.
\- Security infrastructure (for example HSS and AuC).
\- Network access.
\- The quality of service parameters for current users at the point of
initiating Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
# 6 Security analysis of IOPS
## 6.1 General
This subclause addresses key issues in which threats to the assets in an IOPS
system have been identified. Security requirements to ensure those assets are
protected from the identified threats are derived.
The potential requirements listed in the following subclauses use the formal
\"shall\" and \"may\" to not lose any distinction when later formulating a set
of requirements as an output to the study.
## 6.2 Key issue #1: Security credentials in IOPS networks
### 6.2.1 Key issue details
Security credentials are used for authorization, authentication, and key
agreement in the macro EPC. This key issue discusses whether the security
credentials for IOPS need to be different from those used in the IOPS
network\'s local EPC.
The key issue discusses the following cases:
\- No backhaul,
\- Limited backhaul,
\- Backhaul available before being in IOPS mode.
If no backhaul is available at all, the IOPS network must be pre-configured.
Thus dedicated UEs for IOPS-only operation would be needed and therefore
security credentials for IOPS would be different.
If limited backhaul is available, e.g. by LTE or other means like satellite,
AKA could be performed via the macro HSS. Changing between IOPS operation and
normal operation using the same credentials could lead to compromises. Thus,
different credentials are the preferred way forward.
If the IOPS network had connection to the macro EPC before becoming isolated
with either no backhaul or limited backhaul, then different scenarios seem
possible for performing AKA. Also in this case the usage of different
credentials seems to be beneficial to avoid any security threat.
NOTE: This release considers only the no backhaul use case.
### 6.2.2 Security threat
Using the same credentials in different set-ups of the network gives room to
attacking the system. In particular, since security credentials stored in a
local EPC would be much more exposed to attacks than those in a macro EPC.
Furthermore, using the same credentials in different networks is against the
paradigm of cryptographic separation of authentication material.
### 6.2.3 Potential security requirement
Security credentials for authentication and key agreement in the attachment
procedure to the IOPS network shall not be usable in non-IOPS procedures.
The guidelines for interoperability in a multi-vendor environment from 3GPP TS
33.102, Annex C.4 [7] may be followed.
## 6.3 Key issue #2: Integrity and confidentiality for IOPS network
### 6.3.1 Key issue details
As defined in 3GPP TS 22.346, an Isolated E-UTRAN is characterized by having
no, or a limited, backhaul connection in all these cases, the Isolated E-UTRAN
is expected to provide for the authentication of participating entities and
for the confidentiality and integrity of communications. Subclause 5.6.2 also
states the requirements for security, authorization and privacy to be equally
to existing LTE security. Thus, Local EPC supporting the Isolated E-UTRAN
needs to support authentication and authorization of Public Safety UEs. It
should be possible for both the network and the UEs to authenticate each
other.
### 6.3.2 Security threat
Eavesdropping, modification of messages, replay attacks, masquerading are
threats in IOPS networks.
If UEs are not authenticated for network access, unauthorized UEs will be
accessing and using the Isolated E-UTRAN network.
Loss of confidentiality and integrity of ongoing communications, hijacking
genuine communications sessions etc. are potential security threats without
authentication and authorization. Eavesdropping on ongoing communication and
gathering information may be used against the Public Safety personnel during
critical operations.
Unauthorized access and resource usage will consume much needed resources
during critical disaster situations.
### 6.3.3 Potential security requirement
AS signalling between IOPS-capable Public Safety UE and an Isolated eNB may be
confidentially protected and shall be integrity protected with replay
protection.
NAS signalling between IOPS-capable Public Safety UE and local MME may be
confidentially protected and shall be integrity protected with replay
protection.
An IOPS-capable Public Safety UE and a local EPC of an Isolated E-UTRAN shall
perform mutual authentication.
User Plane communication between IOPS-capable Public Safety UE and an Isolated
eNB may be confidentiality protected.
Local EPC supporting the Isolated E-UTRAN shall support authorization of IOPS-
capable Public Safety UE.
Communication between eNB and local EPC shall be confidentiality and integrity
protected with replay protection.
Any signaling interface between any entity in the local EPC domain with any
entity in the macro EPC domain shall be confidentiality and integrity
protected.
NOTE 1: The IOPS solution described in 3GPP TS 23.401 [10] addresses only the
scenario of a Local EPC with no backhaul to the Macro EPC. The architecture
does not allow for eNBs to be connected to both a Local EPC and Macro EPC
simultaneously. Furthermore, the architecture does not allow for signaling
between Local and Macro EPC.
Any signaling interface between any entity in one local EPC domain with any
entity in another local EPC domain shall be confidentiality and integrity
protected.
NOTE 2: The IOPS solution described in 3GPP TS 23.401 [10] means an eNB
operating in IOPS mode may only establish an S1 interface to one Local EPC
(either a co-located Local EPC or a Local EPC within the local IP network).
The S1 interface between an eNB operating in IOPS mode and a Local EPC is
subject to the same security requirements as for an S1 interface between an
eNB and a Macro EPC.
NOTE 3: Due to exposed nature of IOPS network elements the user plane between
core network entities in a local EPC may need to be protected.
## 6.4 Key issue #3: Isolated E-UTRAN support of Public Safety UEs belonging
to different Public Safety organizations
### 6.4.1 Key issue details
Public Safety Organization consists of different groups and agencies with
different jurisdiction. Hence the authentication and authorization framework
need to support a relatively large and dynamic number of Public Safety UEs
belonging to different groups.
### 6.4.2 Potential security requirement
It shall be possible for the authentication and authorization framework in the
Isolated E-UTRAN to support Public Safety UEs belonging to different Public
Safety organizations.
## 6.5 Key issue #4: IOPS AKA based upon a secondary USIM application using a
single UICC
### 6.5.1 Key issue details
The provision of IOPS security may be provided by AKA based on a USIM
application dedicated exclusively for IOPS operation. Key issues of
subscription management relevant to IOPS security based on this approach
concern:
  * New user joining whilst in \'normal\' network mode,
  * New user joining whilst in IOPS mode,
  * \'Out-of-the-box\' operation (Public Safety Specific Requirements for Proximity Services in clause 7A.2 [4]), and
  * Whether or not there\'s a UICC present in the device.
Other key issues relate to how AKA based on a USIM application dedicated
exclusively for IOPS operation handles UE mobility and transitions in network
state (from \'normal\' network operation to IOPS operation and vice versa):
\- _Initiating IOPS operation_ : There are three ways in which IOPS operation
can be initiated: Loss of backhaul at the eNB, UE mobility when the UE moves
into the coverage of an IOPS network, and an deployable IOPS-capable eNB
starting operating (an deployable IOPS-capable eNB is deployed and begins IOPS
operation in the area of \'normal\' network operation).
\- _IOPS mobility_ : Two aspects of IOPS mobility have been identified: Inter
IOPS mobility (when a UE moves between IOPS networks) and Intra IOPS mobility
(when a UE moves between cells in an IOPS networks).
\- _Terminating IOPS operation_ : There are three ways in which IOPS operation
can end: S1 restoration to the Macro EPC, UE mobility when the UE moves into
the coverage of a \'normal\' network, and a deployable IOPS-capable eNB ends
operation.
### 6.5.2 Security threat
#### 6.5.2.1 Interception of IOPS network user traffic
Eavesdropping at the air interface: Traffic intended for users in the IOPS
network could be intercepted by an unauthorized individual.
Eavesdropping at the network: Traffic from a user in the IOPS network destined
for other users in the IOPS network could be intercepted by an unauthorized
individual.
#### 6.5.2.2 Theft or loss
Theft of the Local HSS located at the eNB/deployable IOPS-capable eNB: The
theft of the Local HSS from an deployable IOPS-capable eNB (rather than an
eNB) is a more likely outcome by virtue of the portability and accessibility
of such equipment; conversely a Local EPC co-located with an eNB would be more
secure given the inherent physical security of an infrastructure deployment,
e.g. locked equipment cabinets and protective fences. In either case theft of
the Local HSS would mean UEs would no longer be able to connect to the IOPS
network using USIM-based security. The security keys for \'normal\' network
operation would not be affected and so \'normal\' network operation could
continue without any impact on service.
Another threat relates to the fact, if same credentials are provisioned in all
Local HSSs within the Local EPCs supporting IOPS operation, which is needed
where the Public Safety authority requires that the UE be provided service in
the event of a loss of backhaul communication. If one of the local HSSs was
then compromised by an attacker, either in the form that the attacker could
obtain the credentials or that the attacker could control the interface to the
local HSS, the implications are wide-ranging: For all subscribers the
credentials that were stored in the compromised local AuC the USIMs out in the
field, have to be swapped and the subscriber credentials have to be re-
provisioned in all local AuCs.
Theft or loss of a UE/UICC: The model for handling the theft or loss of a
UE/UICC within an Isolated E-UTRAN follows in a similar way to that of the
\'normal\' network case; for example revocation of service to the UE in
question.
Theft and unauthorized use of an eNB/deployable IOPS-capable eNB: The theft of
a deployable IOPS-capable eNB (rather than an eNB) is a more likely outcome by
virtue of the portability and accessibility of such equipment; conversely the
theft of an eNB is less likely given the inherent physical security of an
infrastructure deployment. An adversary could use a stolen eNB/deployable
IOPS-capable eNB to impersonate the operator, intercept user traffic, conduct
traffic analysis, perform manipulation and create a denial of service attack.
#### 6.5.2.3 Impersonation
Impersonation of an eNB/deployable IOPS-capable eNB: It is conceivable that an
adversary could use equipment to impersonate an IOPS network. This can lead to
a denial of service attack where a user is connected to a malicious network
and as a result is unable to communicate with other users in the true IOPS
network.
Impersonation of a UE: An adversary may gain unauthorized access to the IOPS
network by means of a UE (an individual using a stolen UE or stolen UICC).
Exposure of the IMSI: It is acknowledged that the transmission of the IMSI is
undertaken as infrequently as possible in order to protect the user\'s
permanent identity; and use instead temporary identifiers. During transition
to IOPS operation it may be necessary for the UE to transmit its IMSI since
the Local EPC may have no knowledge of the users it is serving. Furthermore
inter IOPS mobility is likely to result in the transmission of the IMSI every
time the UE moves between IOPS networks.
### 6.5.3 Potential security requirement
#### 6.5.3.1 Interception of IOPS network user traffic
Eavesdropping at the air interface: Control signalling and user plane data
intended for users in the IOPS network may be confidentiality protected.
Control signalling shall be integrity protected.
Eavesdropping at the network: User plane data from a user in the IOPS network
destined for other users in the IOPS network shall be protected from
interception within the eNB.
#### 6.5.3.2 Theft or loss
Theft of the Local HSS located at the eNB/deployable IOPS-capable eNB: The
mitigation for this outcome is for the Local HSS database to be held on an
encrypted hardware platform meaning the keys contained therein may not be
compromised and used for malicious purposes if stolen. In the event of a theft
either new UICCs would need to be issued or UICCs reprogrammed with new
credentials and these updated credentials provided to a new Local HSS.
Theft or loss of a UE/UICC: There may be an initial period where the
theft/loss is not realized; after the theft/loss is discovered then service
for that particular UE can be barred. This barring would, for the case of IOPS
operation, need to be reflected in the Local HSS and then reported back to the
\'normal\' network HSS once a backhaul connection has been restored.
Dissemination of information on barred UEs across all IOPS networks may be
difficult and may have to be best effort.
Unauthorized use or loss of an eNB/deployable IOPS-capable eNB: In the event
of unauthorized use or loss of an eNB/deployable IOPS-capable eNB then the
security approach taken is likely to dictate how long the security credentials
remain valid and the mechanism by which they would be updated. Unauthorized
use of an eNB/deployable IOPS-capable eNB means UEs attach unaware of the
eNB\'s potentially malicious use; whereas loss of an eNB/deployable IOPS-
capable eNB would potentially result in a loss of service and a requirement
for re-provisioning of security credentials in the UE. When following a USIM-
based approach for IOPS AKA then for the case of unauthorized use of an
eNB/deployable IOPS-capable eNB then vulnerability to malicious use will
continue until the UICCs in all UEs are updated with new security credentials.
For the case of a loss of an eNB/deployable IOPS-capable eNB then loss of
service will extend until the UICCs in all UEs are updated with new security
credentials.
#### 6.5.3.3 Impersonation
Impersonation of an eNB/deployable IOPS-capable eNB: It is desirable that an
adversary is prevented from using equipment to impersonate an IOPS network.
Authentication of an IOPS network by UE\'s would reduce the risk of this
occurring. A UE would make a decision to not attach to an IOPS network that
failed authentication from the perspective of the UE.
Impersonation of a UE: In a similar way it is desirable that an adversary is
prevented from gaining unauthorized access to the IOPS network by means of a
UE (an individual using a stolen UE or stolen UICC). Authentication of a UE by
the IOPS network would reduce the risk of this occurring. An IOPS network
would make a decision to not allow attachment to an IOPS network if that UE
(and specifically the UICC) failed authentication or if the UE and/or UICC had
been barred as a result of it being stolen. To keep a list of barred UE/UICCs
up to date during IOPS operation then it would be required for local access to
be permitted in the IOPS network and for an operative to be allowed access to
this list. Lists of barred UE/UICCs should be managed between eNBs comprising
the IOPS network. It is recognized that this operation would need to be
performed for all IOPS networks that exist in a given geographic area of
interest.
Exposure of the IMSI: It is a design goal for IOPS operation that exposure of
the IMSI is kept to a minimum. For instance inter IOPS mobility is likely to
result in the transmission of the IMSI every time the UE moves between IOPS
networks due to the lack of UE context information between IOPS networks. It
is desirable therefore to retain UE context information common to all eNBs
that comprise an IOPS network and to maximize (where possible) the number of
eNBs that form a given IOPS network.
## 6.6 Key issue #5: Isolated E-UTRAN internode interface security
### 6.6.1 Key issue details
As defined in 3GPP TS 22.346 [2], Isolated E-UTRAN consists of one or more
deployable IOPS-capable eNBs or eNBs without backhaul. Two security scenarios
should be considered:
\- A deployable IOPS-capable eNB or eNB wants to join an Isolated E-UTRAN;
\- Inter-deployable IOPS-capable eNB or inter-eNB communication of an Isolated
E-UTRAN.
Each of these deployable IOPS-capable eNBs may or may not contain a Local EPC
network. If the deployable IOPS-capable eNBs or eNBs don\'t contain a Local
EPC network, it should be possible to share the Local EPC with a deployable
IOPS-capable eNB or eNB which contains it. When the functional entities MME,
SGW, PGW, HSS etc. within a Local EPC is shared between multiple eNBs, or
interwork as a single Isolated E-UTRAN network, any exposed interface need to
be secured just as in a macro network.
NOTE: It is expected that all nodes in an Isolated E-UTRAN belong to the same
operator.
When functions in different nodes are grouped together to form the Isolated
E-UTRAN network, each node should authenticate the other peer node.
In addition, the following interfaces need to be supported in a secure manner.
X2 interface between deployable IOPS-capable eNBs or eNBs.
S1-MME interface between a deployable IOPS-capable eNB or eNB which doesn\'t
have a Local EPC to the deployable IOPS-capable eNB or eNB with a Local EPC
which will support a local MME in the grouping.
S1-U interface between a deployable IOPS-capable eNB or eNB to the Local EPC
which will support a local SGW/PGW in the grouping.
S6a interface between Local EPC MMEs and the node functioning as the local
HSS/AuC for the group.
S10 interface between Local EPC MMEs for inter MME context transfer during
handover scenarios.
### 6.6.2 Security threat
Fake deployable IOPS-capable eNBs or eNBs may attack Isolated EUTRAN if mutual
authentication is absent between Isolated EUTRAN deployable IOPS-capable eNB
or eNB and other nodes such as deployable IOPS-capable eNB or eNB, MME, SGW,
PGW, HSS, etc.
Inter-deployable IOPS-capable eNB or inter-eNB communication of an Isolated
E-UTRAN may be tampered and eavesdropped if integrity protection and
confidentiality protection are not provided. Loss of confidentiality and
privacy of ongoing communications, hijacking genuine communications sessions
etc. are potential security threats without protecting the interfaces.
Public Safety UE identities may get revealed without protecting the inter node
interfaces.
### 6.6.3 Potential security requirement
All peer network nodes in an Isolated E-UTRAN network shall authenticate each
other.
All the interfaces between the nodes within an Isolated E-UTRAN network shall
be secured.
# 7 Proposed solutions
## 7.1 Proposed Solution #1: AKA based on a USIM application dedicated
exclusively for IOPS operation
## 7.1.1 Introduction
The proposed solution describes a means of providing IOPS security using a
USIM application dedicated exclusively for IOPS operation on a UICC and using
existing AKA procedures (termed USIM application #2). Furthermore the proposed
solution describes the possible use of a USIM application for \'normal\'
network-based operation (termed USIM application #1) together with USIM
application#2. USIM application #1and USIM application #2 use distinct sets of
security credentials and both comply with current 3GPP specifications.
The proposed solution places no restriction on the distribution of USIM
application #1 and USIM application #2 between one or more UICCs.
NOTE: This solution neither limits the number of USIM applications nor demands
exactly two. An IOPS-capable UE can operate in IOPS only or if configured, can
switch between IOPS mode of operation and \'normal\' mode by means of
switching between the different USIM applications.
### 7.1.2 Functional description
The proposed solution draws upon the following functional requirements:
\- Each USIM application has a pre-provisioned EF~OPLMNwACT~ (Operator
controlled PLMN selector with ACcess Technology) file with the relevant PLMN
identities [5]. USIM application #1 contains the PLMN ID for \'normal\'
network operation and other roaming networks; USIM application #2 contains the
dedicated IOPS-specific PLMN ID as described in 3GPP TS 23.401, Annex K [10].
\- When the UE initializes and has UICC interaction the UE can make a local
store of all the USIM Application IDentities (AIDs) present.
\- For each USIM AID the UE could then activate the USIM application and read
the EF~OPLMNwACT~ file and again locally store the PLMN identities linked to
each AID.
\- In the event that a UE attempts to attach and if the PLMN ID does not match
the currently active USIM application the UE can de-activate the current USIM
application and then activate the other USIM application (assuming the PLMN
matches the stored PLMN for the other AID).
\- Both USIM application #1 and USIM application #2 are associated with the
same network operator.
\- When transitioning to/from IOPS mode, the remaining authentication data
(including authentication vector(s) and security context) in the MME and UE
shall be handled as transitioning into EMM-DEREGISTERED state according to
3GPP TS 33.401 [6].
\- Reuse of sequence number management schemes in 3GPP TS 33.102, Annex C [7]
and re-synchronization procedure in 3GPP TS 33.102, sub-clause 6.3.5 [7] to
avoid sequence number mismatches for the case of inter IOPS network mobility.
NOTE 1: It is strongly recommended to follow the guidelines for
interoperability in a multi-vendor environment from 3GPP TS 33.102, Annex C.4
[7].
NOTE 2: To conserve authentication vectors, it is strongly recommended that
one authentication vector is provided per Authentication Data Response by the
Local HSS.
### 7.1.3 Procedures
#### 7.1.3.1 Prior to IOPS operation
Under \'normal\' network ECM-CONNECTED operation prior to IOPS operation:
From the perspective of support for IOPS, there shall be two USIM applications
provided.
USIM application #1 is used to perform AKA for \'normal\' network operation.
USIM application #1 contains at least:
\- A permanent key K~1~.
\- A PLMN ID~1~ assigned for \'normal\' network operation.
\- IMSI~1~.
\- Furthermore K~1~, PLMN ID~1~ and IMSI~1~ shall be provisioned in the HSS of
the Macro EPC and used for AKA between the UE and the network as currently
specified.
USIM application #2 is used to perform AKA for IOPS operation. USIM
application #2 contains at least:
\- A permanent key K~2~.
NOTE: K~1~ ≠ K~2~.
\- A PLMN ID~2~ assigned for IOPS network operation.
\- IMSI~2~.
\- Furthermore K~2~, PLMN ID~2~ and IMSI~2~ shall be provisioned in all HSSs
of Local EPCs supporting IOPS operation.
Storage of credentials (the IOPS network security credential set) in the Local
HSS is only performed for UEs authorized for operation on the IOPS network.
Administrative provisioning is used to keep up to date security credential for
all authorized UEs at the Local HSS within the Local EPCs. Updates are
provided within a security context that already exists between the EPC and
eNBs in the \'normal\' network.
The general operation of IOPS security based on the two USIM applications is
presented in Figure 7.1.3.1-1.
{width="6.500694444444444in" height="4.370833333333334in"}
Figure 7.1.3.1-1: General operation of IOPS security based on two USIM
applications
#### 7.1.3.2 High level security procedure
The following steps are executed for mutual authentication and secure
communication during IOPS mode of operation and based on that described in
3GPP TS 23.401, Annex K [10].
{width="4.915972222222222in" height="7.708333333333333in"}
Figure 7.1.3.2-1 High level security procedure
0) A Rel-99 or later USIM application #2 is provisioned to enable access to a
Local EPC during IOPS mode of operation. Furthermore USIM application #1 may
be provisioned for \'normal\' network access. The Local EPC supports Local HSS
functions to support the UE\'s access to the Local EPC. The parameters
necessary for access (e.g., IOPS PLMN ID~2~, IMSI~2~ and permanent key K~2~)
are stored on the USIM application #2 and also in the Local HSS to facilitate
EPS AKA and to derive keys as specified in 3GPP TS 33.401 [6] for signalling
and user traffic protection during IOPS mode of operation.
1) The backhaul is detected to be lost by the eNB.
2) The eNB supporting IOPS mode transitions to IOPS mode by (a) preventing any
UEs from selecting the cell, using a suitable mechanism, until step 2b and
step 2c are completed; (b) activating a Local EPC; and (c) establishing the S1
link to the Local EPC.
NOTE 1: Steps 1 and 2 are not necessary for the Nomadic EPS case.
3) The eNB advertises the PLMN ID for IOPS operation with the Local EPC.
4) The UE detects the IOPS-specific PLMN ID and IOPS USIM application #2 is
activated..
5) The UE uses USIM application #2 to attach to the Local EPC and obtains a
local IP address, if authorized. The EPS AKA procedure is performed between
USIM application #2 and the Local EPC as specified in 3GPP TS 33.401 [6]. The
EPS AKA produces basic keying material and further keys (user plane (UP), RRC,
and NAS ciphering keys as well as RRC and NAS integrity protection keys) in
the UE and in the Local EPC/eNB as specified in TS 33.401 [6]. Further the NAS
and AS SMC procedure are performed between the UE and the Local EPC/eNB to
enable secure communication as specified in 3GPP TS 33.401 [6].
6) Public Safety services supported by the IOPS network can be initiated.
7) At any time, the eNB could detect that the backhaul to the Macro EPC is
restored.
8) S1 connections to the Local EPC are released according to the IOPS network
policies and the eNB stops its IOPS mode of operation.
9) The \'normal\' PLMN ID of the Macro EPC is announced and the \'normal\'
TAIs of the Macro EPC are advertised by the eNB so that UEs reselect this
\'normal\' PLMN.
> 10) The UE detaches from the Local EPC and the \'normal\' USIM application
> #1 is activated.
>
> 11) The UE uses a USIM application #1 whenever the \'normal\' PLMN is
> selected and performs security procedures with the Macro EPC as specified in
> 3GPP TS 33.401 [6]. The UE attaches as \'normal\' to the Macro EPC, if
> authorized.
NOTE 2: Steps 7 to 11 are not necessary for the Nomadic EPS case.
#### 7.1.3.3 Transitioning to/from IOPS operation
There are three ways in which IOPS operation can be initiated at the UE:
> \- As a result of UE mobility where the UE leaves the coverage of the
> \'normal\' network and enters the coverage of an IOPS network provided by an
> deployable IOPS-capable eNB or eNB,
>
> \- The UE is in the coverage of an IOPS-capable eNB that experiences a loss
> of backhaul followed by establishment of IOPS network initiated by the eNB,
> or
>
> \- The UE is in the coverage of a deployable IOPS-capable eNB that begins
> operation.
There are two ways in which IOPS operation can be initiated at the deployable
IOPS-capable eNB or eNB:
> \- A loss of backhaul at the eNB followed by establishment of an IOPS
> network, or
>
> \- A deployable IOPS-capable eNB begins operation.
When a transition between \'normal\' network operation and IOPS operation
occurs the UE enters into de-registered state and then initiates an attach
procedure towards the Local/Macro EPC as specified in 3GPP TS 23.401, Annex K
[10].
For security procedures during the transition between \'normal\' network
operation and IOPS operation, the UE performs key handling procedures as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.401 [6].
#### 7.1.3.4 Inter IOPS mobility
Inter IOPS mobility occurs for a UE which is mobile between IOPS networks.
Each IOPS network comprises a local EPC instance and either a single eNB or
multiple eNBs.
When a transition between IOPS networks is detected by a TAU Reject, the UE
enters a de-registered state and initiates an attach procedure towards the
Local EPC as specified in 3GPP TS 23.401, Annex K [10].
For security procedures during the transition between IOPS networks the UE
performs key handling procedures as specified in 3GPP TS 33.401 [6].
#### 7.1.3.5 Intra IOPS mobility
Intra IOPS mobility occurs for a UE which is mobile within an IOPS network.
The IOPS network comprises multiple eNBs and one Local EPC.
The UE performs currently specified mobility during a transition between IOPS
cells in an IOPS network as specified in 3GPP TR 23.401, Annex K [10].
Therefore, the UE performs currently specified security procedure as specified
in 3GPP TS 33.401 [6] for mobility during a transition between IOPS cells in
an IOPS network.
## 7.2 Proposed Solution #2: IOPS inter-node interface security
The solution addresses key issues #5.
While forming an IOPS network, it is possible that the network may contain
more than one eNB or deployable IOPS-capable eNB and a Local EPC.
When there are multiple nodes in an IOPS network, if there are any exposed
interfaces between the network nodes, the protection of S1 interface and X2
interface shall follow clause 11, clause 12 and clause 13 in 3GPP TS 33.401
[6] and the protection of network domain interfaces inside the Local EPC can
be secured by security procedures defined in 3GPP TS 33.310 [8] and 3GPP TS
33.210 [9].
# 8 Evaluation
## 8.1 Proposed Solution #1: AKA based on a USIM application dedicated
exclusively for IOPS operation
### 8.1.1 General
The proposed solution describes a means of providing IOPS security using a
USIM application dedicated exclusively for IOPS operation and using existing
AKA procedures. Furthermore the proposed solution describes the use of a USIM
application for \'normal\' network-based operation (termed USIM application
#1) together with the USIM application dedicated exclusively for IOPS
operation (termed USIM application #2). USIM application #1and USIM
application #2 use distinct sets of security credentials and both support AKA
procedures as specified by 3GPP.
### 8.1.2 Analysis of Security Analysis Key Issues
#### 8.1.2.0 Introduction
Key Issues detailed in the Security Analysis of IOPS networks (clause 6) are
addressed by proposed solution #1, namely:
  * Key Issue #1: Security credentials in IOPS networks.
  * Key Issue #2: Integrity and confidentiality for IOPS networks.
  * Key Issue #3: Isolated E-UTRAN support of Public Safety UEs > belonging to different Public Safety organizations.
  * Key Issue #4: AKA based on a USIM application dedicated exclusively > for IOPS operation.
  * Key Issue #5: Isolated E-UTRAN internode interface security.
Each Key Issue is discussed in the following subclauses.
#### 8.1.2.1 Key Issue #1: Security credentials in IOPS networks
The potential requirement arising from this key issue analysis requires that
the security credentials for authentication and key agreement in the
attachment procedure to the IOPS network are not usable in \'normal\' network
operation procedures. The two distinct sets of security credentials described
in this proposed solution ensure this requirement is met.
#### 8.1.2.2 Key Issue #2: Integrity and confidentiality for IOPS networks
The following potential requirements arising from this key issue are met by
this proposed solution due to the reuse of existing AKA procedures:
  * AS signalling between IOPS-capable Public Safety UE and an Isolated > eNB may be confidentially protected and shall be integrity > protected with replay protection.
  * NAS signalling between IOPS-capable Public Safety UE and local MME may be confidentially protected and shall be integrity protected with replay protection.
  * An IOPS-capable Public Safety UE and a local EPC of an Isolated E-UTRAN shall perform mutual authentication.
  * User plane communication between an IOPS-capable Public Safety UE > and an Isolated eNB shall be confidentiality protected.
  * A Local EPC supporting the Isolated E-UTRAN shall support > authorization of IOPS-capable Public Safety UE.
All other potential requirements described in this key issue do not require
specification and are left to implementation when deploying an IOPS-capable
network.
#### 8.1.2.3 Key Issue #3: Isolated E-UTRAN support of Public Safety UEs
belonging to different Public Safety organizations
The potential requirement arising from this key issue analysis requires an
authentication and authorization framework in the Isolated E-UTRAN to support
Public Safety UEs belonging to different Public Safety organizations. A set of
credentials for each Public Safety UE can be provisioned within the USIM
application dedicated exclusively for IOPS operation and the Local HSSs. This
will provide a means of supporting AKA-based authentication and authorization
when the UE is connected to an IOPS network.
#### 8.1.2.4 Key Issue #4: AKA based on a USIM application dedicated
exclusively for IOPS operation
The potential requirements arising from this key issue are either covered by
Key Issues #1 (subclause 8.1.2.1), Key Issue #2 (subclause 8.1.2.2) or Key
Issue #3 (subclause 8.1.2.3); or they do not require specification and are
left to implementation when deploying an IOPS-capable network.
#### 8.1.2.5 Key Issue #5: Internode interface security
All potential requirements described in this key issue do not require
specification and are left to implementation when deploying an IOPS-capable
network.
### 8.1.3 Scalability
#### 8.1.3.1 Hardware dimensioning
Given that IOPS only applies to Public Safety operation then the entire user
database provisioned in the infrastructure network does not need to be
replicated and maintained at the Local HSS. Typically the number of Public
Safety users would be measured in the 10 000s whereas commercial users would
be measured in the millions. The hardware platform used to host the Local EPC
will probably be co-located with eNBs in the E-UTRAN and will, therefore,
impose some fixed limit, depending upon the storage available for credentials,
on the number of Public Safety users that may be supported by the Local HSS.
However, given the ready availability of secure storage options of the order
of 10s of Gigabytes (e.g. secure flash drives) memory for storage of
credentials is unlikely to be an issue for the numbers of Public Safety users
that might need to be supported.
#### 8.1.3.2 Provisioning of credentials
Credentials for all Public Safety users need to be maintained at all Local HSS
entities in preparation for such a time when isolated operation occurs. The
provisioning and management of these credentials can be performed during
\'normal\' (backhaul connected) operation and therefore, can be provided in a
secure manner within the context of the E-UTRAN operation.
An existing transport mechanism (for example an interface used for the
management of a deployable IOPS-capable eNB or eNB)) can be used to maintain
user security credentials between the Macro HSS (or a management entity which
may act on behalf of the Macro HSS) and Local HSSs. For the case of the Macro
HSS maintaining IOPS security credentials this process would take place when
user security credentials are updated in the Macro HSS (as currently defined
within the operator\'s provisioning mechanism) and therefore any Public Safety
user security credentials would propagate down to update the Local HSSs.
NOTE: The solution for IOPS AKA based on a two USIM application approach (see
subclause 7.1.1), and with the assumption of using the same UE for \'normal\'
operation, means that for a given Public Safety UE credentials related to USIM
application #1 are present in the Macro HSS only while the credentials related
to USIM application #2 are present in the Local HSSs (and optionally in the
Macro HSS).
The provisioning and management of these credentials is not an onerous task
given that changes to individual Public Safety users\' credentials will happen
infrequently. The Public Safety user base would be in the most part static,
and, with the expectation that isolated operation will be infrequent; the
propagation of updates to the Local HSSs can be performed over an extended
period of time. However, the change of individual Public Safety users\'
credentials following an actual or claimed security breach of a Local HSS may
be mandated.
#### 8.1.3.3 Replacement of a large number of credentials in case of
compromise of a local HSS
Clause 6.5.2.2 describes the threat scenario if one of these local HSSs was
compromised by an attacker. In this case either the attacker could obtain the
credentials or the attacker could control the interface to the local HSS. The
implication is wide ranging: for all subscribers whose credentials were stored
in the compromised local HSS/AuC the USIMs out in the field would have to be
swapped and the subscriber credentials have to be re-provisioned in all local
HSSs.
### 8.1.3a \'Subscriber key separation\' mechanism to mitigation of compromise
of local HSSs
One approach to address the compromise as described in subclause 8.1.3.3 may
be as follows. For each IOPS network n, to which a UE is supposed to connect
at one time, the local HSS_n can be provisioned with a separate long-term
subscriber key K_n. Correspondingly, in the UE there can be as many USIMs as
there are local HSS and keys K_n. However, this approach may not scale from a
UE point of view, depending on the number of keys K_n. Furthermore, the UE may
need a way to find out which USIM on the UICC to activate when the UE connects
to a particular IOPS network. Additionally, there may need to be mechanism by
which a local HSS that has been recognized as compromised can no longer be
used for communicating with UEs.
To mitigate a compromise of one local HSS in an IOPS network in such a way
that the USIMs do not need to be swapped and the other local HSS are not
affected, each local HSS may still be provisioned with a different subscriber
key K_n per UE.
K_n is derived from the IOPS master subscriber key per UE in the IOPS-
dedicated USIM and a unique Local EPC identifier. The local HSS does not know
any IOPS master subscriber key, it is only provisioned with the pre-calculated
subscriber key K_n for each subscribed IOPS-enabled UE. Thus, in case of a
compromise of one local HSS, other local HSS are not affected (because they
have a different set of secrets and it is assumed that an attacker knowing K_n
cannot use this information to retrieve the corresponding IOPS master
subscriber key). In addition, instead of swapping all USIMs, only the affected
local HSS needs to be newly provisioned with keys derived from the IOPS master
subscriber keys and a newly provisioned, unique Local EPC identifier.
When the UE attaches to an IOPS network, the UE activates the USIM application
dedicated exclusively for IOPS and derives K_n based on the unique identifier
broadcast by the particular local EPC and its IOPS master subscriber key.
Local MME can run AKA based on the K_n using the same LTE AKA procedures as
described in this specification. Since K_n is derived, the USIM application
needs to keep in addition to the master subscriber key only the latest K_n,
which then can be replaced by a new K_n when UE attaches to a different local
EPC.
**Identification of a local HSS:** The TAI (Tracking Area Identifier as
specified in [11]) is one possibility of uniquely identifying the local HSS.
The TAI could be sent from the ME to the UICC to activate the IOPS dedicated
USIM application, but this would necessitate a change of the standardised
interface. Instead, inside the UICC, there may be a mapping function that can
map the USIM application identifier received from the ME at the time of USIM
activation to a TAI (or other identifier), i.e. perform the reverse of the
mapping operation that was performed in the ME. This mapping could be
provisioned into the UICC.
Another possibility of identifying the local HSS is by using the
Authentication Management Field (AMF), in which case the Local HSS is then
identified by a number n between 1 and N. A suitable representation of n is
obtained by choosing specific bits from the bits \"8\" to \"15\" of the
Authentication Management Field (AMF). These bits can be used for proprietary
purposes, cf. Annex H of 3GPP TS 33.102 [7]. The choice of the bits, and their
semantics, has to be determined by the IOPS operator and has to be the same in
the UICC and the local Authentication Centre. For a given local Authentication
Centre, the setting of the chosen AMF bits is constant and the same for all
subscribers. It needs to be ensured by agreement between local HSS vendor and
UICC vendor (following operator requirements) that the AMF bits chosen for
IOPS purposes are not used for any other purpose.
NOTE 1: The usage of AMF has been seen as the preferred way and has been
further specified in 3GPP TS 33.401[6] Annex F.
NOTE 2: If the available bits of the AMF are not sufficient to assign a unique
ID to an IOPS operator's local HSSs, the representation of n may draw on an
additional source: the IND part of the sequence number SQN, as described in
Annex C.1 of TS 33.102. It is recommended to only draw on the bits in the AMF,
and not use the IND part of the sequence number SQN, if the available AMF bits
suffice to identify the local HSSs.
NOTE 3: 3GPP TS 33.401[6] Annex A provides an example of a key derivation
mechanism for \'subscriber key separation\'.**Actions in case of a compromise
of a local HSS:**
In case of a compromise of one local HSS, other local HSSs are not affected
(because they have a different set of secrets and it is assumed that an
attacker knowing K_n cannot use this information to retrieve the corresponding
IOPS master subscriber key). Furthermore, there is no need for swapping all
USIMs, only the compromised local HSS (or the local HSSs in the subclass
sharing the same subscriber key, cf. NOTE above) needs to be newly provisioned
with keys derived from the MK and a newly provisioned value in the table of
the IOPS dedicated USIM.
Action can, of course, only be taken, after the compromise of a local HSS was
detected. But even before detection of the compromise, the subscriber key
separation mechanism ensures that the attacker can neither use the compromised
key K_n to impersonate the subscriber towards another local IOPS network nor
impersonate another local IOPS network towards the subscriber. Therefore, the
mechanism is useful even before new provisioning has taken place. But the
attacker can impersonate the local IOPS network towards the subscriber until
revocation has taken place.
**Revocation:**
For revocation the UICC maintains a list of revoked numbers n and checks
against this list when it receives an AUTHENTICATE command. There is no
amendment to the revocation list during isolated operation. A suitable
revocation mechanism is up to the operator to define. An example of a suitable
revocation mechanism would be OTA management of the UICC, which would become
effective once the UE has obtained connectivity with an OTA server. **Sequence
number handling:**
One of the tasks of a USIM application is handling sequence numbers for the
AKA protocol (cf. TS 33.401, which refers to TS 33.102 for this purpose).
Often, an array is used as specified in TS 33.102, Annex C. The USIM dedicated
exclusively for IOPS may use the same array for all keys K_n and increase a
sequence number as if the authentication challenge came from a single HSS
(instead of from several local HSS as in the present use case). Protection
against replay of challenges continues to be guaranteed as the USIM then
records all sequence numbers sent by any of the local HSSs that have been
successfully used.
**Re-synchronisation:**
When a UE moves from one local HSS to the next one, it could happen that the
second local HSS generates authentication vectors with a sequence number that
is too low as seen from the USIM with the added functions. This would then
result in a re-synchronisation procedure that would be successful as the AUTS
parameter in the re-synchronisation procedure causes the local HSS to update
its sequence number and consequently generate an authentication vector that
will be accepted by the USIM. This would then result in a successful Attach
procedure, albeit at the expense of some added delay. If the delay is a
concern and re-synchronisation procedures may be frequent due to frequent
movements of UEs between local HSSs then this problem could be almost
completely solved by using the IND value of the sequence number, cf. Annex C
of 3GPP TS 33.102 [4], to distinguish among local HSSs, i.e. set up the local
HSSs such that they use only particular IND.
### 8.1.4 Malicious switching of USIM applications
This proposed solution presents multiple USIM applications to a user, thus
giving rise to the possibility of malicious switching of USIM applications.
Specifically malicious switching of USIM applications refers to the threat
posed by a user who manipulates a UE and attempts to use a USIM application to
gain unauthorized access to a network for which that particular USIM
application is not intended.
The means by which a user could manipulate a UE is, for example, to instruct
the UE to select a USIM Application Identity (see subclause 7.1.1) which would
result in the UE using a USIM application inconsistent with the network
configuration the UE is operating under. Furthermore the user may instruct the
UE to ignore any IOPS network indication between that contained in the USIM
application and that read in System Information (SIB1).
To counteract attempted access using an alternative USIM application, a
different set of security credentials are used for each USIM application.
Usage of permanent key K will ensure the failure of AKA for any UE attempting
to attach to a network for which that particular USIM application is not
intended. This expectation is consistent with the potential security
requirement derived from Key Issue #1 (\'Security credentials in IOPS
network\') discussed in subclause 6.2.
### 8.1.5 Conclusion
In conclusion proposed solution #1 as described in subclause 8.1 meets the
following requirements set out in the objectives of the study, namely:
\- Reuses existing 3GPP security mechanisms.
\- Provides for the authentication and for the confidentiality and integrity
of communications.
\- Provides security for isolated operation comparable with that of existing
3GPP systems.
Further, in case of a compromise of a local HSS, mechanisms as listed in
subclause 8.1.4 allow a scalable approach to mitigate this compromise, i.e.
only the effected local HSS needs to be newly provisioned. UICCs do not need
to be replaced, only updated via OTA.
# 9 Conclusions
The proposed solution #1 \'AKA based on a USIM application dedicated
exclusively for IOPS operation\', described in subclause 7.1, is the security
solution for the case of a Local EPC with no backhaul and the case of a
nomadic EPS in 3GPP TS 23.401, Annex K [10]. The \'subscriber key separation\'
mechanism to mitigation of compromise of local HSSs as described in clause 8
of the present document is adopted.The solution covers all the Stage-1
requirements for Isolated E-UTRAN with no backhaul and the key issues
identified in the present document.
The informative annex of the security aspects of Isolated E-UTRAN Operation
for Public Safety documented in 3GPP TS 33.401 is the outcome of the study in
the present document.It is noted that the proposed solution imposes no
normative requirements on 3GPP TS 33.401 [6], i.e. impact on entities other
than UICC and local HSS is avoided. The adopted mechanism for \'subscriber key
separation\' is transparent to MEs, eNBs, and MMEs.
The proposed solution can be found in an informative Annex to 3GPP TS 33.401
[6].
#