# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the network product class descriptions, threats
and critical assets that have been identified in the course of the work on
3GPP security assurance specifications. The main body of the present document
contains generic aspects that are believed to apply to more than one network
product class, while Annexes cover the aspects specific to one network product
class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 33.916: \"Security Assurance Methodology for 3GPP network products
classes\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.821: \"Rationale and track of security decisions in Long Term
Evolution (LTE) RAN/3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.116: \"Security Assurance Specification for MME network product
class\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**GNP Class** (**Generic Network Product Class):** generic network product
class is a class of network products that all implement a common set of 3GPP-
defined functionalities for that particular network product
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
GNP Generic Network Product
SCAS Security Assurance Specification
SECAM Security Assurance Methodology
# 4 Generic Network Product (GNP) class description
## 4.1 Overview
A 3GPP generic network product class defines a set of functions that are
implemented on that product, which includes, but not limited to minimum set of
common 3GPP functions for that product covered in 3GPP specifications, other
functions not covered by 3GPP specifications, as well as interfaces to access
that product. A generic network product also includes hardware, software, and
OS components that the product is implemented on. The current document
describes the threats and the critical assets in the course of developing 3GPP
security assurance specifications for a particular network product class.
**Applicability of the GNP security assurance specification to products:**
Assume a telecom equipment vendor wants to sell a product to an operator, and
the latter is interested in following the Security Assurance Methodology as
described in TR 33.916[2], then, before evaluation according to TR 33.916[2]
in a testing laboratory can start, it first needs to be determined which
security assurance specifications written by 3GPP apply to the given product.
Each 3GPP Network Product, is basically a device composed of hardware (e.g.
chip, processors, RAM, network cards), software (e.g. operating system,
drivers, applications, services, protocols), and interfaces (e.g. console
interfaces and O&M interfaces) that allow the 3GPP network product to be
managed and configured locally and/or remotely A GNP is a 3GPP network
product.
**GNP Security Assurance Specification (GNP SCAS):** The GNP SCAS provides a
description of the security requirements (which are including test cases)
pertaining to that generic network product class.
**Need for a GNP network product model:** This minimum set of functions listed
in clause 4.2 is exclusively meant as a membership criterion for the GNP
Class. It is not meant to restrict the functionality of a GNP, or the scope of
the present document in any way. On the contrary, it is clear that GNPs will
contain many more functions than those from the minimum set listed in clause
4.2, and the GNP will contain requirements relating to functions not contained
in this minimum set. Some of these functions, beyond the minimum set, can be
found from various 3GPP specifications, but by far not all these functions.
This implies that there is a need to describe the functions that cannot be
found from 3GPP specifications in some other way before the GNP can be written
so that the GNP can make reference to this description. This description is
the GNP model, cf. clause 4.3.
EXAMPLE 1: 3GPP specifications do not describe a local management interface,
but the GNP will have to take it into account, so a local management interface
needs to be part of an GNP model.
EXAMPLE 2: The GNP sometimes says e.g.: \"Authentication events on the local
management interface shall be logged.\" This implies the presence of a logging
function. The logging function is not part of the defining minimum set of
functions from clause 4.2. If a product implements this minimum set, but no
logging function, then this just means that the product is a GNP, but will
fail the evaluation against the GNP SCAS.
The GNP model is further used in clauses 5 and 6 in various ways, e.g. the
critical assets can point to parts of the GNP model, threats and requirements
can refer to interfaces shown in the GNP model, etc.
## 4.2 Minimum set of functions defining the GNP class
According to TR 33.916 [2], a network product class is a class of products
that all implement a common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities. This common
set is defined to be the list of functions contained in pertinent 3GPP
specifications, such as clause 4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.401 [3], Release 8 [3].
NOTE: The reason why the definition of the common set of functions refers to a
particular Release 8 version of TS 23.401 [3], contrary to what is customary
in 3GPP when referencing other 3GPP specifications, is that a Security
Assurance Specification is to avoid having a moving target when defining a
network product class. Nevertheless, the set of functions in clause 4.3.1 of
3GPP TS 23.401, Release 8 [3] is expected to be stable, as only FASMO
corrections are allowed to Release 8. Furthermore, this set is believed to be
minimal, i.e. implemented by all network products, which may not be true for
the corresponding set of functions from later releases of TS 23.401 [3]. For
the description of these functions compliance with TS 23.401 Release 8 [3]
later version is allowed as, obviously, a generic network product should still
remain a member of the GNP class when it implements a FASMO correction to
Release 8.
## 4.3 Generic network product model
### 4.3.1 Generic network product model overview
Figure 4.3-1 depicts the components of a generic network product model at a
high level.\ These components are further described in the following
subclauses.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="1.3131944444444446in"}
Figure 4.3-1: GNP model
### 4.3.2 Functions defined by 3GPP
A GNP will, in many cases, implement 3GPP-defined functions from various
releases of pertinent 3GPP specifications. Vendors are, to a large extent,
free to select the features implemented in their GNPs. E.g. a GNP could lack
support for relay nodes, as introduced in Release 10, but implement all other
features defined up to and including Release 10.
### 4.3.3 Other functions
A GNP will also contain functionality not or not fully covered in 3GPP
specifications.
Examples include, but are not limited to, local or remote management
functions.
### 4.3.4 Operating System (OS)
The present document assumes that the GNP is implemented on dedicated hardware
that requires an operating system to run.
### 4.3.5 Hardware
The present document assumes that the GNP is implemented on dedicated
hardware. Aspects of virtualization and cloud are not taken into account in
the present version.
NOTE: Aspects of virtualization and cloud are FFS in future releases of the
GNP SCAS. They deserve separate study for finding out how to define the
boundaries between the GNP class and the hosting environment (e.g. shared HW
and Virtual Machine) and which security assumptions to make on this
environment.
### 4.3.6 Interfaces
There are two types of logical interfaces defined for the GNP:
\- remote logical interfaces; and
\- local logical interfaces.
A **remote logical interface** is an interface which can be used to
communicate with the GNP from another network node.
The entire protocol stack implementing the communication is considered to be
part of the remote logical interface.
Remote Logical Interfaces also include the remote access interfaces to the GNP
for its maintenance through e.g. an Element Management System (EMS).
A **local logical interface** is an interface that can be used only via
physical connection to the GNP. That is, the connection requires physical
access to the GNP.\ The entire protocol stack is considered to be part of the
local logical interface. The entire protocol stack and the physical parts of
the interface can be used by local connections.
Local Logical Interfaces also include the local hardware interfaces and the
Local Maintenance Terminal interface (LMT) of the GNP used for its maintenance
through a console.
This means that for both, **local and remote logical interfaces** , the GNP
model does not only cover the application layer protocol, for which a GNP
function terminates the interface (e.g. S5), but also the protocols (e.g.
SCTP, IP, Ethernet, USB) in the protocol stack below the application layer
protocol.
There are some major differences between local and remote interfaces from
security perspective. For example attaching to a local interface may cause
execution of complex internal procedures in the GNP like loading USB device
drivers, enumeration of attached devices, mounting file systems etc.
A GNP hosts the following interfaces:
**Remote logical interfaces:**
\- Service interfaces that are defined in pertinent 3GPP specifications
\- Service interfaces that are not defined by 3GPP
\- Remote OAM interface
\- EMS (Element Management System) interface
**Local logical interfaces:**
\- OAM local console
\- LMT (Local Maintenance Terminal) interface
\- GNP local hardware interfaces
NOTE: There is some overlap between the present clause 4.3.6 and clauses 4.3.1
and 4.3.2 in as far as a GNP function (e.g. S5) is part of the termination
point for a logical interface.
## 4.4 Scope of the present document
### 4.4.1 Introduction
The present subclause refers to the GNP model in clause 4.3.
### 4.4.2 Scope regarding GNP functions defined by 3GPP
The set of GNP functions actually implemented in an GNP is to be described in
the annex of the present document. But the GNP SCAS needs to explicitly
address all GNP functions that, if present in an GNP network product, need to
be evaluated and hence covered by requirements in the GNP SCAS. Furthermore,
it is to be avoided that a particular version of an GNP SCAS becomes a moving
target. This leads to the following requirement:
NOTE: Although the present document intends to cover the security problems and
security requirements for all NP functions described in the versions of 3GPP
specifications, what other NP, in additional to the MME, to be covered is at
the discretion of the working group.
### 4.4.3 Scope regarding other functions
At least the following functions not defined by 3GPP are in scope of the GNP
SCAS:
\- Remote management functions
\- Local management functions
### 4.4.4 Scope regarding Operating System (OS)
The GNP SCAS does not attempt a full evaluation of the correct internal
functioning of the OS. However, interfaces (I.e. the restriction on open ports
and unnecessary services running in the system) and modifications (e.g.
verification of the correct applied patch level, hardening, etc.) of the OS
are in scope.
### 4.4.5 Scope regarding hardware
The GNP SCAS does not attempt a full evaluation of the correct internal
functioning of the hardware platform. However, interfaces that are implemented
in hardware (e.g. USB port) and modifications of the hardware are in scope.
### 4.4.6 Scope regarding interfaces
The interfaces listed in clause 4.3.6 are all in scope of the present
document.
# 5 Generic Assets and Threats
## 5.1 Introduction
The present subclause contains assets and threats that are believed to apply
to more than one network product.
## 5.2 Generic critical assets
The critical assets of GNP to be protected are:
\- User account data and credentials (e.g. passwords);
\- Log data;
\- Configuration data, e.g. GNP\'s IP address, ports, VPN ID, Management
Objects (e.g. user group, command group) etc.
\- Operating System (OS), i.e. the files that make up the OS and its processes
(code and data);
\- GNP Application;
\- Sufficient processing capacity: that processing powers are not consumed
close to limits;
\- Hardware, e.g. mainframe, board, power supply unit etc.
\- The interfaces of GNP to be protected and which are within SECAM scope: for
example
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on MME
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between MME and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the GNP are described in clause 4, Generic
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
> \- GNP Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: GNP files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, GNP applications or GNP Software.
## 5.3 Generic threats
### 5.3.0 Generic threats format
Threats are described using the following format:
\- _Threat Name_ :
\- _Threat Category_ :
\- _Threat Description_ :
\- _Threatened Asset_ :
### 5.3.1 Introduction
Threat analysis is an important step in the SCAS methodology in order to
justify a proposed requirement and ensuring that no relevant requirements have
been forgotten.
In particular, to ensure this latter point, the threat analysis needs to be
free of gaps and overlapping, and it needs to be ensured that all relevant
threats are covered by a requirement.
To resolve the overlapping, it is suggested to first look at the action used
to exploit the threat is considered. For example if passwords are stored
locally in the GNP (e.g. in a database or file system) in an insecure way
(e.g. clear text, unsalted hashes), an attacker can retrieve these passwords
(e.g. can retrieve the file containing them and can retrieved them by means of
brute forcing if an unsalted hashes is used) and later use them. So the threat
related to this scenario is Information Disclosure.
To achieve this goal, the identified threats are grouped into the seven
categories, one covering threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces and the
other six ones corresponding to the categories proposed by STRIDE
[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee823878(v=cs.20).aspx] and reported
below:
**\- Spoofing identity**. An example of identity spoofing is illegally
accessing and then using another user\'s authentication information, such as
username and password.
**\- Tampering with data**. Data tampering involves the malicious modification
of data. Examples include unauthorized changes made to persistent data, such
as that held in a database, and the alteration of data as it flows between two
computers over an open network, such as the Internet.
**\- Repudiation**. Repudiation threats are associated with users who deny
performing an action without other parties having any way to prove otherwise.
For example, a user performs an illegal operation in a system that lacks the
ability to trace the prohibited operations. **Non-repudiation** refers to the
ability of a system to counter repudiation threats. For example, a user who
purchases an item might have to sign for the item upon receipt. The vendor can
then use the signed receipt as evidence that the user did receive the package.
**\- Information disclosure**. Information disclosure threats involve the
exposure of information to individuals who are not supposed to have access to
it. For example, the ability of users to read a file that they were not
granted access to, or the ability of an intruder to read data in transit
between two computers.
**\- Denial of service**. Denial of service (DoS) attacks deny service to
valid users-for example, by making a Web server temporarily unavailable or
unusable. You need to protect against certain types of DoS threats simply to
improve system availability and reliability.
**\- Elevation of privilege**. In this type of threat, an unprivileged user
gains privileged access and thereby has sufficient access to compromise or
destroy the entire system. Elevation of privilege threats include those
situations in which an attacker has effectively penetrated all system defenses
and become part of the trusted system itself, a dangerous situation indeed.
All the reported threats follow the below template:
\- Threat Name: i.e. The name of the threat
\- Threat Category: i.e. of the six STRIDE categories
\- Threat Description: i.e. description of how the threat can be exploited and
eventually the impacts/consequences of its exploitation
\- Threatened Asset: e.g. which asset is affected by the threat
### 5.3.2 Threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces
The threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces, cf. clause 4.3.6, may have
been sufficiently covered, explicitly or implicitly, in the course of the work
on 3GPP security specifications. There is no need to repeat this work for the
purposes of the present SCAS, and these threats and risks are therefore not
considered here separately.
NOTE: Not all threats and risks covered by security mechanisms in existing
3GPP security specifications may have been adequately documented in a 3GPP TS
or TR.\ They may have also been addressed in contributions to 3GPP Working
Group meetings.\ A good source for these threats and risks is 3GPP TR 33.821
[4].\ Note also that threats that relate to actions local to the NP and/or do
not affect interoperability may also not have been addressed by existing 3GPP
work.
When threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces are found that are not
sufficiently covered in existing 3GPP security specifications, they need to be
addressed in the present SCAS. Generic threats, e.g. threats relating to
protocol robustness, that also apply to 3GPP-defined interfaces are covered in
the present clause.
### 5.3.3 Spoofing identity
#### 5.3.3.1 Default Accounts
  * _Threat name:_ Default Accounts
  * _Threat Category_ : Spoofing Identity
  * _Threat Description_ : A default account with a default password or just a user account with a default password may be provided on GNP and this password may not be modified in time. An attacker can get this password, for example, for low clearance level user, even high clearance level user from document or by brute forcing. With the default password an attacker can access to the GNP, via console (e.g. via direct connection to the GNP via serial and/or usb ports) or via network interfaces (e.g. management and maintenance), and modify, for example, the configuration and/or interference the normal network operation.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
#### 5.3.3.2 Weak Password Policies
  * _Threat name:_ Weak Password Policies
  * _Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity
  * _Threat Description:_ Weak password policies (e.g. short password length, blank passwords, password age, historical passwords and password dictionary) can make a password cracking very simple (e.g. in a short time the password can be guessed by brute forcing). With these passwords an attacker can access to the GNP, via console (e.g. via direct connection to the GNP via serial and/or usb ports) or via network interfaces (e.g. management and maintenance), and modify, for example, the configuration and/or interference the normal network operation.
  * _Threatened Asset:_ User account data and credentials
#### 5.3.3.3 Password peek
  * _Threat name:_ Password peek
  * _Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity
  * _Threat Description:_ When password in plain text has been displayed on screen, it can be seen easily by another local observer besides operator. With these passwords an attacker can access to the GNP, via console (e.g. via direct connection to the GNP via serial and/or usb ports) or via network interfaces (e.g. management and maintenance), and modify, for example, the configuration and/or interference the normal network operation.
  * _Threatened Asset:_ User account data and credentials
#### 5.3.3.4 Direct Root Access
_\- Threat name:_ Direct Root Access
_\- Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity
  * _Threat Description:_ An attacker fraudulently access directly to the root account via the network/remote connection, for example by brute forcing attack.
  * _Threatened Asset:_ all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2, except hardware assets
#### 5.3.3.5 IP Spoofing
_\- Threat Name:_ IP Spoofing
_\- Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity.
_\- Threat Description:_ IP spoofing is used to gain unauthorized access to a
computer. An attacker forwards packets to a computer with a source address
indicating that the packet is coming from a trusted port or system.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ GNP.
#### 5.3.3.6 Malware
> _\- Threat Name:_ Malware
>
> _\- Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity, Denial of Service, Elevation of
> Privilege, Tampering, Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description:_ A malware can act as a legitimate user and perform
malicious activities.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
except hardware assets
#### 5.3.3.7 Eavesdropping
  * _Threat name_ : Eavesdropping
  * _Threat Category_ : Spoofing Identity, tampering, repudiation
_\- Threat Description_ : Eavesdropping or sniffing is an attack consisting of
capturing network traffic and reading the data content in search of sensitive
information like passwords, session tokens, or any kind of confidential
information. So, an attacker can eavesdrop network traffic, for example, on
the management/maintenance interfaces to retrieve credentials which can be
used to spoof user identity. Eavesdropping can be performed, e.g. by means of
MITM attacks. This type of attacks may be possible, for example, if weak
cryptographic protocols or non-industry standard cryptographic algorithms are
used or if the communication protocols have been implemented incorrectly.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### 5.3.4 Tampering
#### 5.3.4.1 Software Tampering
> _\- Threat Name_ : Software Tampering
>
> _\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
\- _Threat Description_ : Software packages can be tampered/altered during
their installation/upgrade on the GNP. An attacker, for example, can inject
malicious code, altering their legitimate behaviour. After their installation
or upgrade process, the malicious code can be executed to conduct several
attacks (e.g. DoS, Information Stealing, Frauds and so on).
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
> including hardware assets.
#### 5.3.4.2 Ownership File Misuse
> _\- Threat Name_ : Ownership File Misuse
>
> _\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
\- _Threat Description_ : If files owned by an user (root user as well as not
root users) can be altered improperly and illegitimately by an user different
than the owner, then an attacker can conduct several types of attacks (e.g.
DoS, Information Stealing, and so on)
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : GNP files.
#### 5.3.4.3 External Device Boot
  * _Threat name_ : External Device Boot
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering
_\- Threat Description:_ If GNP operating system can be booted not only from
internal memory but also for another source (e.g. USB flash drive, memory
card), the GNP bootloader may maliciously tampered by an attacker. This does
not necessarily mean that booting from external memories constitutes a threat.
  * _Threatened Asset:_ hardware, operating system
#### 5.3.4.4 Log Tampering
  * _Threat name_ : Log Tampering
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering, Repudiation
_\- Threat Description:_ if GNP does not securely store log files, an
attacker, for example can inject, delete or otherwise tamper with the contents
of the logs typically for the purposes of masking other malicious behavior.
  * _Threatened Asset:_ Log file
#### 5.3.4.5 OAM Traffic Tampering
  * _Threat name_ : OAM Traffic Tampering
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering
  * _Threat Description:_ Usage of weak cryptographic algorithms for transmitted sensitive information/data over OAM interface can expose them to be maliciously tampered. For example an attacker can gain access to the management /maintenance interfaces and can modify the data stream to/from the GNP.
  * _Threatened Asset:_ sensitive data transferred over OAM
#### 5.3.4.6 File Write Permissions Abuse
  * _Threat name_ : File/Directory Write Permissions Misuse
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering
  * _Threat Description_ : File write permissions which are far too liberal are potentially vulnerable and can be abused by an attacker to cause DoS. For example file passwords permissions with write permissions too liberal can be altered by an unauthorized user which can change the administration password, causing the impossibility for the administrator to log on the GNP.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2, except hardware assets
### 5.3.5 Repudiation
#### 5.3.5.1 Lack of User Activity Trace
> _\- Threat Name:_ Lack of User Activity Trace
>
> _\- Threat Category:_ Repudiation
>
> _\- Threat Description:_ A system user, including a possible attacker, can
> maliciously or erroneously access and modify data in the GNP system, without
> no or lesser possibility of the actions later being traceable to his/her
> user identity. One scenario of anonymity is when the user is logged on to a
> system group account.
>
> _\- Threatened Asset:_ all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
> except hardware assets
### 5.3.6 Information disclosure
#### 5.3.6.1 Poor key generation
> _\- Threat Name_ : Poor key generation
>
> _\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
>
> \- _Threat Description_ : A poor key generation may help an attacker to
> discover and disclosure the key and then read or modify the encrypted data.
> Attackers can discover a key, for example, if:
>
> \- It was generated in a non-random fashion (e.g. insecure random
> generator).
>
> \- It was generated starting from a passphrase containing low entropy.
>
> \- The generated key length is too short so the time to retrieve the key by
> means of dictionary attacks is short.
>
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical asset in the GNP as listed in clause
> 5.2 except hardware asset.
#### 5.3.6.2 Poor key management
> \- _Threat Name_ : Poor key management
>
> \- _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
>
> _\- Threat Description_ : A poor key management may help an attacker to
> discover the key and then read or modify the encrypted data. Attackers can
> discover the keys if, for example:
>
> \- A weak key management protocols are used;
>
> \- The keys are stored in an unencrypted file accessible by everyone;
>
> \- The keys are not renewed/updated regularly;
>
> \- The keys which are text strings can be found by looking for all strings
> in the system;
>
> \- The keys can be found in memory image of running processes;
>
> \- RAM does not loose contents immediately after power-down;
>
> \- RAM can be investigated for keys;
>
> \- The keys are not safely destroyed after their use.
>
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical asset in the GNP as listed in clause
> 5.2 except hardware asset.
#### 5.3.6.3 Weak cryptographic algorithms
_\- Threat Name_ : Use of weak cryptographic algorithms
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
\- _Threat Description_ : Usage of weak cryptographic algorithms for stored or
transmitted sensitive information/data can expose them to be disclosed and
eventually tampered.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical asset in the GNP as listed in clause 5.2
except hardware asset.
#### 5.3.6.4 Insecure Data Storage
  * _Threat name_ : Insecure Data Storage
  * _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description:_ GNP stores locally sensitive data (e.g. communication keys (i.e. K~NASenc~, K~NASint~, K~eNB~), passwords). An attacker can retrieve these data if they have been stored in an insecure way (e.g. clear text, unsalted hashes).
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Any sensitive data stored locally to the GNP
#### 5.3.6.5 System Fingerprinting
_\- Threat Name_ : System Fingerprinting
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
\- _Threat Description_ : The GNP could potentially disclose information about
account details, operating system version and/or other software versions,
server names and so on. That can be used by an attacker to perform other
attacks.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical asset in the GNP as listed in clause 5.2
except hardware asset.
#### 5.3.6.6 Malware
_\- Threat Name_ : Malware
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
\- _Threat Description_ : A malware installed on GNP can access to all the
sensitive data stored locally to the GNP (e.g. accounts, keys, and user data).
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical asset in the GNP as listed in clause 5.2
except hardware asset.
#### 5.3.6.7 Personal Identification Information Violation
  * _Threat Name:_ Personal Identification Information Violation
  * _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : Data containing identities of mobile network subscribers are critical for user privacy. Leakage of these user\'s identities can lead to loss of privacy, e.g. tracing of a user. Protection of user\'s identities is also a requirement from regulators.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Mobility Management data (e.g. user identities)
#### 5.3.6.8 Insecure Default Configuration
  * _Threat Name:_ Insecure Default Configuration
  * _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : An attacker could exploit an insecure default GNP configuration and access to sensitive information/data available on the GNP.
For example a default GNP can use NULL integrity not only for unauthenticated
emergency calls. This can comprise the integrity of RRC signalling and make
possible Man in the Middle attacks in the AS domain and intercept, for
example, the user communications.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : GNP configuration data and mobility management data.
#### 5.3.6.9 File/Directory Read Permissions Misuse
  * _Threat name_ : File/Directory Read Permissions Misuse
  * _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure, elevation of privilege, DoS, tampering
  * _Threat Description_ : File and directory read permissions which are far too liberal can allow access to the contained data by illegitimate users (e.g. password files with too liberal file permissions can be accessed by unauthorized users).
  * _Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2, except hardware assets
#### 5.3.6.10 Insecure Network Services
  * _Threat name_ : Insecure Network Services
  * _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : The GNP can expose insecure/vulnerable services/open ports which can be exploited by an attacker to gain sensitive information/data. For example the GNP can be configured to return sensitive information using telnet on a custom port without any authentication mechanism has been configured.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2, except hardware assets
#### 5.3.6.11 Unnecessary Services
  * _Threat name_ : Unnecessary Services
  * _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : The GNP can expose unnecessary services which can be exploited (even if not vulnerable) by an attacker to gain sensitive information/data.
The term unnecessary used in this threat refers to three cases:
\- Network service not strictly related to GNP operation (e.g. Splunk Service)
\- Network service available on unexpected interfaces (e.g. SSH enabled on the
interface interconnecting GNP and Remote Management)
\- Service that does not enable a network service but that runs on the GNP and
it is not necessary by GNP normal operation (e.g. fprint service available in
the default fedora distribution or Xinetd services).
  * _Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2, except hardware assets
#### 5.3.6.12 Log Disclosure
  * _Threat name_ : Log Disclosure
  * _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : When operational activities are recorded by GNP, these operation records are called system logs. There are other logs, e.g. operation log, security log. These logs can contain sensitive information/data (e.g. system data, user data, CDR, or also debugging information) which can be accessed by an attacker to gather information about the system and to perform other attacks towards users or the system itself.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2, except hardware assets
#### 5.3.6.13 Unnecessary Applications
  * _Threat name_ : Unnecessary Applications
  * _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : There are applications (i.e. features and functionalities) in the GNP which can be related to personal privacy (e.g. LCS application). Even if an operator does not deploy these features and functionalities, they can be available in the system because part of a software distribution. Consequently there might be the risk that an attacker enables these applications without the authorization (e.g. despite of what is included in the license issued by the vendor). For example, the attacker may enable a feature such as LCS and get the location information of a user.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : personal privacy related features, function and applications, e.g. LCS
#### 5.3.6.14 Eavesdropping
  * _Threat name_ : Eavesdropping
  * _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : An attacker can eavesdrop network traffic, for
example, on the management/maintenance interfaces. This may be possible if
weak cryptographic protocols or non-industry standard cryptographic algorithms
are used or if the communication protocols are implemented incorrectly.
Eavesdropping can be performed, for example, by means of MITM attacks, Arp
Poisoning, ICMP Redirect and so on.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2
#### 5.3.6.15 Security threat caused by lack of GNP traffic isolation
> \- _Threat name_ : Security threat caused by lack of GNP traffic isolation
>
> \- _Threat Category_ : Information disclosure
>
> _\- Threat Description:_ The attack towards signalling traffic can also
> impact the management traffic and vice versa when these traffics are not
> isolated. For example, an attacker wants to obtain important information
> related to signalling, he can intercept and capture signalling traffic on
> GNP\'s interface. The important information related management may also be
> intercepted and captured if the management traffics and signalling traffics
> are not isolated and uses the same physical interface. So the security
> threats for signalling traffic can impact management traffic and result in
> unauthorized access on GNP. In the same way, an attacker who attacks GNP\'s
> management traffics can obtain important information related signalling and
> result in tampering and privacy leakage of signalling.
>
> _\- Threatened Asset:_ all critical data transferred via the GNP as listed
> in clause 5.2
### 5.3.7 Denial of service
#### 5.3.7.1 Compromised/Misbehaving User Equipments
> _\- Threat Name_ : Compromised/Misbehaving User Equipments
>
> _\- Threat Category_ : DoS
>
> \- _Threat Description_ : A large number of compromised or misbehaving user
> equipments (UE) can cause a fault on the GNP with a consequent denial of
> service.
For example, an attacker can control a huge number of UEs and can send a lot
of contemporary attach/detach requests to the GNP without following the normal
protocol flow. The resources on the GNP (e.g. processing resources or radio
resources) can be exhausted and the GNP becomes unable to process other, valid
NAS signalling requests.
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : GNP resources (e.g. system processing capacity (e.g.
> CPU, memory), network links, radio links and so on).
#### 5.3.7.2 Implementation Flaw
> _\- Threat Name_ : Implementation Flaw
>
> _\- Threat Category_ : DoS
>
> \- _Threat Description_ : An attacker can exploit an implementation flaw in
> one of the protocols supported by an GNP or in one application available on
> the GNP and cause a DoS.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
except hardware assets
#### 5.3.7.3 Insecure Network Services
  * _Threat name_ : Insecure Network Services
  * _Threat Category_ : DoS
  * _Threat Description_ : The GNP can expose insecure/vulnerable services/open ports which can be exploited by an attacker to crash the GNP.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : GNP services
#### 5.3.7.4 Human Error
  * _Threat name:_ Human Error
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of service
  * _Threat Description_ : The general threat of human error in operation and maintenance. This can include network-, network element-, and firewall configuration-settings. It can also include the risk of user accounts being forgotten during change or deletion, or other slips in their handlings. Causes can be maintenance workload, fatigue, inexperience, etc., and may arise irrespective of applied policy. This threat, for network operation, is hard to categorize within the STRIDE approach, but with Denial of service being one important threat category.
```{=html}
``` \- _Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause
5.2, except hardware assets
### 5.3.8 Elevation of privilege
#### 5.3.8.1 Misuse by authorized users
> _\- Threat Name_ : misuse by authorized users
>
> _\- Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege
\- _Threat Description_ : A malicious employee or his/her co-worker misuses
the network access and management authorization to attempts to upgrade his/her
account to, for example, administrative privileges or to gain access to
password files within the system.
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : The network access and management authorization.
#### 5.3.8.2 Over-Privileged Processes/Services
> _\- Threat Name_ : Over-Privileged Processes/Services
>
> _\- Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege
>
> \- _Threat Description_ : GNP processes/services running with extra
> privileges than needed, (i.e. root or Administrator) can allow an attacker
> to obtain elevated privileges as well. An attacker can for example try to
> leverage a bug in the running program and execute arbitrary code with
> elevated privileges.
>
> . _Threatened Asset_ : Over-Privileged Processes/Services
#### 5.3.8.3 Folder Write Permission Abuse
> _\- Threat Name:_ Folder Write Permission Abuse
>
> _\- Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege
>
> \- _Threat Description_ : weaknesses in folder permissions can lead to
> elevation of privilege. A **_root user by mistake can accidentally executing
> malicious files placed into a directory by attackers which have sufficient
> write permissions. The same applies for other directories where users other
> than root have write permission_**. Any account that has folder permission
> on a directory has equivalent access to the executable file within that
> directory. These permissions allow a non-administrator to replace
> directories containing executable files with new directories containing new
> executable files or simply to delete directories and the executable files
> they contain.
>
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : System folders with weak write permission.
#### 5.3.8.4 Root-Owned File Write Permission Abuse
> _\- Threat Name_ : Root-Owned **_File Write Permission_** Abuse
>
> _\- Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege
>
> \- _Threat Description_. Failure to protect root-owned executables files
> from write access by non-administrators exposes them to the possibility of
> being compromised. For example, this means that non-administrator users can
> replace or alter the file\'s contents and that unknown or malicious injected
> code can then be executed inadvertently by root.
>
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : Root-Owned Files with weak write permission
#### 5.3.8.5 High-Privileged Files
> _\- Threat name:_ High-privileged files
>
> _\- Threat Category:_ Elevation of Privilege, DoS, tampering
>
> _\- Threat Description:_ If files can be run with higher privileges that
> what the owner normally has, i.e. with temporarily elevated rights, it can
> be dangerous to system.
>
> _\- Threatened Asset:_ High privileged files
#### 5.3.8.6 Insecure Network Services
> \- _Threat name_ : Insecure Network Services
>
> \- _Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege
>
> \- _Threat Description_ : The GNP can expose insecure/vulnerable
> services/open ports which can be exploited by an attacker to gain
> unauthorized access, for example using telnet on a custom port without any
> authentication mechanism configured.
>
> _\- Threatened Asset:_ Insecure network services/ports
#### 5.3.8.7 Elevation of Privilege via Unnecessary Network Services
> \- _Threat name_ : Unnecessary Network Services
>
> \- _Threat category_ : Elevation of Privilege, Denial of Service
>
> \- _Threat Description_ : The GNP can expose unnecessary services/open ports
> which can be exploited by an attacker to gain unauthorized access thus
> leading to elevation of privilege. The term unnecessary used in this threat
> refers to two cases:
  * Network services not strictly related to GNP operation (e.g. Splunk Service)
```{=html}
``` \- Network service available on unexpected interfaces (eg. SSH enabled on
the interface interconnecting GNP and Remote Management)
> _\- Threatened Asset:_ all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
> except hardware assets
###### ### Annex A: Aspects specific to the network product class MME
# A.1 Network product class description for the MME
## A.1.1 Introduction
The present document captures the network product class descriptions, threats
and critical assets that have been identified in the course of the work on
3GPP security assurance specifications. The main body of the present document
contains generic aspects that are believed to apply to more than one network
product class, while Annexes cover the aspects specific to one network product
class.
## A.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the MME network product class
According to TR 33.916 [2], a network product class is a class of products
that all implement a common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities. Therefore, in
order to define the MME network product class it is necessary to define the
common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities that is constitutive for an MME. As
part of the MME network product, it is expected that the MME to contain MME
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the MME functions and OAM functions that is specific
to the MME network product model. Functionalities specific to the MME network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.116 [5].
_For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to be
the list of functions contained in clause 4.4.2 of 3GPP TS 23.401, Release 8
[8]._
# A.2 Assets and threats specific to the MME
# A.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the MME to be
protected are:
\- MME Application;
\- Mobility Management data: e.g. subscriber\'s identities (e.g. IMSI),
subscriber keys (I.e. KNASenc, KNASint, NH), authentication parameters,
address of serving eNB, APN name, data related to mobility management like UE
status, UE\'s IP address, etc., session management like PDN type, QoS and so
on, or node selection and routing selection, e.g. IP address of UE related
S/P-GW, selected routing connection based on UE\'s identity, etc.
\- The interfaces of MME to be protected and which are within SECAM scope: for
example
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on MME
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between MME and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the MME class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- MME Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: MME files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, MME application, Mobility Management data or MME
Software.
## A.2.2 Threats related to AKA procedures
### A.2.2.1 Access to 2G
  * _Threat name:_ Access to 2G
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Repudiation, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If access to 2G is allowed, an attacker can force the system into 2G mode and use smaller key size, weaker algorithm, etc. to make the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### A.2.2.2 Resynchronization
  * _Threat name:_ Resynchronization
  * _Threat Reference_ : Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If RAND and AUTS are not included when synchronization fails, the resynchronization procedure does not work correctly. This can result in waste of system resources and deny a legitimate user access to the system.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
### A.2.2.3 Failed Integrity check of Attach message
  * _Threat name:_ Failed integrity check of Attach message
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If integrity check of attach message fails, a user identity cannot be verified. This can result in waste of system resources and deny a legitimate user access to the system.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
### A.2.2.4 Forwarding EPS authentication data to SGSN
  * _Threat name:_ Forwarding EPS authentication data to SGSN
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If EPS authentication data is forwarded to SGSN, the SGSN is not expecting the data and does not know how to handle this data. This can cause processing error on the SGSN and negatively impact system performance.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
### A.2.2.5 Forwarding unused EPS authentication data between different
security domains
  * _Threat name:_ Forwarding unused EPS authentication data between different security domains
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If unused EPS authentication data is forwarded between security domains, system resources will be wasted thus requiring HSS to regenerate new EPS authentication data. This can result in waste of system resources for the receiving system to store the data as well as wasting resources in sending the data.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
## A.2.3 Threats related to security mode command procedure
### A.2.3.1 Bidding Down
  * _Threat name:_ Bidding down
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If SMC does not include replayed UE security capabilities of the UE, the UE can force the system to reduce the security level by using weaker security algorithms or turning security off, making the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### A.2.3.2 NAS integrity selection and use
  * _Threat name:_ NAS integrity selection and use
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of data, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If NAS does not use the highest priority algorithm to protect SMC, SMC risks being exposed and/or modified. This can cause the system to turn off security, making the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
### A.2.3.3 NAS NULL integrity protection
  * _Threat name:_ NAS NULL integrity protection
  * _Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege
  * _Threat Description_ : If NAS NULL integrity protection is not used correct, an attacker can initiated unauthenticated non-emergency calls.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
### A.2.3.4 NAS confidentiality protection
  * _Threat name:_ NAS confidentiality protection
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If security mode complete message is not confidentiality protected, the MME cannot be certain that the SMC is executed correctly. This can result in waste of system resources and deny a legitimate user access to the system.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
## A.2.4 Threats related to security in Intra-RAT mobility
### A.2.4.1 Bidding down on X2-Handover
  * _Threat name:_ Bidding down on X2-Handover
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : If MME cannot verify EPS security capabilities received from eNB are the same as the UE security capabilities that the MME has stored, the UE may force the system to accept a weaker security algorithm than the system is allowed forcing the system into a lowered security level making the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### A.2.4.2 NAS integrity protection algorithm selection in MME change
  * _Threat name:_ NAS integrity protection algorithm selection in MME change
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : If the highest priority NAS integrity protection is not able to be selected by the new MME in MME change, the new MME could end up using a weaker algorithm forcing the system into a lowered security level making thee system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credential
## A.2.5 Threats related to security in Inter-RAT mobility
### A.2.5.1 2G SIM access via idle mode mobility
  * _Threat name:_ 2G SIM access via idle mode mobility
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : If access to 2G is allowed during idle mode mobility, an attacker can force the system into 2G mode and use smaller key size, weaker algorithm, etc. to make the system easily attacked and/or compromised. The attacker can also illegally obtain LTE service via 2G SIM
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### A.2.5.2 2G SIM access via handover
  * _Threat name:_ 2G SIM access via handover
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : If access to 2G is allowed during handover, an attacker can force the system into 2G mode and use smaller key size, weaker algorithm, etc. to make the system easily attacked and/or compromised. The attacker can also illegally obtain LTE service via 2G SIM.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### A.2.5. 3 2G SIM access via SRVCC
  * _Threat name:_ 2G SIM access via handover
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : If access to 2G is allowed during SRVCC, an attacker can force the system into 2G mode and use smaller key size, weaker algorithm, etc. to make the system easily attacked and/or compromised. The attacker can also illegally obtain LTE service via 2G SIM.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credential
## A.2.6 Threats related to release of non-emergency bearer
  * _Threat name:_ Release of non-emergency bearer
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If authentication fails in the MME and the non-emergency bearer is not released, the UE can continue receiving unauthorized call, wasting valuable system resources.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
#