# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics and minimum
performance requirements for E-UTRA User Equipment (UE) operating satellite
access.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.108: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Satellite Access Node (SAN) radio transmission and reception\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical Channels and Modulation\".
[4] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-independent
frequency band\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\"
[8] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[9] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329-10, \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\"
[10] [ANSI C63.26-2015, American National standard for Compliance Testing of
Transmitters Used in Licensed Radio Services, Accredited Standards Committee
C63 -- Electromagnetic compatibility]
[11] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
[13] 3GPP TR 38.811: \"Study on New Radio (NR) to support non-terrestrial
networks\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Channel edge:** The lowest and highest frequency of the carrier, separated
by the channel bandwidth.
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Category NB1/NB2 stand-alone operation** : category NB1/NB2 is operating
standalone when it utilizes its own spectrum, for example the spectrum used by
GERAN systems as a replacement of one or more GSM carriers, as well as
scattered spectrum for potential IoT deployment.
**Category NB1/NB2** **guard band operation:** category NB1/NB2 is operating
in guard band when it utilizes the unused resource block(s) within a E-UTRA
carrier's guard-band.
**Category NB1/NB2** **in-band operation:** category NB1/NB2 is operating in-
band when it utilizes the resource block(s) within a normal E-UTRA carrier or
within a normal NR carrier plus 15 kHz at each edge (and not within NR minimum
guard band).
**Geosynchronous Earth Orbit:** Earth-centred orbit at approximately 35786
kilometres above Earth\'s surface and synchronised with Earth\'s rotation. A
geostationary orbit is a non-inclined geosynchronous orbit, i.e. in the
Earth's equator plane.
**Low Earth Orbit:** Orbit around the Earth with an altitude between 300 km,
and 1500 km.
**Satellite:** A space-borne vehicle embarking a bent pipe payload or a
regenerative payload telecommunication transmitter, placed into Low-Earth
Orbit (LEO), Medium-Earth Orbit (MEO), or Geosynchronous Earth Orbit (GEO).
**Satellite Access Node:** see definition in TS 36.108 [2].
**sTTI** : A transmission time interval (TTI) of either one slot or one
subslot as defined in TS 36.211 [3] on either uplink or downlink.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔF~Raster~ Band dependent channel raster granularity
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
F Frequency
F~Interferer~ (offset) Frequency offset of the interferer (between the center
frequency of the interferer and the carrier frequency of the carrier measured)
F~Interferer~ Frequency of the interferer
F~Ioffset~ Frequency offset of the interferer (between the center frequency of
the interferer and the closest edge of the carrier measured)
F~C~ Frequency of the carrier centre frequency
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~OOB~ The boundary between the E-UTRA out of band emission and spurious
emission domains.
L~Ctone~ Transmission bandwidth which represents the length of a contiguous
sub-carrier allocation expressed in units of tones
N~DL~ Downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-DL~ Offset used for calculating downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-UL~ Offset used for calculating uplink EARFCN
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
N~RB_alloc~ Total number of simultaneously transmitted resource blocks in
Channel bandwidth or Aggregated Channel Bandwidth.
N~tone~ Transmission bandwidth configuration for category NB1 and NB2,
expressed in units of tones.
N~tone\ 3.75kHz~ Transmission bandwidth configuration for category NB1 and NB2
with 3.75 kHz sub-carrier spacing, expressed in units of tones.
N~tone\ 15kHz~ Transmission bandwidth configuration for category NB1 and NB2
with 15 kHz sub-carrier spacing, expressed in units of tones.
N~UL~ Uplink EARFCN.
P~CMAX~ The configured maximum UE output power.
P~Interferer~ Modulated mean power of the interferer
P~PowerClass~ P~PowerClass~ is the nominal UE power (i.e., no tolerance).
P~PowerClass_Default~ P~PowerClass_Default~ is the default nominal UE power
(i.e., no tolerance) for the band.
P~UMAX~ The measured configured maximum UE output power.
Puw Power of an unwanted DL signal
Pw Power of a wanted DL signal
Δf~OOB~ Δ Frequency of Out Of Band emission
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BW Bandwidth
CW Continuous Wave
DL Downlink
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
EUTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GEO Geosynchronous Earth Orbit
GSO Geosynchronous Orbit
ITU-R Radiocommunication Sector of the International Telecommunication Union
LEO Low Earth Orbit
HD-FDD Half- Duplex FDD
MEO Medium Earth Orbit
MPR Maximum Power Reduction
NGSO Non-Geosynchronous Orbit
OCNG OFDMA Channel Noise Generator
OFDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access
OOB Out-of-band
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
RAN Radio Access Network
RE Resource Element
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
RF Radio Frequency
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The present document is a Single-RAT specification for satellite NR UE,
covering RF characteristics and minimum performance requirements.
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty.
The measurement results returned by the test system are compared - without any
modification - against the test requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The shared risk principle is defined in Recommendation ITU‑R M.1545 [4].
## 4.2 Applicability of minimum requirements
a) Minimum requirements are mandated to be met in all scenarios by UEs
supporting the applicable UE category(ies) for which that requirement is
specified. In the present document, only minimum requirements for UE
categories of M1, NB1, and NB2 are specified.
b) For UE category M1, the applicable minimum requirements in clauses 5, 6 or
7 are specified in the suffix A subclause where they differ from the
requirements in the main subclause. Where suffix A does not exist for a
requirement, the minimum requirement in the main subclause shall apply. [
]{.underline}
c) For UE category NB1 and NB2, the applicable minimum requirements in clauses
5, 6 or 7 are specified in the Suffix B subclause, where they differ from the
requirements in the main subclause. Where suffix B does not exist for a
requirement, the minimum requirement in the main subclause shall apply.
d) The reference sensitivity power levels defined in subclause 7.3 are valid
for the specified reference measurement channels.
e) NOTE: Receiver sensitivity degradation may occur when:
1) The UE simultaneously transmits and receives with bandwidth allocations
less than the transmission bandwidth configuration (see Figure 5.3A-1 and
Figure 5.3B-1), and
2) Any part of the downlink transmission bandwidth is within an uplink
transmission bandwidth from the downlink center subcarrier.
f) The spurious emissions power requirements are for the long-term average of
the power. For the purpose of reducing measurement uncertainty it is
acceptable to average the measured power over a period of time sufficient to
reduce the uncertainty due to the statistical nature of the signal.
g) The requirements related to subslot TTI and/or slot TTI shall apply only if
UE supports multiple TTI patterns. And these requirements only apply to
subslot and/or slot TTI configurations
h) TS36.307 [5] specifies which minimum requirements in the present document
are applicable to UEs that conform to an earlier specification Release, and
from which Release those requirements apply.
## 4.3 Specification Suffix Information
The following suffixes are defined at 2nd level for clauses 5, 6 and 7, as
shown in Table 4.3-1.
Table 4.3-1: Definition of suffixes
Clause suffix Variant
* * *
A Cat-M1 B NB1, NB2
The suffixes shall apply as defined in clause 4.2.
# 5 Operating bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The channel arrangements presented in this clause are based on the operating
bands and channel bandwidths defined in the present release of specifications.
NOTE: Other operating bands and channel bandwidths may be considered in future
releases.
## 5.2 Operating bands
E-UTRA satellite access is designed to operate in the operating bands defined
in Table 5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1 E-UTRA operating bands for satellite access
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
* * *
                                                                    F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
256 1980 MHz -- 2010 MHz 2170 MHz -- 2200 MHz FDD
255 1626.5 MHz -- 1660.5 MHz 1525 MHz -- 1559 MHz FDD
NOTE: Satellite bands are numbered in descending order from 256
* * *
## 5.2A Operating bands for UE category M1
UE category M1 is designed to operate in the E-UTRA satellite access operating
bands defined in Table 5.2-1 in both half duplex FDD mode and full-duplex FDD
mode.
## 5.2B Operating bands for category NB1 and NB2
Category NB1 and NB2 UE are designed to operate in the E-UTRA satellite access
operating bands defined in Table 5.2-1.
Category NB1 and NB2 UE **operate in HD-FDD duplex mode.**
For operation in Band 255 in USA and Canada when NS_02N is signalled, only
channels positions which guarantee at least 90 kHz guard band from RF channel
edge to the lower and upper limit of the band shall be used.
## 5.3 Channel bandwidth
This clause is reserved.
## 5.3A Channel bandwidth for category M1
The requirements in present document are specified for the channel bandwidth
listed in Table 5.3A-1.
Table 5.3A-1: Transmission bandwidth configuration N~RB~ in E-UTRA channel
bandwidths
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4
* * *
Transmission bandwidth configuration N~RB~ 6
Figure 5.3A-1 shows the relation between the Channel bandwidth (BW~Channel~)
and the Transmission bandwidth configuration (N~RB~). The channel edges are
defined as the lowest and highest frequencies of the carrier separated by the
channel bandwidth, i.e. at F~C~ +/- BW~Channel~ /2.
{width="6.225in" height="3.933333333333333in"}
Figure 5.3A-1: Definition of channel bandwidth and transmission bandwidth
configuration for one E‑UTRA carrier
## 5.3B Channel bandwidth for category NB1 and NB2
For category NB1 and NB2, requirements in present document are specified for
the channel bandwidth listed in Table 5.3B-1.
Table 5.3B-1: Transmission bandwidth configuration _N_ ~RB~, _N_ ~tone\ 15kHz~
and _N_ ~tone\ 3.75kHz~ in NB1 and NB2 channel bandwidth
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [kHz] 200
* * *
Transmission bandwidth configuration _N_ ~RB~ 1 Transmission bandwidth
configuration _N_ ~tone\ 15kHz~ 12 Transmission bandwidth configuration _N_
~tone\ 3.75kHz~ 48
Figure 5.3B-1 shows the relation between the Category NB1/NB2 channel
bandwidth (BW~Channel~) and the Category NB1 /NB2 transmission bandwidth
configuration (N~tone~). The channel edges are defined as the lowest and
highest frequencies of the carrier separated by the channel bandwidth, i.e. at
F~C~ +/- BW~Channel~ /2.
{width="5.875in" height="3.625in"}
Figure 5.3B-1 Definition of Channel Bandwidth and Transmission Bandwidth
configuration
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
This clause is reserved.
## 5.4A Channel arrangement for category M1
### 5.4A.1 Channel spacing
The spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario, the size
of the frequency block available and the channel bandwidths. The nominal
channel spacing between two adjacent E-UTRA carriers is defined as following:
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted to optimize
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.4A.2 Channel raster, carrier frequency and EARFCN
The global frequency raster is defined for all frequencies. The granularity of
the global frequency raster is 100 kHz, which means that the carrier centre
frequency must be an integer multiple of 100 kHz. For each operating band, a
subset of frequencies from the global frequency raster are applicable and
forms a channel raster with a granularity ΔF~Raster~.
The carrier frequency in the uplink and downlink is designated by the E-UTRA
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) in the range 0 \-- 262143.
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink
is given by the following equation, where F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given
in Table 5.4A.2-1 and N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~)
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is
given by the following equation where F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in
Table 5.4.2-1 and N~UL~ is the uplink EARFCN.
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~)
The applicable channel raster and EARFCNs for each operating band are
specified in Table 5.4A.2-1.
For operating bands with a channel raster of 100 kHz, every EARFCN within the
operating band shall be applicable for the channel raster, and the step size
for the channel raster in Table 5.4A.2‑1 is given as \. The broadcast
parameter _earfcn-LSB_ defined in TS36.331 [6] may be used to assist the UE in
synchronizing to the cell.
Table 5.4A.2-1: E-UTRA channel numbers
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | ΔF~Ra | Dow | U | | | | | | -UTRA | ster~ | nlink | plink | | | | | | Oper | (kHz) | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | | F~DL\ | N~Off | Range | F~UL\ | N~Off | Range | | | | _low~ | s-DL~ | of | _low~ | s-UL~ | of | | | | (MHz) | | N~DL~ | (MHz) | | N~UL~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | ( | | | | | | First | | | First | | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | | \ | | | \ | | | | | |  | | | ize> | | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | | Last) | | | Last) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 256 | 100 | 2170 | 2 | 2 | 1980 | 2 | 2 | | | | | 29076 | 29076 | | 61844 | 61844 | | | | | | --\ | | | --\ | | | | | | \- | | | \- | | | | | | 2 | | | 2 | | | | | | 29375 | | | 62143 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 255 | 100 | 1525 | 2 | 2 | 1 | 2 | 2 | | | | | 28736 | 28736 | 626.5 | 61504 | 61504 | | | | | | --\ | | | --\ | | | | | | \- | | | \- | | | | | | 2 | | | 2 | | | | | | 29075 | | | 61843 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | nu | | | | | | | | | mbers | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | desi | | | | | | | | | gnate | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | reque | | | | | | | | | ncies | | | | | | | | | so | | | | | | | | | close | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | edges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | | | tends | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | eyond | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | nu | | | | | | | | | mbers | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | last | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | nu | | | | | | | | | mbers | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 1.4 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 5.4A.3 TX--RX frequency separation
The default E-UTRA TX channel (carrier centre frequency) to RX channel
(carrier centre frequency) separation is specified in Table 5.4A.3-1 for the
TX and RX channel bandwidth defined in Table 5.3A-1.
Table 5.4A.3-1: Default UE TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band TX -- RX\ carrier centre frequency\ separation
* * *
256 190 MHz
255 -101.5 MHz
* * *
## 5.4B Channel arrangement for category NB1 and NB2
### 5.4B.1 Channel spacing
Nominal channel spacing for UE category NB1 and NB2 in stand-alone mode is 200
kHz.
### 5.4B.2 Channel raster, carrier frequency and EARFCN
The channel raster of UE category NB1/NB2 shall be as defined in clause
5.4A.2, and the channel raster per-frequency band shall be as defined in table
5.4A.2-1.
The carrier frequency of UE category NB1/NB2 in the downlink is designated by
the E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) as defined in
Table 5.4A.2-1, and the Offset of category NB1/NB2 Channel Number to EARFCN in
the range of {-10, -9, -8, -7, -6, -5, -4, -3, -2, -1, -0.5, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9} for FDD. The relation between EARFCN, Offset of category NB1/NB2
Channel Number to EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink is
given by the following equation, where F~DL~ is the downlink carrier frequency
of category NB1/NB2, F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given in table 5.4A.2-1,
N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN, M~DL~ is the Offset of category NB1/NB2 Channel
Number to downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~) + 0.0025*(2M~DL~)
The carrier frequency of UE category NB1/NB2 in the uplink is designated by
the E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) as defined in
Table 5.4A.2-1, and the Offset of category NB1/NB2 Channel Number to EARFCN in
the range of {-10, -9, -8, -7, -6, -5, -4, -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9} for FDD. The relation between EARFCN, Offset of category NB1/NB2 Channel
Number to EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is given by
the following equation, where F~UL~ is the uplink carrier frequency of
category NB1/NB2, F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in table 5.4A.2-1, N~UL~
is the uplink EARFCN, M~UL~ is the Offset of category NB1/NB2 Channel Number
to uplink EARFCN.
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~) + 0.0025*(2M~UL~)
NOTE 1: Guard-band operation and in-band operation for NB-IoT are not
supported in this version of the specification.
NOTE 2: For the carrier including NPSS/NSSS for stand-alone operation, MDL =
0.
### 5.4B.3 TX--RX frequency separation
For UE category NB1/NB2 operation in stand-alone mode, the default TX-RX
frequency separation shall be as specified in Table 5.4A.3-1 for the NB-IoT TX
and RX channel bandwidth defined in Table 5.3B-1.
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the transmitter characteristics are specified at the
antenna connector of the UE with a single or multiple transmit antenna(s). For
UE with integral antenna only, a reference antenna with a gain of 0 dBi is
assumed.
All requirements in this section are applicable to devices supporting GSO
and/or NGSO satellites.
All requirements in this section, other than frequency error in clauses 6.4A.1
and 6.4B.1, shall be verified when Doppler conditions are set to zero and
delay conditions are set to constant for all types of satellites.
## 6.2 Transmit power
This clause is reserved.
## 6.2A Transmit power for category M1
### 6.2A.1 UE maximum output power for category M1
The following UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth. The period of measurement
shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).
Table 6.2A.1-1: UE Power Class
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | EUTRA | Class 2 | To | Class 3 | To | Class 5 | To | | band | | lerance | (dBm) | lerance | (dBm) | lerance | | | (dBm) | | | (dB) | | (dB) | | | | (dB) | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | 256 | | | 23 | +/-2 | 20 | +/-2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 255 | | | 23 | +/-2 | 20 | +/-2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | P~Powe | | | | | | | | rClass~ | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | ecified | | | | | | | | without | | | | | | | | taking | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | account | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | tol | | | | | | | | erance. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
The period of measurement shall be at least as defined in Table 6.2A.1-2.
Table 6.2A.1-2: Measurement period for UE maximum output power
TTI pattern Minimum measurement period
* * *
Subframe 1ms Slot 7OS Subslot 2OS, 3OS
The default power class P~PowerClass_Default~ for an operating band is Power
Class 3 unless otherwise stated.
### 6.2A.2 UE maximum output power reduction for category M1
For category M1 UE Power Class 3 and 5, the allowed Maximum Power Reduction
(MPR) for the maximum output power specified in Table 6.2A.1-1 due to higher
order modulation and transmit bandwidth configuration (resource blocks) is
specified in Table 6.2A.2-1.
For subPRB allocation of category M1 UE of Power Class 3, no MPR applies.
Table 6.2A.2-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for category M1 UE for Power
Class 3 and 5
Modulation Channel bandwidth / Transmission bandwidth (N~RB~) MPR (dB)
* * *
                                            1.4 MHz
QPSK > 2 ≤ 1 QPSK > 5 ≤ 2 16 QAM ≤ 2 ≤ 1 16 QAM >2 ≤ 2 NOTE: MPR only
applicable for N~RB~ ≥ 1
For PRACH, PUCCH and SRS transmissions, the allowed MPR is according to that
specified for PUSCH QPSK modulation for the corresponding transmission
bandwidth.
For each subframe, the MPR is evaluated per slot and given by the maximum
value taken over the transmission(s) within the slot; the maximum MPR over the
two slots is then applied for the entire subframe.
For the UE maximum output power modified by MPR, the power limits specified in
subclause 6.2A.4 apply.
### 6.2A.3 UE additional maximum output power reduction for category M1 UE
Additional ACLR and spectrum emission requirements can be signalled by the
network to indicate that the UE shall also meet additional requirements in a
specific deployment scenario. To meet these additional requirements,
Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) is allowed for the output power as
specified in Table 6.2A.1-1. Unless stated otherwise, an A-MPR of 0 dB shall
be used.
For UE Power Class 3 and 5 the specific requirements and identified subclauses
are specified in Table 6.2A.3-1 along with the allowed A-MPR values that may
be used to meet these requirements. The allowed A-MPR values specified below
in Table 6.2A.3-1 are in addition to the allowed MPR requirements specified in
subclause 6.2A.2.
Table 6.2A.3-1: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) for category M1 UE
Network Signalling value Requirements (subclause) E-UTRA Band Resources Blocks
(_N_ ~RB~) A-MPR (dB)
* * *
NS_01 6.5A.4.2 Table 5.2-1 Table 5.3A-1 N/A  
NS_02N 6.5A.4.4.2 255 Table 5.3A-1 N/A  
NS_24 6.5A.4.4.3 256 Table 5.3A-1 PC3 PC5 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 0.5
For subPRB allocation, the allowed A-MPR values specified below in Table
6.2A.3-2 for category M1 UE are in addition to the allowed MPR requirements
specified in subclause 6.2A.2.
Table 6.2A.3-2: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) for category M1 UE
for subPRB allocation
Network Signalling value Requirements (subclause) E-UTRA Band A-MPR (dB)
* * *
NS_01 6.5A.4.2 Table 5.2-1 N/A  
NS_02N 6.5A.4.4.2 255 N/A  
NS_24 6.5A.4.4.3 256 PC3 PC5 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 0.5
### 6.2A.4 Configured transmitted Power for category M1
The configured transmitted power requirements in clause 6.2.5 of TS 36.101 [7]
shall apply, wherein
\- The Maximum output power requirements are specified in subclause 6.2A.1
\- The MPR requirements are specified in subclause 6.2A.2
\- The A-MPR requirements are specified in subclause 6.2A.3.
## 6.2B Transmit power for category NB1 and NB2
### 6.2B.1 UE maximum output power for category NB1 and NB2
Category NB1 and NB2 UE Power Classes are specified in Table 6.2B.1-1 and
define the maximum output power for any transmission bandwidth within the
category NB1 and NB2 channel bandwidth. For 3.75 kHz sub-carrier spacing the
maximum output power is defined as mean power of measurement which period is
at least one slot (2ms) excluding the 2304Ts gap when UE is not transmitting.
For 15kHz sub-carrier spacing the maximum output power is defined as mean
power of measurement which period is at least one sub-frame (1ms).
Table 6.2B.1-1: UE Power Class
EUTRA band Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 5 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
256 23 +/-2 20 +/-2 255 23 +/-2 20 +/-2
The default power class P~PowerClass_Default~ for an operating band is Power
Class 3 unless otherwise stated.
### 6.2B.2 UE maximum output power reduction for category NB1 and NB2
For UE category NB1 and NB2 power class 3 and 5 the allowed Maximum Power
Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power given in Table 6.2B.1-1 is
specified in Table 6.2B.2-1.
Table 6.2B.2-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for UE category NB1 and NB2
Power Class 3 and 5
* * *
Modulation QPSK  
Tone positions for 3 Tones allocation 0-2 3-5 and 6-8 9-11 MPR ≤ 0.5 dB 0 dB ≤
0.5 dB Tone positions for 6 Tones allocation 0-5 and 6-11  
MPR ≤ 1 dB ≤ 1 dB  
Tone positions for 12 Tones allocation 0-11  
MPR ≤ 2 dB
* * *
For the UE maximum output power modified by MPR, the power limits specified in
sub-clause 6.2B.4 apply.
### 6.2B.3 UE additional maximum output power reduction for category NB1 and
NB2 UE
Additional ACLR and spectrum emission requirements can be signalled by the
network to indicate that the UE shall also meet additional requirements in a
specific deployment scenario. To meet these additional requirements,
Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) is allowed for the output power are
specified. For the agreed E-UTRA bands for category NB1 and NB2 UE an A-MPR of
0 dB shall be allowed unless specified otherwise.
For UE Power Class 3 and 5 the specific requirements and identified subclauses
are specified in Table 6.2B.3-1 along with the allowed A-MPR values that may
be used to meet these requirements. The allowed A-MPR values specified below
in Table 6.2B.3-1 are in addition to the allowed MPR requirements specified in
subclause 6.2B.2-1.
Table 6.2B.3-1: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) for category NB1
and NB2 UE
Network Signalling value Requirements (subclause) E-UTRA Band A-MPR (dB)
* * *
NS_01 6.5B.4.2 Table 5.2-1 N/A  
NS_02N 6.5B.4.4.2 255 N/A  
NS_24 6.5B.4.4.3 256 PC3 PC5 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 0.5
### 6.2B.4 Configured transmitted Power for category NB1 and NB2
For category NB1 and NB2 UE, the configured transmitted power requirements in
clause 6.2.5F of TS 36.101 [7] shall apply, wherein
\- The Maximum output power requirements are specified in subclause 6.2B.1
\- The MPR requirements are specified in subclause 6.2B.2
\- The A-MPR requirements are specified in subclause 6.2B.3.
## 6.3 Output power dynamics
This clause is reserved.
## 6.3A Output power dynamics for category M1
### 6.3A.1 UE Minimum output power for category M1
The minimum controlled output power of the UE is defined as the broadband
transmit power of the UE, i.e. the power in the channel bandwidth for all
transmit bandwidth configurations (resource blocks), when the power is set to
a minimum value.
The minimum output power is defined as the mean power in one sub-frame (1ms).
The minimum output power shall not exceed the values specified in Table
6.3.2.1-1 of TS 36.101 [7].
### 6.3A.2 Transmit OFF power for category M1
Transmit OFF power is defined as the mean power when the transmitter is OFF.
The transmitter is considered to be OFF when the UE is not allowed to transmit
or during periods when the UE is not transmitting a sub-frame. During DTX and
measurements gaps, the UE is not considered to be OFF.
The transmit OFF power is defined as the mean power in a duration of at least
one sub-frame (1ms) excluding any transient periods. The transmit OFF power
shall not exceed the values specified in Table 6.3.3.1-1 of TS 36.101 [7].
### 6.3A.3 ON/OFF time mask for category M1
The requirements for transmit ON/OFF time mask defined in clause 6.3.4 of TS
36.101 [7] shall apply.
### 6.3A.4 Power control for category M1
For category M1 UE, the requirements in clause 6.3.5E of TS 36.101 [7] shall
apply, wherein
\- The Maximum output power requirements are specified in subclause 6.2A.1
\- The Minimum output power requirements are specified in subclause 6.3A.1.
\- The requirements for configured transmitted power are specified in
subclause 6.2A.4.
## 6.3B Output power dynamics for category NB1 and NB2
### 6.3B.1 UE Minimum output power for category NB1 and NB2
For category NB1 and NB2 UE, the requirements in clause 6.3.2F of TS 36.101
[7] shall apply.
### 6.3B.2 Transmit OFF power for category NB1 and NB2
For category NB1 and NB2 UE, the requirements in clause 6.3.3F of TS 36.101
[7] shall apply.
### 6.3B.3 ON/OFF time mask for category NB1 and NB2
For category NB1 and NB2 UE, the requirements in clause 6.3.4F of TS 36.101
[7] shall apply.
### 6.3B.4 Power Control for category NB1 and NB2
For category NB1 and NB2 UE, the requirements in clause 6.3.5F of TS 36.101
[7] shall apply, wherein
\- The Maximum output power requirements are specified in subclause 6.2B.1
\- The Minimum output power requirements are specified in subclause 6.3B.1
\- The requirements for configured transmitted power are specified in
subclause 6.2B.4.
## 6.4 Transmit signal quality
This clause is reserved.
## 6.4A Transmit signal quality for category M1
### 6.4A.1 Frequency error for UE category M1
For category M1 UE, the basic measurement interval of modulated carrier
frequency is 1 UL timeslot (0.5ms). The UE pre-compensates the uplink
modulated carrier frequency by the estimated Doppler shift based on received
ephemeris information of the SAN in IE EphemerisInfo (TS 36.331 [6]), its own
location and UL carrier frequency signalled to the UE by the SAN (according to
TS36.300 [8] clause 16.14.2).
For category M1 FD-FDD UEs and for category M1 HD-FDD UEs with continuous
uplink transmissions of duration ≤ 64 ms, the mean value of basic measurements
of UE pre-compensated modulated carrier frequency shall be accurate to within
± 0.1 PPM observed over a period of one time slot (0.5 ms) compared with the
ideally pre-compensated UL carrier frequency.
For category M1 HD-FDD UEs with continuous uplink transmissions of duration >
64 ms, the mean value of basic measurements of UE pre-compensated modulated
carrier frequency shall be accurate within the limits in Table 6.4A.1-1
observed over a period of one time slot (0.5 ms) compared with ideally pre-
compensated UL carrier frequency.
When a repetition period is configured on the uplink for which repetition
period (R ) >1, the UE shall not change Doppler pre-compensation during an
ongoing repetition period, except in the transmission gaps as defined in
clause 10.1.3.6 of TS 36.211[3]. When segmentation is applied, then the UE
shall update pre-compensation at the beginning of each segment prior to
segment transmission.
[NOTE: The ideally pre-compensated reference uplink carrier frequency consists
of the UL carrier frequency signalled to the UE by SAN and UL pre-compensated
Doppler frequency shift corresponding to the estimated Doppler frequency at
the beginning of the transmission. For the test case, the location of the UE
is explicitly provided to the UE from the test equipment.]
Requirement will be verified for at least two cases of which one has zero
Doppler conditions.
Table 6.4A.1-1: Frequency error requirement for HD-FDD UE category M1
Carrier frequency [GHz] Frequency error [ppm]
* * *
≤1 ±0.2 >1 ±0.1
### 6.4A.2 Transmit modulation quality for category M1
Transmit modulation quality defines the modulation quality for expected in-
channel RF transmissions from the UE. The transmit modulation quality is
specified in terms of:
\- Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) for the allocated resource blocks (RBs)
\- EVM equalizer spectrum flatness derived from the equalizer coefficients
generated by the EVM measurement process
\- Carrier leakage
\- In-band emissions for the non-allocated RB
All the parameters defined in subclause 6.4A.2 are defined using the
measurement methodology specified in clause Annex F of TS 36.101 [7].
For category M1 UE, the requirements in clause 6.5.2E of TS 36.101 [7] shall
apply, and only QPSK and 16QAM in UL shall be applicable.
## 6.4B Transmit signal quality for category NB1 and NB2
### 6.4B.1 Frequency error for UE category NB1 and NB2
For UE category NB1 and NB2, the UE pre-compensates the uplink modulated
carrier frequency by the estimated Doppler shift based on received ephemeris
information of the SAN in IE _EphemerisInfo_ (TS 36.331 [6]), its own location
and UL carrier frequency signalled to the UE by the SAN (according to TS36.300
[8] clause 23.21.2.2).
The UE pre-compensated modulated carrier frequency shall be accurate to within
the limits in Table 6.4B.1-1, observed over a period of one time slot (0.5 ms
for 15 kHz sub-carrier spacing and 2 ms excluding the 2304Ts gap for 3.75 kHz
sub-carrier spacing) and averaged over 72/L~Ctone~ slots (where L~Ctone~ = {1,
3, 6, 12} is the number of sub-carriers used for the transmission), compared
to the ideally pre-compensated reference uplink carrier frequency.
When a repetition period is configured on the uplink for which repetition
period (R ) >1, the UE shall not change Doppler pre-compensation during an
ongoing repetition period, except in the transmission gaps as defined in
clause 10.1.3.6 of TS 36.211[3]. When segmentation is applied, then the UE
shall update pre-compensation at the beginning of each segment prior to
segment transmission.
[NOTE: The ideally pre-compensated reference uplink carrier frequency consists
of the UL carrier frequency signalled to the UE by SAN and UL pre-compensated
Doppler frequency shift corresponding to the estimated Doppler frequency at
the beginning of the transmission. For the test case, the location of the UE
is explicitly provided to the UE from the test equipment.]
Requirement will be verified for at least two cases of which one has zero
Doppler conditions.
Table 6.4B.1-1: Frequency error requirement for UE category NB1 and NB2
Carrier frequency [GHz] Frequency error [ppm]
* * *
≤1 ±0.2 >1 ±0.1
### 6.4B.2 Transmit modulation quality for Category NB1 and NB2
Transmit modulation quality requirements for Category NB1 and NB2 UEs for BPSK
and QPSK modulation as specified in clause 6.5.2F of 36.101 [7] are
applicable.
## 6.5 Output RF spectrum emissions
The output UE transmitter spectrum consists of the three components; the
emission within the occupied bandwidth (channel bandwidth), the Out Of Band
(OOB) emissions and the far out spurious emission domain.
{width="6.6875in" height="2.5729166666666665in"}
Figure 6.5-1: Transmitter RF spectrum
## 6.5A Output RF spectrum emissions for category M1
### 6.5A.1 General
The definitions in clause 6.5 shall apply.
When the UE is operating in an NGSO deployment, to support coexistence, it is
assumed that a guardband at least equivalent to the maximum doppler shift
expected for the NGSO constellation between the channel edge of the channel
bandwidth operated by the UE and the spectrum block edge has been accounted
for as part of system deployment configuration by the operator.
### 6.5A.2 Occupied bandwidth for category M1
Occupied bandwidth is defined as the bandwidth containing 99 % of the total
integrated mean power of the transmitted spectrum on the assigned channel. The
occupied bandwidth for all transmission bandwidth configurations (Resources
Blocks) shall be less than the 1.4MHz channel bandwidth specified in Table
6.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [7].
### 6.5A.3 Out of band emission for category M1
#### 6.5A.3.1 General
The out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the
assigned channel bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non-
linearity in the transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. This out of
band emission limit is specified in terms of a spectrum emission mask and an
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio.
#### 6.5A.3.2 Spectrum emission mask
The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies (Δf~OOB~) starting
from the ± edge of the assigned E-UTRA channel bandwidth. For frequencies
offset greater than Δf~OOB~ as specified in Table 6.5A.3.2-1 the spurious
requirements in subclause 6.5A.4 are applicable.
The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in Table
6.5A.3.2-1 for the specified channel bandwidth.
Table 6.5A.3.2-1: Category M1 spectrum emission mask
+-----------+-----+-----------------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | 1.4 | Measurement bandwidth | | | | | | (MHz) | MHz | | +===========+=====+=======================+ | ± 0-1 | -10 | 30 kHz | +-----------+-----+-----------------------+ | ± 1-2.5 | -10 | 1 MHz | +-----------+-----+-----------------------+ | ± 2.5-2.8 | -25 | 1 MHz | +-----------+-----+-----------------------+
NOTE1: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment
should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement
accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller
than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than
the measurement bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the
measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the
measurement bandwidth.
#### 6.5A.3.3 Additional Spectrum Emission Mask for category M1
The additional spectrum emission mask is not applicable.
#### 6.5A.3.4 Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio for category M1
E-UTRA category M1 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (E-UTRA~ACLR~) is the
ratio of the filtered mean power centred on the assigned channel frequency to
the filtered mean power centred on an adjacent channel frequency at nominal
channel spacing. The assigned E-UTRA category M1 channel power and adjacent
E-UTRA category M1 channel power are measured with rectangular filters with
measurement bandwidths specified in Table 6.5A.3.4-1. If the measured adjacent
channel power is greater than \--50dBm then the E-UTRA~ACLR~ shall be higher
than the value specified in Table 6.5A.3.4-1.
Table 6.5A.3.4-1: Category M1 ACLR requirements
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Channel bandwidth / E-UTRA~ACLR~ | | | / Measurement bandwidth | +==================================+==================================+ | | 1.4 | | | | | | MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | E-UTRA~ACLR~ | 30 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | E-UTRA channel Measurement | 1.08 MHz | | bandwidth | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Adjacent channel centre | +1.4/-1.4 | | frequency offset [MHz] | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 6.5A.4 Spurious emission for category M1
#### 6.5A.4.1 General
Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter
effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emissions, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions
unless otherwise stated. The spurious emission limits are specified in terms
of general requirements inline with SM.329 [9] and E-UTRA operating band
requirement to address UE co-existence.
To improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution
bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the result should be
integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent
noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
#### 6.5A.4.2 Minimum requirements
Unless otherwise stated, the spurious emission limits apply for the frequency
ranges that are more than F~OOB~ (MHz) in Table 6.5A.4.2-1 from the edge of
the channel bandwidth. The spurious emission limits in Table 6.5A.4.2-2 apply
for all transmitter band configurations (N~RB~) and channel bandwidths.
NOTE: For measurement conditions at the edge of each frequency range, the
lowest frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be
set at the lowest boundary of the frequency range plus MBW/2. The highest
frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be set at
the highest boundary of the frequency range minus MBW/2. MBW denotes the
measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band.
Table 6.5A.4.2-1: Boundary between E-UTRA out of band and spurious emission
domain
+---------------------------+-----+ | Channel bandwidth | 1.4 | | | | | | MHz | +===========================+=====+ | OOB boundary F~OOB~ (MHz) | 2.8 | +---------------------------+-----+
Table 6.5A.4.2-2: Spurious emissions limits
Frequency Range Maximum Level Measurement bandwidth NOTE
* * *
9 kHz ≤ f \2.8 | -13 for PC3 and PC5 | 4 kHz | +-------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------+
##### 6.5A.4.4.3 Minimum requirement (network signalled value \"NS_24\")
When \"NS_24\" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE emission shall
not exceed the levels specified in Table 6.5A.4.4.3-1.
Table 6.5A.4.4.3-1: Additional requirements for \"NS_24\"
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency band | Channel bandwidth / | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | | (MHz) | Spectrum emission | | | | limit | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | | 1.4MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Band 34 | -50 | MHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: This | | | | requirement applies | | | | at a frequency | | | | offset equal or | | | | larger than 5 MHz | | | | from the upper edge | | | | of the channel | | | | bandwidth, whenever | | | | these frequencies | | | | overlap with the | | | | specified frequency | | | | band. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.5B Output RF spectrum emissions for category NB1 and NB2
### 6.5B.1 General
The definitions in clause 6.5 shall apply.
### 6.5B.2 Occupied bandwidth for category NB1 and NB2
For category NB1 and NB2 UE, the requirements in clause 6.6.1F of TS 36.101
[7] shall apply.
### 6.5B.3 Out of band emission for category NB1 and NB2
#### 6.5B.3.1 General
The out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the
assigned channel bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non-
linearity in the transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. This out of
band emission limit is specified in terms of a spectrum emission mask and an
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio.
#### 6.5B.3.2 Spectrum emission mask
The spectrum emission mask of the category NB1 and NB2 UE applies to
frequencies (Δf~OOB~) starting from the ± edge of the assigned category NB1 or
NB2 channel bandwidth. For frequencies greater than (Δf~OOB~) as specified in
Table 6.5B.3.2-1 the spurious requirements in subclause 6.5B.4 are applicable.
The power of any category NB1 or NB2 UE emission shall not exceed the levels
specified in Table 6.5B.3.2-1. The spectrum emission limit between each
Δf~OOB~ is linearly interpolated.
Table 6.5B.3.2-1: Category NB1 and NB2 UE spectrum emission mask
Δf~OOB~ (kHz) Emission limit (dBm) Measurement bandwidth
* * *
± 0 26 30 kHz ± 100 -5 30 kHz ± 150 -8 30 kHz ± 300 -29 30 kHz ± 500-1700 -35
30 kHz
NOTE1: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment
should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement
accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller
than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than
the measurement bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the
measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the
measurement bandwidth.
[NOTE2: When the UE is operating in an NGSO deployment, to support
coexistence, it is assumed that a guardband at least equivalent to the maximum
doppler shift expected for the NGSO constellation between the channel edge of
the channel bandwidth operated by the UE and the spectrum block edge has been
accounted for as part of system deployment configuration by the operator.]
#### 6.5B.3.3 Additional Spectrum Emission Mask for category NB1 and NB2
The additional spectrum emission mask for category NB1 and NB2 is not
applicable.
#### 6.5B.3.4 Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio for category NB1 and NB2
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio is the ratio of the filtered mean power
centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean power centred
on an adjacent channel frequency. The assigned category NB1or NB2 channel
power and adjacent channel power are measured with filters and measurement
bandwidths specified in Table 6.5B.3.4-1. If the measured adjacent channel
power is greater than --50dBm then the category NB1 or NB2 UE ACLR shall be
higher than the value specified in Table 6.5B.3.4-1. GSM~ACLR~ requirement is
intended for protection of GSM system. UTRA~ACLR~ requirement is intended for
protection of UTRA and E-UTRA systems.
Table 6.5B.3.4-1: category NB1 and NB2 UE ACLR requirements
* * *
                                                       **GSM~ACLR~**   **UTRA~ACLR~**
* * *
ACLR 20 dB 37 dB
Adjacent channel\ ±200 kHz ±2.5 MHz center frequency offset\  
from category NB1 or NB2 Channel edge
Adjacent channel\ 180 kHz 3.84 MHz measurement bandwidth
Measurement filter Rectangular RRC-filter α=0.22
Category NB1 and NB2 channel measurement bandwidth 180 kHz 180 kHz
Category NB1 and NB2 channel Measurement filter Rectangular Rectangular
* * *
### 6.5B.4 Spurious emission for category NB1 and NB2
#### 6.5B.4.1 General
Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter
effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emissions, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions
unless otherwise stated. The spurious emission limits are specified in terms
of general requirements inline with SM.329 [9] and E-UTRA operating band
requirement to address UE co-existence.
To improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution
bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the result should be
integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent
noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
#### 6.5B.4.2 Minimum requirements
When UE is configured for category NB1 or NB2 uplink transmissions the
requirements in subclause 6.5A.4.2 apply with an exception that boundary
between category NB1 or NB2 out of band and spurious emission domain shall be
F~OOB~ = 1.7 MHz.
#### 6.5B.4.3 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
The spurious emission band UE coexistence requirement in sub-clause 6.5A.4.3
is also applicable for NB1 and NB2 UE.
#### 6.5B.4.4 Additional spurious emissions
##### 6.5B.4.4.1 General
These requirements are specified in terms of an additional spectrum emission
requirement. Additional spurious emission requirements are signalled by the
network to indicate that the UE shall meet an additional requirement for a
specific deployment scenario as part of the cell handover/broadcast message.
NOTE: In addition to the requirements below, additional UE region-specific
emissions requirements for European are expected to be added once more
information becomes available.
##### 6.5B.4.4.2 Minimum requirement (network signalled value \"NS_02N\")
When \"NS_02N\" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE spurious
emission shall not exceed the levels specified in Table 6.5B.4.4.2-1 and
6.5B.4.4.2-2. This requirement also applies for the frequency ranges that are
less than F~OOB~ (MHz) specified in 6.5B.4.2 from the edge of the channel
bandwidth. Network signalling remark NS_02N applies integer-value 2. ~~The NTN
IoT band operation which applies NS_02N should avoid applying NS_02.~~
Table 6.5B.4.4.2-1: Additional requirements for \"NS_02N\"
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Frequency |** Channel | **Measurement |** NOTE**| | band** | bandwidth / | bandwidth**| | | | Spectrum | | | |**(MHz)**| emission | | | | | limit^1^ | | | | | (dBm)** | | | +================+================+================+================+ | | 200kHz | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1559≤ f ≤ 1605 | -50 | 700 Hz | Averaged over | | | | | any 2 | | | | | millisecond | | | | | active | | | | | transmission | | | | | interval | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1605≤ f ≤ 1610 | -50 + 24/5 | 700Hz | | | | (f-1605) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1559 ≤ f ≤ | -40 | 1MHz | Averaged over | | 1605 | | | any 2 | | | | | millisecond | | | | | active | | | | | transmission | | | | | interval | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1605≤ f ≤ 1610 | -40 + 24/5 | 1MHz | | | | (f-1605) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: The EIRP | | | | | requirement in | | | | | regulation is | | | | | converted to | | | | | conducted | | | | | requirement | | | | | using a 0 dBi | | | | | antenna. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 6.5B.4.4.2-2: Additional requirements for \"NS_02N\"
+--------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | Spectrum Emission Limit (dBm) | Measurement bandwidth | | | | | | (MHz) | | | +====================+===============================+=======================+ | ± [0.09 -- 0.28] | -2 for PC3 | 4 kHz | | | | | | | -5 for PC5 | | +--------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------+ | ± [0.28 -- 0.85] | -12 for PC3 | 4 kHz | | | | | | | -15 for PC5 | | +--------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------+ | ± [>0.85] | -13 for PC3 and PC5 | 4 kHz | +--------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------+
NOTE: Δf~OOB~ = 0.09 MHz corresponds to an authorized bandwidth, as defined in
C63.26-2015 [10], of 0.38 MHz.
##### 6.5B.4.4.3 Minimum requirement (network signalled value \"NS_24\")
When \"NS_24\" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE emission shall
not exceed the levels specified in Table 6.5B.4.4.3-1.
Table 6.5B.4.4.3-1: Additional requirements for \"NS_24\"
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency band | Channel bandwidth / | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | | (MHz) | Spectrum emission | | | | limit | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | | 200kHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Band 34 | -50 | MHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: This | | | | requirement applies | | | | at a frequency | | | | offset equal or | | | | larger than 5 MHz | | | | from the upper edge | | | | of the channel | | | | bandwidth, whenever | | | | these frequencies | | | | overlap with the | | | | specified frequency | | | | band. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.6 Transmit intermodulation
This clause is reserved.
## 6.6A Transmit intermodulation for category M1
For category M1 UE, Tx intermodulation requirements are not applicable.
## 6.6B Transmit intermodulation for category NB1 and NB2
For category NB1 and NB2 UE, the Tx intermodulation requirements in clause
6.7.1F of TS 36.101 [7] shall apply.
# 7 Receiver characteristics
## 7.1 General
The requirements in clause 7.1 of TS 36.101 [7] shall apply.
All requirements in this section are applicable to devices supporting GSO
and/or NGSO satellites.
All requirements in this section shall be verified when Doppler conditions are
set to zero and delay conditions are set to constant for all types of
satellites.
## 7.2 Diversity characteristics
The requirements in clause 7 assume that the receiver is equipped with single
Rx port.
## 7.3 Reference sensitivity power level
This clause is reserved.
## 7.3A Reference sensitivity power level for UE category M1
The reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean power
applied to the single antenna port for UE category M1, at which the throughput
shall meet or exceed the requirements for the specified reference measurement
channel.
The throughput for the REFSENS test is measured based on the Transmission Mode
1 unless specified otherwise.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes [A.2.2 and A.3.2] (with one sided
dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-signal as described in Annex
[A.5.1.1]) with parameters specified in Table 7.3A-1 and Table 7.3A-2 for
category M1.
Table 7.3A-1: Reference sensitivity for FDD UE category M1 QPSK P~REFSENS~
NTN Band REFSENS (dBm) Duplex Mode
* * *
255 -102.7 FDD 256 -102.2 FDD NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set to P~UMAX~
as defined in subclause 6.2.5- in TS 36.101 [7].
Table 7.3A-2: Reference sensitivity for HD-FDD UE category M1 QPSK P~REFSENS~
NTN Band REFSENS (dBm) Duplex Mode
* * *
255 -103.5 HD-FDD 256 -103 HD-FDD NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set to
P~UMAX~ as defined in subclause 6.2.5 in TS 36.101 [7].
The reference receive sensitivity (REFSENS) requirement specified in Table
7.3A-1/Table 7.3A-2 shall be met for an uplink transmission bandwidth less
than or equal to that specified in Table 7.3A-3.
NOTE: Table 7.3A-3 is intended for conformance tests and does not necessarily
reflect the operational conditions of the network, where the number of uplink
and downlink allocated resource blocks will be practically constrained by
other factors. Typical receiver sensitivity performance with HARQ
retransmission enabled and using a residual BLER metric relevant for e.g.
Speech Services is given in the Annex [G] (informative).
Table 7.3A-3: FDD UE category M1 Uplink configuration for reference
sensitivity
E-UTRA Band N~RB~ Duplex Mode
* * *
255 6^1^ FDD and HD-FDD 256 6^1^ FDD and HD-FDD NOTE 1: ^1^ refers to the UL
resource blocks shall be located as close as possible to the downlink
operating band but confined within the transmission bandwidth configuration
for the channel bandwidth (Table 5.3A-1).
## 7.3B Reference sensitivity power level for UE category NB1 and NB2
The reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean power
applied to the single antenna port for UE category NB1 and category NB2, at
which the throughput shall meet or exceed the requirements for the specified
reference measurement channel.
The throughput for the REFSENS test is measured based on the Transmission Mode
1 unless specified otherwise.
The category NB1 and NB2 UE throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel as specified in TS 36.101 [7]
Annex A.3.2 with received signal level as specified in Table 7.3B-1.
Requirement in Table 7.3B-1 applies for any uplink configuration.
Table 7.3B-1: Reference sensitivity for UE category NB1 and NB2
Operating band REFSENS [dBm]
* * *
According to subclause 5.2B - 108.2
## 7.4 Maximum input level
This clause is reserved.
## 7.4A Maximum input level for category M1
This is defined as the maximum mean power received at the UE antenna port, at
which the specified relative throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements for the specified reference measurement channel.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in TS 36.101 [7] Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and
A.3.2 (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD as described in TS 36.101
[7] Annex A.5.1.1) with parameters specified in Table 7.4A-1.
Table 7.4A-1: Maximum input level
+----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth | +========================================+=======+===================+ | | | 1.4\ | | | | MHz | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Power in Transmission Bandwidth | dBm | -40^2^ | | Configuration | | | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set | | | | to 4dB below PCMAX_L at the minimum | | | | uplink configuration specified in | | | | Table 7.3A-3 with PCMAX_L as defined | | | | in subclause 6.2.5 of TS 36.101 [7]. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Reference measurement channel | | | | is TS 36.101 [7] Annex A.3.2: 64QAM, | | | | R=3/4 variant with one sided dynamic | | | | OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD as described in | | | | Annex A.5.1.1 of TS 36.101 [7]. | | | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+
## 7.4B Maximum input level for category NB1 and NB2
This is defined as the maximum mean power received at the UE antenna port, at
which the specified relative throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements for the specified reference measurement channel.
Category NB1 and NB2 UE maximum input level requirement is -40 dBm. For this
input level the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the
reference measurement channel as specified in Annex A.3.2 of TS 36.101 [7].
## 7.5 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
This clause is reserved.
## 7.5A Adjacent Channel Selectivity for category M1
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive a E-UTRA signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre
frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the receive filter
attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to the receive filter
attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).
The UE shall fulfil the minimum requirement specified in Table 7.5A-1 for all
values of an adjacent channel interferer up to --40 dBm. However it is not
possible to directly measure the ACS, instead the lower and upper range of
test parameters are chosen in Table 7.5A-2 and Table 7.5A-3 where the
throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in TS 36.101 [7] Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and
A.3.2 (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD for the DL-signal as
described in TS 36.101 [7] Annex A.5.1.1). For operating bands with an
unpaired DL part (as noted in Table 5.5-1), the requirements only apply for
carriers assigned in the paired part.
Table 7.5A-1: Adjacent channel selectivity
* * *
                         Channel bandwidth
* * *
Rx Parameter Units 1.4\ MHz
ACS dB 33.0
* * *
Table 7.5A-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 1
+----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth | +========================================+=======+===================+ | | | 1.4 MHz | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Power in Transmission Bandwidth | dBm | REFSENS + 14 dB | | Configuration | | | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **P~Interferer~** | dBm | REFSENS +45.5dB | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **BW~Interferer\ ~** | MHz | 1.4 | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **F~Interferer~ (offset)** | MHz | 1.4+0.0025 | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | -1.4-0.0025 | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set | | | | to 4dB below PCMAX_L at the minimum | | | | uplink configuration specified in | | | | Table 7.3A-3 with PCMAX_L as defined | | | | in subclause 6.2.5 of TS 36.101 [7]. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The interferer consists of the | | | | Reference measurement channel | | | | specified in TS 36.101 [7] Annex | | | | A.3.2 with one sided dynamic OCNG | | | | Pattern OP.1 FDD as described in Annex | | | | A.5.1.1 and set-up according to Annex | | | | C.3.1. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For DL category M1 UE, the | | | | reference sensitivity for category M1 | | | | in table 7.3A-1 should be used as | | | | REFSENS for the power in Transmission | | | | Bandwidth Configuration. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For DL category M1 UE, the | | | | parameters for the applicable channel | | | | bandwidth apply. | | | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+
Table 7.5A-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 2
+----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth | +========================================+=======+===================+ | | | 1.4 MHz | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Power in Transmission Bandwidth | dBm | -71.5 | | Configuration | | | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **P~Interferer~** | dBm | -40 | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **BW~Interferer\ ~** | MHz | 1.4 | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **F~Interferer~ (offset)** | MHz | 1.4+0.0025 | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | -1.4-0.0025 | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+ | NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set | | | | to 24dB below PCMAX_L at the minimum | | | | uplink configuration specified in | | | | Table 7.3A-3 with PCMAX_L as defined | | | | in subclause 6.2.5 of TS 36.101 [7]. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The interferer consists of the | | | | Reference measurement channel | | | | specified in TS 36.101 [7] Annex | | | | A.3.2 with one sided dynamic OCNG | | | | Pattern OP.1 FDD as described in Annex | | | | A.5.1.1 and set-up according to Annex | | | | C.3.1. | | | +----------------------------------------+-------+-------------------+
## 7.5B Adjacent Channel Selectivity for category NB1 and NB2
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive a E-UTRA signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre
frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the receive filter
attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to the receive filter
attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).
Category NB1 and NB2 UE shall fulfil the minimum requirement specified in
Table 7.5B-1 for all values of an adjacent channel interferer up to -40 dBm.
However it is not possible to directly measure the ACS, instead the lower and
upper range of test parameters are chosen in Table 7.5B-1 where the throughput
shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel
as specified in TS 36.101 [7] Annex A.3.2.
Table 7.5B-1: Adjacent channel selectivity parameters for category NB1 and NB2
+--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ACS1 test Parameters | | | +================================+=================+=================+ | Interferer | GSM (GMSK) | E-UTRA | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Category NB1 or NB2 signal | REFSENS + 14 dB | | | power | | | | | | | | **(P~wanted\ ~**) / dBm | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | **Interferer signal power** | REFSENS + 42 dB | REFSENS + 47 dB | | | | | | **(P~Interferer\ ~**) / dBm | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | **Interferer bandwidth** | 200 kHz | 5 MHz | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | **Interferer offset from | ±200 kHz | ±2.5 MHz | | category NB1 or NB2 channel | | | | edge** | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ACS2 test Parameters | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Interferer | GSM (GMSK) | E-UTRA | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Category NB1 or NB2 signal | -68 dBm | -73 dBm | | power | | | | | | | | **(P~wanted\ ~**) / dBm | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | **Interferer signal power** | -40 dBm | | | | | | | **(P~Interferer\ ~**) / dBm | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | **Interferer bandwidth** | 200 kHz | 5 MHz | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | **Interferer offset from | ±200 kHz | ±2.5 MHz | | category NB1 or NB2 channel | | | | edge** | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+
## 7.6 Blocking characteristics
This clause is reserved.
## 7.6A Blocking characteristics for category M1
### 7.6A.1 General
The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive
a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of the spurious response
or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted input signal causing a
degradation of the performance of the receiver beyond a specified limit. The
blocking performance shall apply at all frequencies except those at which a
spurious response occur.
### 7.6A.2 In-band blocking requirements for category M1
In-band blocking is defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling into
the UE receive band or into the first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive
band at which the relative throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirement for the specified measurement channels.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in TS 36.101 [7] Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and
A.3.2 (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD for the DL-signal as
described in TS 36.101 [7] Annex A.5.1.1) with parameters specified in Tables
7.6A.2-1 and 7.6A.2-2. For operating bands with an unpaired DL part (as noted
in Table 5.2A-1), the requirements only apply for carriers assigned in the
paired part.
Table 7.6A.2-1: In band blocking parameters
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Rx parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth | +=============================+=======+=============================+ | | | 1.4 MHz | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Power in Transmission | dBm | REFSENS + channel bandwidth | | Bandwidth Configuration | | specific value below | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | | | 6 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | **BW~Interferer\ ~** | MHz | 1.4 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | **F~Ioffset,\ case\ 1\ ~** | MHz | 2.1+0.0125 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | **F~Ioffset,\ case\ 2\ ~** | MHz | 3.5+0.0075 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The transmitter | | | | shall be set to 4dB below | | | | PCMAX_L at the minimum | | | | uplink configuration | | | | specified in Table 7.3A-3 | | | | with PCMAX_L as defined in | | | | subclause 6.2.5 of TS | | | | 36.101 [7]. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The interferer | | | | consists of the Reference | | | | measurement channel | | | | specified in TS 36.101 | | | | [7] Annex A.3.2 with one | | | | sided dynamic OCNG Pattern | | | | OP.1 FDD as described in | | | | Annex A.5.1.1 and set-up | | | | according to Annex C.3.1. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For DL category M1 | | | | UE, the reference | | | | sensitivity for category M1 | | | | in table 7.3A-1 should be | | | | used as REFSENS for the | | | | power in Transmission | | | | Bandwidth Configuration. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For DL category M1 | | | | UE, the parameters for the | | | | applicable channel | | | | bandwidth apply. | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
Table 7.6A.2-2: In-band blocking
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | E-UTRA band | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | +==============+==============+======+==============+==============+ | | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | =-BW/2 -- | ≤-BW/2 -- | | | ~Interferer~ | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | (offset) | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+BW/2 + | ≥+BW/2 + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | 256, 255 | F | MHz | (NOTE 2) | F~DL_low~ | | | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 15 | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 15 | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive band | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | > a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | | | range values | | | | | | for unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
### 7.6A.3 Out-of-band blocking requirements for category M1
Out-of-band band blocking is defined for an unwanted CW interfering signal
falling more than 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band. For the first 15
MHz below or above the UE receive band the appropriate in-band blocking or
adjacent channel selectivity in subclause 7.5A and subclause 7.6A.2 shall be
applied.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in TS 36.101 [7] Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and
A.3.2 (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD for the DL-signal as
described in TS 36.101 [7] Annex A.5.1.1) with parameters specified in Tables
7.6A.3-1 and 7.6A.3-2.
Table 7.6A.3-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters for category M1 UE
RX parameter Units Channel bandwidth (MHz)
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.4
Power in transmission bandwidth configuration dBm REFSENS + 6 dB NOTE 1: The
transmitter shall be set to 4dB below PCMAX_L at the minimum uplink
configuration specified in Table 7.3.1-2 in TS 36.101 [7] with PCMAX_L as
defined in subclause 6.2.5.
Table 7.6A.3-2: Out of-band blocking for category M1 UE
+----------+----------+------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | P | Unit | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | | perating | arameter | | | | | | Band | | | | | | +==========+==========+======+==========+==========+==========+ | | P~int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+------+----------+----------+----------+ | 255 | F~int | MHz | -60 \ | | | | | | | 2800 MHz | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \ **Parameter** | > **Unit** | > **Value** | > **Value** | +=========================+============+=============+==============+ | > Reference channel | | R.NB.1 FDD | R.NB.2 FDD | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > Carrier Type | | > Anchor | > Non-anchor | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > Channel bandwidth | > KHz | > 200 | > 200 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > Allocated subframes | | > Note 1 | > Note 1 | | > per Radio Frame | | | | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > Modulation | | > QPSK | > QPSK | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > ITBS/ISF | | > 9/3 | > 6/3 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > Target Coding Rate | | > 1/2 | > 1/3 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > Coding Rate | | > 0.5 | > 0.33 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > Information Bit | | | | | > Payload | | | | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > For Sub-Frames | > Bits | > 616 | > 392 | | > 1,2,3,6,7,8 | | | | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > For Sub-Frame 0,5 | > Bits | > N/A | > 392 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > For Sub-Frame 4,9 | > Bits | > Note 2 | > 392 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > Number of Code Blocks | | | | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > For Sub-Frames | | > 1 | > 1 | | > 1,2,3,6,7,8 | | | | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > For Sub-Frame 0,5 | > Bits | > N/A | 1 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > For Sub-Frame 4,9 | > Bits | > Note 3 | 1 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > Binary Channel Bits | | | | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > For Sub-Frames | > Bits | > 320 | > 320 | | > 1,2,3,6,7,8 | | | | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > For Sub-Frame 0,5 | > Bits | > N/A | > 320 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > For Sub-Frame 4,9 | > Bits | > Note 4 | > 320 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > Max. Average | > Bps | > Note 5 | > Note 5 | | > Throughput | | | | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | > UE Category | | > NB1,NB2 | > NB1,NB2 | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+ | Note 1: It shall depend | | | | | on the specific NPDSCH | | | | | scheduling. Note 2: N/A | | | | | when _n_ f mod 2 = 0, | | | | | otherwise 616. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: N/A when _n_ f | | | | | mod 2 = 0, otherwise 1. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: N/A when _n_ f | | | | | mod 2 = 0, otherwise | | | | | 320. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: Maximum Average | | | | | Throughput equals to | | | | | sum of TB(i) divided by | | | | | sum of T(i), where | | | | | TB(i) is the TB size of | | | | | NPDSCH over ith NPDSCH | | | | | scheduling period, and | | | | | T(i) is the total time | | | | | consisting of NPDCCH | | | | | transmission duration, | | | | | NPDCCH to NPDSCH | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | | | | | delay, NPDSCH | | | | | transmission duration, | | | | | NPDSCH to NPUSCH format | | | | | 2 scheduling delay, | | | | | NPUSCH format 2 | | | | | transmission duration, | | | | | possible delay between | | | | | NPUSCH format 2 and | | | | | NPDCCH for next NPDSCH | | | | | scheduling and | | | | | subframes used for | | | | | NPSS/NSSS/NPBCH/NB- | | | | | | | | | | SIB1/NB-SIB2 | | | | | transmission during the | | | | | i^th^ NPDSCH scheduling | | | | | period. | | | | +-------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+
Table A.1.1.1-2: NPDCCH Reference Channel for Category NB1 and NB2 UE
Parameter Unit Value
* * *
Reference channel R.NB.3 FDD Number of NRS ports 1 Channel bandwidth MHz 0.2
Aggregation level NCCE 2 DCI Format N1 Payload (without CRC) Bits 23
## A.1.2 Reference measurement channels for PDSCH performance requirements
### A.1.2.1 Single-antenna transmission (Common Reference Symbols)
Table A.1.2.1-1: Fixed Reference Channel Single Antenna Port
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Reference | | R.1 FDD | R.2 FDD | R.3 FDD | | channel | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | MHz | 1.4 | 1.4 | 1.4 | | bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Allocated | | Note3 | 6 | 6 | | resource | | | | | | blocks | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Allocated | | Note 4 | Note 5 | Note 6 | | DL | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | per Radio | | | | | | Frame | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Modulation | | 16QAM | QPSK | QPSK | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Target | | 1/2 | 1/3 | 1/10 | | Coding Rate | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Information | | | | | | Bit Payload | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | For | Bits | 744 | 504 | 152 | | Sub-Frames | | | | | | 0,1,2,3, | | | | | | 4,5,6,7,8,9 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Number of | | | | | | Code Blocks | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | For | Code blocks | 1 | 1 | 1 | | Sub-Frames | | | | | | 0,1,2,3, | | | | | | 4,5,6,7,8,9 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Binary | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | Bits | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | For | Bits | 1656 | 1656 (Note | 1656 | | Sub-Frames | | | 7, 8) | | | 0,1,2,3, | | (Note 7, 8) | | (Note 7, 8) | | 4,5,6,7,8,9 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Max. | Kbps | 149 | 15.75 | 0.950 | | Throughput | | | | | | averaged | | | | | | over one | | | | | | period | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UE DL | | M1 | M1 | M1 | | Category | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: 2 | | | | | | symbols are | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | to PDCCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | signal, | | | | | | sync | | | | | | hronization | | | | | | signals and | | | | | | PBCH are | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | as per TS | | | | | | 36.211 | | | | | | [3]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: 2 | | | | | | symbols are | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | to PDCCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: The | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | are | | | | | | scheduled | | | | | | at the | | | | | | 8^th^ and | | | | | | 9^th^ | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | every 10ms | | | | | | (starting | | | | | | from 0th | | | | | | subframe). | | | | | | Information | | | | | | bit payload | | | | | | is | | | | | | available | | | | | | from the | | | | | | 8^th^ to | | | | | | 9^th^ | | | | | | subframes. | | | | | | The | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | MPDCCH is | | | | | | scheduled 2 | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | before the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsmissions. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | are | | | | | | scheduled | | | | | | at the | | | | | | 10^th^ to | | | | | | 17^th^ | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | every | | | | | | period | | | | | | (32ms). | | | | | | Information | | | | | | bit payload | | | | | | is | | | | | | available | | | | | | from the | | | | | | 10^th^ to | | | | | | 17^th^ | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | with | | | | | | repetition. | | | | | | (Starting | | | | | | from the | | | | | | 0^th^ | | | | | | subframe). | | | | | | The | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | MPDCCH is | | | | | | scheduled | | | | | | from 1^st^ | | | | | | to 8^th^ | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | every 32ms | | | | | | (starting | | | | | | from 0^th^ | | | | | | subframe). | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | are | | | | | | scheduled | | | | | | at the | | | | | | 96^th^ to | | | | | | 159^th^ | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | every | | | | | | period | | | | | | (160ms). | | | | | | Information | | | | | | bit payload | | | | | | is | | | | | | available | | | | | | at the | | | | | | 96^th^ to | | | | | | 159^th^ | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | with | | | | | | repetition. | | | | | | (Starting | | | | | | from the | | | | | | 0th | | | | | | subframe) | | | | | | The | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | MPDCCH is | | | | | | scheduled | | | | | | from 31^st^ | | | | | | to 94^th^ | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | every 160ms | | | | | | (starting | | | | | | from 0^th^ | | | | | | subframe). | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 7: | | | | | | MPDCCH, and | | | | | | PDSCH are | | | | | | dropped | | | | | | when | | | | | | overlapped | | | | | | with | | | | | | SIB1-BR, or | | | | | | SIB2 or | | | | | | SIB3. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 8: | | | | | | MPDCCH, and | | | | | | PDSCH are | | | | | | punctured | | | | | | in | | | | | | overlapping | | | | | | Resource | | | | | | Elements | | | | | | (RE)s with | | | | | | PS | | | | | | S/SSS/PBCH. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# A.2 OFDMA Channel Noise Generator (OCNG)
## A.2.1 OCNG Patterns for Narrowband IoT
The following OCNG patterns are used for modelling allocations to virtual
narrowband IoT UEs (which are not under test). The OCNG pattern for each sub
frame specifies the allocations that shall be filled with OCNG, and
furthermore, the relative power level of each such allocation.
In each test case the OCNG is expressed by parameters OCNG_RA and OCNG_RB
which together with a relative power level ($\gamma$) specifies the NPDSCH
EPRE-to-NRS EPRE ratios in OFDM symbols with and without Narrowband reference
symbols, respectively. The relative power, which is used for modelling
boosting per virtual UE allocation, is expressed by:
γ ~i~ = NPDSCHi _ RA / OCNG _ RA = NPDSCHi _ RB / OCNG _ RB,
where _γ_ _~i~_ denotes the relative power level of the i:th virtual UE. The
parameter settings of OCNG_RA, OCNG_RB and the set of relative power levels
are chosen such that when also taking allocations to the UE under test into
account, as given by a NPDSCH or NPDCCH reference channel, a transmitted power
spectral density that is constant on an OFDM symbol basis is targeted.
### A.2.1.1 Narrowband IoT OCNG pattern 1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Table A.2.1.1-1: | Relative power level | NPDCCH and | | NB.OP.1 FDD: OCNG | _γ_ [dB] | corresponding NPDSCH | | FDD Pattern 1 | | | | | | Data | | Bandwidth | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | | Subframe | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Unused subframes | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 200KHz | 0 | Note 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note 1: These | | | | subframes are | | | | assigned to an | | | | arbitrary number of | | | | virtual UEs with one | | | | NPDSCH per virtual | | | | UE with | | | | corresponding | | | | NPDCCH; the data | | | | transmitted over the | | | | OCNG NPDSCHs shall | | | | be uncorrelated | | | | pseudo random data, | | | | which is QPSK | | | | modulated. The | | | | | | | | parameter _γ_ is | | | | used to scale the | | | | power of NPDSCH and | | | | NPDCCH. | | | | | | | | Note 2: Subframes | | | | and/or REs available | | | | for narrowband IOT | | | | DL transmission | | | | depend on the | | | | in-band, guard band | | | | or standalone mode | | | | indicated in MIB, | | | | and scheduling delay | | | | | | | | between NPDCCH, | | | | NPDSCH, NPUSCH | | | | format 2 and NPDCCH | | | | specified in test | | | | cases. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## A.2.2 OCNG Patterns for FDD
The following OCNG patterns are used for modelling allocations to virtual UEs
(which are not under test) and/or allocations used for MBSFN. The OCNG pattern
for each sub frame specifies the allocations that shall be filled with OCNG,
and furthermore, the relative power level of each such allocation.
In each test case the OCNG is expressed by parameters OCNG_RA and OCNG_RB
which together with a relative power level ($\gamma$) specifies the PDSCH
EPRE-to-RS EPRE ratios in OFDM symbols with and without reference
symbols, respectively. The relative power, which is used for modelling
boosting per virtual UE allocation, is expressed by:
γ ~i~ = NPDSCHi _ RA / OCNG _ RA = NPDSCHi _ RB / OCNG _ RB,
where _γ_ _~i~_ denotes the relative power level of the i:th virtual UE. The
parameter settings of OCNG_RA, OCNG_RB and the set of relative power levels
are chosen such that when also taking allocations to the UE under test into
account, as given by a NPDSCH or NPDCCH reference channel, a transmitted power
spectral density that is constant on an OFDM symbol basis is targeted.
Moreover, the OCNG pattern is accompanied by a PCFICH/PDCCH/PHICH reference
channel which specifies the control region. For any aggregation and PHICH
allocation, the PDCCH and any unused PHICH groups are padded with resource
element groups with a power level given respectively by PDCCH_RA/RB and
PHICH_RA/RB as specified in the test case such that a total power spectral
density in the control region that is constant on an OFDM symbol basis is
targeted.
### A.2.2.1 OCNG FDD Pattern 1: Two sided dynamic OCNG FDD pattern
This OCNG Pattern fills with OCNG all empty PRB-s (PRB-s with no allocation of
data or system information) of the DL sub-frames, when the unallocated area is
discontinuous in frequency domain (divided in two parts by the allocated area
-- two sided), starts with PRB 0 and ends with PRB _NRB_ −1.
Table A.2.2.1-1: OP.1 FDD: Two sided dynamic OCNG FDD Pattern
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | Relative power | PDSCH Data | | | | level _γ_ | | | | | _~PRB~_ [dB] | | | | +==================+==================+==================+========+ | Subframe | | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 0 | 5 | 1 -- 4, 6 -- 9 | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | Allocation | | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 0 -- (First | 0 -- (First | 0 -- (First | | | allocated PRB-1) | allocated PRB-1) | allocated PRB-1) | | | and | and | and | | | | | | | | (Last allocated | (Last allocated | (Last allocated | | | PRB+1) -- ( | PRB+1) -- ( | PRB+1) -- ( | | | | | | | | _NRB_ −1) | _NRB_ −1) | _NRB_ −1) | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 0 | 0 | 0 | Note 1 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | Note 1: These | | | | | physical | | | | | resource blocks | | | | | are assigned to | | | | | an arbitrary | | | | | number of | | | | | virtual UEs with | | | | | one PDSCH per | | | | | virtual UE; the | | | | | data transmitted | | | | | over the OCNG | | | | | PDSCHs shall be | | | | | uncorrelated | | | | | pseudo random | | | | | data, which is | | | | | QPSK modulated. | | | | | The parameter | | | | | _γ_ _~PRB~_ is | | | | | used to scale | | | | | the power of | | | | | PDSCH. | | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
###### ## Annex B (normative): Downlink physical channels
# B.1 General
This annex specifies the downlink physical channels that are needed for
setting a connection and channels that are needed during a connection.
# B.2 Set-up
Table **B**.2-1 describes the downlink Physical Channels that are required for
connection set up.
Table B.2-1: Downlink Physical Channels required\ for connection set-up
* * *
Physical Channel PBCH SSS PSS MPDCCH PDSCH
* * *
# B.3 Connection
The following clauses, describes the downlink Physical Channels that are
transmitted during a connection i.e., when measurements are done.
## B.3.1 Measurement of Receiver Characteristics
Unless otherwise stated, Table B.3.1-1 is applicable for measurements on the
Receiver Characteristics (clause 7).
Table B.3.1-1: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during a connection
Physical Channel EPRE Ratio
* * *
PBCH PBCH_RA = 0 dB PBCH_RB = 0 dB PSS PSS_RA = 0 dB SSS SSS_RA = 0 dB PDSCH
PDSCH_RA = 0 dB PDSCH_RB = 0 dB OCNG OCNG_RA = 0 dB OCNG_RB = 0 dB
NOTE 1: No boosting is applied.
Table B.3.1-2: Power allocation for OFDM symbols and reference signals
Parameter Unit Value Note
* * *
Transmitted power spectral density $I_{\text{or}}$ dBm/15 kHz Test specific 1.
$I_{\text{or}}$ shall be kept constant throughout all OFDM symbols Cell-
specific reference signal power ratio $E_{\text{RS}}/I_{\text{or}}$ 0 dB
## B.3.2 Measurement of Performance requirements
Table B.3.2-1 is applicable for measurements in which uniform RS-to-EPRE
boosting for all downlink physical channels, unless otherwise stated.
Table B.3.2-1: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during a connection
Physical Channel EPRE Ratio
* * *
PBCH PBCH_RA = ρ~A~+ σ PBCH_RB = ρ~B~+ σ PSS PSS_RA = 0 (Note 3) SSS SSS_RA =
0 (Note 3) MPDCCH MPDCCH_RA = ρ~A~+δ MPDCCH_RB = ρ~B~+δ PDSCH PDSCH_RA = ρ~A~
PDSCH_RB = ρ~B~ OCNG OCNG_RA = ρ~A~+ σ OCNG_RB = ρ~B~+ σ
NOTE 1: ρ~A~= ρ~B~ = 0 dB means no RS boosting.
NOTE 2: OCNG are not defined downlink physical channels in [3].
NOTE 3: Assuming PSS and SSS transmitted on a single antenna port.
NOTE 4: ρ~A~, ρ~B,~ σ, and δ are test specific.
Table B.3.2-2: Power allocation for OFDM symbols and reference signals
Parameter Unit Value Note
* * *
Total transmitted power spectral density $I_{\text{or}}$ dBm/15 kHz Test
specific 1. $I_{\text{or}}$ shall be kept constant throughout all OFDM symbols
Cell-specific reference signal power ratio $E_{\text{RS}}/I_{\text{or}}$ Test
specific 1. Applies for antenna port _p_ Energy per resource element EPRE Test
specific 1. The complex-valued symbols $y^{\left( p \right)}(i)$ and
$a_{k,l}^{(p)}$ defined in TS 36.211 [3] shall conform to the given EPRE
value.
## B.3.3 Measurement of Receiver Characteristics for Narrowband IoT
For the performance requirements for Narrowband IoT, the power allocation for
the physical channels is listed in Table B.3.3-1.
Table B.3.3-1: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during a connection
Physical Channel EPRE Ratio for one NRS antenna port EPRE Ratio for two NRS
antenna ports
* * *
NPBCH 0 dB -3 dB NPDCCH 0 dB -3 dB NPDSCH 0 dB -3 dB NPSS 0 dB 0 dB NSSS 0 dB
0 dB
NOTE 1: Assuming NPSS and NSSS transmitted on one NRS antenna port.
Table B.3.3-2: Power allocation for OFDM symbols and reference signals
Parameter Unit Value Note
* * *
Transmitted power spectral density $I_{\text{or}}$ dBm/15 kHz Test specific
$I_{\text{or}}$ shall be kept constant throughout all OFDM symbols Narrowband
reference signal power ratio $E_{\text{CRS}}/I_{\text{or}}$ 0 dB Applicable
for Stand-alone operation Narrowband reference signal power over cell-specific
reference signal power $E_{\text{NRS}}/E_{\text{RS}}$ 0 dB Applicable for In-
band operation
###### ## Annex C (normative): Environment conditions
# C.1 General
This normative annex specifies the environmental requirements of the UE.
Within these limits the requirements of the present documents shall be
fulfilled.
# C.2 Environmental
The requirements in this clause apply to all types of UE(s).
## C.2.1 Temperature
The UE shall fulfil all the requirements in the full temperature range of:
Table C.2.1-1
* * *
+15°C to +35°C for normal conditions (with relative humidity of 25 % to 75 %)
* * *
Outside this temperature range the UE, if powered on, shall not make
ineffective use of the radio frequency spectrum. In no case shall the UE
exceed the transmitted levels as defined in clause 6.2 of TS 36.101 [7] for
extreme operation.
## C.2.2 Voltage
The UE shall fulfil all the requirements in the full voltage range defined in
Table C.2.2-1.
Table C.2.2-1
+-----------------------------+-------------------+ | Power source | Normal conditions | | | | | | voltage | +-----------------------------+-------------------+ | AC mains | nominal | +-----------------------------+-------------------+ | Regulated lead acid battery | 1,1 * nominal | +-----------------------------+-------------------+ | Non regulated batteries: | Nominal | | | | | Leclanché | 1,1 * Nominal | | | | | Lithium | Nominal | | | | | Mercury/nickel & cadmium | | +-----------------------------+-------------------+
Outside this voltage range the UE if powered on, shall not make ineffective
use of the radio frequency spectrum. In no case shall the UE exceed the
transmitted levels as defined in clause 6.2 of TS 36.101 [7] for extreme
operation. In particular, the UE shall inhibit all RF transmissions when the
power supply voltage is below the manufacturer declared shutdown voltage.
## C.2.3 Vibration
The UE shall fulfil all the requirements when vibrated at the following
frequency/amplitudes.
Table C.2.3-1
* * *
Frequency ASD (Acceleration Spectral Density) random vibration 5 Hz to 20 Hz
0,96 m2/s3 20 Hz to 500 Hz 0,96 m2/s3 at 20 Hz, thereafter --3 dB/Octave
* * *
Outside the specified frequency range the UE, if powered on, shall not make
ineffective use of the radio frequency spectrum. In no case shall the UE
exceed the transmitted levels as defined in TS 36.101 [6] for extreme
operation.
###### ## Annex D (normative): Propagation conditions
# D.1 Multi-path fading propagation conditions
The multipath propagation conditions consist of several parts:
\- A delay profile in the form of a \"tapped delay-line\", characterized by a
number of taps at fixed positions on a sampling grid. The profile can be
further characterized by the r.m.s. delay spread and the maximum delay spanned
by the taps.
\- A combination of channel model parameters that include the Delay profile
and the Doppler spectrum that is characterized by a classical spectrum shape
and a maximum Doppler frequency.
## D.1.1 Delay profiles
The delay profiles are derived from the TR 38.811 [13] NTN-TDL models for the
desired delay spread and tap resolution. After scaling the normalized delay
spread values for each tap by the desired RMS delay spread, the tap delays are
quantized to a delay resolution of 5ns by rounding to the nearest multiple of
the delay resolution.
Table D.1.1-1: Delay profiles for IoT NTN channel models
Type Model Delay spread (r.m.s.) Delay resolution
* * *
NLOS NTN-TDLA100 100 ns 5 ns LOS NTN-TDLC5 5 ns 5 ns
**Table D.1.1-2: NTN-TDLA100 (DS = 100 ns)**
Tap # Delay [ns] Power [dB] Fading distribution
* * *
1 0 0 Rayleigh 2 110 -4.7 Rayleigh 3 285 -6.5 Rayleigh
Table D.1.1-3 NTN-TDLC5 (DS = 5 ns)
Tap # Delay [ns] Power [dB] Fading distribution
* * *
1 0 -0.6 LOS path 0 -8.9 Rayleigh 2 60 -21.5 Rayleigh Note 1: Tap #1 follows a
Rician distribution.
## D.1.2 Combinations of channel model parameters
The propagation conditions used for the performance measurements in multi-path
fading environment are indicated as a combination of a channel model name and
a maximum Doppler frequency, i.e., NTN-TDLA\-\, or NTN-
TDLC\-\ where \'\\' indicates the desired delay spread and
\'\\' indicates the maximum Doppler frequency (Hz).
Table D.1.2-1 show the propagation conditions that are used for the
performance measurements in multi-path fading environment for NLOS and LOS
propagation conditions.
Table D.1.2-1: Channel model parameters for NTN
Combination name Model Maximum Doppler frequency
* * *
NTN-TDLA100-10 NTN-TDLA100 10 Hz NTN-TDLA100-200 NTN-TDLA100 200 Hz NTN-
TDLC5-30 NTN-TDLC5 30 Hz NTN-TDLC5-200 NTN-TDLC5 200 Hz
#