# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
\
# 1 Scope {#scope-1}
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics and minimum
performance requirements of Satellite Access Node (SAN) supporting standalone
NB-IoT operation or E-UTRA.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.181: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Satellite Access Node conformance testing; Satellite Node conformance
testing\".
[4] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
[5] ITU-R Recommendation SM.328: \"Spectra and bandwidth of emissions\".
[6] ITU-R Recommendation SM.1541-6: \"Unwanted emissions in the out-of-band
domain\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.108: "Satellite Access Node radio transmission and reception".
[8] void
[9] 3GPP TS 36.211: Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation"
[10] 3GPP TR 38 811: \"Study on New Radio (NR) to support non-terrestrial
networks\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**basic limit:** emissions limit relating to the power supplied by a single
transmitter to a single antenna transmission line in ITU-R SM.329 [2] used for
the formulation of unwanted emission requirements for FR1.
**beam:** beam (of the antenna) is the main lobe of the radiation pattern of
an _antenna array._
NOTE: For certain _antenna array_ , there may be more than one beam.
**beam centre direction:** direction equal to the geometric centre of the
half-power contour of the beam.
**beam direction pair:** data set consisting of the _beam centre direction_
and the related _beam peak direction._
**beam peak direction:** direction where the maximum EIRP is found.
**beamwidth:** beam which has a half-power contour that is essentially
elliptical, the half-power beamwidths in the two pattern cuts that
respectively contain the major and minor axis of the ellipse.
**Channel edge:** lowest or highest frequency of the E-UTRA carrier, separated
by the _SAN channel bandwidth_.
**directional requirement: requirement which is applied in a specific
direction within the _OTA coverage range_ for the Tx and when the AoA of the
incident wave of a received signal is within the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA_ or the
_minSENS RoAoA_ as appropriate for the receiver.**
**equivalent isotropic radiated power:** equivalent power radiated from an
isotropic directivity device producing the same field intensity at a point of
observation as the field intensity radiated in the direction of the same point
of observation by the discussed device.
NOTE: Isotropic directivity is equal in all directions (i.e. 0 dBi).
**equivalent isotropic sensitivity:** sensitivity for an isotropic directivity
device equivalent to the sensitivity of the discussed device exposed to an
incoming wave from a defined AoA.
NOTE 1: The sensitivity is the minimum received power level at which specific
requirement is met.
NOTE 2: Isotropic directivity is equal in all directions (i.e. 0 dBi).
**feeder link:** Wireless link between satellite-Gateway and satellite.
**Geostationary Earth Orbit:** Circular orbit at 35,786 km above the Earth\'s
equator and following the direction of the Earth\'s rotation. An object in
such an orbit has an orbital period equal to the Earth\'s rotational period
and thus appears motionless, at a fixed position in the sky, to ground
observers.
**Low Earth Orbit:** Orbit around the Earth with an altitude between 300 km,
and 1500 km.
**Highest Carrier:** The carrier with the highest carrier frequency
transmitted/received in a specified frequency band.
**Lowest Carrier:** The carrier with the lowest carrier frequency
transmitted/received in a specified frequency band.
**maximum carrier output power:** mean power level measured per carrier at the
indicated interface, during the _transmitter ON period_ in a specified
reference condition.
**maximum carrier TRP output power:** mean power level measured per RIB during
the _transmitter ON period_ for a specific carrier in a specified reference
condition and corresponding to the declared _rated carrier TRP output_ power
(P~rated,c,TRP~).
**maximum total output power:** mean power level measured within the
_operating band_ at the indicated interface, during the _transmitter ON
period_ in a specified reference condition.
**maximum total TRP output power:** mean power level measured per RIB during
the _transmitter ON period_ in a specified reference condition and
corresponding to the declared _rated total TRP output_ power (P~rated,t,TRP~).
**measurement bandwidth** : RF bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**minSENS:** the lowest declared EIS value for the OSDD\'s declared for OTA
sensitivity requirement**.**
**minSENS RoAoA:** The _reference RoAoA_ associated with the OSDD with the
lowest declared EIS.
**minimum elevation angle** : Minimum angle under which the satellite can be
seen by a UE.
**non-terrestrial networks:** Networks, or segments of networks, using an
airborne or space-borne vehicle to embark a transmission equipment relay node
or SAN.
**satellite-gateway:** An earth station or gateway is located at the surface
of Earth, and providing sufficient RF power and RF sensitivity for accessing
to the satellite.
**operating band:** frequency range in which E-UTRA operates (paired or
unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements.
NOTE: The _operating band_(s) for a SAN is declared by the manufacturer
according to the designations in tables 5.2-1 and 5.2-2.
**OTA coverage range** : a common range of directions within which TX OTA
requirements that are neither specified in the _OTA peak directions sets_ nor
as _TRP requirement_ are intended to be met.
**OTA peak directions set:** set(s) of  _beam peak directions_ within which
certain TX OTA requirements are intended to be met, where all  _OTA peak
directions set(s)_ are subsets of the  _OTA coverage range._
NOTE: The  _beam peak directions_ are related to a corresponding contiguous
range or discrete list of  _beam centre directions_ by the  _beam direction
pairs_ included in the set.
**OTA REFSENS RoAoA:** the RoAoA determined by the contour defined by the
points at which the achieved EIS is 3dB higher than the achieved EIS in the
reference direction assuming that for any AoA, the receiver gain is optimized
for that AoA.
NOTE: This contour will be related to the average element/sub-array radiation
pattern 3dB beamwidth.
**OTA sensitivity directions declaration:** set of manufacturer declarations
comprising at least one set of declared minimum EIS values (with _SAN channel
bandwidth_), and related directions over which the EIS applies.
NOTE: All the directions apply to all the EIS values in an OSDD.
**polarization match:** condition that exists when a plane wave, incident upon
an antenna from a given direction, has a polarization that is the same as the
receiving polarization of the antenna in that direction.
**radiated interface boundary** : _operating band_ specific radiated
requirements reference where the radiated requirements apply.
NOTE: For requirements based on EIRP/EIS, the _radiated interface boundary_ is
associated to the far-field region.
**Radio Bandwidth:** **frequency difference between the upper edge of the
highest used carrier and the lower edge of the lowest used carrier.**
**rated beam EIRP:** For a declared beam and _beam direction pair_ , the
_rated beam EIRP_ level is the maximum power that the SAN is declared to
radiate at the associated _beam peak direction_ during the _transmitter ON
period._
**rated carrier output power:** mean power level associated with a particular
carrier the manufacturer has declared to be available at the indicated
interface, during the _transmitter ON period_ in a specified reference
condition.
**rated carrier TRP output power:** mean power level declared by the
manufacturer per carrier, for SAN operating in single carrier, multi-carrier,
or carrier aggregation configurations that the manufacturer has declared to be
available at the RIB during the _transmitter ON period._
**rated total output power:** mean power level associated with a particular
_operating band_ the manufacturer has declared to be available at the
indicated interface, during the _transmitter ON period_ in a specified
reference condition.
**rated total TRP output power:** mean power level declared by the
manufacturer, that the manufacturer has declared to be available at the RIB
during the _transmitter ON period._
**reference beam direction pair: declared _beam direction pair _, including
reference_ beam centre direction _and reference_ beam peak direction _where
the reference_ beam peak direction _is the direction for the intended maximum
EIRP within the_ OTA peak directions set._**
**receiver target:** AoA in which reception is performed by _SAN types 1-H_ or
_SAN type 1-O._
**receiver target redirection range:** union of all the _sensitivity RoAoA_
achievable through redirecting the _receiver target_ related to particular
OSDD.
**receiver target reference direction: direction inside the _OTA sensitivity
directions declaration _declared by the manufacturer for conformance testing.
For an OSDD without_ receiver target redirection range _, this is a direction
inside the_ sensitivity RoAoA._**
**reference RoAoA** : the _sensitivity RoAoA_ associated with the _receiver
target reference direction_ for each OSDD.
**requirement set:** one of the E-UTRA SAN requirement\'s set as defined for
_SAN type 1-H_ , _SAN type 1-O._
**SAN channel bandwidth** : RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the _transmission bandwidth_ configured in the uplink or downlink.
NOTE 1: The _SAN channel bandwidth_ is measured in MHz and is used as a
reference for transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
NOTE 2: It is possible for the SAN to transmit to and/or receive from one or
more satellite UE bandwidth parts that are smaller than or equal to the _SAN
transmission bandwidth configuration_ , in any part of the _SAN transmission
bandwidth configuration_.
**SAN RF Bandwidth** : RF bandwidth in which a SAN transmits and/or receives
single or multiple carrier(s) within a supported _operating band._
NOTE: In single carrier operation, the _SAN RF Bandwidth_ is equal to the _SAN
channel bandwidth_.
**SAN RF Bandwidth edge:** frequency of one of the edges of the _SAN RF
Bandwidth_.
**SAN transmission bandwidth configuration** : set of resource blocks located
within the _SAN channel bandwidth_ which may be used for transmitting or
receiving by the SAN.
**SAN type 1-H:** Satellite Access Node operating at FR1 with a requirement
set consisting of conducted requirements defined at individual _TAB
connectors_ and OTA requirements defined at RIB.
**SAN type 1-O:** Satellite Access Node operating at FR1 with a requirement
set consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the RIB.
**satellite:** A space-borne vehicle embarking a bent pipe payload or a
regenerative payload telecommunication transmitter, placed into Low-Earth
Orbit (LEO) or Geostationary Earth Orbit (GEO).
**Satellite Access Node** : node providing E-UTRA user plane and control plane
protocol terminations towards NTN Satellite capable UE, and connected via the
NG interface to the 5GC. It encompass a transparent NTN payload on board a NTN
platform, a gateway and gNB functions.
**satellite-gateway:** An earth station or gateway is located at the surface
of Earth, and providing sufficient RF power and RF sensitivity for accessing
to the satellite.
**sensitivity RoAoA: RoAoA within the _OTA sensitivity directions declaration_
, within which the declared EIS(s) of an OSDD is intended to be achieved at
any** instance of time **for a specific SAN direction setting.**
**TAB connector:** _transceiver array boundary_ connector.
**total radiated power: is the total power radiated by the antenna.**
NOTE: The _total radiated power_ is the power radiating in all direction for
two orthogonal polarizations. _Total radiated power_ is defined in both the
near-field region and the far-field region.
**transceiver array boundary:** conducted interface between the transceiver
unit array and the composite antenna.
**transmission bandwidth:** RF Bandwidth of an instantaneous transmission from
a satellite UE or SAN, measured in resource block units.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
β Percentage of the mean transmitted power emitted outside the occupied
bandwidth on the assigned channel.
BeW~θ,REFSENS~ Beamwidth equivalent to the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA_ in the θ-axis
in degrees. Applicable for FR1 only.
BeW~φ,REFSENS~ Beamwidth equivalent to the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA_ in the φ-axis
in degrees. Applicable for FR1 only.
BW~Channel~ _SAN channel bandwidth._
BW~Config~ _Transmission bandwidth configuration_ , where BW~Config~ = _E-
UTRA_ ~B~ x SCS x 12.
∆f Separation between the _channel edge_ frequency and the nominal -3 dB point
of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
∆f~max~ f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the measuring filter.
Δf~OBUE~ Maximum offset of the _operating band_ unwanted emissions mask from
the downlink _operating band_ edge.
Δf~OOB~ Maximum offset of the out-of-band boundary from the uplink _operating
band_ edge.
Δ~minSENS~ Difference between conducted reference sensitivity and minSENS.
Δ~OTAREFSENS~ Difference between conducted reference sensitivity and OTA
REFSENS.
EIS~minSENS~ The EIS declared for the _minSENS RoAoA._
EIS~REFSENS~ OTA REFSENS EIS value.
F~C~ _RF reference frequency_ on the channel raster, given in table 5.4.
F~C,low~ The Fc of the _lowest carrier_ , expressed in MHz.
F~C,high~ The Fc of the _highest carrier_ , expressed in MHz.
F~DL,low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink _operating band._
F~DL,high~ The highest frequency of the downlink _operating band._
F~filter~ Filter centre frequency.
F~offset,high~ Frequency offset from F~C,high~ to the upper _SAN RF Bandwidth
edge._
F~offset,low~ Frequency offset from F~C,low~ to the lower _SAN RF Bandwidth
edge._
f_offset Separation between the _channel edge_ frequency and the centre of the
measuring.
f_offset~max~ The offset to the frequency Δf~OBUE~ outside the downlink
_operating band._
F~UL,low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink _operating band._
F~UL,high~ The highest frequency of the uplink _operating band._
GB~Channel~ Minimum guard band defined in clause 5.3.
Physical resource block number.
M~DL~ Offset of NB-IoT Downlink channel number to Downlink EARFCN
M~UL~ Offset of NB-IoT Uplink channel number to Uplink EARFCN
N~DL~ Downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-DL~ Offset used for calculating downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-UL~ Offset used for calculating uplink EARFCN
N~RB~ _Transmission bandwidth configuration_ , expressed in resource blocks.
N~UL~ Uplink EARFCN
P~EIRP,N~ EIRP level for channel N.
P~max,c,AC~ _Maximum carrier output power_ measured per _antenna connector._
P~max,c,TABC~ The _maximum carrier output power per TAB connector._
P~max,c**,** TRP~ _Maximum carrier TRP output power_ measured at the RIB(s),
and corresponding to the declared _rated carrier TRP output power_
(**P~rated,c,TRP~**).
P~max,c,EIRP~ The maximum carrier EIRP when the SAN is configured at the
maximum rated carrier output TRP (P~rated,c,TRP~).
P~rated,c,sys~ P~rated,c,sys,GEO~ for SAN GEO class or P~rated,c,sys,LEO~ for
SAN LEO class.
**P~rated,c,TRP~** _Rated carrier TRP output power_ declared per RIB
P~rated,c,sys,GEO~ The sum of P~rated,c,TABC~ for all _TAB connectors_ for a
single carrier of the SAN GEO class.
P~rated,c,sys,LEO~ The sum of P~rated,c,TABC~ for all _TAB connectors_ for a
single carrier of the SAN LEO class.
P~rated,c,TABC~ P~rated,c,TABC,GEO~ for SAN GEO class or P~rated,c,TABC,LEO~
for SAN LEO class.
P~rated,c,TABC,GEO~ The _rated carrier output power per TAB connector_ of the
SAN GEO class _._
P~rated,c,TABC,LEO~ The _rated carrier output power per TAB connector_ of the
SAN LEO class _._
**P~rated,c,TRP~** _Rated carrier TRP output power_ declared per RIB.
P~rated,t,TRP~ _Rated total TRP output power_ declared per RIB.
P~REFSENS~ Conducted Reference Sensitivity power level.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AA Antenna Array
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
AoA Angle of Arrival
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BW Bandwidth
CA Carrier Aggregation
CP-OFDM Cyclic Prefix-OFDM
CW Continuous Wave
DFT-s-OFDM Discrete Fourier Transform-spread-OFDM
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EIRP Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power
EIS Equivalent Isotropic Sensitivity
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
FR Frequency Range
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GEO Geostationary Earth Orbiting
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
LEO Low Earth Orbiting
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
NB-IoT Narrowband -- Internet of Things
> NTN Non-Terrestrial Network
OBUE Operating Band Unwanted Emissions
OOB Out-of-band
OSDD OTA Sensitivity Directions Declaration
OTA Over-The-Air
PRB Physical Resource Block
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
RB Resource Block
RDN Radio Distribution Network
RE Resource Element
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
RIB Radiated Interface Boundary
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RoAoA Range of Angles of Arrival
RX Receiver
SAN Satellite Access Node
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
TAB Transceiver Array Boundary
TRP Total Radiated Power
TX Transmitter
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship with other core specifications
The present document is a single-RAT specification for a SAN, covering RF
characteristics and minimum performance requirements. Conducted and radiated
core requirements are defined for the SAN architectures and SAN types defined
in clause 4.3.
The applicability of each requirement is described in clause 4.6.
## 4.2 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
Conformance to the present specification is demonstrated by fulfilling the
test requirements specified in the conformance specification TS 36.181 [3].
The minimum requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specifications TS 36.181 [3] define test
tolerances. These test tolerances are individually calculated for each test.
The test tolerances are used to relax the minimum requirements in this
specification to create test requirements. For some requirements, including
regulatory requirements, the test tolerance is set to zero.
The measurement results returned by the test system are compared - without any
modification - against the test requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The shared risk principle is defined in recommendation ITU‑R M.1545 [4].
## 4.3 Requirement reference points
### 4.3.1 SAN type 1-H
For _SAN type 1-H_ , the requirements are defined for two points of reference,
signified by radiated requirements and conducted requirements.
{width="5.2in" height="2.16875in"}
Figure 4.3.1-1: Radiated and conducted reference points for _SAN type 1-H_
Radiated characteristics are defined over the air (OTA), where the radiated
interface is referred to as the _Radiated Interface Boundary_ (RIB). Radiated
requirements are also referred to as OTA requirements. The (spatial)
characteristics in which the OTA requirements apply are detailed for each
requirement.
Conducted characteristics are defined at individual or groups of _TAB
connectors_ at the _transceiver array boundary_ , which is the conducted
interface between the transceiver unit array and the composite antenna.
The transceiver unit array is part of the composite transceiver functionality
receiving and transmitting modulated signal to ensure radio links with users.
The satellite payload is composed by a transceiver unit array and a composite
antenna array. The transceiver unit array contains an implementation specific
number of transmitter units and an implementation specific number of receiver
units.
The composite antenna contains a radio distribution network (RDN) and an
antenna array. The RDN is a linear passive network which distributes the RF
power generated by the transceiver unit array to the antenna array, and/or
distributes the radio signals collected by the antenna array to the
transceiver unit array, in an implementation specific way.
How a conducted requirement is applied to the _transceiver array boundary_ is
detailed in the respective requirement clause.
### 4.3.2 SAN type 1-O
For _SAN type 1-O_ , the radiated characteristics are defined over the air
(OTA), where the _operating band_ specific radiated interface is referred to
as the _Radiated Interface Boundary_ (RIB). Radiated requirements are also
referred to as OTA requirements. The (spatial) characteristics in which the
OTA requirements apply are detailed for each requirement.
{width="4.925in" height="2.126388888888889in"}
Figure 4.3.2-1: Radiated reference points for _SAN type 1-O_
## 4.4 Satellite Access Node classes
The requirements in this specification apply to Satellite Access Node unless
otherwise stated. The associated deployment scenarios are exactly the same for
SAN with and without connectors.
For SAN _type 1-O_ and _SAN type 1-H_ , two SAN classes (LEO and GEO) are
defined in table 4.4-1.
Table 4.4-1 SAN classes
+-----------+-------------------------+ | SAN class | Satellite constellation | +===========+=========================+ | GEO class | GEO satellite | +-----------+-------------------------+ | LEO class | LEO 600 km satellite | | | | | | LEO 1200 km satellite | +-----------+-------------------------+
## 4.5 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements, or as mandatory requirements set by local and
regional regulation. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances the regional requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
Table 4.5-1 lists all requirements in the present specification that may be
applied differently in different regions.
**T** able 4.5-1: List of regional requirements
+---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Clause number | Requirement | Comments | +===============+=========================+=========================+ | 5.2 | _Operating bands_ | Satellite _operating | | | | bands_ may be applied | | | | regionally. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 6.6.4, | Operating band unwanted | For band 255 operation | | | emission, | in US, Limits in FCC | | 9.7.4 | | Title 47 apply. | | | OTA unwanted emissions | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 6.6.5 | Tx spurious emissions, | For band 255 operation | | | | in US, Limits in FCC | | 9.7.5 | OTA Tx spurious | Title 47 apply. | | | emissions | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
## 4.6 Applicability of minimum requirements
In table 4.6-1, the requirement applicability for each _requirement set_ is
defined. For each requirement, the applicable requirement clause in the
specification is identified. Requirements not included in a _requirement set_
is marked not applicable (NA).
Table 4.6-1: _Requirement set_ applicability
Requirement Requirement set
* * *
                                      *SAN type 1-H*    *SAN type 1-O*
SAN output power 6.2  
Output power dynamics 6.3  
Transmit ON/OFF power NA  
Frequency error 6.5.1  
Modulation quality 6.5.2  
Time alignment error NA  
Occupied bandwidth 6.6.2  
ACLR 6.6.3  
Operating band unwanted emissions 6.6.4  
Transmitter spurious emissions 6.6.5  
Transmitter intermodulation NA NA Reference sensitivity level 7.2  
Dynamic range 7.3  
ACS 7.4.1  
In-band blocking NA  
Out-of-band blocking 7.5  
Receiver spurious emissions NA  
Receiver intermodulation NA  
In-channel selectivity 7.8  
Performance requirements 8  
Radiated transmit power 9.2 9.2 OTA SAN output power 9.3 OTA output power
dynamics 9.4 OTA transmit ON/OFF power NA OTA frequency error 9.6.1 OTA
modulation quality 9.6.2 OTA time alignment error NA OTA occupied bandwidth
9.7.2 OTA ACLR NA 9.7.3 OTA out-of-band emission 9.7.4 OTA transmitter
spurious emission 9.7.5 OTA transmitter intermodulation NA OTA sensitivity
10.2 10.2 OTA reference sensitivity level 10.3 OTA dynamic range 10.4 OTA ACS
10.5.1 OTA in-band blocking NA OTA out-of-band blocking NA 10.6 OTA receiver
spurious emission NA OTA receiver intermodulation NA OTA in-channel
selectivity 10.9 Radiated performance requirements 11
NOTE: Co-location requirements are not applicable to SAN.
# 5 Operating bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The channel arrangements presented in this clause are based on the operating
bands and channel bandwidths defined in the present release of specifications.
NOTE: Other operating bands and channel bandwidths may be considered in future
releases.
## 5.2 Operating bands
EUTRA SAN is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table
5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1 E-UTRA operating bands for satellite access
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
SAN receive\ SAN transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
* * *
                                                                     F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
256 1980 MHz -- 2010 MHz 2170 MHz -- 2200 MHz FDD
255 1626.5 MHz -- 1660.5 MHz 1525 MHz -- 1559 MHz FDD
NOTE: Satellite bands are numbered in descending order from 256.
* * *
## 5.2A Operating bands for UE category M1
UE category M1 is designed to operate in the E-UTRA satellite access operating
bands defined in Table 5.2-1 in both half duplex FDD mode and full-duplex FDD
mode.
## 5.2B Operating bands for category NB1 and NB2
Category NB1 and NB2 UE are designed to operate in the E-UTRA satellite access
operating bands defined in Table 5.2-1.
Category NB1 and NB2 UE **operate in HD-FDD duplex mode.**
## 5.3 Satellite Access Node channel bandwidth
## 5.3A Channel bandwidth for category M1
The requirements in present document are specified for the channel bandwidth
listed in Table 5.3A-1.
Table 5.3A-1: Transmission bandwidth configuration N~RB~ in E-UTRA channel
bandwidths
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ (MHz) 1.4
* * *
Transmission bandwidth configuration N~RB~ 6
Figure 5.3A-1 shows the relation between the _SAN channel bandwidth_ and the
transmission bandwidth configuration (N~RB~). The channel edges are defined as
the lowest and highest frequencies of the carrier separated by the channel
bandwidth, i.e. at F~C~ +/- BW~Channel~ /2.
{width="6.225in" height="3.933333333333333in"}
Figure 5.3A-1: Definition of channel bandwidth and transmission bandwidth
configuration for one E‑UTRA carrier
## 5.3B Channel bandwidth for category NB1 and NB2
For category NB1 and NB2, requirements in present document are specified for
the channel bandwidth listed in Table 5.3B-1.
Table 5.3B-1: Transmission bandwidth configuration _N_ ~RB~, _N_ ~tone\ 15kHz~
and _N_ ~tone\ 3.75kHz~ in NB1 and NB2 channel bandwidth
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ (kHz) 200
* * *
Transmission bandwidth configuration _N_ ~RB~ 1 Transmission bandwidth
configuration _N_ ~tone\ 15kHz~ 12 Transmission bandwidth configuration _N_
~tone\ 3.75kHz~ 48
Figure 5.3B-1 shows the relation between the category NB1/NB2 _SAN channel
bandwidth_ and the Category NB1 /NB2 transmission bandwidth configuration
(N~tone\ 15kHz~, or N~tone\ 3.75kHz~). The channel edges are defined as the
lowest and highest frequencies of the carrier separated by the channel
bandwidth, i.e. at F~C~ +/- BW~Channel~ /2.
{width="5.875in" height="3.625in"}
Figure 5.3B-1 Definition of channel bandwidth and transmission bandwidth
configuration
For NB-IoT standalone operation, NB-IoT requirements for receiver and
transmitter shall apply with a frequency offset **F~offset\ ~** as defined in
Table 5.3B-1.
Table 5.3B-1: F~offset~ for NB-IoT standalone operation
**Lowest or Highest Carrier** F~offset~
* * *
Standalone NB-IoT [200 kHz]
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
## 5.4A Channel arrangement for category M1
### 5.4A.1 Channel spacing
The spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario, the size
of the frequency block available and the channel bandwidths. The nominal
channel spacing between two adjacent E-UTRA carriers is defined as following:
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted to optimize
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.4A.2 Channel raster, carrier frequency and EARFCN
The global frequency raster is defined for all frequencies. The granularity of
the global frequency raster is 100 kHz, which means that the carrier centre
frequency must be an integer multiple of 100 kHz. For each operating band, a
subset of frequencies from the global frequency raster are applicable and
forms a channel raster with a granularity ΔF~Raster~.
The carrier frequency in the uplink and downlink is designated by the E-UTRA
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) in the range 0 \-- 262143.
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink
is given by the following equation, where F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given
in Table 5.4A.2-1 and N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~)
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is
given by the following equation where F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in
Table 5.4.2-1 and N~UL~ is the uplink EARFCN.
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~)
The applicable channel raster and EARFCNs for each operating band are
specified in Table 5.4A.2-1.
For operating bands with a channel raster of 100 kHz, every EARFCN within the
operating band shall be applicable for the channel raster, and the step size
for the channel raster in Table 5.4A.2‑1 is given as \. The broadcast
parameter _earfcn-LSB_ defined in TS 36.331 [9] may be used to assist the UE
in synchronizing to the cell.
Table 5.4A.2-1: E-UTRA channel numbers
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | ΔF~Ra | Dow | U | | | | | | -UTRA | ster~ | nlink | plink | | | | | | Oper | (kHz) | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | | F~DL\ | N~Off | Range | F~UL\ | N~Off | Range | | | | _low~ | s-DL~ | of | _low~ | s-UL~ | of | | | | (MHz) | | N~DL~ | (MHz) | | N~UL~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | ( | | | | | | First | | | First | | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | | \ | | | \ | | | | | |  | | | ize> | | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | | Last) | | | Last) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 256 | 100 | 2170 | 2 | 2 | 1980 | 2 | 2 | | | | | 29076 | 29076 | | 61844 | 61844 | | | | | | --\ | | | --\ | | | | | | \- | | | \- | | | | | | 2 | | | 2 | | | | | | 29375 | | | 62143 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 255 | 100 | 1525 | 2 | 2 | 1 | 2 | 2 | | | | | 28736 | 28736 | 626.5 | 61504 | 61504 | | | | | | --\ | | | --\ | | | | | | \- | | | \- | | | | | | 2 | | | 2 | | | | | | 29075 | | | 61843 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | nu | | | | | | | | | mbers | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | desi | | | | | | | | | gnate | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | reque | | | | | | | | | ncies | | | | | | | | | so | | | | | | | | | close | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | edges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | | | tends | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | eyond | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | nu | | | | | | | | | mbers | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | last | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | nu | | | | | | | | | mbers | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 1.4 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 5.4B Channel arrangement for category NB1 and NB2
### 5.4B.1 Channel spacing
Nominal channel spacing for UE category NB1 and NB2 in stand-alone mode is 200
kHz.
### 5.4B.2 Channel raster, carrier frequency and EARFCN
The channel raster of UE category NB1/NB2 shall be as defined in clause
5.4A.2, and the channel raster per-frequency band shall be as defined in table
5.4A.2-1.
The carrier frequency of UE category NB1/NB2 in the downlink is designated by
the E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) as defined in
Table 5.4A.2-1, and the Offset of category NB1/NB2 Channel Number to EARFCN in
the range of {-10, -9, -8, -7, -6, -5, -4, -3, -2, -1, -0.5, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9} for FDD. The relation between EARFCN, Offset of category NB1/NB2
Channel Number to EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink is
given by the following equation, where F~DL~ is the downlink carrier frequency
of category NB1/NB2, F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given in table 5.4A.2-1,
N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN, M~DL~ is the Offset of category NB1/NB2 Channel
Number to downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~) + 0.0025*(2M~DL~)
The carrier frequency of UE category NB1/NB2 in the uplink is designated by
the E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) as defined in
Table 5.4A.2-1, and the Offset of category NB1/NB2 Channel Number to EARFCN in
the range of {-10, -9, -8, -7, -6, -5, -4, -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9} for FDD. The relation between EARFCN, Offset of category NB1/NB2 Channel
Number to EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is given by
the following equation, where F~UL~ is the uplink carrier frequency of
category NB1/NB2, F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in table 5.4A.2-1, N~UL~
is the uplink EARFCN, M~UL~ is the Offset of category NB1/NB2 Channel Number
to uplink EARFCN.
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~) + 0.0025*(2M~UL~)
NOTE 1: Guard-band operation and in-band operation for NB-IoT are not
supported in this version of the specification.
NOTE 2: For the carrier including NPSS/NSSS for stand-alone operation, MDL =
0.
# 6 Conducted transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the conducted transmitter characteristics are
specified at the _TAB connector_ for _SAN type 1-H_ , with a full complement
of transceiver units for the configuration in normal operating conditions.
## 6.2 Satellite Access Node output power
The SAN conducted output power requirements in clause 6.2 in TS 38.108 [7]
apply.
## 6.3 Output power dynamics
### 6.3.1 General
The requirements in clause 6.3 apply during the transmitter ON period.
Transmit signal quality (as specified in clause 6.5) shall be maintained for
the output power dynamics requirements of this Clause.
Power control is used to limit the interference level.
The requirements in clause 6.3 does not apply for NB-IoT standalone mode.
### 6.3.2 RE power control dynamic range
The SAN RE power control dynamic range requirement _s in clause 6.3.2 in TS
38.108 [7] apply._
### 6.3.3 Total power dynamic range
#### 6.3.3.1 General
The SAN total power dynamic range is the difference between the maximum and
the minimum transmit power of an OFDM symbol for a specified reference
condition.
For _SAN type 1-H_ this requirement shall apply at each _TAB connector_
supporting transmission in the _operating band_.
NOTE: The upper limit of the dynamic range is the OFDM symbol power for a SAN
when transmitting on all RBs at maximum output power. The lower limit of the
total power dynamic range is the average power for single RB transmission. The
OFDM symbol shall carry PDSCH and not contain RS or SSB.
#### 6.3.3.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-H_
The downlink (DL) total power dynamic range for each SAN carrier shall be
larger than or equal to the level in table 6.3.3.2-1.
Table 6.3.3.2-1: Total power dynamic range
SAN channel Total power dynamic range (dB)
* * *
bandwidth (MHz) 15 kHz SCS 1.4 7.7
## 6.4 Transmit ON/OFF power
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
## 6.5 Transmitted signal quality
### 6.5.1 Frequency error
Frequency error is the measure of the difference between the actual SAN
transmit frequency and the assigned frequency. The same source shall be used
for RF frequency and data clock generation.
#### 6.5.1.1 Minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the modulated carrier frequency of each E-UTRA carrier configured
by the SAN shall be accurate to within the accuracy range given in Table
6.5.1-1 observed over a period of one subframe (1ms).
For NB-IoT, the modulated carrier frequency of each NB-IoT carrier configured
by the SAN shall be accurate to within the accuracy range given in Table
6.5.1-1 observed over a period of one subframe (1ms).
Table 6.5.1-1: Frequency error minimum requirement
**SAN class** **Accuracy**
* * *
SAN type 1-H ±0.05 ppm
### 6.5.2 Modulation quality
The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the ideal
symbols and the measured symbols after the equalization. This difference is
called the error vector. The equaliser parameters are estimated as defined in
Annex B. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the ratio of the mean
error vector power to the mean reference power expressed in percent.
For E-UTRA, for all bandwidths, the EVM measurement shall be performed for
each E-UTRA carrier over all allocated resource blocks and downlink subframes
within 10 ms measurement periods for subframe TTI, and over all allocated
resource blocks and downlink sTTIs within 10 ms measurement periods for sTTI.
The boundaries of the EVM measurement periods need not be aligned with radio
frame boundaries. The EVM value is then calculated as the mean square root of
the measured values. The EVM of each E-UTRA carrier for different modulation
schemes on PDSCH or sPDSCH shall be better than the limits in table 6.5.2-1:
Table 6.5.2-1: EVM requirements for E-UTRA carrier
Modulation scheme for PDSCH or sPDSCH Required EVM (%)
* * *
QPSK 17.5 % 16QAM 12.5 % 64QAM (NOTE) 8 % NOTE: EVM requirement for 64QAM is
optional.
For NB-IoT, for all bandwidths, the EVM measurement shall be performed for
each NB-IoT carrier over all allocated resource and downlink subframes within
10 ms measurement periods. The boundaries of the EVM measurement periods need
not be aligned with radio frame boundaries. The EVM value is then calculated
as the mean square root of the measured values. The EVM of each NB-IoT carrier
on NB-PDSCH shall be better than the limits in Table 6.5.2-2:
Table 6.5.2-2: EVM requirements for NB-IoT carrier
Modulation scheme for NB-PDSCH Required EVM (%)
* * *
QPSK 17.5 % 16QAM 12.5%
### 6.5.3 Time alignment error
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
### 6.5.4 DL RS power
#### 6.5.4.1 General
For E-UTRA, DL RS power is the resource element power of the Downlink
Reference Symbol.
The absolute DL RS power is indicated on the DL-SCH. The absolute accuracy is
defined as the maximum deviation between the DL RS power indicated on the DL-
SCH and the DL RS power of each E-UTRA carrier at the SAN antenna connector.
For NB-IoT, DL NRS power is the resource element power of the Downlink Narrow-
band Reference Signal.
The absolute DL NRS power is indicated on the DL-SCH. The absolute accuracy is
defined as the maximum deviation between the DL NRS power indicated on the DL-
SCH and the DL NRS power of each NB-IoT carrier at the SAN antenna connector.
#### 6.5.4.2 Minimum requirements
For E-UTRA, DL RS power of each E-UTRA carrier shall be within ± 2.1 dB of the
DL RS power indicated on the DL-SCH.
For NB-IoT, DL NRS power of each NB-IoT carrier shall be within ± 2.1 dB of
the DL NRS power indicated on the DL-SCH.
## 6.6 Unwanted emissions
### 6.6.1 General
General requirements in clause 6.6.1 in TS 38.108 [7] apply.
### 6.6.2 Occupied bandwidth
#### 6.6.2.1 General
The occupied bandwidth requirements in clause 6.6.2 in TS 38.108 [7] apply.
### 6.6.3 Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio
#### 6.6.3.1 General
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered mean
power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency.
The requirements shall apply outside the _SAN RF Bandwidth_ or _Radio
Bandwidth_ whatever the type of transmitter considered (single carrier or
multi-carrier) and for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer's
specification.
#### 6.6.3.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-H_
The ACLR is defined with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the
transmission bandwidth configuration of the transmitted signal (BW~Config~)
centred on the assigned channel frequency and a filter centred on the adjacent
channel frequency according to the tables below.
The ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in Table 6.6.3.2-1 and Table
6.6.3.2-2.
Table 6.6.3.2-1: SAN ACLR limit for GEO class
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | SAN channel | SAN | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | bandwidth | adjacent | adjacent | the | | | of | channel | channel | adjacent | (dB) | | low | centre | carrier | channel | | | est/highest | frequency | (i | frequency | | | carrier | offset | nformative) | and | | | transmitted | below the | | co | | | BW~Channel~ | lowest or | | rresponding | | | (MHz) | above the | | filter | | | | highest | | bandwidth | | | | carrier | | | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+============+ | 1.4 | BW~Channel~ | E-UTRA of | Square | 14 | | | | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2 x | E-UTRA of | Square | 14 | | | BW~Channel~ | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | _SAN | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth_ | | | | | | and | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | of the | | | | | | _low | | | | | | est/highest | | | | | | carrier_ | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
Table 6.6.3.2-2: SAN ACLR limit for LEO class
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SAN channel | SAN | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | bandwidth | adjacent | adjacent | the | (dB) | | of | channel | channel | adjacent | | | low | centre | carrier | channel | | | est/highest | frequency | (i | frequency | | | carrier | offset | nformative) | and | | | transmitted | below the | | co | | | BW~Channel~ | lowest or | | rresponding | | | (MHz) | above the | | filter | | | | highest | | bandwidth | | | | carrier | | | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1.4 | BW~Channel~ | E-UTRA of | Square | 24 | | | | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2 x | E-UTRA of | Square | [24] | | | BW~Channel~ | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | _SAN | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth_ | | | | | | and | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | of the | | | | | | _low | | | | | | est/highest | | | | | | carrier_ | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
For SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation in paired spectrum, the ACLR
shall be higher than the value specified in Table 6.6.3.2-3 and Table
6.6.3.2-4.
Table 6.6.3.2-3: ACLR limit of SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation for
GEO class
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | Channel | SAN | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | bandwidth | adjacent | adjacent | the | | | of NB-IoT | channel | channel | adjacent | (dB) | | low | centre | carrier | channel | | | est/highest | frequency | (i | frequency | | | carrier | offset | nformative) | and | | | transmitted | below the | | co | | | BW~Channel~ | lowest or | | rresponding | | | (kHz) | above the | | filter | | | | highest | | bandwidth | | | | carrier | | | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+============+ | 200 | [200 kHz] | Standalone | Square (180 | 14 | | | | NB-IoT | kHz) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | [400 kHz] | Standalone | Square (180 | 14 | | | | NB-IoT | kHz) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
Table 6.6.3.2-4: ACLR limit of SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation for
LEO class
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | Channel | SAN | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | bandwidth | adjacent | adjacent | the | | | of NB-IoT | channel | channel | adjacent | (dB) | | low | centre | carrier | channel | | | est/highest | frequency | (i | frequency | | | carrier | offset | nformative) | and | | | transmitted | below the | | co | | | BW~Channel~ | lowest or | | rresponding | | | (kHz) | above the | | filter | | | | highest | | bandwidth | | | | carrier | | | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+============+ | 200 | [200 kHz] | Standalone | Square (180 | 24 | | | | NB-IoT | kHz) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | [400 kHz] | Standalone | Square (180 | 24 | | | | NB-IoT | kHz) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
### 6.6.4 Operating band unwanted emissions
#### 6.6.4.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the operating band unwanted emission (OBUE) limits
for SAN are defined from channel edge up to frequencies separated from the
channel edge by 200% of the necessary bandwidth.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered and
for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer's specification.
_Basic limits_ are specified in the tables below, where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the _channel edge_ frequency and the nominal
-3 dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the _channel edge_ frequency and the
centre of the measuring filter.
\- PSD~channel~ [dBm/4kHz]represents the Power Spectral Density of the channel
for a given channel bandwidth
\- BW~Channel~ [MHz] is the considered E-UTRA _channel bandwidth_ or SAN total
_RF bandwidth_ for a given _operating band_.
\- $\Delta_{Sat_ Class}\left\lbrack \text{dB} \right\rbrack$ is the _SAN class
parameter_ in dB identified to characterize different SAN classes.
For a multi-carrier _single-band connector_ the definitions above apply to the
lower edge of the carrier transmitted at the _lowest carrier_ frequency and
the upper edge of the carrier transmitted at the _highest carrier_ frequency
within a specified frequency band.
\- The operating band unwanted emission basic limits of the band where there
are carriers transmitted, as defined in the tables of the present clause for
the largest frequency offset (∆fmax), shall apply from channel edge up to
frequencies separated from the channel edge by 200% of the necessary
bandwidth.
#### 6.6.4.2 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-H_
For SAN operating in Bands 256, 255, the _requirements_ are specified in table
6.6.4.2-1 for GEO and LEO class respectively, in line with Annex 5 of ITU
recommendation SM.1541-6 [6].
The SAN Operating Band Unwanted Emissions (OBUE) requirements for GEO and LEO
classes are therefore defined as described in Table 6.6.4.2‑1 below.
Table 6.6.4.2-1: SAN LEO and GEO Classes OBUE basic limits
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Basic limits | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (dBm) | | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ 47 | P~r | | | | | | ated,c,sys~ | | | | | | -- 60 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | * | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | bandwidth*s | | | | | | as in ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], | | | | | | s4.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Upper | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | as in ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], s2.5 | | | | | | table 1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | lower | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | replaced by | | | | | | 0.7 times | | | | | | the | | | | | | waveguide | | | | | | cut-off | | | | | | frequency, | | | | | | according | | | | | | to ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], for | | | | | | systems | | | | | | having an | | | | | | integral | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | in | | | | | | corporating | | | | | | a waveguide | | | | | | section, or | | | | | | with an | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | connection | | | | | | in such | | | | | | form, and | | | | | | of | | | | | | unperturbed | | | | | | length | | | | | | equal to at | | | | | | least twice | | | | | | the | | | | | | cut-off. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
##### 6.6.5.2.2 Protection of the own Satellite Access Node receiver
This requirement shall be applied for E-UTRA FDD operation in order to prevent
the receivers of the SAN being de-sensitized by emissions from its own SAN
transmitter. It is measured at the _TAB connector_ for _SAN type 1-H_ for any
type of SAN which has common or separate Tx/Rx _TAB connectors_.
The spurious emission _basic limits_ are provided in table 6.6.5.2.2-1.
Table 6.6.5.2.2-1: SAN spurious emissions _basic limits_ for protection of the
SAN receiver
Frequency range _Basic limits_ _Measurement bandwidth_
* * *
F~UL,low~ -- F~UL,high~ -96 dBm 100 kHz
##### 6.6.5.2.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements
The additional spurious emissions requirement is not applicable for SAN.
## 6.7 Transmitter intermodulation
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
# 7 Conducted receiver characteristics
## 7.1 General
Conducted receiver characteristics are specified at the _TAB connector_ for
_SAN type 1-H_ , with full complement of transceivers for the configuration in
normal operating condition.
Unless otherwise stated, the following arrangements apply for conducted
receiver characteristics requirements in clause 7:
\- Requirements shall be met for any transmitter setting.
\- The requirements shall be met with the transmitter unit(s) ON.
\- Throughput requirements do not assume HARQ retransmissions.
\- When SAN is configured to receive multiple carriers, all the throughput
requirements are applicable for each received carrier.
\- For ACS and blocking characteristics, the negative offsets of the
interfering signal apply relative to the lower _SAN RF Bandwidth_ edge or
_sub-block_ edge inside a _sub-block gap_ , and the positive offsets of the
interfering signal apply relative to the upper _SAN RF Bandwidth_ edge or
_sub-block_ edge inside a _sub-block gap_.
NOTE: In normal operating condition the SAN is configured to transmit and
receive at the same time.
## 7.2 Reference sensitivity level
### 7.2.1 General
The reference sensitivity power level P~REFSENS~ is the minimum mean power
received at the _TAB connector_ for _SAN type 1-H_ at which a throughput
requirement shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
### 7.2.2 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-H_
For SAN supporting E-UTRA, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel as specified in annex A.1 with
parameters specified in table 7.2.2-1 and 7.2.2-2 for _SAN type 1-H_ in all
operating band.
Table 7.2.2-1: Reference sensitivity levels of SAN supporting E-UTRA (GEO
class payload)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | Reference | | bandwidth | spacing (kHz) | measurement | sensitivity | | (MHz) | | channel | power level, | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | (NOTE) | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 1.4 | 15 | FRC A1-1 in | -104.4 | | | | Annex A.1 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | P~REFSENS~ is | | | | | the power | | | | | level of a | | | | | single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.2.2-2: Reference sensitivity levels of SAN supporting E-UTRA (LEO
class payload)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | Reference | | bandwidth | spacing (kHz) | measurement | sensitivity | | (MHz) | | channel | power level, | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | (NOTE) | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 1.4 | 15 | FRC A1-1 in | -107.5 | | | | Annex A.1 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | P~REFSENS~ is | | | | | the power | | | | | level of a | | | | | single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
For SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation, the throughput shall be ≥ 95%
of the maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel as specified in
Annex A.1 with parameters specified in Table 7.2.2-3 and 7.2.2-4 for _SAN type
1-H_ in all operating band.
Table 7.2.2-3: Reference sensitivity levels of SAN supporting standalone NB-
IoT operation (GEO class payload)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | Reference | | bandwidth | spacing | measurement | sensitivity | | (kHz) | | channel | power level, | | | (kHz) | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 200 | 15 | FRC A14-1 in | -124.9 | | | | Annex A.14 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 200 | 3.75 | FRC A14-2 in | -130.9 | | | | Annex A.14 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.2.2-4: Reference sensitivity levels of SAN supporting standalone NB-
IoT operation (LEO class payload)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | Reference | | bandwidth | spacing | measurement | sensitivity | | (kHz) | | channel | power level, | | | (kHz) | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 200 | 15 | FRC A14-1 in | -128.0 | | | | Annex A.14 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 200 | 3.75 | FRC A14-2 in | -134.0 | | | | Annex A.14 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.3 Dynamic range
### 7.3.1 General
The dynamic range is specified as a measure of the capability of the receiver
to receive a wanted signal in the presence of an interfering signal at the
_TAB connector_ for _SAN type 1-H_ inside the received _SAN_ channel
bandwidth. In this condition, a throughput requirement shall be met for a
specified reference measurement channel. The interfering signal for the
dynamic range requirement is an AWGN signal.
### 7.3.2 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-H_
For SAN supporting E-UTRA, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel as specified in Annex A.2 with
parameters specified in table 7.3.2-1 for LEO.
Table 7.3.2-1: Dynamic range of SAN supporting E-UTRA (LEO class payload)
SAN channel bandwidth (MHz) Reference measurement channel Wanted signal mean
power (dBm) Interfering signal mean power (dBm) / BW~Config~ Type of
interfering signal
* * *
1.4 FRC A2-1 in Annex A.2 -82.0 -94.4 AWGN Note*: The wanted signal mean power
is the power level of a single instance of the reference measurement channel.
For SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation, the throughput shall be ≥ 95%
of the maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel as specified in
Annex A.2 with parameters specified in Table 7.3.2-2 and 7.3.2-3 .
Table 7.3.2-2: Dynamic range of SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation
(GEO class payload)
SAN channel bandwidth (kHz) Reference measurement channel Wanted signal mean
power (dBm) Interfering signal mean power (dBm) / BW~Channel~ Type of
interfering signal
* * *
200 FRC A15-1 in Annex A.15 -97.3 -93.6 AWGN 200 FRC A15-2 in Annex A.15
-103.2 -93.6 AWGN
Table 7.3.2-3: Dynamic range of SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation
(LEO class payload)
SAN channel bandwidth (kHz) Reference measurement channel Wanted signal mean
power (dBm) Interfering signal mean power (dBm) / BW~Channel~ Type of
interfering signal
* * *
200 FRC A15-1 in Annex A.15 -89.4 -85.7 AWGN 200 FRC A15-2 in Annex A.15 -95.3
-85.7 AWGN
## 7.4 In-band selectivity and blocking
### 7.4.1 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
#### 7.4.1.1 General
Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency at _TAB connector_
for _SAN type 1-H_ in the presence of an adjacent channel signal with a
specified center frequency offset of the interfering signal to the band edge
of a victim system.
#### 7.4.1.2 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-H_
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel.
For SAN supporting E-UTRA, the wanted and the interfering signal coupled to
the _SAN type 1-H_ _TAB connector_ are specified in table 7.4.1.2-1. The
reference measurement channel for the wanted signal is identified in table
7.2.2-1 for each _SAN channel bandwidth_ in any operating band and further
specified in annex A.1.
For SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation, the wanted and the interfering
signal coupled to the _SAN type 1-H_ _TAB connector_ are specified in table
7.4.1.2-2. The reference measurement channel for the wanted signal is
identified in table 7.2.2-1 for each _SAN channel bandwidth_ in any operating
band and further specified in annex A.1.
The characteristics of interfering signals are further specified in annex C.
The ACS requirement is applicable outside the _SAN RF Bandwidth_ or _Radio
Bandwidth_. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the _SAN RF
Bandwidth_ edges or _Radio Bandwidth_ edges.
Minimum conducted requirement is defined at the _TAB connector_ for _SAN type
1-H._
Table 7.4.1.2-1: ACS requirement of SAN supporting E-UTRA
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SAN channel | Wanted | Interfering | Interfering | Type of | | bandwidth | signal mean | signal mean | signal | interfering | | of the | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | centre | signal | | low | | | frequency | | | est/highest | | | offset from | | | carrier | | | the | | | received | | | lower/upper | | | (MHz) | | | SAN RF | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | edge or | | | | | | sub-block | | | | | | edge inside | | | | | | a sub-block | | | | | | gap (MHz) | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1.4 | P~REFSENS~ | GEO SAN | ±0.7025 | 1.4 MHz | | | + 11 dB | class: | | E-UTRA | | | (Note) | -57.6 | | signal | | | | | | | | | | LEO SAN | | | | | | class: | | | | | | -60.7 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 7.2.2-1 and | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 7.2.2-2. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 7.4.1.2-2: ACS requirement of SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SAN | Wanted | Interfering | Interfering | Type of | | | signal mean | signal mean | signal | interfering | | channel | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | centre | signal | | bandwidth | | | frequency | | | of the | | | offset to | | | low | | | the | | | est/highest | | | lower/upper | | | carrier | | | SAN RF | | | received | | | Bandwidth | | | (kHz) | | | edge or | | | | | | sub-block | | | | | | edge inside | | | | | | a sub-block | | | | | | gap (kHz) | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 200 | P~REFSENS~ | GEO SAN | ±100 | 180 kHz | | | + 19.5dB | class: | | NB-IoT | | | (Note) | -56.6 | | signal | | | | | | | | | | LEO SAN | | | | | | class: | | | | | | -59.7 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | spacing as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 7.2.2-3 and | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 7.2.2-4. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 7.4.2 In-band blocking
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
## 7.5 Out-of-band blocking
### 7.5.1 General
The out-of-band blocking characteristics is a measure of the receiver ability
to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel at the _TAB connector_ for
_SAN type 1-H_ in the presence of an unwanted interferer out of the _operating
band_ , which is a CW signal for out-of-band blocking.
### 7.5.2 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-H_
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to _SAN
type 1-H_ _TAB connector_ using the parameters in table 7.5.2-1.
The reference measurement channel for the wanted signal is identified in
clause 7.2.2 for each _SAN channel bandwidth_ and further specified in annex
A.1.
The out-of-band blocking requirement apply from 1 MHz to F~UL,low~ - Δf~OOB~
and from F~UL,high~ + Δf~OOB~ up to 12750 MHz, including the downlink
frequency range of the FDD _operating band_ for SAN. The Δf~OOB~ for _SAN type
1-H_ is defined in table 7.5.2-2.
Minimum conducted requirement is defined at the _antenna connector_ at the
_TAB connector_ for _SAN type 1-H._
Table 7.5.2-1: Out-of-band blocking requirement for SAN supporting E-UTRA or
standalone NB-IoT operation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Wanted signal mean | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | power (dBm) | mean power (dBm) | signal | +======================+======================+======================+ | P~REFSENS~ +6 dB\ | -44 | CW carrier | | (NOTE 1) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: For SAN, | | | | P~REFSENS~ depends | | | | on the _SAN channel | | | | bandwidth_. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: [For SAN | | | | supporting | | | | standalone NB-IoT, | | | | up to 24 exceptions | | | | are allowed for | | | | spurious response | | | | frequencies in each | | | | wanted signal | | | | frequency when | | | | measured using a 1 | | | | MHz step size. For | | | | these exceptions the | | | | above throughput | | | | requirement shall be | | | | met when the | | | | blocking signal is | | | | set to a level of | | | | -46 dBm for 3.75 kHz | | | | subcarrier spacing. | | | | In addition, each | | | | group of exceptions | | | | shall not exceed | | | | three contiguous | | | | measurements using a | | | | 1 MHz step size.] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 7.5.2-2: Δf~OOB~ offset for E-UTRA _operating bands_
SAN type _Operating band_ characteristics Δf~OOB~ (MHz)
* * *
_SAN type 1-H_ F~UL,high~ -- F~UL,low~ \ N is the noise energy in a bandwidth corresponding to the transmission
> bandwidth over the duration of a subframe.
## 8.2 Performance requirements for PUSCH
### 8.2.1 Requirements for PUSCH supporting coverage enhancement
For the parameters specified in Table 8.2.1-1 the throughput shall be equal to
or larger than the fraction of maximum throughput stated in the Tables 8.2.1-2
and 8.2.1-3 at the given SNR.
Table 8.2.1-1 Test Parameters for PUSCH
Parameter unit Mode A Mode B
* * *
Maximum number of HARQ transmissions 4 2 RV sequences 0, 2, 3, 1, 0, 2, 3, 1
FDD: 0, 0, 0, 0, 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 1, 1, 1, 1 Frequency hopping OFF OFF
Frequency hopping interval subframes N/A N/A Duration of PUSCH segment
transmission ($N_{\text{segment}}^{\text{precompensation}}$) subframes 8 256
Note 1: Guard period shall be created according to TS36.211 [9], 5.2.5
Table **8.2.1** -2 Minimum requirements for PUSCH, 1.4 MHz Channel Bandwidth
for Mode A, 1Tx
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | N | CE | N | P | FRC\ | Fra | SNR | | umber | umber | Mode | umber | ropag | ( | ction | | | of TX | of RX | | of | ation | Annex | of | \ | | ant | ant | | PUSCH | condi | A) | ma | [dB] | | ennas | ennas | | r | tions | | ximum | | | | | | epeti | and | | throu | | | | | | tions | c | | ghput | | | | | | | orrel | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | atrix | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | C) | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | 1 | 1 | Mode | 8 | NTN | A5-2 | 70% | [- | | | | A | | -TDLA | | | 3.1] | | | | | | 100-5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 1 | Mode | 8 | N | A5-2 | 70% | [- | | | | A | | TN-TD | | | 3.4] | | | | | | LC5-5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 2 | Mode | 8 | NTN | A5-2 | 70% | [- | | | | A | | -TDLA | | | 7.3] | | | | | | 100-5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 2 | Mode | 8 | N | A5-2 | 70% | [- | | | | A | | TN-TD | | | 7.3] | | | | | | LC5-5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table **8.2.1** -3 Minimum requirements for PUSCH, 1.4 MHz Channel Bandwidth
for Mode B, 1Tx
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | N | CE | N | P | FRC\ | Fra | SNR | | umber | umber | Mode | umber | ropag | ( | ction | | | of TX | of RX | | of | ation | Annex | of | \ | | ant | ant | | PUSCH | condi | A) | ma | [dB] | | ennas | ennas | | r | tions | | ximum | | | | | | epeti | and | | throu | | | | | | tions | c | | ghput | | | | | | | orrel | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | atrix | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | C) | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | 1 | 1 | Mode | 256 | NTN | A5-1 | 70% | [-1 | | | | B | | -TDLA | | | 1.6] | | | | | | 100-5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 1 | Mode | 256 | N | A5-1 | 70% | [-1 | | | | B | | TN-TD | | | 3.3] | | | | | | LC5-5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 2 | Mode | 256 | NTN | A5-1 | 70% | [-1 | | | | B | | -TDLA | | | 4.5] | | | | | | 100-5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 2 | Mode | 256 | N | A5-1 | 70% | [-1 | | | | B | | TN-TD | | | 5.5] | | | | | | LC5-5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 8.3 Performance requirements for PUCCH
### 8.3.1 PUCCH performance requirements for coverage enhancement
#### 8.3.1.1 DTX to ACK performance
The DTX to ACK requirement is valid for any number of receive antennas, for
all frame structures and for any channel bandwidth.
##### 8.3.1.1.1 Minimum requirement
The DTX to ACK probability, i.e. the probability that ACK is detected when
nothing is sent per PUCCH transmission, shall not exceed 1% per PUCCH
transmission. A PUCCH transmission may take multiple subframes due to PUCCH
transmission repetition. The performance measure is defined as follows:
$$\text{Prob}\left( PUCCH\ DTX \rightarrow ACK\ bits \right) = \frac{#\left(
\text{false\ ACK\ bits} \right)}{#\left( \text{PUCCH\ DTX} \right) \times
#\left( ACK/NAK\ bits \right)} \leq 10^{- 2}$$
where:
\- #(false ACK bits) denotes the number of detected ACK bits per PUCCH
transmission.
\- #(ACK/NACK bits) denotes the number of encoded bits per PUCCH transmission.
\- #(PUCCH DTX) denotes the number of DTX occasions per PUCCH transmission.
#### 8.3.1.2 ACK missed detection requirements for single user PUCCH format 1a
The ACK missed detection probability is the probability of not detecting an
ACK when an ACK is sent.
##### 8.3.1.2.1 Minimum requirements
The ACK missed detection probability shall not exceed 1% at the SNR given in
table 8.3.1.2.1-1 for 1Tx.
Table 8.3.1.2.1-1 Minimum requirements for single user PUCCH format 1a, 1Tx
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | N | Ch | C | P | R | Dur | SNR | | umber | umber | annel | yclic | ropag | epeti | ation | (dB) | | of TX | of RX | Band | P | ation | tions | of | | | ant | ant | width | refix | condi | | PUCCH | | | ennas | ennas | | | tions | | se | | | | | | | and | | gment | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | c | | ansmi | | | | | | | orrel | | ssion | | | | | | | ation | | ( | | | | | | | m | | subfr | | | | | | | atrix | | ames) | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | C) | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | 1 | 1 | 1 | N | NTN | 8 | 8 | [- | | | | .4MHz | ormal | -TDLA | | | 2.6] | | | | | | 100-5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 2 | 1 | N | NTN | 8 | 8 | [- | | | | .4MHz | ormal | -TDLA | | | 8.2] | | | | | | 100-5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Note | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | Freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | Hop | | | | | | | | | ping: | | | | | | | | | OFF | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | Guard | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | eriod | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | cr | | | | | | | | | eated | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | TS3 | | | | | | | | | 6.211 | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [9], | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .2.5. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 8.4 Performance requirements for PRACH
### 8.4.1 PRACH False alarm probability
The false alarm requirement is valid for any number of receive antennas, for
all frame structures and for any channel bandwidth.
The false alarm probability is the conditional total probability of erroneous
detection of the preamble (i.e. erroneous detection from any detector) when
input is only noise.
#### 8.4.1.1 Minimum requirement
The false alarm probability shall be less than or equal to 0.1%.
### 8.4.2 PRACH detection requirements
The probability of detection is the conditional probability of correct
detection of the preamble when the signal is present. There are several error
cases -- detecting different preamble than the one that was sent, not
detecting a preamble at all or correct preamble detection but with the wrong
timing estimation. For NTN-TDLA100-5, a timing estimation error occurs if the
estimation error of the timing of the strongest path is larger than 2.08us.
The strongest path for the timing estimation error refers to the strongest
path.
The test preambles for coverage enhancement are listed in table A.6-1.
#### 8.4.2.1 Minimum requirements
The probability of detection shall be equal to or exceed 99% for the SNR
levels listed in Table 8.4.2.1-1.
The requirements for coverage enhancement (Table 8.4.2.1-1) are only valid for
the satellite access node supporting coverage enhancement.
Table 8.4.2.1-1 PRACH missed detection requirements (**_PRACH frequency
hopping OFF)_**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | N | P | Freq | **N | SNR | | | | | umber | umber | ropag | uency | umber | \ | | | | | of TX | of RX | ation | o | of | [dB] | | | | | ant | ant | condi | ffset | Rep | | | | | | ennas | ennas | tions | | etiti | | | | | | | | and | | ons** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | orrel | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | atrix | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | C) | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | | | | | Burst | Burst | Burst | Burst | | | | | | | f | f | f | f | | | | | | | ormat | ormat | ormat | ormat | | | | | | | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 1 | NTN | 270Hz | 8 | [-1 | [-1 | - | - | | | | -TDLA | | | 1.0] | 0.6] | | | | | | 100-5 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 1 | NTN | 270Hz | 16 | - | - | [-1 | [-1 | | | | -TDLA | | | | | 6.1] | 6.1] | | | | 100-5 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 2 | NTN | 270Hz | 8 | [-1 | [-1 | - | - | | | | -TDLA | | | 6.3] | 6.1] | | | | | | 100-5 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 2 | NTN | 270Hz | 16 | - | - | [-2 | [-2 | | | | -TDLA | | | | | 0.1] | 0.1] | | | | 100-5 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Note | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Under | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | | chan | | | | | | | | | | nels, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | PRACH | | | | | | | | | | dete | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | sig | | | | | | | | | | nific | | | | | | | | | | antly | | | | | | | | | | diff | | | | | | | | | | erent | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | diff | | | | | | | | | | erent | | | | | | | | | | PRACH | | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | Ind | | | | | | | | | | exes. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | PRACH | | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | | dexes | | | | | | | | | | **(3, | | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | | 35, | | | | | | | | | | 51) | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ormat | | | | | | | | | | 0, | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ormat | | | | | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ormat | | | | | | | | | | 2, | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ormat | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | | respe | | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | | ly.** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 8.5 Performance requirements for Narrowband IoT
### 8.5.1 Requirements for NPUSCH format 1
#### 8.5.1.1 Requirements
The performance requirement of NPUSCH format 1 is determined by a minimum
required throughput for a given SNR. The required throughput is expressed as a
fraction of maximum throughput for the FRCs listed in Annex A.7. The
performance requirements assume HARQ retransmissions.
An NB-IoT Base Station supports 15 kHz subcarrier spacing requirements, or
3.75 kHz subcarrier spacing requirements, or both.
For 15kHz subcarrier spacing multi-subcarrier, the demodulation requirements
apply for the supported number of subcarriers.
Table 8.5.1.1-1: Test parameters
Parameter Value
* * *
Maximum number of HARQ transmissions 4 RV sequence RV0, RV2
##### 8.5.1.1.1 Minimum requirements
The throughput shall be equal to or larger than the fraction of maximum
throughput stated in table 8.5.1.1.1-1 for the single-subcarrier of 3.75KHz
subcarrier spacing, and in table 8.5.1.1.1-2 for multi-subcarrier of 15KHz
subcarrier spacing at the given SNR for 1Tx.
Table 8.5.1.1.1-1: Minimum requirements for NPUSCH format 1, 200KHz Channel
Bandwidth, 3.75KHz subcarrier spacing, 1Tx
Number of TX antennas | Number of RX antennas | Subcarrier spacing | Number of allocated subcarriers | Propagation conditions and correlation matrix (Annex B) | FRC  
(Annex A) | Frequency offset | TxDuration | Repetition number | Fraction of maximum throughput | SNR [dB]  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 1 | 3.75KHz | 1 | NTN TDLA100-1 | A7-1 | 128 Hz | 256 | 4 | 70% | [-2.0]  
1 | 1 | 3.75KHz | 1 | NTN TDLC5-1 | A7-1 | 128 Hz | 256 | 4 | 70% | [-3.6]  
1 | 2 | 3.75KHz | 1 | NTN TDLA100-1 | A7-1 | 128 Hz | 256 | 4 | 70% | [-5.4]  
1 | 2 | 3.75KHz | 1 | NTN TDLC5-1 | A7-1 | 128 Hz | 256 | 4 | 70% | [-6.5]  
Table 8.5.1.1.1-2: Minimum requirements for NPUSCH format 1, 200KHz Channel
Bandwidth, 15KHz subcarrier spacing, multiple subcarriers, 1Tx
Number of TX antennas | Number of RX antennas | Subcarrier spacing | Number of allocated subcarriers | Propagation conditions and correlation matrix (Annex X) | FRC  
(Annex A) | Frequency offset | Tx-Duration | Repetition number | Fraction of maximum throughput | SNR [dB]  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 1 | 15KHz | 12 | NTN TDLA100-1 | A7-2 | 8 Hz | 16 | 16 | 70% | [-3.2]  
1 | 1 | 15KHz | 12 | NTN TDLC5-1 | A7-2 | 8 Hz | 16 | 16 | 70% | [-4.0]  
1 | 2 | 15KHz | 12 | NTN TDLA100-1 | A7-2 | 8 Hz | 16 | 16 | 70% | [-7.1]  
1 | 2 | 15KHz | 12 | NTN TDLC5-1 | A7-2 | 8 Hz | 16 | 16 | 70% | [-7.8]  
### 8.5.2 Performance requirements for NPUSCH format 2
#### 8.5.2.1 DTX to ACK performance
The DTX to ACK probability for NPUSCH format 2 case denotes the probability
that ACK is detected when nothing is sent on the wanted signal and only the
noise is present per NPUSCH format 2 transmission.
An NB-IoT Base Station supports 15 KHz sub-carrier spacing requirements, or
3.75 KHz sub-carrier spacing requirements, or both.
##### 8.5.2.1.1 Minimum requirement
The DTX to ACK probability, i.e. the probability that ACK is detected when
nothing was sent, shall not exceed 1% per NPUSCH format 2 transmission. Where
the performance measure definition is as follows:
where:
\- #(false ACK bits) denotes the number of detected ACK bits.
\- #(ACK/NACK bits) denotes the number of HARQ-ACK information bit per NPUSCH
format 2 transmission.
\- #( NPUSCH format 2 DTX) denotes the number of DTX occasions.
#### 8.5.2.2 ACK missed detection requirements
The ACK missed detection probability is the probability of not detecting an
ACK when an ACK was sent per NPUSCH format 2 transmission.
##### 8.5.2.2.1 Minimum requirements
The ACK missed detection probability shall not exceed 1% at the SNR given in
table 8.5.2.2.1-1 and table 8.5.2.2.1-2 for 1Tx case.
Table 8.5.2.2.1-1: Minimum requirements for NPUSCH format 2, 200KHz Channel
Bandwidth, 3.75KHz subcarrier spacing, 1Tx
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | N | P | N | Subca | Freq | TxDur | Repet | SNR | | umber | umber | ropag | umber | rrier | uency | ation | ition | \ | | of TX | of RX | ation | of | sp | o | | n | [dB] | | ant | ant | condi | allo | acing | ffset | | umber | | | ennas | ennas | tions | cated | | | | | | | | | and | s | | | | | | | | | | ubcar | | | | | | | | | c | riers | | | | | | | | | orrel | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | atrix | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | B) | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | 1 | 1 | NTN | 1 | 3. | 64 Hz | 256 | 4 | [ | | | | TDLA | | 75KHz | | | | 1.8] | | | | 100-1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 2 | NTN | 1 | 3. | 64 Hz | 256 | 4 | [- | | | | TDLA | | 75KHz | | | | 3.9] | | | | 100-1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.5.2.2.1-2: Minimum requirements for NPUSCH format 2, 200KHz Channel
Bandwidth, 15KHz subcarrier spacing, 1Tx
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | N | P | N | Subca | Freq | TxDur | Repet | SNR | | umber | umber | ropag | umber | rrier | uency | ation | ition | \ | | of TX | of RX | ation | of | sp | o | | n | [dB] | | ant | ant | condi | allo | acing | ffset | | umber | | | ennas | ennas | tions | cated | | | | | | | | | and | s | | | | | | | | | | ubcar | | | | | | | | | c | riers | | | | | | | | | orrel | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | atrix | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | B) | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | 1 | 1 | NTN | 1 | 15KHz | 16 Hz | 32 | 16] | [ | | | | TDLA | | | | | | 5.1] | | | | 100-1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 2 | NTN | 1 | 15KHz | 16 Hz | 32 | 16 | [- | | | | TDLA | | | | | | 3.3] | | | | 100-1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 8.5.3 Performance requirements for NPRACH
#### 8.5.3.1 NPRACH False alarm probability
The false alarm requirement is valid for any number of receive antennas, for
all repetition numbers and for any number of subcarriers.
The false alarm probability is the conditional total probability of erroneous
detection of the preamble (i.e. erroneous detection from any detector) when
input is only noise.
##### 8.5.3.1.1 Minimum requirement
The false alarm probability shall be less than or equal to 0.1%.
#### 8.5.3.2 NPRACH detection requirements
The probability of detection is the conditional probability of correct
detection of the preamble when the signal is present. There are several error
cases -- detecting different preamble than the one that was sent, not
detecting a preamble at all or correct preamble detection but with the wrong
timing estimation. For NTN-TDLA100 and NTN-TDLC5, a timing estimation erros
occurs if the estimation error of the timing of the largest delay path is
larger than the time orror tolerance given in Table 8.5.3.2-2
Table 8.5.3.2-1: Test preambles for NPRACH
Parameter Value
* * *
Narrowband physical layer cell identity 0 Initial subcarrier index 0
Table 8.5.3.2-2: Time error tolerance for AWGN, NTN-TDLA100
PRACH PRACH SCS Time error tolerance
* * *
preamble (kHz) NTN-TDLA100 0 3.75KHz 3.646us 1 3.75KHz 3.646us
##### 8.5.3.2.1 Minimum requirements
The probability of detection shall be equal to or exceed 99% for the SNR
levels listed in table 8.5.3.2.1-1.
Table 8.5.3.2.1-1: NPRACH missed detection requirements for FDD
**Number of TX antennas** **Number of RX antennas** **TxDuration**
**Repetition number** **Propagation conditions and correlation matrix (Annex
B)** **Frequency offset** **SNR [dB]**
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                        **Preamble format 0**   **Preamble format 1**
1 1 8 8 NTN-TDLA100-1 200 Hz [13.3] [13.7] 1 1 16 16 NTN-TDLA100-1 200 Hz
[9.8] [9.6] 1 2 8 8 NTN-TDLA100-1 200 Hz [6.0] [6.1] 1 2 16 16 NTN-TDLA100-1
200 Hz [1.6] [1.7]
# 9 Radiated transmitter characteristics
## 9.1 General
Radiated transmitter characteristics requirements apply on the _SAN type 1-H
or_ _SAN type 1-O_ including all its functional components active and for all
foreseen modes of operation of the SAN unless otherwise stated.
## 9.2 Radiated transmit power
### 9.2.1 General
_SAN type 1-H and SAN type 1-O_ are declared to support one or more beams, as
per manufacturer\'s declarations specified in TS 36.181 [3]. Radiated transmit
power is defined as the EIRP level for a declared beam at a specific _beam
peak direction_.
For each beam, the requirement is based on declaration of a beam identity,
_reference beam direction pair_ , beamwidth, _rated beam EIRP_ , _OTA peak
directions set_ , the _beam direction pairs_ at the maximum steering
directions and their associated _rated beam EIRP_ and beamwidth(s).
For a declared beam and _beam direction pair_ , the _rated beam EIRP_ level is
the maximum power that the SAN is declared to radiate at the associated _beam
peak direction_ during the _transmitter ON period_.
For each _beam peak direction_ associated with a _beam direction pair_ within
the _OTA peak directions set_ , a specific _rated beam EIRP_ level may be
claimed. Any claimed value shall be met within the accuracy requirement as
described below. _Rated beam EIRP_ is only required to be declared for the
_beam direction pairs_ subject to conformance testing as detailed in TS 36.181
[3].
NOTE 1: _OTA peak directions set_ is set of _beam peak directions_ for which
the EIRP accuracy requirement is intended to be met. The _beam peak
directions_ are related to a corresponding contiguous range or discrete list
of _beam centre directions_ by the _beam direction pairs_ included in the set.
NOTE 2: A _beam direction pair_ is data set consisting of the _beam centre
direction_ and the related _beam peak direction._
NOTE 3: A declared EIRP value is a value provided by the manufacturer for
verification according to the conformance specification declaration
requirements, whereas a claimed EIRP value is provided by the manufacturer to
the equipment user for normal operation of the equipment and is not subject to
formal conformance testing.
### 9.2.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-H_ and _SAN type 1-O_
For each declared beam, in normal conditions, for any specific _beam peak
direction_ associated with a _beam direction pair_ within the _OTA peak
directions set_ , a manufacturer claimed EIRP level in the corresponding _beam
peak direction_ shall be achievable to within ±2.2 dB of the claimed value.
Normal conditions are defined in TS 36.181, annex B [3].
In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal conditions may apply
also for some conditions outside the range of conditions defined as normal.
## 9.3 OTA Satellite Access Node output power
### 9.3.1 General
OTA SAN output power is declared as the TRP radiated requirement, with the
output power accuracy requirement defined at the RIB. TRP does not change with
beamforming settings as long as the _beam peak direction_ is within the _OTA
peak directions set_. Thus the TRP accuracy requirement must be met for any
beamforming setting for which the _beam peak direction_ is within the _OTA
peak directions set_.
The SAN _rated carrier TRP output power_ for _SAN type 1-O_ shall be based on
manufacturer declaration.
Despite the general requirements for the SAN output power described in clause
9.3.2, additional regional requirements might be applicable.
### 9.3.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
In normal conditions, the _SAN type 1-O_ _maximum carrier TRP output power_ ,
P~max,c~,~TRP~ measured at the RIB shall remain within ±2 dB of the _rated
carrier TRP output power_ P~rated,c,TRP~, as declared by the manufacturer.
Normal conditions are defined in TS 36.181 [3], annex B.
## 9.4 OTA output power dynamics
### 9.4.1 General
Transmit signal quality (as specified in clause 9.6) shall be maintained for
the output power dynamics requirements.
The OTA output power requirements are _directional requirements_ and apply to
the _beam peak directions_ over the _OTA peak directions set_.
The requirements in clause 9.4 does not apply for NB-IoT standalone mode.
### 9.4.2 OTA RE power control dynamic range
#### 9.4.2.1 General
The OTA RE power control dynamic range is the difference between the power of
an RE and the average RE power for a SAN at maximum output power
(P~max,c,EIRP~) for a specified reference condition.
This requirement shall apply at each RIB supporting transmission in the
_operating band_.
#### 9.4.2.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
The OTA RE power control dynamic range is specified the same as the conducted
RE power control dynamic range requirement for _SAN type 1-H_ in table
6.3.2.2-1.
### 9.4.3 OTA total power dynamic range
#### 9.4.3.1 General
The OTA total power dynamic range is the difference between the maximum and
the minimum transmit power of an OFDM symbol for a specified reference
condition.
This requirement shall apply at each RIB supporting transmission in the
_operating band_.
NOTE 1: The upper limit of the dynamic range is the OFDM symbol power for a
SAN at maximum output power. The lower limit of the dynamic range is the OFDM
symbol power for a SAN when one resource block is transmitted.
#### 9.4.3.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
OTA total power dynamic range minimum requirement for SAN type 1-O is
specified such as for each E-UTRA carrier it shall be larger than or equal to
the levels specified for the conducted requirement for _SAN type 1-H_ in table
6.3.3.2-1.
## 9.5 OTA transmit ON/OFF power
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
## 9.6 OTA transmitted signal quality
### 9.6.1 OTA frequency error
#### 9.6.1.1 General
OTA frequency error is the measure of the difference between the actual SAN
transmit frequency and the assigned frequency. The same source shall be used
for RF frequency and data clock generation.
OTA frequency error requirement is defined as a _directional requirement_ at
the RIB and shall be met within the _OTA coverage range_.
#### 9.6.1.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
The modulated carrier frequency of each carrier configured by the SAN shall be
accurate to within 0.05 ppm observed over 1 ms.
### 9.6.2 OTA modulation quality
#### 9.6.2.1 General
Modulation quality is defined by the difference between the measured carrier
signal and an ideal signal. Modulation quality can e.g. be expressed as Error
Vector Magnitude (EVM). Details about how the EVM is determined are specified
in annex B.
OTA modulation quality requirement is defined as a _directional requirement_
at the RIB and shall be met within the _OTA coverage range_.
#### 9.6.2.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
For _SAN type 1-O_ , the EVM levels of each carrier for different modulation
schemes on PDSCH outlined in table 6.5.2.2-1 shall be met. Requirements shall
be the same as clause 6.5.2.2.
### 9.6.3 OTA time alignment error
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
### 9.6.4 OTA DL RS power
For E-UTRA, DL RS power is the resource element power of the Downlink
Reference Symbol.
The absolute DL RS power is indicated on the DL-SCH. The OTA absolute accuracy
is defined as the maximum deviation between the DL RS power indicated on the
DL-SCH and the DL RS power of each E-UTRA carrier within the _OTA coverage
range_.
For NB-IoT, DL NRS power is the resource element power of the Downlink Narrow-
band Reference Signal.
The absolute DL NRS power is indicated on the DL-SCH. The OTA absolute
accuracy is defined as the maximum deviation between the DL NRS power
indicated on the DL-SCH and the DL NRS power of each NB-IoT carrier within the
_OTA coverage range._
#### 9.6.4.1 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-O_
For _SAN type 1-O_ , the OTA absolute accuracy for DL RS power shall be the
same as clause 6.5.4.1.
## 9.7 OTA unwanted emissions
### 9.7.1 General
Unwanted emissions consist of so-called out-of-band emissions and spurious
emissions according to ITU definitions ITU-R SM.329 [2]. In ITU terminology,
out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the _SAN
channel bandwidth_ resulting from the modulation process and non-linearity in
the transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. Spurious emissions are
emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter effects such as harmonics
emission, parasitic emission, intermodulation products and frequency
conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions.
The OTA out-of-band emissions requirement for the _SAN type 1-O_ is specified
both in terms of Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) and operating
band unwanted emissions (OBUE). The OTA Operating band unwanted emissions
define all unwanted emissions in each supported downlink _operating band_ plus
the frequency ranges Δf~OBUE~ above and Δf~OBUE~ below each band. OTA Unwanted
emissions outside of this frequency range are limited by an OTA spurious
emissions requirement.
The maximum offset of the operating band unwanted emissions mask from the
_operating band_ edge is Δf~OBUE~. The value of Δf~OBUE~ is defined in table
9.7.1-1 for _SAN type 1-O_ for the SAN _operating bands_.
Table 9.7.1-1: Maximum offset Δf~OBUE~ outside the downlink _operating band_
SAN type _Operating band_ characteristics Δf~OBUE~ (MHz)
* * *
SAN type 1-O F~DL,high~ -- F~DL,low~ \ 47 | P~r | | | | | | ated,c,TRP~ | | | | | | -- 60 dB | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | * | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | bandwidth_s | | | | | | as in ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], | | | | | | s4.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Upper | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | as in ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], s2.5 | | | | | | table 1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | lower | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | replaced by | | | | | | 0.7 times | | | | | | the | | | | | | waveguide | | | | | | cut-off | | | | | | frequency, | | | | | | according | | | | | | to ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], for | | | | | | systems | | | | | | having an | | | | | | integral | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | in | | | | | | corporating | | | | | | a waveguide | | | | | | section, or | | | | | | with an | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | connection | | | | | | in such | | | | | | form, and | | | | | | of | | | | | | unperturbed | | | | | | length | | | | | | equal to at | | | | | | least twice | | | | | | the | | | | | | cut-off. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
##### 9.7.5.2.3 Protection of the SAN receiver
The co-location requirement is not applicable for SAN in this version of the
specification.
##### 9.7.5.2.4 Additional spurious emissions requirements
The additional spurious emissions requirement is not applicable for SAN.
## 9.8 OTA transmitter intermodulation
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
# 10 Radiated receiver characteristics
## 10.1 General
Radiated receiver characteristics are specified at RIB for _SAN type 1-H or_
_SAN type 1-O_ , with full complement of transceivers for the configuration in
normal operating condition.
Unless otherwise stated, the following arrangements apply for the radiated
receiver characteristics requirements in clause 10:
\- Requirements shall be met for any transmitter setting.
\- The requirements shall be met with the transmitter unit(s) ON.
\- Throughput requirements defined for the radiated receiver characteristics
do not assume HARQ retransmissions.
\- When SAN is configured to receive multiple carriers, all the throughput
requirements are applicable for each received carrier.
\- For ACS and blocking characteristics, the negative offsets of the
interfering signal apply relative to the lower _SAN RF Bandwidth_ edge, and
the positive offsets of the interfering signal apply relative to the upper
_SAN RF Bandwidth_ edge.
\- Each requirement shall be met over the RoAoA specified.
NOTE 1: In normal operating condition the SAN in FDD operation is configured
to transmit and receive at the same time.
For FR1 requirements which are to be met over the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA_ absolute
requirement values are offset by the following term:
Δ~OTAREFSENS~ = 44.1 - 10*log~10~(BeW~θ,REFSENS*~BeW~φ,REFSENS~) dB for the
reference direction
and
Δ~OTAREFSENS~ = 41.1 - 10*log~10~(BeW~θ,REFSENS*~BeW~φ,REFSENS~) dB for all
other directions
For requirements which are to be met over the _minSENS RoAoA_ absolute
requirement values are offset by the following term:
Δ~minSENS~ = P~REFSENS~ -- EIS~minSENS~ (dB)
## 10.2 OTA sensitivity
### 10.2.1 General
The OTA sensitivity requirement is a _directional requirement_ based upon the
declaration of one or more _OTA sensitivity direction declarations_ (OSDD),
related to a _SAN type 1-H_ and _SAN type 1-O_ receiver.
The _SAN type 1-H_ and _SAN type 1-O_ may optionally be capable of
redirecting/changing the _receiver target_ by means of adjusting SAN settings
resulting in multiple _sensitivity RoAoA_. The _sensitivity RoAoA_ resulting
from the current SAN settings is the active _sensitivity RoAoA_.
If the SAN is capable of redirecting the _receiver target_ related to the OSDD
then the OSDD shall include:
\- _SAN channel bandwidth_ and declared minimum EIS level applicable to any
active _sensitivity RoAoA_ inside the _receiver target redirection range_ in
the OSDD.
\- A declared _receiver target redirection range_ , describing all the angles
of arrival that can be addressed for the OSDD through alternative settings in
the SAN.
\- Five declared _sensitivity RoAoA_ comprising the conformance testing
directions as detailed in TS 36.181 [3].
\- The _receiver target reference direction_.
NOTE 1: Some of the declared _sensitivity RoAoA_ may coincide depending on the
redirection capability.
NOTE 2: In addition to the declared _sensitivity RoAoA_ , several _sensitivity
RoAoA_ may be implicitly defined by the _receiver target redirection range_
without being explicitly declared in the OSDD.
If the SAN is not capable of redirecting the _receiver target_ related to the
OSDD, then the OSDD includes only:
\- The set(s) of RAT, _SAN channel bandwidth_ and declared minimum EIS level
applicable to the _sensitivity RoAoA_ in the OSDD.
\- One declared active _sensitivity RoAoA_.
\- The _receiver target reference direction_.
NOTE 3: For SAN without target redirection capability, the declared (fixed)
_sensitivity RoAoA_ is always the active _sensitivity RoAoA_.
The OTA sensitivity EIS level declaration shall apply to each supported
polarization, under the assumption of _polarization match_.
### 10.2.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
For a received signal whose AoA of the incident wave is within the active
_sensitivity RoAoA_ of an OSDD, the error rate criterion as described in
clause 7.2 shall be met when the level of the arriving signal is equal to the
minimum EIS level in the respective declared set of EIS level and _SAN channel
bandwidth_.
## 10.3 OTA reference sensitivity level
### 10.3.1 General
The OTA REFSENS requirement is a _directional requirement_ and is intended to
ensure the minimum OTA reference sensitivity level for a declared _OTA REFSENS
RoAoA_. The OTA reference sensitivity power level EIS~REFSENS~ is the minimum
mean power received at the RIB at which a reference performance requirement
shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
The OTA REFSENS requirement shall apply to each supported polarization, under
the assumption of _polarization match_.
### 10.3.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
For SAN supporting E-UTRA, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel as specified in annex A.1 with
parameter specified in table 10.3.2-1 and table 10.3.2-2 when the OTA test
signal is at the corresponding EIS~REFSENS~ level and arrives from any
direction within the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA._
Table 10.3.2-1: Reference sensitivity levels of SAN supporting E-UTRA (GEO
class payload)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | Reference | | bandwidth | spacing (kHz) | measurement | sensitivity | | (MHz) | | channel | power level, | | | | | EIS~REFSENS~ | | | | (NOTE) | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 1.4 | 15 | FRC A1-1 in | -104.4 - | | | | Annex A.1 | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | P~REFSENS~ is | | | | | the power | | | | | level of a | | | | | single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
> Table 10.3.2-2: Reference sensitivity levels of SAN supporting E-UTRA (LEO
> class payload)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | Reference | | bandwidth | spacing (kHz) | measurement | sensitivity | | (MHz) | | channel | power level, | | | | | EIS~REFSENS~ | | | | (NOTE) | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 1.4 | 15 | FRC A1-1 in | -107.5 - | | | | Annex A.1 | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | P~REFSENS~ is | | | | | the power | | | | | level of a | | | | | single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
For SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation, the throughput shall be ≥ 95%
of the maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel as specified in
annex A.1 with parameter specified in table 10.3.2-3 and table 10.3.2-4 when
the OTA test signal is at the corresponding EIS~REFSENS~ level and arrives
from any direction within the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA._
Table 10.3.2-3: Reference sensitivity levels of SAN supporting standalone NB-
IoT operation (GEO class payload)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | Reference | | bandwidth | spacing | measurement | sensitivity | | (kHz) | | channel | power level, | | | (kHz) | | EIS~REFSENS~ | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 200 | 15 | FRC A14-1 in | -124.9 - | | | | Annex A.14 | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 200 | 3.75 | FRC A14-2 in | -130.9 - | | | | Annex A.14 | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table10.3.2-4: Reference sensitivity levels of SAN supporting standalone NB-
IoT operation (LEO class payload)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | Reference | | bandwidth | spacing | measurement | sensitivity | | (kHz) | | channel | power level, | | | (kHz) | | EIS~REFSENS~ | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 200 | 15 | FRC A14-1 in | -128.0 - | | | | Annex A.14 | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 200 | 3.75 | FRC A14-2 in | -134.0 - | | | | Annex A.14 | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 10.4 OTA dynamic range
### 10.4.1 General
The OTA dynamic range is a measure of the capability of the receiver unit to
receive a wanted signal in the presence of an interfering signal inside the
received _SAN channel bandwidth_.
The requirement shall apply at the RIB when the AoA of the incident wave of a
received signal and the interfering signal are from the same direction and are
within the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA._
The wanted and interfering signals apply to each supported polarization, under
the assumption of _polarization match_.
### 10.4.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
For SAN supporting E-UTRA, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel as specified in annex A.2 with
parameters specified in table 10.4.2-1 for LEO SAN.
Table 10.4.2-1: Dynamic range of SAN supporting E-UTRA (LEO class payload)
SAN channel bandwidth (MHz) Reference measurement channel Wanted signal mean
power (dBm) Interfering signal mean power (dBm) / BW~Config~ Type of
interfering signal
* * *
1.4 FRC A2-1 in Annex A.2 -82.0 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ -94.4 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ AWGN
Note*: The wanted signal mean power is the power level of a single instance of
the reference measurement channel. This requirement shall be met for each
consecutive application of a single instance of FRC A2-3 mapped to disjoint
frequency ranges with a width of 25 resource blocks each.
For SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the
maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel as specified in annex
A.2 with parameters specified in table 10.4.2-2 for GEO SAN and table 10.4.2-3
for LEO SAN.
Table 10.4.2-2: Dynamic range of SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation
(GEO class payload)
SAN channel bandwidth (kHz) Reference measurement channel Wanted signal mean
power (dBm) Interfering signal mean power (dBm) / BW~Channel~ Type of
interfering signal
* * *
200 FRC A15-1 in Annex A.15 -97.3 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ -93.6 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ AWGN
200 FRC A15-2 in Annex A.15 -103.2 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ -93.6 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ AWGN
Table 10.4.2-3: Dynamic range of SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation
(LEO class payload)
SAN channel bandwidth (kHz) Reference measurement channel Wanted signal mean
power (dBm) Interfering signal mean power (dBm) / BW~Channel~ Type of
interfering signal
* * *
200 FRC A15-1 in Annex A.15 -89.4 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ -85.7 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ AWGN
200 FRC A15-2 in Annex A.15 -95.3 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ -85.7 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ AWGN
## 10.5 OTA in-band selectivity and blocking
### 10.5.1 OTA adjacent channel selectivity
#### 10.5.1.1 General
OTA Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver\'s ability
to receive an OTA wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an OTA adjacent channel signal with a specified centre frequency
offset of the interfering signal to the band edge of a victim system.
#### 10.5.1.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
The requirement shall apply at the RIB when the AoA of the incident wave of a
received signal and the interfering signal are from the same direction and are
within the _minSENS RoAoA_.
The wanted and interfering signals apply to each supported polarization, under
the assumption o _f polarization match_.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel.
For SAN supporting E-UTRA, the OTA wanted signal and the interfering signal
are specified in table 10.5.1.2-1 for OTA ACS. The reference measurement
channel for the OTA wanted signal is further specified in annex A.1.
For SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT operation, the OTA wanted signal and the
interfering signal are specified in table 10.5.1.2-2 for OTA ACS. The
reference measurement channel for the OTA wanted signal is further specified
in annex A.1.
The characteristic of interfering signals are further specified in annex C.
The OTA ACS requirement is applicable outside the _SAN RF Bandwidth_ or _Radio
Bandwidth_. The OTA interfering signal offset is defined relative to the _SAN
RF Bandwidth edges_ or _Radio Bandwidth edges_.
Table 10.5.1.2-1: ACS requirement of SAN supporting E-UTRA
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SAN channel | Wanted | Interfering | Interfering | Type of | | bandwidth | signal mean | signal mean | signal | interfering | | of the | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | centre | signal | | low | | | frequency | | | est/highest | | | offset from | | | carrier | | | the | | | received | | | lower/upper | | | (MHz) | | | SAN RF | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | edge or | | | | | | sub-block | | | | | | edge inside | | | | | | a sub-block | | | | | | gap (MHz) | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1.4 | P~REFSENS~ | GEO SAN | ±0.7025 | 1.4MHz | | | + 11dB- | class: | | E-UTRA | | | Δ~ | -57.6- | | signal | | | OTAREFSENS~ | Δ~ | | | | | (Note) | OTAREFSENS~ | | | | | | | | | | | | LEO SAN | | | | | | class: | | | | | | -60.7- | | | | | | Δ~ | | | | | | OTAREFSENS~ | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 7.2.2-1 and | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 7.2.2-2. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 10.5.1.2-2: ACS requirement of SAN supporting standalone NB-IoT
operation
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SAN | Wanted | Interfering | Interfering | Type of | | | signal mean | signal mean | signal | interfering | | channel | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | centre | signal | | bandwidth | | | frequency | | | of the | | | offset to | | | low | | | the | | | est/highest | | | lower/upper | | | carrier | | | SAN RF | | | received | | | Bandwidth | | | (kHz) | | | edge or | | | | | | sub-block | | | | | | edge inside | | | | | | a sub-block | | | | | | gap (kHz) | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 200 | P~REFSENS~ | GEO SAN | ±100 | 180 kHz | | | + 19.5dB - | class: | | NB-IoT | | | Δ~OTAREF | -56.6- | | signal | | | SENS~(Note) | Δ~ | | | | | | OTAREFSENS~ | | | | | | | | | | | | LEO SAN | | | | | | class: | | | | | | -59.7- | | | | | | Δ~ | | | | | | OTAREFSENS~ | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | spacing as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 7.2.2-3 and | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 7.2.2-4. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 10.5.2 OTA in-band blocking
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
## 10.6 OTA out-of-band blocking
### 10.6.1 General
The OTA out-of-band blocking characteristics are a measure of the receiver
unit ability to receive a wanted signal at the _RIB_ at its assigned channel
in the presence of an unwanted interferer.
### 10.6.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
#### 10.6.2.1 General minimum requirement {#general-minimum-requirement .list-
paragraph}
The requirement shall apply at the RIB when the AoA of the incident wave of
the received signal and the interfering signal are from the same direction and
are within the _minSENS RoAoA_.
The wanted signal applies to each supported polarization, under the assumption
of _polarization match._ The interferer shall be _polarization matched_ in-
band and the polarization maintained for out-of-band frequencies.
For OTA wanted and OTA interfering signals provided at the RIB using the
parameters in table 10.6.2.1-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel. The reference measurement channel for the OTA wanted
signal is identified in clause 10.3.2 for each _SAN channel bandwidth_ and
further specified in annex A.1.
For _SAN type 1-O_ the OTA out-of-band blocking requirement apply from 30 MHz
to F~UL,low~ - Δf~OOB~ and from F~UL,high~ + Δf~OOB~ up to 12750 MHz,
including the downlink frequency range of the SAN _operating band_. The
Δf~OOB~ for _SAN type 1-O_ is defined in table 10.6.2.1-2.
Table 10.6.2.1-1: OTA out-of-band blocking performance requirement for SAN
supporting E-UTRA or standalone NB-IoT operation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Wanted signal mean | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | power (dBm) | RMS field-strength | Signal | | | (V/m) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | EIS~minSENS~ + 6 dB | 0.0129 | CW carrier | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | (NOTE 2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: EIS~minSENS~ | | | | depends on the | | | | _channel bandwidth_ | | | | as specified in | | | | clause 10.2. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The RMS | | | | field-strength level | | | | in V/m is related to | | | | the interferer EIRP | | | | level at a distance | | | | described as , where | | | | EIRP is in W and r | | | | is in m. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: [For SAN | | | | supporting | | | | standalone NB-IoT | | | | operation, up to 24 | | | | exceptions are | | | | allowed for spurious | | | | response frequencies | | | | in each wanted | | | | signal frequency | | | | when measured using | | | | a 1MHz step size. | | | | For these exceptions | | | | the above throughput | | | | requirement shall be | | | | met when the | | | | blocking signal is | | | | set to a level of | | | | 0.0103 V/m for 3.75 | | | | kHz subcarrier | | | | spacing. In | | | | addition, each group | | | | of exceptions shall | | | | not exceed three | | | | contiguous | | | | measurements using a | | | | 1 MHz step size.] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 10.6.2.1-2: Δf~OOB~ offset for satellite _operating bands_
SAN type _Operating band_ characteristics Δf~OOB~ (MHz)
* * *
_SAN type 1-O_ F~UL,high~ -- F~UL,low~ \ 2) | +------------------------------------------+-------+--------------------------+
# A.14 Fixed Reference Channels for NB-IOT reference sensitivity (π/2 BPSK,
R=1/3)
The parameters for the reference measurement channels are specified in Table
A.14-1 for reference sensitivity.
Table A.14-1 FRC parameters for reference sensitivity and in-channel
selectivity
Reference channel A14-1 A14-2
* * *
Sub-carrier spacing (kHz) 15 3.75 Number of tone 1 1 Diversity No No
Modulation π/2 BPSK π/2 BPSK Frequency offset 0 0 Channel estimation length
(ms) (NOTE) 4 16 Number of NPUSCH repetition 1 1 IMCS / TBS 0 / 0 0 / 0
Payload size (bits) 32 32 Allocated resource unit 2 2 Code rate (target) 1/3
1/3 Code rate (effective) 0.29 0.29 Transport block CRC (bits) 24 24 Code
block CRC size (bits) 0 0 Number of code blocks - C 1 1 Total number of bits
per resource unit 96 96 Total symbols per resource unit 96 96 Tx time (ms) 16
64 NOTE: Channel estimation lengths are included in the table for information
only.
# A.15 Fixed Reference Channels for NB-IoT dynamic range (π/4 QPSK, R=2/3)
The parameters for the reference measurement channels are specified in Table
A.15-1 for NB-IoT dynamic range.
Table A.15-1 FRC parameters for NB-IoT dynamic range
Reference channel A15-1 A15-2
* * *
Subcarrier spacing (kHz) 15 3.75 Number of tone 1 1 Modulation π/4 QPSK π/4
QPSK Diversity No No Frequency offset 0 0 IMCS / ITBS 7 / 7 7 / 7 Payload size
(bits) 104 104 Allocated resource units 1 1 Transport block CRC (bits) 24 24
Coding rate (target) 2/3 2/3 Coding Rate 0.67 0.67 Code block CRC size (bits)
0 0 Number of code blocks -- C 1 1 Total symbols per resource unit 96 96 Total
number of bits per resource unit 192 192 Tx time (ms) 8 32 Frequency offset 0
0 Channel estimation length (ms) (NOTE) 4 16 NOTE: Channel estimation lengths
are included in the table for information only.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Error Vector Magnitude
# B.1 Reference point for measurement
The EVM shall be measured at the point after the FFT and a zero-forcing (ZF)
equalizer in the receiver, as depicted in Figure B.1-1 below.
Figure B.1-1: Reference point for EVM measurement
# B.2 Basic unit of measurement
For 15 kHz, 7.5 kHz, 1.25 kHz, 2.5 kHz subcarrier spacing, the basic unit of
EVM measurement is defined over one subframe (1 ms) for subframe TTI and over
one sTTI when supporting sTTI feature in the time domain and subcarriers (180
kHz) in the frequency domain:
For 0.37 kHz subcarrier spacing, the basic unit of EVM measurement is defined
over one slot (3 ms) in the time domain and subcarriers (180 kHz) in the
frequency domain:
where
is the set of symbols with the considered modulation scheme being active
within the subframe or within the sTTI,
is the set of subcarriers within the subcarriers with the considered
modulation scheme being active in symbol _t_ ,
_is_ the ideal signal reconstructed by the measurement equipment in accordance
with relevant Tx models,
is the modified signal under test defined in B.3.
Note: Although the basic unit of measurement is one subframe or one sTTI, the
equalizer is calculated over 10 subframe measurement periods to reduce the
impact of noise in the reference symbols. The boundaries of the 10 subframe
measurement periods need not be aligned with radio frame boundaries.
# B.3 Modified signal under test
Implicit in the definition of EVM is an assumption that the receiver is able
to compensate a number of transmitter impairments. The signal under test is
equalised and decoded according to:
where
is the time domain samples of the signal under test.
is the sample timing difference between the FFT processing window in relation
to nominal timing of the ideal signal. Note that two timing offsets are
determined, the corresponding EVM is measured and the maximum used as
described in B.7.
is the RF frequency offset.
is the phase response of the TX chain.
is the amplitude response of the TX chain.
# B.4 Estimation of frequency offset
The observation period for determining the frequency offset shall be 1 ms.
For 0.37 kHz, the observation period for determining the frequency offset
shall be 6 ms. For 2.5 kHz, the observation period for determining the
frequency offset shall be 1 ms.
# B.5 Estimation of time offset
The observation period for determining the sample timing difference shall be 1
ms.
For 0.37 kHz, the observation period for determining the sample timing
difference shall be 6 ms.
For 2.5 kHz, the observation period for determining the sample timing
difference shall be 1 ms.
In the following represents the middle sample of the EVM window of length
(defined in E.5.1) or the last sample of the first window half if is even.
is estimated so that the EVM window of length is centred on the measured
cyclic prefix of the considered OFDM symbol. To minimize the estimation error
the timing shall be based on the primary synchronization signal and reference
signals. To limit time distortion of any transmit filter the reference signals
in the 1 outer RBs are not taken into account in the timing estimation
Two values for are determined:
and
where if is odd and if is even.
When the cyclic prefix length varies from symbol to symbol (e.g. time
multiplexed MBMS and unicast) then shall be further restricted to the subset
of symbols with the considered modulation scheme being active and with the
considered cyclic prefix length type.
## B.5.1 Window length
Table B.5.1-1 and Table B.5.1-1a below specify EVM window length (W) for
normal CP, the cyclic prefix length is 10 for symbols 0 and 9 for symbols 1-6.
Table B.5.1-2 specify the EVM window length (W) for extended CP for 15 kHz,
subcarrier spacing.
Table B5.1-1: EVM window length for normal CP for E-UTRA
* * *
Channel\ FFT size Cyclic prefix length for symbols 0 in FFT samples Cyclic
prefix length for symbols 1‑6 in FFT samples EVM window length _W_ Ratio of
_W_ to total CP for symbols 1‑6 (NOTE) (%) Bandwidth (MHz)
* * *
1.4 128 10 9 5 55.6
Note: These percentages are informative and apply to symbols 1 through 6.
Symbol 0 has a longer CP and therefore a lower percentage.
* * *
Table B.5.1-2: EVM window length for normal CP for NB-IoT
FFT size Cyclic prefix length for symbols 0 in FFT samples Cyclic prefix
length for symbols 1‑6 in FFT samples EVM window length _W_ Ratio of _W_ to
total CP for symbols 1‑6 (NOTE) (%)
* * *
128 10 9 3 33.3 Note: These percentages are informative and apply to symbols 1
through 6. Symbol 0 has a longer CP and therefore a lower percentage.
Table B.5.1-3: EVM window length for extended CP for 15 kHz subcarrier spacing
* * *
Channel Bandwidth (MHz) FFT size Cyclic prefix in FFT samples EVM window
length _W_ Ratio of _W_ to total CP (NOTE)\ (%)
* * *
1.4 128 32 28 87.5
Note : These percentages are informative.
* * *
# B.6 Estimation of TX chain amplitude and frequency response parameters
The equalizer coefficients and are determined as follows:
1\. Calculate the complex ratios (amplitude and phase) of the post-FFT
acquired signal and the post-FFT Ideal signal , for each reference symbol,
over 10 subframes. This process creates a set of complex ratios:
Where the post-FFT Ideal signal is constructed by the measuring equipment
according to the relevant TX specifications, using the following parameters:
restricted content: i.e. nominal Reference Symbols and the Primary
Synchronisation Channel, (all other modulation symbols are set to 0 V),
nominal carrier frequency, nominal amplitude and phase for each applicable
subcarrier, nominal timing.
2\. Perform time averaging at each reference signal subcarrier of the complex
ratios, the time-averaging length is 10 subframes. Prior to the averaging of
the phases an unwrap operation must be performed according to the following
definition: The unwrap operation corrects the radian phase angles of by adding
multiples of 2*PI when absolute phase jumps between consecutive time instances
t~i~ are greater then or equal to the jump tolerance of PI radians. This
process creates an average amplitude and phase for each reference signal
subcarrier (i.e. every third subcarrier with the exception of the reference
subcarrier spacing across the DC subcarrier).
Where _N_ is the number of reference symbol time-domain locations _t~i~_ from
Z\'(f,t) for each reference signal subcarrier .
3\. The equalizer coefficients for amplitude and phase and at the reference
signal subcarriers are obtained by computing the moving average in the
frequency domain of the time-averaged reference signal subcarriers, i.e. every
third subcarrier. The moving average window size is 19. For reference
subcarriers at or near the edge of the channel the window size is reduced
accordingly as per figure B.6-1.
4\. Perform linear interpolation from the equalizer coefficients and to
compute coefficients , for each subcarrier.
Figure B.6-1: Reference subcarrier smoothing in the frequency domain
# B.7 Averaged EVM
EVM is averaged over all allocated downlink resource blocks with the
considered modulation scheme in the frequency domain, and a minimum of 10
downlink subframes:
For FDD the averaging in the time domain equals the 10 subframe duration of
the 10 subframes measurement period from the equalizer estimation step.
_Where Ni_ is the number of resource blocks with the considered modulation
scheme in subframe or sTTI _i_ and _N~dl~_ is the number of allocated downlink
subframes or sTTI in one frame.
The EVM requirements shall be tested against the maximum of the RMS average at
the window W extremities of the EVM measurements:
Thus is calculated using in the expressions above and is calculated using in
the calculation.
Thus we get:
The averaged EVM with the minimum averaging length of at least 10 subframes is
then achieved by further averaging of the results
,
###### ## Annex C (normative): Characteristics of the interfering signals
For E-UTRA SAN, the interfering signal shall be a PUSCH containing data and
reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used. The data content shall be
uncorrelated to the wanted signal and modulated according to clause 5 of
TS36.211[9]. Mapping of PUSCH modulation to receiver requirement are specified
in table C-1.
Table C-1: Modulation of the interfering signal for E-UTRA
Receiver requirement Modulation
* * *
In-channel selectivity 16QAM Adjacent channel selectivity QPSK
For NB-IoT standalone SAN, the interfering signal shall be a NPUSCH containing
data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used. The data content
shall be uncorrelated to the wanted signal and modulated according to clause
10.1 of TS36.211[9]. Mapping of NPUSCH modulation to receiver requirement are
specified in table C-2.
Table C-2: Modulation of the interfering signal for standalone NB-IoT
Receiver requirement Modulation
* * *
Adjacent channel selectivity π/4 QPSK
###### ##
# Annex D (Normative): Propagation condition
# D.1 Static propagation condition
The propagation for the static performance measurement is an Additive White
Gaussian Noise (AWGN) environment. No fading or multi-paths exist for this
propagation model.
# D.2 Multi-path fading propagation conditions
The multipath propagation conditions consist of several parts:
\- A delay profile in the form of a \"tapped delay-line\", characterized by a
number of taps at fixed positions on a sampling grid. The profile can be
further characterized by the r.m.s. delay spread and the maximum delay spanned
by the taps.
\- A combination of channel model parameters that include the Delay profile
and the Doppler spectrum that is characterized by a classical spectrum shape
and a maximum Doppler frequency.
## D.2.1 Delay profiles
The delay profiles are simplified from the TR 38.811 [10] TDL models. The
simplification steps are described in TS 38.108 D.2 [7].
### D.2.1.1 Delay profiles
The delay profiles are selected to be representative of low and medium delay
spread environment. The resulting model parameters are specified in table
D.2.1.1-1 and the tapped delay line models are specified in tables D.2.1.1-2
and D.2.1.1-3.
Table D.2.1.1-1: Delay profiles for NR channel models
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Model | Number of\ | Delay | Maximum | Delay | | | channel | spread | excess tap | resolution | | | taps | | delay | | | | | (r.m.s.) | (span) | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | NTN-TDLA100 | 3 | 100 ns | 285 | 5ns | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NTN-TDLC5 | 2 | 5 ns | 60 | 5ns | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table D.2.1.1-2: NTN-TDLA100 (DS = 100 ns)
Tap # Delay (ns) Power (dB) Fading distribution
* * *
1 0 0 Rayleigh 2 110 -4.7 Rayleigh 3 285 -6.5 Rayleigh
Table D.2.1.1-3: NTN-TDLC5 (DS = 5 ns)
Tap # Delay (ns) Power (dB) Fading distribution
* * *
1 0 -0.6 LOS path 0 -8.9 Rayleigh 2 60 -21.5 Rayleigh
## D.2.2 Combinations of channel model parameters
The propagation conditions used for the performance measurements in multi-path
fading environment are indicated as a combination of a channel model name and
a maximum Doppler frequency, i.e., NTN-TDLA\-\ or NTN-
TDLC\-\ where \'\\' indicates the desired delay spread and
\'\\' indicates the maximum Doppler frequency (Hz).
Table D.2.2-1 show the propagation conditions that are used for the
performance measurements in multi-path fading environment.
Table D.2.2-1: Channel model parameters
Combination name Tapped delay line model Maximum Doppler frequency
* * *
NTN-TDLA100-5 NTN-TDLA100 5 Hz NTN-TDLC5-5 NTN-TDLC5 5 Hz
#