# Foreword {#foreword-1}
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
_In Rel-14 and Rel-16, RAN introduced a set of features under the umbrella of
"LTE based 5G terrestrial broadcast" that, together with the corresponding
enhancements in the core network, enable the deployment of a downlink-only
dedicated broadcast network using 3GPP technologies._
_A clear target spectrum for this technology is the_ **portion of UHF spectrum
allocated to broadcast systems (\~470 - \~694/698MHz, depending on the
region)**_. The objective of this work item is to introduce the necessary
features for LTE based 5G terrestrial broadcast to operate in the_ **portion
of UHF spectrum allocated to broadcast systems** _in different regions of the
globe. For instance:_
\- For ITU region 1, a channelization of 8MHz is used.
\- For ITU region 2, a channelization of 6MHz is used.
\- In some countries (e.g. North America), frequencies above 614MHz are used
by FDD (B71).
\- For ITU region 3, different channelizations (6/7/8MHz) are used in
different countries, for instance China and India are using 8MHz.
\- In China broadcast systems are using the spectrum ranges 470 -- 702 MHz..
\- In India broadcast systems are using the spectrum ranges 470 -- 610 MHz and
614 -- 698 MHz.
_In this work, at least the following specifications are to be taken into
account, and requirements reused when available:_
\- For ITU region 1, requirements defined in ETSI EN 302 296 and GE06
Agreement.
\- For ITU region 2:
\- In United States, Title 47 CFR 73.622.
\- In Brazil, ABNT 15601.
\- For ITU region 3, in China, GB20600-2006.
# 1 Scope {#scope-1}
The present document provides a summary of regulatory requirements on unwanted
emissions for transmission over broadcast bands in UHF spectrum. This document
is not exhaustive and is intended to be used only informatively; in all cases
whether included in this document or not, the official requirements issued by
the regulator should be consulted for the most accurate and up-to-date
information.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-R BT.1206
[3] ETSI EN 302 296 V2.2.1
[4] Directive 2014/53/EU
[5] GE06
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ATSC Advanced Television SystemsDTMB Digital Terrestrial Multimedia Broadcast
DTTB Digital Terrestrial Television Broadcasting
DVB-T Digital Video Broadcasting
ISDB-T Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting
# 4 Spectrum limit masks for digital terrestrial television broadcasting
## 4.1 General
In order to avoid referring to national regulations since they vary from
country to country, instead this TR refers to the Recommendation ITU-R BT.1206
[2] Spectrum limit masks for digital terrestrial television broadcasting. The
spectrum masks defined in the recommendation are not based on the ITU-R Region
but on the DTT system.
Currently there are 4 different DTT systems in operation worldwide:
\- Advanced Television Systems Committee (ATSC)
\- Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB-T)
\- Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting (ISDB-T)
\- Digital Terrestrial Multimedia Broadcast (DTMB)
Besides, different TV channel raster are currently in use (6, 7, and 8 MHz).
ATSC1.0 spectrum masks are also considered for ATSC3.0. Furthermore, DVB-T2
uses the same spectrum masks as DVB-T, and DTMB-A uses the same spectrum masks
as DTMB.
Each of these DTT systems can be used in different ITU-R Regions. Although the
majority of Region 1 countries use DVB-T (or DVB-T2), there are some countries
in Region 1 using ISDB-T or DTMB. Likewise, although in Region 2 ATSC (or ATSC
3.0) is used in North America and ISDB-T is used in most of Central America,
South America, and the Caribbean, there are some countries in Region 2 using
DVB-T/T2 or DTMB. Finally, in Region 3, all four DTT systems (or their
corresponding second-generation systems) are used in different countries.
Regarding the UHF TV channel raster, only ITU-R Region 1 is fully harmonized
using 8 MHz channels.
In Regions 2 and 3, there are different countries using all three UHF TV
channel raster (6, 7, and 8 MHz).
Therefore, it is advisable to refer to the spectrum masks defined in
Recommendation ITU-R BT.1206 [2] to enhance the compatibility of LTE-based 5G
terrestrial broadcast with existing DTT systems, not based on ITU-R Region,
but based on the DTT system and UHF TV channel raster adopted in each country.
In addition to the ITU-R BT.1206, GE06 [5] shall be considered as a regulatory
reference for ITU Region 1 in respect to OOB emissions. Existing 3GPP Specs
with relation to Out-of-Band emissions shall be considered as well.
## 4.2 Scope {#scope-2}
This Technical Report provides specific spectrum limit masks for digital
terrestrial television broadcasting systems specified in Recommendation ITU-R
BT.1306. While Recommendation ITU-R SM.1541 provides out-of-band domain
emission limits that should be regarded as generic spectrum limit masks,
specific spectrum limit masks might be required for specific environments to
enhance compatibility with other radiocommunication services.
## 4.3 Specific spectrum limit masks for digital terrestrial television system
A (ATSC)
### 4.3.1 General
The spectrum limit masks described in this section are applicable to the ITU-R
digital terrestrial television broadcasting (DTTB) System A (ATSC) employing
the 6 MHz single carrier modulation scheme, eight-level Vestigial-SideBand
(8-VSB) modulation.
This section applied only to Countries/regions where ATSC1.0 may co-exist with
LTE-based 5G Broadcast.
### 4.3.2 Sampling the transmitter output
To examine the spectrum, the output port of the transmitter (including any RF
channel-defining filters) is connected to a spectrum analyser via a coupler or
sampling device inserted in the transmission line (coaxial cable or waveguide)
between the transmitter and its load or antenna. During the measurement, the
transmitter may be operated into either an antenna or a dummy load. The dummy
load is preferred, as it minimizes possible problems with off-air signal
ingress. The spectrum shaping limits are based upon a measurement (or
resolution) bandwidth of 500 kHz. Other measurement bandwidths may be used as
long as appropriate correction factors are applied. Measurements need not be
made any closer to the channel edge than one-half of the resolution bandwidth
of the measuring instrument.
### 4.3.3 Spectrum limit masks for 6 MHz DTTB systems using 8-VSB modulation
#### 4.3.3.1 General
The following 6 MHz DTTB spectrum limit masks required outside of the 6 MHz
channel are stated relative to a reference amplitude. The reference amplitude
for the spectrum shaping limit is the total transmitter output power,
including the pilot signal, contained within the 6 MHz channel. Three cases
are considered below. The "high power" spectrum limit mask is intended for
high-power transmitters which service large populated areas. These
transmitters may be co-located with similar transmitters on adjacent channels
avoiding interference. The "low power" spectrum limit mask is intended for low
power television (LPTV) transmitters and translators. An LPTV transmitter
provides a locally- oriented television service in small communities both
rural and within larger urban areas. TV translator stations are stations in
the broadcast service operated for the purpose of retransmitting the
programmes and signals of a TV broadcast station in areas of poor reception.
The "simple" spectrum limit mask is also intended for LPTV transmitters and
translators in locations where such transmitters and translators will not
cause interference.
#### 4.3.3.2 High power DTTB spectrum limit mask
The spectrum shaping limit in the range between one-half of the width of the
resolution bandwidth filter used and 500 kHz from the channel edge relative to
the total transmitter output power shall be:
Spectrum shaping limit ≤ --47 (dB~DTV~)
The spectrum shaping limit at any frequency between 500 kHz and 6 MHz from the
channel edge should be:
Spectrum shaping limit ≤ -(11.5 (\|ΔF\| -- 0.5) + 47) (dB~DTV~)
where:
ΔF is the frequency difference, in MHz, from the channel edge.
The spectrum shaping limit at any frequency more than 6 MHz from the channel
edge should be:
Spectrum shaping limit ≤ --110 dB~DTV~
The spectrum limit mask for a high power DTTB transmitter is illustrated
graphically in Figure 4.3.3.2-1.
{width="7.240972222222222in" height="6.920833333333333in"}
Figure 4.3.3.2-1: Spectrum limit mask for 6 MHz high power 8-VSB digital
terrestrial television systems
#### 4.3.3.3 Low power DTTB spectrum limit mask for LPTV transmitters and
translators
The spectrum shaping limit in the range between one-half of the width of the
resolution bandwidth filter used and 500 kHz from the channel edge relative to
the total transmitter output power shall be:
Spectrum shaping limit ≤ --47 (dB~DTV~)
The spectrum shaping limit at any frequency between 500 kHz and 3 MHz from the
channel edge should be:
Spectrum shaping limit ≤ -(11.5 (\|ΔF\| -- 0.5) + 47) (dB~DTV~)
where:
ΔF is the frequency difference, in MHz, from the channel edge.
The spectrum shaping limit at any frequency more than 3 MHz from the channel
edge should be:
Spectrum shaping limit ≤ --76 dB~DTV~
The DTTB low power spectrum limit mask for LPTV transmitters and translators
is illustrated graphically in Figure 4.3.3.3-1.
{width="7.247222222222222in" height="5.780555555555556in"}
Figure 4.3.3.3-1: Low power spectrum limit mask for 6 MHz 8-VSB LPTV
transmitters and translators
#### 4.3.3.4 Simple DTTB spectrum limit mask for LPTV transmitters and
translators
The spectrum shaping limit in the range between one-half of the width of the
resolution bandwidth filter used and 6 MHz from the channel edge relative to
the total transmitter output power shall be:
Spectrum shaping limit ≤ -((ΔF^2^/1.44) + 46) (dB~DTV~)
where:
ΔF is the frequency difference, in MHz, from the channel edge.
The spectrum shaping limit at any frequency more than 6 MHz from the channel
edge should be:
Spectrum shaping limit ≤ --77 dB~DTV~
The DTTB simple spectrum limit mask for LPTV transmitters and translators is
illustrated graphically in Figure 4.3.3.4-1.
{width="7.240972222222222in" height="5.7340277777777775in"}
Figure 4.3.3.4-1: Simple spectrum limit mask for 6 MHz 8-VSB LPTV transmitters
and translators
## 4.4 Specific spectrum limit masks for digital terrestrial television system
B (DVB-T)
### 4.4.1 Specific spectrum limit masks for 6 MHz channelling system B (DVB-T)
For 6 MHz digital television, the OoB domain extends from ±3.0 MHz (i.e. ±0.5
× 6 MHz) to ±15.0 MHz (i.e. ±2.5 × 6 MHz) relative to channel centre.
Two spectrum masks are specified in Figure 4.4.1-1 and the associated Table
4.4.1-1. The upper curve defines the spectrum mask for the non-critical cases
and the lower curve defines the spectrum mask for the sensitive cases.
{width="5.76311132983377in" height="4.192308617672791in"}
Figure 4.4.1-1: Spectrum limit masks for 6 MHz channelling system B (DVB-T)
Table 4.4.1-1: **Table of break points corresponding to Figure 4.4.1-1 for 6
MHz channeling system B (DVB-T)**
Frequency relative to the centre of the 6 MHz channel (MHz) Relative level in
a 4 kHz measurement bandwidth (dB)
* * *
                                                                Non-critical emission mask                             Sensitive cases
\--15.0 --110 --120 \--9.0 --110 --120 \--4.5 --85 --95 \--3.15 --73 --83
\--2.92 --31.6 --31.6 +2.92 --31.6 --31.6 +3.15 --73 --83 +4.5 --85 --95 +9.0
--110 --120 +15.0 --110 --120
### 4.4.2 Specific spectrum limit masks for 7 MHz channelling system B (DVB-T)
For 7 MHz digital television, the OoB domain extends from ±3.5 MHz (i.e. ±0.5
× 7 MHz) to ±17.5 MHz (i.e. ±2.5 × 7 MHz) relative to channel centre.
Two spectrum masks are specified in Figure 4.4.2-1 and the associated Table
4.4.2-1. The upper curve defines the spectrum mask for the non-critical cases
and the lower curve defines the spectrum mask for the sensitive cases.
[TBD]
Figure 4.4.2-1: Spectrum limit masks for 7 MHz channelling system B (DVB-T)
Table 4.4.2-1: Table of break points corresponding to
Figure 4.4.2-1 for 7 MHz channelling system B (DVB-T)
Frequency relative to the centre of the 7 MHz channel (MHz) Relative level in
a 4 kHz measurement bandwidth (dB)
* * *
                                                                Non-critical emission mask                             Sensitive cases
\--17.5 --110 --120 \--10.5 --110 --120 \--5.25 --85 --95 \--3.7 --73 --83
\--3.35 --32.8 --32.8 +3.35 --32.8 --32.8 +3.7 --73 --83 +5.25 --85 --95 +10.5
--110 --120 +17.5 --110 --120
### 4.4.3 Specific spectrum limit masks for 8 MHz channelling system B (DVB-T)
For 8 MHz digital television, the OoB domain extends from ±4 MHz (i.e. ±0.5 ×
8 MHz) to ±20 MHz (i.e. ±2.5 × 8 MHz) relative to channel centre.
Two spectrum masks are specified in Figure 4.4.3-1 and the associated Table
4.4.3-1. The upper curve defines the spectrum mask for the non-critical cases
and the lower curve defines the spectrum mask for the sensitive cases.
{width="7.2340277777777775in" height="4.7340277777777775in"}
Figure 4.4.3-1: Spectrum limit masks for 8 MHz channelling system B (DVB-T)
Table 4.4.3-1: **Table of break points corresponding to**
**Figure 4.4.3-1 for 8 MHz channelling system B (DVB-T)**
Frequency relative to the centre of the 8 MHz channel (MHz) Relative level in
a 4 kHz measurement bandwidth (dB)
* * *
                                                                Non-critical emission mask                             Sensitive cases
\--20 --110 --120 \--12 --110 --120 \--6 --85 --95 \--4.2 --73 --83 \--3.9
--32.8 --32.8 +3.9 --32.8 --32.8 +4.2 --73 --83 +6 --85 --95 +12 --110 --120
+20 --110 --120
# 4.5 Specific spectrum limit masks for digital terrestrial television system
C (ISDB-T)
### 4.5.1 Specific spectrum limit masks for 6 MHz channelling system C
(ISDB-T)
For 6 MHz digital television, the OoB domain extends from ±3 MHz (i.e. ±0.5 ×
6 MHz) to ±15 MHz (i.e. ±2.5 × 6 MHz) relative to channel centre.
Spectrum limit masks for 6 MHz channeling system C (ISDB-T) are shown in
Figure 4.5.1-1. The related break points are given in Table 4.5.1-1.
{width="7.240972222222222in" height="3.6666666666666665in"}
Figure 4.5.1-1: Spectrum limit masks for 6 MHz channeling system C (ISDB-T)
Table 4.5.1-1: **Table of break points corresponding to**
**Figure 4.5.1-1 for 6 MHz channelling system C (ISDB-T)**
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Relative level | | | | relative to | in a 4 kHz | | | | the centre of | measurement | | | | | bandwidth (dB) | | | | the 6 MHz | | | | | channel (MHz) | | | | +================+================+================+================+ | | Non-critical | Sub-critical | Critical | | | emission mask | emission mask | emission mask | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | --15 | --114.4 | --121.4 | --128.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | --9 | --114.4 | --121.4 | --128.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | --4.5 | --84.4 | --91.4 | --98.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | --3.15 | --67.4 | --74.4 | --81.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | --3 | --58.4 | --65.4 | --65.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | --2.86 | --51.4 | --51.4 | --51.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | --2.79 | --31.4 | --31.4 | --31.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2.79 | --31.4 | --31.4 | --31.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2.86 | --51.4 | --51.4 | --51.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3 | --58.4 | --65.4 | --65.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3.15 | --67.4 | --74.4 | --81.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4.5 | --84.4 | --91.4 | --98.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 | --114.4 | --121.4 | --128.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 15 | --114.4 | --121.4 | --128.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 4.5.2 Specific spectrum limit masks for 7 MHz channelling system C
(ISDB-T)
For 7 MHz digital television, the OoB domain extends from ±3.5 MHz (i.e. ±0.5
× 7 MHz) to ±17.5 MHz (i.e. ±2.5 × 7 MHz) relative to channel centre.
Two spectrum masks are specified in Figure 4.5.2-1 and the associated Table
4.5.2-1. The upper curve defines the spectrum mask for the non-critical cases
and the lower curve defines the spectrum mask for the sensitive cases.
{width="7.240972222222222in" height="3.3534722222222224in"}
Figure 4.5.2-1: Spectrum limit masks for 7 MHz channeling system C (ISDB-T)
Table 4.5.2-1: **Table of break points corresponding to Figure 4.5.2-1 for 7
MHz channeling system C (ISDB-T)**
Frequency relative to the centre of the 7 MHz channel (MHz) Relative level in
a 4 kHz measurement bandwidth (dB)
* * *
                                                                Non-critical emission mask                             Sensitive cases
\--17.5 --110 --120 \--10.5 --110 --120 \--5.25 --85 --95 \--3.7 --73 --83
\--3.34 --52.1 --52.1 \--3.26 --32.1 --32.1 +3.26 --32.1 --32.1 +3.34 --52.1
--52.1 +3.7 --73 --83 +5.25 --85 --95 +10.5 --110 --120 +17.5 --110 --120
### 4.5.3 Specific spectrum limit masks for 8 MHz channelling system C
(ISDB-T)
For 8 MHz digital television, the OoB domain extends from ±4 MHz (i.e. ±0.5 ×
8 MHz) to ±20 MHz (i.e. ±2.5 × 8 MHz) relative to channel centre.
Two spectrum masks are specified in Figure 4.5.3-1 and the associated Table
4.5.3-1. The upper curve defines the spectrum mask for the non-critical cases
and the lower curve defines the spectrum mask for the sensitive cases.
{width="7.2340277777777775in" height="3.373611111111111in"}
Figure 4.5.3-1: Spectrum limit masks for 8 MHz channeling system C (ISDB-T)
Table 4.5.3-1: **Table of break points corresponding to Figure 4.5.3-1 for 8
MHz channelling system C (ISDB-T)**
Frequency relative to the centre of the 8 MHz channel (MHz) Relative level in
a 4 kHz measurement bandwidth (dB)
* * *
                                                                Non-critical emission mask                             Sensitive cases
\--20 --110 --120 \--12 --110 --120 \--6 --85 --95 \--4.2 --73 --83 \--3.81
--52.7 --52.7 \--3.72 --32.7 --32.7 +3.72 --32.7 --32.7 +3.81 --52.7 --52.7
+4.2 --73 --83 +6 --85 --95 +12 --110 --120 +20 --110 --120
## 4.6 Specific spectrum limit masks for digital terrestrial television system
D (DTMB)
### 4.6.1 Specific spectrum limit masks for 6 MHz channelling system D (DTMB)
For 6 MHz digital television, the OoB domain extends from ±3 MHz (i.e. ±0.5 ×
6 MHz) to ±15 MHz (i.e. ±2.5 × 6 MHz) relative to channel centre.
Two spectrum masks are specified in Figure 4.6.1-1 and the associated Table
4.6.1-1. The upper curve defines the spectrum mask for the non-sensitive cases
and the lower curve defines the spectrum mask for the sensitive cases.
{width="7.240972222222222in" height="3.7472222222222222in"}
Figure 4.6.1-1: Spectrum limit masks for 6 MHz channeling system D (DTMB)
Table 4.6.1-1: **Table of break points corresponding to Figure 4.6.1-1 for 6
MHz channelling system D (DTMB)**
Frequency relative to the centre of the 8 MHz channel (MHz) Relative level in
a 4 kHz measurement bandwidth (dB)
* * *
                                                                Non-critical emission mask                             Sensitive cases
\--15 --110 --120 \--9 --110 --120 \--4.5 --85 --95 \--3.15 --73 --83 \--2.85
--31.4 --31.4 2.85 --31.4 --31.4 3.15 --73 --83 4.5 --85 --95 9 --110 --120 15
--110 --120
### 4.6.2 Specific spectrum limit masks for 7 MHz channelling system D (DTMB)
For 7 MHz digital television, the OoB domain extends from ±3.5 MHz (i.e. ±0.5
× 7 MHz) to ±17.5 MHz (i.e. ±2.5 × 7 MHz) relative to channel centre.
Two spectrum masks are specified in Figure 4.6.2-1 and the associated Table
4.6.2-1. The upper curve defines the spectrum mask for the non-sensitive cases
and the lower curve defines the spectrum mask for the sensitive cases.
{width="7.247222222222222in" height="3.8069444444444445in"}
Figure 4.6.2-1: Spectrum limit masks for 7 MHz channeling system D (DTMB)
Table 4.6.2-1: Table of break points corresponding to Figure 4.6.2-1 for 7 MHz
channelling system D (DTMB)
Frequency relative to the centre of the 7 MHz channel (MHz) Relative level in
a 4 kHz measurement bandwidth (dB)
* * *
                                                                Non-critical emission mask                             Sensitive cases
\--17.5 --110 --120 \--10.5 --110 --120 \--5.25 --85 --95 \--3.7 --73 --83
\--3.33 --32.1 --32.1 +3.33 --32.1 --32.1 +3.7 --73 --83 +5.25 --85 --95 +10.5
--110 --120 +17.5 --110 --120
### 4.6.3 Specific spectrum limit masks for 8 MHz channelling system D (DTMB)
When the digital system operates on a lower or higher adjacent channel to a
co-sited transmitter, the spectrum limit mask of system D with 8 MHz channel
spacing for different application scenarios are given by Figures 4.6.3-1 and
4.6.3-2. Detailed data of Figures 4.6.3-1 and 4.6.3-2. were presented by
Tables 4.6.3-1 and 4.6.3-2., respectively.
The masks shown in Figure 4.6.3-1 show the minimum protection needed for
analogue television where the analogue and the digital television transmitters
are co-sited and are applicable for cases where:
\- no polarization discrimination between digital and analogue television is
used; and
\- the radiated power from both transmitters is the same (analogue sync-peak
power equal to total power from the digital television transmitter). If the
radiated powers from the two transmitters are not identical, proportional
correction can be applied as follows:
\- correction = minimum analogue erp − maximum digital erp.
{width="7.2340277777777775in" height="5.240277777777778in"}
Figure 4.6.3-1: Spectrum limit mask when DTMB transmitter with 8 MHz channel
spacing operates on a lower or higher adjacent channel to a co-sited analogue
television transmitter (measured with 4 kHz bandwidth)
Table 4.6.3-1: Breakpoints of the spectrum limit mask when DTMB transmitter
with 8 MHz channel spacing operates on a lower or higher adjacent channel to a
co-sited analogue television transmitter (measured with 4 kHz bandwidth)
Frequency offset to the central frequency (MHz) Relative level (dB)
* * *
−20 −100 −12 −100 −10.75 −76.9 −9.75 −76.9 −5.75 −74.2 −4.94 −69.9 −3.9 −32.8
+3.9 −32.8 +4.25 −64.9 +5.25 −76.9 +6.25 −76.9 +10.25 −76.9 +12 −100 +20 --100
{width="7.173611111111111in" height="3.2666666666666666in"}
Figure 4.6.3-2: Spectrum limit mask for sensitive cases when DTMB transmitter
with 8 MHz channel spacing operates on a lower or higher adjacent channel to
other services (e.g. with low power) (measured with 4 kHz bandwidth)
Table 4.6.3-2: Breakpoints of the spectrum limit mask for sensitive cases when
DTMB transmitter with 8 MHz channel spacing operates on a lower or higher
adjacent channel to other services (e.g. with low power) (measured with 4 kHz
bandwidth)
Frequency offset related to the central frequency (MHz) Relative level (dB)
* * *
−20 −120 −12 −120 −6 −95 −4.2 −83 −3.8 −32.8 +3.8 −32.8 +4.2 −83 +6 −95 +12
−120 +20 −120
###### ## Annex A: Regulatory requirements for ITU Region 1 according to GE06
[5]
The regulatory requirements for ITU Region 1 are extracted from ETSI EN 302
296 V2.2.1 [3].
# A.1 Scope
The present document specifies technical characteristics and methods of
measurements for digital terrestrial television transmitters as defined in
Table A.1-1 and A.1-2. The power classification (Table A.1-1) and emission
classification (Table A.1-2) are combined to define a transmitter category.
For example, power classification H and emission classification 0 denote a
high-power transmitter (category H0) whose OOB emissions comply with a non-
critical mask.
Table A.1-1: Transmitter power classification
+-------------+------------------------+--------------------------+ | Power Class | Description | Notes | +=============+========================+==========================+ | H | High power transmitter | Transmitter with an | | | | output power ≥ 25 W | | | | operating in the VHF | | | | band (174 MHz to 230 | | | | MHz) or UHF band (470 | | | | MHz to | | | | | | | | 694 MHz). | +-------------+------------------------+--------------------------+ | L | Low power transmitter | Transmitter with an | | | | output power \ | > **Frequency | > **Frequency | > **Relative | |** Transmitter | > offset for**| > offset for** | > power level | | > Cl | > | > | > (dBc/3 | | assification**| > **7 MHz | > **8 MHz | > kHz)** | | | > systems | > systems | | | | > (MHz)**| > (MHz)** | | +================+================+================+================+ | > H0 | > ±3.41 | > ±3.9 | > ≤ -34 | | > | | | | | > (High power, | | | | | > non- | | | | | > critical | | | | | > mask) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | > ±3.7 | > ±4.2 | > ≤ -74 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | > ±5.25 | > ±6 | > ≤ -86 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | > ±10.5 | > ±12 | > ≤ -111 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | > ±17.5 | > ±20 | > ≤ -111 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | limits for UHF | | | | | transmitters | | | | | using 8 MHz | | | | | channels are | | | | | plotted in | | | | | Figure | | | | | A.2.2.3-2. The | | | | | limits for VHF | | | | | transmitters | | | | | using 7 MHz | | | | | channels are | | | | | plotted in | | | | | Figure | | | | | A.2.2.3-1. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
[TBD]
Figure A.2.2.3-1: Out-of-band limits for transmitter classification H0 using 7
MHz channels
{width="4.420138888888889in" height="4.0in"}
Figure A.2.2.3-2: Out-of-band limits for transmitter classification H0 using 8
MHz channels
Table A.2.2.3-5: OOB emission limits for classification H1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitter | 7 MHz Channel, | 8 MHz Channel, | Relative level | | Classification | frequency | frequency | (dBc/3 kHz) | | | difference | difference | | | | from the | from the | | | | centre | centre | | | | frequency | frequency | | | | (MHz) | (MHz) | | +================+================+================+================+ | H1 | ±3.41 | ±3.9 | ≤ -34 | | | | | | | (High power, | | | | | critical mask) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | ±3.7 | ±4.2 | ≤ -84 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | ±5.25 | ±6 | ≤ -96 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | ±10.5 | ±12 | ≤ -121 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | ±17.5 | ±20 | ≤ -121 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | limits for UHF | | | | | transmitters | | | | | using 8 MHz | | | | | channels are | | | | | plotted in | | | | | Figure | | | | | A.2.2.3-4 and | | | | | the limits for | | | | | VHF | | | | | transmitters | | | | | using 7 MHz | | | | | channels are | | | | | plotted in | | | | | Figure | | | | | A.2.2.3-3. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
{width="4.080555555555556in" height="3.973611111111111in"}
Figure A.2.2.3-3: Out-of-band limits for transmitter classification H1 using 7
MHz channels
{width="3.660416666666667in" height="3.49375in"}
Figure A.2.2.3-4: Out-of-band limits for transmitter classification H1 using 8
MHz channels
**Table A.2.2.3-6** : OOB emission limits for classification H3
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | T | UHF | VHF | LT | LT | | | | | | ransm | DVB | DVB | E-800 | E-700 | | | | | | itter | -T/T2 | -T/T2 | ACLR | ACLR | | | | | | Clas | | | l | l | | | | | | sific | ACLR | ACLR | imits | imits | | | | | | ation | l | l | (see | (see | | | | | | | imits | imits | note | note | | | | | | | (see | (see | 3) | 3) | | | | | | | note | note | | | | | | | | | 1) | 2) | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+======+ | | O | ACLR | O | ACLR | O | ACLR | O | ACLR | | | ffset | | ffset | | ffset | | ffset | | | | | (dB) | | (dB) | | (dB) | | (dB) | | | (MHz) | | (MHz) | | (MHz) | | (MHz) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | H3 | ±8 | ≥ 61 | ±7 | ≥ 61 | +10 | ≥ 68 | +18 | ≥ 86 | | | | | | | | | | | | (cri | | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | | ACLR) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | | ±16 | ≥ 87 | ±14 | ≥ 87 | +20 | ≥ 86 | N/A | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | ACLR | | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | | imits | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | rived | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | ntegr | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | cri | | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | | mask | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | A.2. | | | | | | | | | | 2.3-5 | | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | ictim | | | | | | | | | | DVB | | | | | | | | | | -T/T2 | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of 8 | | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | VHF | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | VB-T2 | | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | | stems | | | | | | | | | | (7 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | chan | | | | | | | | | | nels) | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | ictim | | | | | | | | | | DVB | | | | | | | | | | -T/T2 | | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | ntegr | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | is 7 | | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | UHF | | | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | | ters. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | ictim | | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | ntegr | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | is 10 | | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+
## A.2.3 Transmitter spurious emissions
### A.2.3.1 Definition
Spurious emissions are unwanted emissions at frequencies separated by more
than 250 % of the channel bandwidth from the centre of the occupied spectrum.
These include harmonic emissions, parasitic emissions, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products but exclude out-of-band emissions.
For the purposes of the present document spurious emissions are emissions at
frequencies outside the frequency range f~0~ ± 17.5 MHz for 7 MHz channels,
f~0~ ± 20 MHz for 8 MHz channels, where f~0~ is the centre frequency of the
channel, irrespective of the number of carriers employed.
### A.2.3.2 Limits
Spurious emissions shall not exceed the values set out in Table A.2.3.2-1
additionally shown in Figure A.2.3.2-1, for the frequency range 9 kHz to 3
GHz.
Table A.2.3.2-1: Spurious emission limits for DVB-T/T2 transmitters
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | Frequency range of the | Limits of the spurious | Reference | | | emission | | | spurious emission | | bandwidth | +===========================+===========================+===========+ | 9 kHz to 470 MHz | ≤ -36 dBm (250 nW) for P | 100 kHz | | | ≤ 69 dBm | | | | | | | | ≥ 105 dBc for 69 dBm \ 470 MHz to 694 MHz | ≤ -36 dBm for P ≤ 39 dBm | 100 kHz | | | | | | | ≥ 75 dBc for 39 dBm \ 694 MHz | ≤ -36 dBm (250 nW) for P | 100 kHz | | | ≤ 69 dBm | | | | | | | | ≥ 105 dBc for 69 dBm \< P | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE: P = mean power of | | | | the transmitter measured | | | | at the antenna port. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
{width="5.767361111111111in" height="3.7604166666666665in"}
Figure A.2.3.2-1: Spurious emission limits measured at the antenna port (100
kHz reference bandwidth)
#