# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies a general method used to derive Test Tolerances
for UE radio reception conformance tests in 3GPP TS 36.521-1 [2] and TS
36.521-4 [4] and establishes a system for relating the Test Tolerances to the
measurement uncertainties of the Test System.
The test cases which have been analysed to determine Test Tolerances are
included as .zip files.
The present document is applicable from Release 10 up to the release indicated
on the front page of the present Terminal conformance specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification, Radio
transmission and reception Part 1: conformance testing\".
[3] ETSI ETR 273-1-2: \"Improvement of radiated methods of measurement (using
test sites) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties;
Part 1: Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment
characteristics; Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.521-4: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA);User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;Radio transmission and
reception; Part 4: Satellite access Radio Frequency (RF) and performance
Conformance Testing\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
Other definitions used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TS 36.521-1
[2].
## 3.2 Symbols
Symbols used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS
36.521-1 [2].
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
Other abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TS
36.521-1 [2].
# 4 General Principles
## 4.1 Principle of Superposition
For multi-cell tests there are several cells each generating various Physical
channels. In general cells are combined along with AWGN, so the signal and
noise seen by the UE may be determined by more than one cell.
Since several cells may contribute towards the overall power applied to the
UE, a number of test system uncertainties affect the signal and noise seen by
the UE. The aim of the superposition method is to vary each controllable
parameter of the test system separately, and to establish its effect on the
critical parameters as seen by the UE receiver. The superposition principle
then allows the effect of each test system uncertainty to be added, to
calculate the overall effect.
The contributing test system uncertainties shall form a minimum set for the
superposition principle to be applicable.
## 4.2 Sensitivity analysis
A change in any one channel level or channel ratio generated at source does
not necessarily have a 1:1 effect at the UE. The effect of each controllable
parameter of the test system on the critical parameters as seen by the UE
receiver shall therefore be established. As a consequence of the sensitivity
scaling factors not necessarily being unity, the test system uncertainties
cannot be directly applied as test tolerances to the critical parameters as
seen by the UE.
EXAMPLE: In many of the tests described, the Ês / I~ot~ is one of the critical
parameters at the UE. Scaling factors are used to model the sensitivity of the
Ês / I~ot~ to each test system uncertainty. When the scaling factors have been
determined, the superposition principle then allows the effect of each test
system uncertainty to be added, to give the overall variability in the
critical parameters as seen at the UE.
There are often constraints on several parameters at the UE. The aim of the
sensitivity analysis, together with the acceptable test system uncertainties,
is to ensure that the variability in each of these parameters is controlled
within the limits necessary for the specification to apply. The test has then
been conducted under valid conditions.
## 4.3 Statistical combination of uncertainties
The acceptable uncertainties of the test system are specified as the
measurement uncertainty tolerance interval for a specific measurement that
contains 95% of the performance of a population of test equipment, in
accordance with 3GPP TS 36.521-1 [2] clause F.1. In the UE radio reception
conformance tests covered by the present document, the Test System shall
enable the stimulus signals in the test case to be adjusted to within the
specified range, with an uncertainty not exceeding the specified values.
The method given in the present document combines the acceptable uncertainties
of the test system, to give the overall variability in the critical parameters
as seen at the UE. Since the process does not add any new uncertainties, the
method of combination should be chosen to maintain the same tolerance interval
for the combined uncertainty as is already specified for the contributing test
system uncertainties.
The basic principle for combining uncertainties is in accordance with ETR
273-1-2 [3]. In summary, the process requires 3 steps:
a) Express the value of each contributing uncertainty as a one standard
deviation figure, from knowledge of its numeric value and its distribution.
b) Combine all the one standard deviation figures as root-sum-squares, to give
the one standard deviation value for the combined uncertainty.
c) Expand the combined uncertainty by a coverage factor, according to the
tolerance interval required.
Provided that the contributing uncertainties have already been obtained using
this method, using a coverage factor of 2, further stages of combination can
be achieved by performing step b) alone, since steps a) and c) simply divide
by 2 and multiply by 2 respectively.
The root-sum-squares method is therefore used to maintain the same tolerance
interval for the combined uncertainty as is already specified for the
contributing test system uncertainties. In some cases where correlation
between contributing uncertainties has an adverse effect, the method is
modified in accordance with clause 4.4.5 of the present document.
In each analysis, the uncertainties are assumed to be uncorrelated, and are
added result root-sum-square unless otherwise stated.
The combination of uncertainties is performed using dB values for simplicity.
It has been shown that using dB uncertainty values gives a slightly worse
combined uncertainty result than using linear values for the uncertainties.
The analysis method therefore errs on the safe side.
## 4.4 Correlation between uncertainties
The statistical (root-sum-square) addition of uncertainties is based on the
assumption that the uncertainties are independent of each other. For
realisable test systems, the uncertainties may not be fully independent. The
validity of the method used to add uncertainties depends on both the type of
correlation and on the way in which the uncertainties affect the test
requirements.
Clauses 4.4.1 to 4.4.3 give examples to illustrate different types of
correlation.
Clauses 4.4.4 to 4.4.7 show how the scenarios applicable to multi-cell RRM
tests are treated.
### 4.4.1 Uncorrelated uncertainties
The graph shows an example of two test system uncertainties, A and B, which
affect a test requirement. Each sample from a population of test systems has a
specific value of error in parameter A, and a specific value of error in
parameter B. Each dot on the graph represents a sample from a population of
test systems, and is plotted according to its error values for parameters A
and B.
Figure 4.4.1.1: Example of two test system uncertainties affecting a test
requirement
It can be seen that a positive value of error in parameter A, for example, is
equally likely to occur with either a positive or a negative value of error in
parameter B. This is expected when two parameters are uncorrelated, such as
two uncertainties which arise from different and unrelated parts of the test
system.
### 4.4.2 Positively correlated uncertainties
The graph shows an example of two test system uncertainties, A and B, which
affect a test requirement. Each sample from a population of test systems has a
specific value of error in parameter A, and a specific value of error in
parameter B. Each dot on the graph represents a sample from a population of
test systems, and is plotted according to its error values for parameters A
and B.
Figure 4.4.2-1: Example of two test system uncertainties affecting a test
requirement
It can be seen that a positive value of error in parameter A, for example, is
more likely to occur with a positive value of error in parameter B and less
likely to occur with a negative value of error in parameter B. This can occur
when the two uncertainties arise from similar parts of the test system, or
when one component of the uncertainty affects both parameters in a similar
way.
In an extreme case, if the error in parameter A and the error in parameter B
came from the same sources of uncertainty, and no others, the dots would lie
on a straight line of slope +1.
### 4.4.3 Negatively correlated uncertainties
The graph shows an example of two test system uncertainties, A and B, which
affect a test condition. Each sample from a population of test systems has a
specific value of error in parameter A, and a specific value of error in
parameter B. Each dot on the graph represents a sample from a population of
test systems, and is plotted according to its error values for parameters A
and B.
Figure 4.4.3-1: Example of two test system uncertainties affecting a test
condition
It can be seen that a positive value of error in parameter A, for example, is
more likely to occur with a negative value of error in parameter B and less
likely to occur with a positive value of error in parameter B. This effect can
theoretically occur, and is included for completeness, but is unlikely in a
practical test system.
### 4.4.4 Treatment of uncorrelated uncertainties
If two uncertainties are uncorrelated, they are added statistically in the
analysis. Provided that each uncertainty is already expressed as an expanded
uncertainty with coverage factor 2, the contributing uncertainties are added
root-sum-squares to give a combined uncertainty which also has coverage factor
2, and the 95% tolerance interval is maintained.
This is the default assumption.
### 4.4.5 Treatment of positively correlated uncertainties with adverse effect
If two test system uncertainties are positively correlated, and if they affect
the value of a critical parameter in the same direction, the combined effect
may be greater than predicted by adding the contributing uncertainties root-
sum-squares.
In this scenario the two uncertainties are added worst-case in the analysis.
Provided that each uncertainty is already expressed as an expanded uncertainty
with coverage factor 2, the combined uncertainty will cover a 95% tolerance
interval even when the two contributing uncertainties are fully correlated. If
the two contributing uncertainties are less than fully correlated, the
combined uncertainty will cover a tolerance interval greater than 95%.
### 4.4.6 Treatment of positively correlated uncertainties with beneficial
effect
If two test system uncertainties are positively correlated, and if they affect
the value of a critical parameter in opposite directions, the combined effect
will be less than predicted by adding the contributing uncertainties root-sum-
squares.
In this scenario the two uncertainties are added statistically in the
analysis. Provided that each uncertainty is already expressed as an expanded
uncertainty with coverage factor 2, the combined uncertainty will cover a 95%
tolerance interval when the two contributing uncertainties are uncorrelated.
If the two contributing uncertainties are positively correlated, the combined
uncertainty will cover a tolerance interval greater than 95%.
### 4.4.7 Treatment of negatively correlated uncertainties
Negatively correlated uncertainties are excluded by the assumptions. This has
been agreed as an acceptable restriction on practical test systems, as the
mechanisms which produce correlation generally arise from similarities between
two parts of the test system, and therefore produce positive correlation.
# 5 Grouping of test cases defined in TS 36.521-1
The Test cases are grouped from the viewpoint of efficiently defining the
uncertainties and test tolerances. Tests in the same group generally have the
same type of uncertainties.
Table 5-1: Test case groups for test tolerance analysis
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Group | E-UTRA FDD | E-UTRA TDD | Comments | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | eICIC | 8.2.1.2.3_C.1 | 8.2.2.2.3_C.1 | Two cell eICIC | | demodulation | | | demodulation | | tests | 8.2.1.3.3_C.1 | 8.2.2.3.3_C.1 | tests. | | | | | | | | 8.2.1.3.3_C.2 | 8.2.2.3.3_C.2 | Various number | | | | | of sub-tests. | | | 8.4.1.2.3_C.1 | 8.4.2.2.3_C.1 | | | | | | Tests have | | | 8.4.1.2.3_C.2 | 8.4.2.2.3_C.2 | AWGN or fading | | | | | conditions. | | | 8.5.1.2.3_C.1 | 8.5.2.2.3_C.1 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Enhanced | 8.2.1.2.4 | 8.2.2.2.4 | Two or three | | performance | | | cell enhanced | | requirement | 8.2.1.4.3 | 8.2.2.4.3 | performance | | Type A | | | requirement | | demodulation | 8.3.1.1.3 | 8.3.2.1.4 | Type A | | tests | | | demodulation | | | | | tests. | | | | | | | | | | Various number | | | | | of sub-tests. | | | | | | | | | | Tests have | | | | | fading | | | | | conditions. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Enhanced | 8.4.1.2.5 | 8.4.2.2.5 | Enhanced | | Downlink | | | Downlink | | Control | 8.4.1.2.6 | 8.4.2.2.6 | Control | | Channel | | | Channel | | Performance | 8.5.1.2.5 | 8.5.2.2.5 | Performance | | Requirement | | | Requirement | | Type A | 8.5.1.2.6 | 8.5.2.2.6 | Type A | | | | | | | | 8.8.4.1 | 8.8.4.2 | Test cases for | | | | | PCFICH-PDCCH, | | | 8.8.6.1 | 8.8.5.1 | PHICH & | | | | | PEDPCCH | | | | | | | | | | Tests have | | | | | fading | | | | | conditions | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Enhanced | 9.3.5.1.1 | 9.3.5.1.2 | Two cell | | performance | | | enhanced | | requirement | 9.3.5.2.1 | 9.3.5.2.2 | performance | | Type A CSI | | | requirement | | reporting | | | Type A CSI | | tests | | | reporting | | | | | tests. | | | | | | | | | | Various number | | | | | of sub-tests. | | | | | | | | | | Serving cell | | | | | has fading | | | | | condition | | | | | while | | | | | interfering | | | | | cell have | | | | | static | | | | | condition. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | feICIC | 8.2.1.2.3_E.1 | 8.2.2.2.3_E.1 | Three cell | | demodulation | | | feICIC | | tests | 8.2.1.3.3_E.1 | 8.2.2.3.3_E.1 | demodulation | | | | | tests. | | | 8.2.1.4.1_E.1 | 8.2.2.4.1_E.1 | | | | | | Various number | | | 8.4.1.2.3_E.1 | 8.4.2.2.3_E.1 | of sub-tests. | | | | | | | | 8.4.1.2.3_E.2 | 8.4.2.2.3_E.2 | Tests have | | | | | AWGN or fading | | | 8.5.1.2.3_E.1 | 8.5.2.2.3_E.1 | conditions. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | feICIC CSI | 9.2.1.5_E.1 | 9.2.1.6_E.1 | Three cell | | reporting | | | feICIC | | tests | 9.3.1.3.1_E.1 | 9.3.1.3.2_E.1 | demodulation | | | | | tests. | | | 9.5.4.1_E.1 | 9.5.4.2_E_1 | | | | | | Various number | | | | | of sub-tests. | | | | | | | | | | Tests have | | | | | AWGN or fading | | | | | conditions. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Enhanced | 8.2.1.3.1C | 8.2.2.3.1C | Two cell | | performance | | | enhanced | | requirement | | | performance | | Type C | | | requirement | | demodulation | | | Type C | | tests | | | demodulation | | | | | tests. | | | | | | | | | | One sub-test | | | | | per test case. | | | | | | | | | | Tests have | | | | | fading | | | | | conditions. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Enhanced | 8.2.1.2.5 | 8.2.2.2.6 | Three cell | | performance | | | enhanced | | requirement | 8.2.1.2.6 | 8.2.2.2.7 | performance | | Type B | | | requirement | | demodulation | 8.2.1.4.4 | 8.2.2.4.5 | Type B | | tests | | | demodulation | | | 8.3.1.1.4 | 8.3.2.1.5 | tests. | | | | | | | | 8.3.1.1.5 | 8.3.2.1.6 | Various number | | | | | of sub-tests. | | | 8.3.1.1.6 | 8.3.2.1.7 | | | | | | Tests have | | | 8.3.1.1.7 | 8.3.2.1.8 | fading | | | | | conditions. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Enhanced | 8.4.1.2.7 | 8.4.2.2.7 | Enhanced | | Downlink | | | Downlink | | Control | 8.4.1.2.8 | 8.4.2.2.8 | Control | | Channel | | | Channel | | Performance | 8.5.1.2.7 | 8.5.2.2.7 | Performance | | Requirement | | | Requirement | | Type B | 8.5.1.2.8 | 8.5.2.2.8 | Type B | | | | | | | | | | Test cases for | | | | | PCFICH-PDCCH & | | | | | PHICH | | | | | | | | | | Tests have | | | | | fading | | | | | conditions | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Enhanced | 9.3.8.1.1 | 9.3.8.1.2 | Three cell | | performance | | | enhanced | | requirement | 9.3.8.2.1 | 9.3.8.2.2 | performance | | Type B CSI | | | requirement | | reporting | 9.3.8.3.1 | 9.3.8.3.2 | Type B CSI | | tests | | | reporting | | | | | tests. | | | | | | | | | | One sub-test | | | | | per test case. | | | | | | | | | | Tests have | | | | | fading | | | | | conditions. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# 5A Grouping of test cases defined in TS 36.521-4
The Test cases are grouped from the viewpoint of efficiently defining the
uncertainties and test tolerances. Tests in the same group generally have the
same type of uncertainties.
Table 5A-1: Test case groups for test tolerance analysis
* * *
Group E-UTRA FDD Comments
* * *
# 6 Determination of Test System Uncertainties
## 6.1 General
The uncertainty of a test system when making measurements reduces the ability
of the test system to distinguish between conformant and non-conformant test
subjects. The aim is therefore to minimise uncertainty, subject to a number of
practical constraints:
a) A vendor's test system should be reproducible in the required quantities.
b) A choice of test systems should be available from different vendors.
c) The uncertainties should allow reasonable freedom of test system
implementation
d) The test system can be run automatically
e) The test system may include several radio access technologies
f) It should be possible to maintain calibration of deployed test systems over
reasonable spans of time and environmental conditions
In practice therefore within 3GPP the acceptable uncertainty of the test
system is the smallest value that can be agreed between the test system
vendors represented, consistent with the above constraints. The uncertainty
will not therefore be as low as could be achieved, for example, by a national
standards laboratory.
## 6.2 Uncertainty figures
The actual figures for the acceptable uncertainty of a test system are defined
in Annex F of 36.521-1 [2]. To avoid maintenance issues with figures in
separate specifications, the uncertainties are not formally defined within the
present document.
# 7 Determination of Test Tolerances
## 7.1 General
The general principles given in the present document are applied to each test
case, according to the applicable uncertainties and requirements to obtain a
correct verdict.
The test cases which have been analysed to determine Test Tolerances are
included the present document as .zip files. The name of the zip file
indicates the test cases covered.
Annex A gives the rationale for their inclusion.
###### ## Annex A: Derivation documents
The documents (and spreadsheets where applicable) used to derive the test
tolerances for each test case are included in the present document as zip
files.
The aim is to provide a reference to completed test cases, so that test
tolerances for similar test cases can be derived on a common basis. The
information on test case grouping in section 5 can be used to identify
similarities.
#