# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the speech processing parts of the
narrowband telephony speech service employing the Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR)
speech coder. A general overview of the speech processing functions is given,
with reference to the documents where each function is specified in detail.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 03.50: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2);
Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in the GSM Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.090: \"Transcoding functions\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.073: \"Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR); ANSI C source code\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.074: \"Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR); Test sequences\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.093: \"Source Controlled Rate operation\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.094: \"AMR Speech Codec; Voice Activity Detector\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.092: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions; AMR
Speech Codec; Comfort noise aspects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.091: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions; AMR
Speech Codec; Error concealment of lost frames\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.101: \"Frame Structure\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.102: \"AMR Speech Codec; Interface to Iu snd Uu\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.901: \"AMR wideband speech codec feasibility study report \".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation G.711: \"Pulse code modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation H.324: \"Terminal for low bit-rate multimedia
communication\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS, the following abbreviations apply:
ACELP Algebraic Code Excited Linear Prediction
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
BFI Bad Frame Indication
CHD Channel Decoder
CHE Channel Encoder
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union -- Telecommunication
standardisation sector (former CCITT)
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
RX Receive
SCR Source Controlled Rate
SPD SPeech Decoder
SPE SPeech Encoder
TC Transcoder
TX Transmit
UE User Equipment (terminal)
# 4 General
The AMR speech coder consists of the multi-rate speech coder, a source
controlled rate scheme including a voice activity detector and a comfort noise
generation system, and an error concealment mechansim to combat the effects of
transmission errors and lost packets.
The multi-rate speech coder is a single integrated speech codec with eight
source rates from 4.75 kbit/s to 12.2 kbit/s, and a low rate background noise
encoding mode. The speech coder is capable of switching its bit-rate every 20
ms speech frame upon command.
A reference configuration where the various speech processing functions are
identified is given in Figure 1. In this figure, the relevant specifications
for each function are also indicated.
In Figure 1, the audio parts including analogue to digital and digital to
analogue conversion are included, to show the complete speech path between the
audio input/output in the User Equipment (UE) and the digital interface of the
network. The detailed specification of the audio parts is not within the scope
of the present document. These aspects are only considered to the extent that
the performance of the audio parts affect the performance of the speech
transcoder.
Figure 1: Overview of audio processing functions
1) 8‑bit A‑law or μ-law PCM (ITU-T Recommendation G.711 [12] ), 8 000
samples/s;
2) 13‑bit uniform PCM, 8 000 samples/s;
3) Voice Activity Detector (VAD) flag;
4) Encoded speech frame, 50 frames/s, number of bits/frame depending on the
AMR codec mode;
5) SIlence Descriptor (SID) frame;
6) TX_TYPE, 2 bits, indicates whether information bits are available and if
they are speech or SID information;
7) Information bits delivered to the 3G AN;
8) Information bits received from the 3G AN;
9) RX_TYPE, the type of frame received quantized into three bits.
# 5 Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec transcoding functions
The adaptive multi-rate speech codec is described in [2]. The technical
content is identical to that of 3GPP TS 26.090.
As shown in Figure 1, the speech encoder takes its input as a 13‑bit uniform
Pulse Code Modulated (PCM) signal either from the audio part of the UE or on
the network side, from the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) via an
8-bit A-law or μ-law to 13-bit uniform PCM conversion. The encoded speech at
the output of the speech encoder is packetized and delivered to the network
interface. In the receive direction, the inverse operations take place.
The detailed mapping between input blocks of 160 speech samples in 13‑bit
uniform PCM format to encoded blocks (in which the number of bits depends on
the presently used codec mode) and from these to output blocks of 160
reconstructed speech samples is described in [2]. The coding scheme is Multi-
Rate Algebraic Code Excited Linear Prediction. The bit-rates of the source
codec are listed in Table 1.
An AMR speech codec capable UE shall support all source rates listed in Table
1.
Table 1: Source codec bit-rates for the AMR codec.
* * *
Codec mode Source codec bit-rate AMR_12.20 12,20 kbit/s (GSM EFR) AMR_10.20
10,20 kbit/s AMR_7.95 7,95 kbit/s AMR_7.40 7,40 kbit/s (IS-641) AMR_6.70 6,70
kbit/s (PDC-EFR) AMR_5.90 5,90 kbit/s AMR_5.15 5,15 kbit/s AMR_4.75 4,75
kbit/s AMR_SID 1,80 kbit/s (see note 1)
* * *
NOTE 1: Assuming SID frames are continously transmitted
NOTE 2: GSM-EFR is the 3GPP TS 26.090 Enhanced Full Rate Speech Codec (also
identical to the TIA TDMA-US1 Enhanced speech codec)
NOTE 3: IS-641is the TIA/EIA IS-641 TDMA Enhanced Full Rate Speech Codec
NOTE 4: PDC-EFR is the ARIB 6.7 kbit/s Enhanced Full Rate Speech Codec
# 6 Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec ANSI C-code
The ANSI-C code of the speech codec, VAD and CNG system are described in [3].
The ANSI C-code is mandatory. The ANSI C-code is identical to that of 3GPP TS
26.073 [3].
# 7 Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec test vectors
A set of digital test sequences is specified in [4], thus enabling the
verification of compliance, i.e. bit-exactness, to a high degree of
confidence. The test vectors are identical to those of 3GPP TS 26.074 [4].
The test sequences are defined separately for:
\- The speech codec described in [2],
\- The VAD described in [6],
\- The CN generation described in [7].
The adaptive multi-rate speech transcoder, VAD, SCR system and comfort noise
parts of the audio processing functions (see Figure 1) are defined in bit
exact arithmetic. Consequently, they shall react on a given input sequence
always with the corresponding bit exact output sequence, provided that the
internal state variables are also always exactly in the same state at the
beginning of the test.
The input test sequences provided shall force the corresponding output test
sequences, provided that the tested modules are in their home‑state when
starting.
The modules may be set into their home states by provoking the appropriate
homing‑functions.
NOTE: This is normally done during reset (initialisation of the codec).
Special inband signalling frames (encoder‑homing‑frame and
decoder‑homing‑frame) described in [2]have been defined to provoke these
homing‑functions also in remotely placed modules.
At the end of the first received homing frame, the audio functions that are
defined in a bit exact way shall go into their predefined home states. The
output corresponding to the first homing frame is dependent on the codec state
when the frame was received. Any consecutive homing frames shall produce
corresponding homing frames at the output.
# 8 Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec source controlled rate operation
The source controlled rate operation of the adaptive multi-rate speech codec
is defined in [5].
During a normal telephone conversation, the participants alternate so that, on
the average, each direction of transmission is occupied about 50 % of the
time. Source controlled rate (SCR) is a mode of operation where the speech
encoder encodes speech frames containing only background noise with a lower
bit-rate than normally used for encoding speech. A network may adapt its
transmission scheme to take advantage of the varying bit-rate. This may be
done for the following two purposes:
1) In the UE, battery life will be prolonged or a smaller battery could be
used for a given operational duration.
2) The average required bit-rate is reduced, leading to a more efficient
transmission with decreased load and hence increased capacity.
The following functions are required for the source controlled rate operation:
\- a Voice Activity Detector (VAD) on the TX side;
\- evaluation of the background acoustic noise on the TX side, in order to
transmit characteristic parameters to the RX side;
\- generation of comfort noise on the RX side during periods when no normal
speech frames are received.
The transmission of comfort noise information to the RX side is achieved by
means of a Silence Descriptor (SID) frame, which is sent at regular intervals.
# 9 Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec voice activity detection
The adaptive multi-rate VAD function is described in [6].
The input to the VAD is the input speech itself together with a set of
parameters computed by the adaptive multi-rate speech encoder. The VAD uses
this information to decide whether each 20 ms speech coder frame contains
speech or not.
The VAD algorithm is described in [6], and the corresponding C code is defined
in [3]. The verification of compliance to [6]. is achieved by use of digital
test sequences applied to the same interface as the test sequences for the
speech codec.
# 10 Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec comfort noise insertion
The adaptive multi-rate comfort noise insertion function is described in [7].
When speech is absent, the synthesis in the speech decoder is different from
the case when normal speech frames are received. The synthesis of an
artificial noise based on the received non-speech parameters is termed comfort
noise generation.
The comfort noise generation process is as follows:
\- the evaluation of the acoustic background noise in the transmitter;
\- the noise parameter encoding (SID frames) and decoding, and
\- the generation of comfort noise in the receiver.
The comfort noise processes and the algorithm for updating the noise
parameters during speech pauses are defined in detail in [7], and the
corresponding C code is defined in [3]. The comfort noise mechanism is based
on the adaptive multi-rate speech codec defined in [2].
# 11 Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec error concealment of lost frames
The adaptive multi-rate speech codec error concealment of lost frames is
described in [8].
Frames may be lost due to transmission errors or frame stealing in a wireless
environment. Actions which shall be taken in these cases, both for lost speech
frames and for lost SID frames are described in [8]. Error concealment actions
shall be used also in the case of lost speech packets in the transport
network. The methods described in [8] may with some modifications be used as a
basis for such actions.
In order to mask the effect of isolated lost frames, the speech decoder shall
be informed and the error concealment actions shall be initiated, whereby a
set of predicted parameters are used in the speech synthesis. Insertion of
speech signal independent silence frames is not allowed. For several
subsequent lost frames, a muting technique shall be used to indicate to the
listener that transmission has been interrupted.
# 12 Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec frame structure
The adaptive multi-rate speech frame structure is described in [9]. The output
interface format from the encoder and input interface format to the decoder is
divided into two parts; the core speech data part, which is the speech coded
bits, and the other part is an additional data part with mode information.
The interface format described in [9] is termed AMR interface format 1 (AMR
IF1).
Annex A of [9] describes an octet aligned frame format which shall be used in
applications requiring octet alignment, such as for ITU-T Recommendation H.324
[13]. This format is termed AMR interface format 2 (AMR IF2).
# 13 Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec interface to RAN
The adaptive multi-rate speech service interface to RAN is described in [10].
# 14 Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec performance characterisation
The adaptive multi-rate speech channel performance characterisation is
described in [11].
#