# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document specifies minimum performance requirements for the
acoustic characteristics of 3G, LTE, and WLAN terminals when used to provide
narrowband, wideband, super-wideband or fullband telephony.
The objective for narrowband services is to reach a quality as close as
possible to ITU-T standards for PSTN circuits. However, due to technical and
economic factors, there cannot be full compliance with the general
characteristics of international telephone connections and circuits
recommended by the ITU-T.
The performance requirements are specified in the main body of the text; the
test methods and considerations are described in TS 26.132.
# 1 Scope
The present document is applicable to any terminal capable of supporting
narrowband, wideband, super-wideband or fullband telephony, either as a stand-
alone service or as the telephony component of a multimedia service. The
present document specifies minimum performance requirements for the acoustic
characteristics of 3G, LTE and WLAN terminals when used to provide narrowband,
wideband, super-wideband or fullband telephony.
The set of minimum performance requirements enables a guaranteed level of
speech quality while taking possible physical limits of the terminal design
into account. Some performance objectives are also defined, if such design
limits can be overcome. Care must be taken in applying performance objectives
in isolation, not to degrade overall end-user speech quality.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.132: \"Speech and video telephony terminal acoustic test
specification\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation B.12 (1988): \"Use of the decibel and the neper in
telecommunications\"
[3] ITU-T Recommendation G.103 (1998): \"Hypothetical reference connections\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation G.111 (1993): \"Loudness ratings (LRs) in an
international connection\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation G.121 (1993): \"Loudness ratings (LRs) of national
systems\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation G.122 (1993): \"Influence of national systems on
stability and talker echo in international connections\".
[7] Void
[8] ITU-T Recommendation P.11 (1993): \"Effect of transmission impairments\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation P. 380 (2003): \"Electro-acoustic measurements on
headsets\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation P.50 (1993): \"Artificial voices\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation P.79 (11/07) with Annex G (2001): \"Calculation of
loudness ratings for telephone sets\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation G.223 (11/88): \"Assumptions for the calculation of
noise on hypothetical reference circuits for telephony\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation P.340 (05/00): \"Transmission characteristics and
speech quality parameters of hands-free terminals\".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation P.501 (01/12): \"Test signals for use in
telephonometry\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation P.502 (05/00): \"Objective test methods for speech
communication systems using complex test signals\".
[16] 3GPP TS 06.77 (R99): \"Minimum Performance Requirements for Noise
Suppresser Application to the AMR Speech Encoder\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction \".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via
non-3GPP access networks; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document the terms _narrowband, wideband,_
_super-wideband_ and _fullband_ refer to signals associated with the
corresponding operating modes of the speech codecs specified in TS 26.132.
For the purposes of the present document, the terms dB, dBr, dBm0, dBm0p and
dBA, shall be interpreted as defined in ITU-T Recommendation B.12 [2]; the
term dBPa shall be interpreted as the sound pressure level relative to 1
pascal expressed in dB (0 dBPa is equivalent to 94 dB SPL).
The overload point (maximum load capacity) is for the purposes of this
document defined as the RMS level of a digital representation of a full-scale
pure tone at the input of the speech encoder. The overload point is defined at
3,14 dBm0 for AMR, AMR-WB and EVS speech codecs.
A 3GPP softphone is a telephony system running on a general purpose computer
or PDA complying with the 3GPP terminal acoustic requirements (TS 26.131 and
26.132).
For the purposes of the present document the term _clock skew_ is defined as
the difference between the clock of the device under test (C~DUT~) and the
clock of the reference client (C~REF~). The skew of C~DUT~ relative to C~REF~
is defined in parts per million (PPM) as: (C~DUT~ -C~REF~).10^6^/ C~REF~.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ADC Analogue to Digital Converter
AMR Adaptive Multi Rate
DAC Digital to Analogue Converter
DAI Digital Audio Interface
DRP Eardrum Reference Point
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EEC Electrical Echo Control
EL Echo LossERP Ear Reference Point
EVS Enhanced Voice ServicesHATS Head and Torso Simulator
G-MOS-LQO~n~ Global (Overall) Mean Opinion Score - Listening Quality Objective
- Narrowband
G-MOS-LQO~w~ Global (Overall) Mean Opinion Score - Listening Quality Objective
- Wideband
G-MOS-LQO~fb~ Global (Overall) Mean Opinion Score - Listening Quality
Objective - Fullband
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
LSTR Listener Sidetone Rating
LTE Long Term Evolution
MRP Mouth Reference Point
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMSOLR Overall Loudness Rating
N-MOS-LQO~n~ Noise (Background) Mean Opinion Score - Listening Quality
Objective - Narrowband
N-MOS-LQO~w~ Noise (Background) Mean Opinion Score - Listening Quality
Objective - Wideband
N-MOS-LQO~fb~ Noise (Background) Mean Opinion Score - Listening Quality
Objective - Fullband
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PDA Personal Digital Assistant
POI Point of Interconnection (with PSTN)
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
RLR Receive Loudness Rating
S-MOS-LQO~n~ Speech Signal Quality Mean Opinion Score - Listening Quality
Objective - Narrowband
S-MOS-LQO~w~ Speech Signal Quality Mean Opinion Score - Listening Quality
Objective - Wideband
S-MOS-LQO~fb~ Speech Signal Quality Mean Opinion Score - Listening Quality
Objective - Fullband
SLR Send Loudness Rating
STMR Sidetone Masking Rating
SS System Simulator
TX Transmission
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UPCMI 13-bit Uniform PCM Interface
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
# 4 Interfaces
The interfaces required to define terminal acoustic characteristics are shown
in TS 26.132. These are the air interface and the point of interconnect (POI).
The interfaces are shown for one-channel (mono) operation, interfaces for two-
channel (stereo) operation is for further study.
The Air Interfaces for GSM, 3G and LTE are specified by GSM 05, 3GPP 45, 3GPP
25 and 3GPP 36 series specifications, and the Air Interface for WLAN access to
EPC is specified by WLAN access to EPC as defined in 3GPP TS 23.402 [19] and
TS 24.302 [20]. MTSI speech aspects are specified by TS 26.114 [17].
Measurements can be made using the system simulator (SS) described in TS
26.132.
The POI with the public switched telephone network (PSTN) is considered to
have a relative level of 0 dBr.
Five classes of acoustic interface are considered in this specification:
\- Handset UE including softphone UE used as a handset;
\- Headset UE including softphone UE used with headset;
\- Desktop-mounted hands-free UE including softphone UE with external
loudspeaker(s) used in hands-free mode;
\- Vehicle-mounted hands-free UE including softphone UE mounted in a vehicle;
\- Hand-held hands-free UE including softphone UE with internal loudspeaker(s)
used in hands-free mode.
(See definition of softphone in Clause 3.1)
NOTE: The requirements and performance objectives for a softphone UE shall be
derived according to the following rules:
\- When using a softphone UE as a handset: requirements and performance
objectives shall correspond to handset mode.
\- When using a softphone UE with headset: requirements and performance
objectives shall correspond to headset mode.
\- When a softphone UE is mounted in a vehicle: requirements and performance
objectives shall correspond to vehicle-mounted handsfree mode.
\- When using a softphone UE in hands-free mode:
\- When using internal loudspeaker(s), requirements and performance objectives
shall correspond to hand-held hands-free.
\- When using external loudspeaker(s), requirements and performance objectives
shall correspond to desktop-mounted hands-free.
# 5 Narrowband telephony transmission performance
## 5.1 Applicability
The performance requirements in this sub-clause shall apply when UE is used to
provide narrowband telephony, either as a stand-alone service, or as part of a
multimedia service.
## 5.2 Overall loss/loudness ratings
### 5.2.1 General
An international connection involving a 3G, LTE or WLAN network and the PSTN
should meet the overall loudness rating (OLR) limits in ITU-T Recommendation
G.111 [4]. The national parts of the connection should therefore meet the send
and receive loudness rating (SLR, RLR) limits in ITU-T Recommendation G.121
[5].
For the case where digital routings are used to connect the 3G, LTE or WLAN
network to the international chain of circuits, the SLR and RLR of the
national extension will be largely determined by the SLR and RLR of the 3G,
LTE or WLAN network. The limits given below are consistent with the national
extension limits and long term objectives in ITU-T Recommendation G.121 [5].
The SLR and RLR values for the 3G, LTE or WLAN network apply up to the POI.
However, the main determining factors are the characteristics of the UE,
including the analogue to digital conversion (ADC) and digital to analogue
conversion (DAC). In practice, it is convenient to specify loudness ratings to
the Air Interface. For the normal case, where the 3G, LTE or WLAN network
introduces no additional loss between the Air Interface and the POI, the
loudness ratings to the PSTN boundary (POI) will be the same as the loudness
ratings measured at the Air Interface. However, in some cases loss adjustment
may be needed for interworking situations in individual countries.
### 5.2.2 Connections with handset UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to the POI shall be:
SLR = 8 ± 3 dB;
RLR = 2 ± 3 dB.
Where a user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, the RLR shall
meet the nominal value for at least one setting of the control. When the
control is set to maximum, the RLR shall not be ≤ (equal or louder than) ‑13
dB.
With the volume control set to the minimum position the RLR shall not be ≥
(equal or quieter than) 18 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 5.2.2a Connections with handset UE in the presence of background noise
In the presence of background noise, the RLR at maximum volume control shall
not be ≤ (equal or louder than) ‑13 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 5.2.3 Connections with desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 13 ± 4 dB;
RLR = 2 ± 4 dB (for vehicle-mounted hands-free UE);
RLR = 5 ± 4 dB (for desktop hands-free UE).
1\. For a vehicle-mounted hands-free UE:\ Where a user-controlled volume
control is provided, the RLR shall meet the nominal value for at least one
setting of the control. It is recommended that a volume control giving at
least 15 dB increase from the nominal RLR (louder) is provided for hands-free
units intended to work in the vehicle environment. This is to allow for the
increased acoustic noise level in a moving vehicle.\ RLR at the maximum volume
control setting should be ≤ (equal or louder than) -2 dB.
2\. For a desktop hands-free UE:\ Where a user-controlled volume control is
provided, the RLR shall meet the nominal value for at least one setting of the
control. It is recommended that a volume control giving at least 15 dB
increase from the nominal RLR (louder) is provided for hands-free units. This
is to allow for the increased acoustic noise level in the usage environment.\
RLR at the maximum volume control setting should be ≤ (equal or louder than) 1
dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
NOTE: The target value for nominal RLR, as recommended in ITU-T G.111 Annex B
-- Table B.1 [4], lies between 1 and 3 dB. The higher RLR requirement of 5 dB
for desktop hands-free is appreciative of the limitations in transducer output
with current typical form factors.
### 5.2.4 Connections with hand-held hands-free UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 13 ± 4 dB;
RLR = 9 +9 / -7 dB.
As a performance objective it is recommended that the RLR at the maximum
volume control setting is ≤ (equal or louder than) 2 dB.
Where a user-controlled volume control is provided, the RLR shall meet the
nominal value for at least one setting of the control. It is recommended that
a volume control range ≥ 15 dB be provided. Compliance shall be checked by the
relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
NOTE: The target value for nominal RLR, as recommended in ITU-T G.111 Annex B
-- Table B.1 [4], lies between 1 and 3 dB. The higher RLR requirement of 9 dB
for hand-held hands-free is appreciative of the limitations in transducer
output with typical form factors.
### 5.2.5 Connections with headset UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 8 ± 3 dB;
RLR = 2 ± 3 dB;
> RLR (binaural headset) = 8 ± 3 dB for each earphone.
Where a user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, the RLR shall
meet the nominal value for at least one setting of the control. When the
control is set to maximum, the RLR shall not be ≤ (equal or louder than) -13
dB.
With the volume control set to the minimum position the RLR shall not be ≥
(equal or quieter than) 18 dB and shall not be ≥ (equal or quieter than) 24 dB
for a binaural headset.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 5.2.5a Connections with headset UE in the presence of background noise
In the presence of background noise, the RLR at maximum volume control shall
not be ≤ (equal or louder than) ‑13 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
## 5.3 Idle channel noise (handset and headset UE)
### 5.3.1 Sending
The maximum noise level produced by the apparatus at the output of the SS
under silent conditions in the sending direction shall be ≤ -64 dBm0p.
NOTE 1: This level includes the eventual noise contribution of an acoustic
echo canceller under the condition that no signal is received.
NOTE 2: This figure applies to the total noise level with psophometric
weighting. It is recommended that the level of single frequency disturbances
should be ≤ -74 dBm0p in the frequency range from 300 Hz to 3.4 kHz.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.3.2 Receiving
The maximum (acoustic) A-weighted noise level at the handset and headset UE
when no signal is applied to the input of the SS shall be as follows:
If no user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, or, if it is
provided, at the setting of the user-controlled receiving volume control at
which the RLR is equal to the nominal value, the noise measured at the DRP
with diffuse-field correction contributed by the receiving equipment alone
shall be ≤ -57 dBPa(A).
Where a volume control is provided, the measured noise shall be ≤ -54 dBPa(A)
at the maximum setting of the volume control.
For the nominal volume control setting, the level of single frequency
disturbances should be ≤ ‑60 dBPa(A) in the frequency range from 100 Hz to 10
kHz. As a performance objective it is recommended that the level should be ≤
‑64 dBPa(A).
NOTE: In a connection with the PSTN, noise conditions as described in ITU-T
Recommendation G.103 [3] can be expected at the input (POI) of the 3G, LTE or
WLAN network. The characteristics of this noise may be influenced by the
speech transcoding process (for further study).
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
## 5.4 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
### 5.4.1 Handset and headset UE sending
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the mouth
reference point (MRP) to the digital interface or from the MRP to the SS audio
output (digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS), shall be
within a mask, which can be drawn between the points given in table 1. The
mask is drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 1 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 1: Handset and headset sending sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 ‑12  
200 0  
300 0 ‑12 1 000 0 ‑6 2 000 4 ‑6 3 000 4 ‑6 3 400 4 ‑9 4 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
**Figure 1: Handset and headset sending sensitivity/frequency mask**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.4.2 Handset and headset UE receiving
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the digital
interface to the DRP with diffuse-field correction or from the SS audio input
(analogue or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the
DRP with diffuse-field correction shall be within a mask, which can be drawn
with straight lines between the breaking points in table 2 on a logarithmic
(frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 2: Handset and headset receiving sensitivity/frequency mask for 8N
application force
+----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Upper limit | Lower limit | | | | | | | 8 ± 2 N | 8 ± 2 N | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 100 | 6 | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 300 | 6 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 400 | 6 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 000 | 6 | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: All sensitivity values are | | | | expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The basis for the target | | | | frequency responses in send and | | | | receive is the orthotelephonic | | | | reference response measured between 2 | | | | subjects 1 m apart under free-field | | | | conditions and assumes an ideal | | | | receive characteristic. Under these | | | | conditions the overall frequency | | | | response shows a rising slope. The | | | | present document no longer uses the | | | | ERP as the reference point for receive | | | | but the diffuse-field. With the | | | | concept of diffuse-field based receive | | | | measurements a rising slope for the | | | | overall frequency response is achieved | | | | by a flat target frequency response in | | | | send and a flat diffuse-field based | | | | receive frequency response. | | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+
**Figure 2: Handset and headset receiving sensitivity/frequency mask for 8N
application force**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.4.3 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE sending
The sending sensitivity frequency response from the MRP to the SS audio output
(digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS) shall be as
follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which can
be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 3 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 3: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency
mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 ‑12  
200 0  
300 0 ‑12 1 000 0 ‑6 2 000 4 ‑6 3 000 4 ‑6 3 400 4 ‑9 4 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
**Figure 3: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free sending
sensitivity/frequency mask**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.4.4 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE receiving
The receiving sensitivity frequency response from the SS audio input (analogue
or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the free-field
shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which
can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 4 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 4: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free receiving
sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 200 6  
315 6 -9 400 6 -6 3 100 6 -6 4 000 6  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
**Figure 4: Desktop and vehicle-mounted receiving sensitivity/frequency mask**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.4.5 Hand-held hands-free UE sending
The sending sensitivity frequency response from the MRP to the SS audio output
(digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS) shall be as
follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which can
be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 5 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 5: Hand-held hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 ‑12  
200 0  
300 0 ‑12 1 000 0 ‑6 2 000 4 ‑6 3 000 4 ‑6 3 400 4 ‑9 4 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
**Figure 5: Hand-held hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency mask**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.4.6 Hand-held hands-free UE receiving
The receiving sensitivity frequency response from the SS audio input (analogue
or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the free-field
shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which
can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 6 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 6: Hand-held hands-free receiving sensitivity/frequency mask
+----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Upper limit | Lower limit | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 200 | 6 | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 500 | 6 | -9 (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 630 | 6 | -6 (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 800 | 6 | ‑6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 100 | 6 | ‑6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 000 | 6 | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: All sensitivity values are | | | | expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The values stated in the Table | | | | 6 for 500 and 630 Hz are listed for | | | | performance objective purposes. (not | | | | mandatory) | | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+
**Figure 6: Hand-held hands-free receiving sensitivity/frequency mask**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 5.5 Sidetone characteristics (handset and headset UE)
### 5.5.1 Sidetone loss
The talker sidetone masking rating (STMR) shall be ≥ 15 dB and should be ≤ 23
dB for the nominal setting of the volume control. For all other positions of
the volume control, the STMR shall be ≥ 10 dB.
In case the STMR is below the lower limit also when the electrical sidetone
path has been disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
The bandwidth for the sidetone path provided by the UE may in some terminals
not be restricted to the narrowband range. In case the sidetone path operates
in a mode other than narrowband (to be declared by the manufacturer),
compliance shall be checked using the test described for \"Wideband telephony
transmission performance\".
NOTE 1: Where a user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, it is
recommended that the sidetone loss is independent of the volume control
setting.
NOTE 2: In general, it is recommended to provide a terminal sidetone path for
handset and headset UEs.
NOTE 3: In case the human air-conducted sidetone paths are obstructed (one
example being some binaural insert type headset UEs), it is important to
provide a terminal sidetone path.
NOTE 4: The STMR calculation algorithm being used was developed for
quantifying the audibility of the electrical sidetone path using a sealed
coupler. The air-conducted path was not intended to be included in the test
setup. A lower STMR limit was specified to avoid annoying effects (e.g.
howling, increase of ambient noise level in the ear) of an excessive
electrical sidetone. In HATS-based measurements, the air-conducted path cannot
be avoided in the test setup. With some UE form factors the air-conducted path
can be substantial resulting in low STMR figures also when there are no
annoying effects from any excessive electrical sidetone. See ITU-T
Recommendation P.76 for definitions of sidetone paths.
### 5.5.2 Sidetone delay
The maximum sidetone delay should be ≤ 5 ms, measured in an echo-free setup.
NOTE: The measured result is only applicable where the level of the electrical
sidetone is sufficiently high to be measured. While the STMR value may
indicate the presence of sidetone it should be ensured that this is not
primarily due to the acoustical or mechanical sidetone path when interpreting
sidetone delay results.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 5.6 Stability loss
The stability loss presented to the PSTN by the 3G, LTE or WLAN network at the
POI should meet the principles of the requirements in clauses 2 and 3 of ITU-T
Recommendation G.122 [6]. These requirements will be met if the attenuation
between the digital input and digital output at the POI is ≥ 6 dB at all
frequencies in the range 200 Hz to 4 kHz under the worst case acoustic
conditions at the UE (any acoustic echo control should be enabled). For the
normal case of digital connection between the Air Interface and the POI, the
stability requirement can be applied at the Air Interface.
The worst case acoustic conditions will be as follows (with volume control set
to maximum for each following condition):
> **Handset UE:** the handset lying on, and the transducers facing, a hard
> surface with the ear-piece uncapped;
>
> **Headset UE:** for further study;
>
> **Hands-free UE:** no requirement other than echo loss.
NOTE: The test procedure must take into account the switching effects of echo
control and discontinuous transmission (DTX).
## 5.7 Acoustic echo control
### 5.7.1 General
The echo loss (EL) presented by the 3G, LTE or WLAN network at the POI should
be sufficient during single-talk. This takes into account the fact that the UE
is likely to be used in connections with high transmission delay and in a wide
range of noise environments.\ See ITU-T Recommendation G.131 for general
guidance.
The use of acoustic echo control is not mandated for 3G, LTE or WLAN networks
and the connection between the UE and the POI is zero loss. Therefore the
acoustic echo control provided in the UE should provide a sufficient TCLw at
the POI over the likely range of acoustic end delays.
If acoustic echo control is provided by voice switching, comfort noise should
be injected. This comfort noise shall operate in the same way as that used in
DTX.
### 5.7.2 Acoustic echo control in desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
The TCLw for the desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE shall be ≥ 40 dB
for any setting of the volume control.
The TCLw for the desktop hands-free and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE shall be
≥ 46 dB when measured under free-field conditions at the nominal setting of
the volume control.
NOTE: A TCLw for the desktop hands-free and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE of ≥
55 dB is recommended as a performance objective when measured under free-field
conditions at the nominal setting of the volume control. Depending on the UE
idle channel noise in the sending direction, it may not always be possible to
measure an echo loss ≥ 55 dB.
The echo canceller should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation
and dispersion. In the case of the hands-free UE, this reverberation and
dispersion may be time variant. Compliance with this requirement shall be
checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.7.3 Acoustic echo control in hand-held hands-free UE
The TCLw for hand-held hands-free UE shall be ≥ 40 dB for any setting of the
volume control.
The TCLw for hand-held hands-free UE shall be ≥ 46 dB at the nominal setting
of the volume control.
NOTE: A TCLw for the hand-held hands-free UE of ≥ 55 dB is recommended as a
performance objective when measured under free-field conditions at the nominal
setting of the volume control. Depending on the UE idle channel noise in the
sending direction, it may not always be possible to measure an echo loss ≥ 55
dB.
The echo canceller should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation
and dispersion. In the case of the hands-free UE, this reverberation and
dispersion may be time variant. Compliance with this requirement shall be
checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.7.4 Acoustic echo control in a handset UE
The TCLw for handset UE shall be ≥ 46 dB for any setting of the volume
control.
The TCLw for handset UE should be ≥ 55 dB at the nominal setting of the volume
control.
NOTE: It is recommended that the volume control should be set back to nominal
after each call unless TCLw ≥ 55 dB can also be maintained with the maximum
volume setting. Depending on the UE idle channel noise in the sending
direction, it may not always be possible to measure an echo loss ≥ 55 dB.
The echo canceller should be capable of dealing with the variations in handset
positions when in normal use. The implications of this are under study.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
### 5.7.5 Acoustic echo control in a headset UE
The TCLw for headset UE shall be ≥ 46 dB for any setting of the volume
control.
The TCLw for headset UE should be ≥ 55 dB at the nominal setting of the volume
control.
NOTE: It is recommended that the volume control should be set back to nominal
after each call unless TCLw ≥ 55 dB can also be maintained with the maximum
volume setting. Depending on the UE idle channel noise in the sending
direction, it may not always be possible to measure an echo loss ≥ 55 dB.
The echo canceller should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation
and dispersion.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
## 5.8 Distortion
### 5.8.1 Sending distortion
The sending part shall meet the following distortion requirements:
NOTE 1: Digital signal processing other than the transcoder itself is included
in this requirement (e.g. echo cancelling).
Distortion shall be measured between the MRP and the SS audio output (output
of the reference speech decoder of the SS). The ratio of signal‑to‑total
distortion power measured with the proper noise weighting (see table 4 of
ITU‑T Recommendation G.223) shall be above the limits given in table 7.
Table 7: Limits for signal‑to‑total distortion ratio
+-------------------+--------------------+ | Sending level | Sending Ratio (dB) | | | | | (dBPa at the MRP) | | +-------------------+--------------------+ | 5 | 30 | +-------------------+--------------------+ | 0 | 35 | +-------------------+--------------------+ | -4,7 | 35 | +-------------------+--------------------+ | -10 | 33 | +-------------------+--------------------+ | -15 | 30 | +-------------------+--------------------+ | -20 | 27 | +-------------------+--------------------+
Limits for intermediate levels are found by drawing straight lines between the
breaking points in table 7 on a linear (dB signal level) ‑ linear (dB ratio)
scale.
Compliance of the sending distortion shall be checked by the test described in
TS 26.132.
NOTE 2: It should be ensured that the test signal is treated by speech
processing algorithms as a speech-like signal, and not a noise-like signal.
Test signals with a time-stationary envelope may be treated by certain
algorithms, e.g., noise suppression algorithms defined in 3GPP TS 06.77 R99
[16], as a noise-like signal. If speech processing algorithms, including but
not limited to noise suppression algorithms, are shown to treat the test
signal as a noise-like signal, even where an activation signal has been
utilized, then the test should be repeated with said speech processing
algorithms disabled. The results of both sets of tests and the state of the
processing algorithms should be documented in the test report.
### 5.8.2 Receiving
The receiving part between the SS audio input (input of the reference speech
encoder of the SS) and the applicable acoustic measurement point (DRP with
diffuse-field correction for handset and headset modes; free field correction
for hands-free modes) shall meet the requirements in this clause at the
nominal setting of the volume control:
The ratio of signal to total distortion power measured with the proper noise
weighting (see table 4 of ITU-T Recommendation G.223) shall be above the
limits given in table 8 when the sound pressure at the applicable acoustic
measurement point is up to 10 dBPa. For a sound pressure ≥ 10 dBPa at the
applicable acoustic measurement point there is no distortion requirement.
Table 8: Limits for signal‑to‑total distortion ratio
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Receiving | Receiving | Receiving | | | level | ratio | ratio | | | | | | | | at the digital | at nominal | at maximum | | | interface | volume setting | volume setting | | | (dBm0) | (dB) | (dB) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 315 | -16 | 20 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 408 | -16 | 28 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 510 | -16 | 28 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 816 | -16 | 28 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 020 | 0 | 25,5 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | -3 | 31,2 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | -10 | 33,5 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | -16 | 33,5 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | -20 | 33 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | -30 | 30,5 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | -40 (*) | 22,5 (*) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | -45 (*) | 17,5 (*) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: (*)For | | | | | levels -40 and | | | | | -45 dBm0 a | | | | | lower | | | | | s | | | | | ignal-to-total | | | | | distortion | | | | | ratio may not | | | | | be possible, | | | | | and hence | | | | | would not be | | | | | regarded as a | | | | | failing | | | | | result. | | | | | However, the | | | | | obtained | | | | | results would | | | | | be reported. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Limits for intermediate levels are found by drawing straight lines between the
breaking points in the table on a linear (dB signal level) ‑ linear (dB ratio)
scale.
Compliance of the receiving distortion shall be checked by the appropriate
test method in TS 26.132.
NOTE 1: It should be ensured that the test signal is treated by speech
processing algorithms as a speech-like signal, and not a noise-like signal.
Test signals with a time-stationary envelope may be treated by certain
algorithms, e.g. noise suppression algorithms defined in 3GPP TS 06.77 R99
[16], as a noise-like signal. If speech processing algorithms, including but
not limited to noise suppression algorithms, are shown to treat the test
signal as a noise-like signal, even where an activation signal has been
utilized, then the test should be repeated with said speech processing
algorithms disabled. The results of both sets of tests and the state of the
processing algorithms should be documented in the test report.
NOTE 2: Frequencies from 315 Hz to 816 Hz do not apply to the hands-free UE
case, only to handset and headset UE.
## 5.9 Void
## 5.10 Information on other parameters (not normative)
Information about additional parameters relevant to speech quality, e.g., for
terminals where signal processing is used, can be found in ITU-T
Recommendations P.340, P.501 and P.502.
## 5.11 Sending performance in the presence of ambient noise
### 5.11.1 General
For sending, in handset mode, the UE shall reduce the ambient noise picked up
by the microphone(s) without significantly degrading the quality of the speech
signal.
### 5.11.2 Connections with handset UE
The UE shall comply with the following requirements:
> S-MOS-LQOn
\- The average of S-MOS-LQOn scores across all test conditions shall be ≥ 3.0
\- As a performance objective, the average of the S-MOS-LQOn scores across all
test conditions should be ≥ 3.5
> N-MOS-LQOn
\- The average of the N-MOS-LQOn scores across all test conditions shall be ≥
2.3
\- As a performance objective, the average of N-MOS-LQOn scores across all
test conditions should be ≥ 3.0
> G-MOS-LQOn
\- No requirement.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 5.11.3 Connections with Handheld hands-free UE
It is recommended that the UE meets the following performance objectives:
> S-MOS-LQOn
\- The average of S-MOS-LQOn scores across all five test conditions should be
≥ 3.3
N-MOS-LQOn
\- The average of N-MOS-LQOn scores across all test conditions should be ≥ 2.2
> G-MOS-LQOn
\- No performance objective.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
## 5.12 Delay
### 5.12.0 UE delay definition
For UMTS circuit-switched operation and MTSI-based speech with LTE or WLAN
access, the UE delays in the send and receive directions are defined as:
\- The UE delay in the send (uplink) direction is the delay between the first
acoustic event at the MRP to the last bit of the corresponding speech frame at
the UE antenna
\- The UE delay in the receive (downlink) direction is the delay between the
first bit of a speech frame at the UE antenna and the first acoustic event at
the DRP corresponding to that speech frame
NOTE: In order to harmonize UMTS and LTE delay definitions, the reference
points for UMTS UE delay have been changed in Rel-12. Prior to Rel-12, the UE
reference points for UMTS were implicitly defined by the compensation factors
declared by system simulator vendors, i.e. half of the air interface delay was
attributed to the UE, and the last acoustic event at DRP was used for the
receive measurement instead of the first.
Considering 10ms for half of the transmission time in each direction of a UMTS
call, a speech frame size of 20ms, a codec look-ahead of 5ms, and a difference
between the first and the last acoustic event of 20 ms, the previous reference
points took into account a UE implementation independent delay of 2x10ms + 25
ms + 20 ms = 65 ms. The same UE delay remains in the new definition above,
which attributes the full air interface delay to the UE but uses the first
acoustic event at the DRP, instead of the last (2x20ms + 25 ms + 0 ms = 65
ms). Hence, the UMTS requirements with these new reference points remain the
same.
### 5.12.1 Handset UE
It is in general desirable to minimize UE delays to ensure low enough end-to-
end delays and hence a good conversational experience, guidance is found in
ITU-T Recommendation G.114.
For UMTS circuit-switched AMR speech codec operation, the sum of the UE delays
in sending and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) shall in any case be ≤ 220ms
and should be ≤ 185ms.
NOTE: A delay ≤ 185 ms might not be achievable in some cases due to UE
implementation trade-offs between delay and other parameters such as speech
quality enhancement, performance of noise reduction or UE power consumption
optimization, and UE implementation issues such as rebuffering between
components.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in error and jitter free
conditions and AMR speech codec operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending
and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) should be ≤ 150ms. _If this performance
objective cannot be met, the sum of the UE delays_ in sending and receiving
directions (T~S~ + T~R~) _shall in_ any case be ≤ 190ms.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in conditions with
simulated packet arrival time variations and packet loss and AMR speech codec
operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending and receiving directions (T~S~
+ T~R~) shall be less than or equal to the delay requirements in Table 8bis,
while meeting the speech quality targets defined.
NOTE: The UE delay requirements for MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN
access are derived from:
> \- A speech frame buffering and codec look-ahead of 25ms.
>
> \- An air interface transmission time of 1ms on receive and 1ms on the send
> direction.
>
> \- A budget allowance for a jitter buffer depth of 40ms for error and jitter
> free conditions and test conditions 0 and 1 of Table 8bis, and 80ms for test
> condition 2 of Table 8bis.
>
> \- A budget allowance for vendor specific implementation of 83ms
> corresponding to the performance objective and 123ms corresponding to the
> required maximum UE send and receive delay.
Table 8bis: UE delay and speech quality requirements for LTE and WLAN access
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | Delay and | Performance | R | Speech | | Condition | Loss | Objectives | equirements | Quality | | | Profile | for Maximum | for Maximum | | | | | Delay | Delay | Re | | | (Note 1) | | | quirements\ | | | | | | (Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | Error and | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | No | | | jitter free | ≤ 150ms | ≤ 190ms | r | | | condition | | | equirement, | | | | | | reference | | | | | | score\ | | | | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_20m | ≤ 150ms | ≤ 190ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 190ms | ≤ 230ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and target | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 10%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 3ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | injected at | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | layer of | | | | | | the test | | | | | | system. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | attached | | | | | | ele | | | | | | ctronically | | | | | | to document | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 26.132 | | | | | | [1]. The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles in | | | | | | test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | static | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variation | | | | | | conditions | | | | | | and do not | | | | | | expose the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget as | | | | | | defined for | | | | | | QCI1 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.203 | | | | | | [18]. A | | | | | | third test | | | | | | condition | | | | | | that | | | | | | exposes the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | non | | | | | | -stationary | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | experienced | | | | | | in live | | | | | | operation | | | | | | and packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget for | | | | | | QCI1, and | | | | | | accompanied | | | | | | delay and | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements, | | | | | | is for | | | | | | further | | | | | | study. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | purpose of | | | | | | this test | | | | | | is to | | | | | | provide a | | | | | | relative | | | | | | comparison | | | | | | of the | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | between the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | and test | | | | | | conditions. | | | | | | This test | | | | | | is not to | | | | | | be | | | | | | construed | | | | | | as a method | | | | | | to evaluate | | | | | | the | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality of | | | | | | the device. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 5.12.2 Headset UE
#### 5.12.2.1 Wired headset
It is in general desirable to minimize UE delays to ensure low enough end-to-
end delays and hence a good conversational experience, guidance is found in
ITU-T Recommendation G.114.
For UMTS circuit-switched AMR speech codec operation, the sum of the UE delays
in sending and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) shall in any case be ≤ 220ms
and should be ≤ 185ms.
NOTE: A delay ≤ 185 ms might not be achievable in some cases due to UE
implementation trade-offs between delay and other parameters such as speech
quality enhancement, performance of noise reduction or UE power consumption
optimization, and UE implementation issues such as rebuffering between
components.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in error and jitter free
conditions and AMR speech codec operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending
and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) should be ≤ 150ms. _If this performance
objective cannot be met, the sum of the UE delays_ in sending and receiving
directions (T~S~ + T~R~) _shall in_ any case be ≤ 190ms.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in conditions with
simulated packet arrival time variations and packet loss and AMR speech codec
operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending and receiving directions (T~S~
+ T~R~) shall be less than or equal to the delay requirements in Table 8ter,
while meeting the speech quality targets defined.
NOTE: The UE delay requirements for MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN
access are derived from:
> \- A speech frame buffering and codec look-ahead of 25ms.
>
> \- An air interface transmission time of 1ms on receive and 1ms on the send
> direction.
>
> \- A budget allowance for a jitter buffer depth of 40ms for error and jitter
> free conditions and test conditions 0 and 1 of Table 8ter, and 80ms for test
> condition 2 of Table 8ter.
>
> _\- A budget allowance for vendor specific implementation of 83ms
> corresponding to the performance objective and 123ms corresponding to the
> required maximum UE send and receive delay._
Table 8ter: UE delay and speech quality requirements for LTE and WLAN access
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | Delay and | Performance | R | Speech | | Condition | Loss | Objectives | equirements | Quality | | | Profile | for Maximum | for Maximum | | | | | Delay | Delay | Re | | | (Note 1) | | | quirements\ | | | | | | (Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | Error and | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | No | | | jitter free | ≤ 150ms | ≤ 190ms | r | | | condition | | | equirement, | | | | | | reference | | | | | | score\ | | | | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_20m | ≤ 150ms | ≤ 190ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 190ms | ≤ 230ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and target | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 10%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 3ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | injected at | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | layer of | | | | | | the test | | | | | | system. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | attached | | | | | | ele | | | | | | ctronically | | | | | | to document | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 26.132 | | | | | | [1]. The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles in | | | | | | test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | static | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variation | | | | | | conditions | | | | | | and do not | | | | | | expose the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget as | | | | | | defined for | | | | | | QCI1 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.203 | | | | | | [18]. A | | | | | | third test | | | | | | condition | | | | | | that | | | | | | exposes the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | non | | | | | | -stationary | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | experienced | | | | | | in live | | | | | | operation | | | | | | and packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget for | | | | | | QCI1, and | | | | | | accompanied | | | | | | delay and | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements, | | | | | | is for | | | | | | further | | | | | | study. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | purpose of | | | | | | this test | | | | | | is to | | | | | | provide a | | | | | | relative | | | | | | comparison | | | | | | of the | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | between the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | and test | | | | | | conditions. | | | | | | This test | | | | | | is not to | | | | | | be | | | | | | construed | | | | | | as a method | | | | | | to evaluate | | | | | | the | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality of | | | | | | the device. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
#### 5.12.2.2 Wireless headset
For further study.
## 5.13 Echo control characteristics
Echo cancellation is commonly deployed in the UE to fulfil the Acoustic echo
control requirements. Echo cancellers are complex devices of which the
subjective performance is affected by several attributes. The main attribute
is its ability to suppress echo. The process of suppressing the echo may
introduce impairments to the near-end speech signal, mainly manifested as
distortion or clipping of the near-end signal during simultaneous speech from
both the far and near-end (\"double-talk\").
To characterise the echo control performance, the activity (in % of total
time) and averaged level difference (in dB) of the duration of any level
difference according to Figure 6a and Table 8a between the clean near-end
signal and the send-signal shall be reported for \"double-talk\" as well as
the far-end single talk periods adjacent to the \"double-talk\".
NOTE: The limits for specifying the categories in Figure 6a and Table 8a are
provisional pending further analysis and validation.
NOTE: The categories in Figure 6a and Table 8a are labelled in a functional
order and the subjective impression of the respective categories is for
further study.
All percentage values and averaged level differences described in the relevant
test of 3GPP TS 26.132 shall be reported.
Figure 6a: Classification of echo canceller performance
Table 8a: Categories for echo canceller performance classification
* * *
Category Description **A1** Full-duplex and full transparency **A2** Full-
duplex with level loss in Tx **B** Very short clipping **C** Short clipping
resulting in loss of syllables **D** Clipping resulting in loss of words **E**
Very short residual echo **F** Echo bursts **G** Continuous echo
* * *
### 5.13.1 Handset
Requirements are for further study.
### 5.13.2 Headset
Requirements are for further study.
### 5.13.3 Handheld hands-free
Requirements are for further study.
### 5.13.4 Desktop and vehicle mounted hands-free
Requirements are for further study.
## 5.14 Clock accuracy
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access, the clock skew in send
direction between the device under test and the reference client should be
less than 50 PPM (in absolute value) in error-free conditions.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 5.15 Jitter buffer management behaviour
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access, a jitter buffer is used in
receiving to handle the variation in packet receiver timing (see clause 8 of
TS 26.114 [17]).
If the jitter buffer management (JBM) behaviour is evaluated, the following
statistics shall be reported for conditions specified in TS 26.132:
\- Delay histogram (on a per sentence basis)
\- Quality loss histogram (on a per sentence pair basis)
and all measured delay and quality loss values for these conditions shall be
reported as a function of measurement time, together with minimum and maximum
values.
The relevant test is described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
# 6 Wideband telephony transmission performance
## 6.1 Applicability
The performance requirements in this clause shall apply when UE is used to
provide wideband telephony, either as a stand-alone service, or as part of a
multimedia service. The requirements in the clause apply only when the far-end
terminal is also providing wideband, and not narrowband telephony. When a
wideband-enabled terminal is providing narrowband telephony, the requirements
in clause 5, 'narrowband telephony transmission performance' shall apply.
## 6.2 Overall loss/loudness ratings
### 6.2.1 General
An international connection involving a 3G, LTE or WLAN network and the PSTN
should meet the overall loudness rating (OLR) limits in ITU-T Recommendation
G.111 [4]. The national parts of the connection should therefore meet the send
and receive loudness rating (SLR, RLR) limits in ITU-T Recommendation G.121
[5].
For the case where digital routings are used to connect the 3G, LTE or WLAN
network to the international chain of circuits, the SLR and RLR of the
national extension will be largely determined by the SLR and RLR of the 3G,
LTE or WLAN network. The limits given below are consistent with the national
extension limits and long term objectives in ITU-T Recommendation G.121 [5].
The SLR and RLR values for the 3G, LTE or WLAN network apply up to the POI.
However, the main determining factors are the characteristics of the UE,
including the analogue to digital conversion (ADC) and digital to analogue
conversion (DAC). In practice, it is convenient to specify loudness ratings to
the Air Interface. For the normal case, where the 3G, LTE or WLAN network
introduces no additional loss between the Air Interface and the POI, the
loudness ratings to the PSTN boundary (POI) will be the same as the loudness
ratings measured at the Air Interface. However, in some cases loss adjustment
may be needed for interworking situations in individual countries.
### 6.2.2 Connections with handset UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to the POI shall be:
SLR = 8 ± 3 dB;
RLR = 2 ± 3 dB.
Where a user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, the RLR shall
meet the nominal value for at least one setting of the control. When the
control is set to maximum, the RLR shall not be ≤ (equal or louder than) -13
dB and shall not be ≥ (equal or quieter than) ‑3 dB.
With the volume control set to the minimum position the RLR shall not be ≥
(equal or quieter than) 18 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 6.2.2a Connections with handset UE in the presence of background noise
In the presence of background noise, the RLR at maximum volume control shall
not be ≤ (equal or louder than) ‑13 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 6.2.3 Connections with desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 13 ± 4 dB;
RLR = 2 ± 4 dB (for vehicle-mounted hands-free UE);
RLR = 5 ± 4 dB (for desktop hands-free UE).
1\. For a vehicle-mounted hands-free UE:\ Where a user-controlled volume
control is provided, the RLR shall meet the nominal value for at least one
setting of the control. It is recommended that a volume control giving at
least 15 dB increase from the nominal RLR (louder) is provided for hands-free
units intended to work in the vehicle environment. This is to allow for the
increased acoustic noise level in a moving vehicle.\ RLR at the maximum volume
control setting should be ≤ (equal or louder than) -2 dB.
2\. For a desktop hands-free UE:\ Where a user-controlled volume control is
provided, the RLR shall meet the nominal value for at least one setting of the
control. It is recommended that a volume control giving at least 15 dB
increase from the nominal RLR (louder) is provided for hands-free units. This
is to allow for increased acoustic noise level in the usage environment.\ RLR
at the maximum volume control setting should ≤ (equal or louder than) 1 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
NOTE: The target value for nominal RLR, as recommended in ITU-T G.111 Annex B
-- Table B.1 [4], lies between 1 and 3 dB. The higher RLR requirement of 5 dB
for desktop hands-free is appreciative of the limitations in transducer output
with current typical form factors.
### 6.2.4 Connections with hand-held hands-free UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 13 ± 4 dB;
RLR = 9 +9/-7 dB.
Where a user-controlled volume control is provided, the RLR shall meet the
nominal value for at least one setting of the control.
The value of RLR at the maximum volume control shall be ≤ (equal or louder
than) 12 dB. As a performance objective it is recommended that the RLR at the
maximum volume control setting is ≤ (equal or louder than) 2 dB.
Where a user-controlled volume control is provided, the RLR shall meet the
nominal value for at least one setting of the control. It is recommended that
a volume control range ≥ 15 dB be provided.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 6.2.5 Connections with headset UE
The SLR and RLR should be measured and computed using methods given in ITU-T
Recommendation P.380 [9]. This Recommendation currently gives a measuring
technique for supra-aural earphone and insert type receivers. Study is
continuing on other types of ear-pieces in ITU-T Study Group 12.
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 8 ± 3 dB;
RLR = 2 ± 3 dB;
RLR (binaural headset) = 8 ± 3 dB for each earphone.
Where a user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, the RLR shall
meet the nominal value for at least one setting of the control. When the
control is set to maximum, the RLR shall not be ≤ (equal or louder than) -13
dB.
With the volume control set to the minimum position the RLR shall not be ≥
(equal or quieter than) 18 dB and shall not be ≥ (equal or quieter than) 24 dB
for a binaural headset.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 6.2.5a Connections with headset UE in the presence of background noise
In the presence of background noise, the RLR at maximum volume control shall
not be ≤ (equal or louder than) ‑13 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
## 6.3 Idle channel noise (handset and headset UE)
### 6.3.1 Sending
The maximum noise level produced by the apparatus at the output of the SS
under silent conditions in the sending direction shall not exceed -64 dBm0(A).
NOTE 1: This level includes the eventual noise contribution of an acoustic
echo canceller under the condition that no signal is received.
NOTE 2: This figure applies to the total noise level with A-weighting. It is
recommended that the level of single frequency disturbances should be ≤ -74
dBm0(A) in the frequency range from 100 Hz to 8 kHz.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.3.2 Receiving
The maximum (acoustic) noise level at the handset and headset UE when no
signal is transmitted to the input of the SS shall be as follows:
\- If no user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, or, if it is
provided, at the setting of the user-controlled receiving volume control at
which the RLR is equal to the nominal value, the noise measured at the DRP
with diffuse-field correction contributed by the receiving equipment alone
shall not exceed -57 dBPa(A).
\- Where a volume control is provided, the measured noise shall be ≤ -54
dBPa(A) at the maximum setting of the volume control.
For the nominal volume control setting, the level of single frequency
disturbances shall be ≤ ‑60 dBPa(A) in the frequency range from 100 Hz to 10
kHz. As a performance objective it is recommended that the level should be ≤
‑64 dBPa(A).
NOTE: In a connection with the PSTN, noise conditions as described in ITU-T
Recommendation G.103 [3] can be expected at the input (POI) of the 3G, LTE or
WLAN network. The characteristics of this noise may be influenced by the
speech transcoding process (for further study).
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 6.4 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
In general it is recommended for all configurations to have a flat sending
frequency response.
### 6.4.1 Handset and headset UE sending
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the mouth
reference point (MRP) to the digital interface or from the MRP to the SS audio
output (digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS), shall be
within a mask, which can be drawn between the points given in table 9. The
mask is drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 1 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 9: Handset and headset sending sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Send sensitivity/frequency response Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100
0  
200 5 -5 5 000 5 -5 6 300 5 -10 8 000 5  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
**Figure 9: Handset and headset sending sensitivity/frequency mask**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.4.2 Handset and headset UE receiving
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the digital
interface to the DRP with diffuse-field correction or from the SS audio input
(analogue or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the
DRP with diffuse-field correction, shall be within a mask, which can be drawn
with straight lines between the breaking points in table 10 on a logarithmic
(frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 10: Handset and headset receiving sensitivity/frequency mask
+----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Upper limit | Lower limit | | | | | | | 8 ± 2 N | 8 ± 2 N | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 100 | 6 | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 200 | 6 | -10 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 300 | 6 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 000 | 6 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 000 | 8 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 000 | 8 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 300 | 8 | -12 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 000 | 8 | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: All sensitivity values are | | | | expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale. | | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE: The limits in the table above are enforced but are under evaluation. The
values are expected to be modified taking into account that the change from
ERP to diffuse-field correction is reflected in the table.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.4.3 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE sending
The sending sensitivity frequency response from the MRP to the SS audio output
(digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS) shall be as
follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which can
be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 11 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 11: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency
mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 0  
200 5 -5 5 000 5 -5 6 300 5 -10 8 000 5  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
**Figure 11: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free sending
sensitivity/frequency mask**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.4.4 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE receiving
The receiving sensitivity frequency response from the SS audio input (analogue
or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the free-field
shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which
can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 12 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 12: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free receiving
sensitivity/frequency mask
+----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | Frequency | Upper limit | Lower limit | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 125 Hz | 8 | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 200 Hz | 8 | -12 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 250 Hz | 8 | -9 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 315 Hz | 7 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 400 Hz | 6 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 000 Hz | 6 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 300 Hz | 6 | -9 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 000 Hz | 6 | -∞ | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: The limits for intermediate | | | | frequencies lie on a straight line | | | | drawn between the given values on a | | | | linear (dB) - logarithmic (Hz) scale. | | | | | | | | All sensitivity values are expressed | | | | in dB on an arbitrary scale. | | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+
**Figure 12: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free receiving
sensitivity/frequency mask**
It is recommended as a performance objective that the receiving sensitivity
frequency response be within the mask which can be drawn with straight lines
between the breaking points in table 12.a on a logarithmic (frequency) -
linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 12a: Performance objective for desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free
receiving sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 0  
200 0 -18 250 0 -15 315 0 -12 6 300 0 -12 8 000 0
* * *
**Figure 12a: Performance objective for desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free
receiving sensitivity/frequency response**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.4.5 Hand-held hands-free UE sending
The sending sensitivity frequency response from the MRP to the SS audio output
(digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS) shall be as
follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which can
be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 13 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 13: Hand-held hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 0  
200 5 -5 5 000 5 -5 6 300 5 -10 8 000 5  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
**Figure 13: Hand-held hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency mask**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.4.6 Hand-held hands-free UE receiving
The receiving sensitivity frequency response from the SS audio input (analogue
or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the free-field
shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which
can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 14 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 14: Hand-held hands-free receiving sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 315 6  
630 6 -12 800 6 -6 4 000 6 -6 6 300 6 -12 8 000 6  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
**Figure 14: Hand-held hands-free receiving sensitivity/frequency mask**
It is recommended as a performance requirement that the receiving sensitivity
frequency response be within the mask which can be drawn with straight lines
between the breaking points in table 14a on a logarithmic (frequency) - linear
(dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 14a: Performance objective for hand-held hands-free receiving
sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 315 6  
400 6 -12 500 6 -6 4 000 6 -6 6 300 6 -12 8 000 6  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
**Figure 14.a: Performance objective for hand-held hands-free receiving
sensitivity/frequency mask**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 6.5 Sidetone characteristics (handset and headset UE)
### 6.5.1 Sidetone loss
The talker sidetone masking rating (STMR) shall be ≥ 15 dB and should be ≤ 23
dB for the nominal setting of the volume control. For all other positions of
the volume control, the STMR shall be ≥ 10 dB.
In case the STMR is below the lower limit also when the electrical sidetone
path has been disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
NOTE 1: Where a user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, it is
recommended that the sidetone loss is independent of the volume control
setting.
NOTE 2: In general, it is recommended to provide a terminal sidetone path for
handset and headset UEs.
NOTE 3: In case the human air-conducted sidetone paths are obstructed (one
example being some binaural insert type headset UEs), it is important to
provide a terminal sidetone path.
NOTE 4: The STMR calculation algorithm being used was developed for
quantifying the audibility of the electrical sidetone path using a sealed
coupler. The air-conducted path was not intended to be included in the test
setup. A lower STMR limit was specified to avoid annoying effects (e.g.
howling, increase of ambient noise level in the ear) of an excessive
electrical sidetone. In HATS-based measurements, the air-conducted path cannot
be avoided in the test setup. With some UE form factors the air-conducted path
can be substantial resulting in low STMR figures also when there are no
annoying effects from any excessive electrical sidetone. See ITU-T
Recommendation P.76 for definitions of sidetone paths.
### 6.5.2 Sidetone delay
The maximum sidetone delay shall be ≤ 5 ms, measured in an echo-free setup.
NOTE: The measured result is only applicable where the level of the electrical
sidetone is sufficiently high to be measured. While the STMR value may
indicate the presence of sidetone it should be ensured that this is not
primarily due to the acoustical or mechanical sidetone path when interpreting
sidetone delay results.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 6.6 Stability loss
The stability loss presented to the PSTN by the 3G, LTE or WLAN network at the
POI should meet the principles of the requirements in clauses 2 and 3 of ITU-T
Recommendation G.122 [6]. These requirements will be met if the attenuation
between the digital input and digital output at the POI is ≥ 6 dB at all
frequencies in the range 100 Hz to 8 kHz under the worst case acoustic
conditions at the UE (any acoustic echo control should be enabled). For the
normal case of digital connection between the Air Interface and the POI, the
stability requirement can be applied at the Air Interface.
The worst case acoustic conditions will be as follows (with volume control set
to maximum for each following condition):
> **Handset UE:** the handset lying on, and the transducers facing, a hard
> surface with the ear-piece uncapped;
>
> **Headset UE:** for further study;
>
> **Hands-free UE:** no requirement other than echo loss.
NOTE: The test procedure must take into account the switching effects of echo
control and discontinuous transmission (DTX) if applicable.
## 6.7 Acoustic echo control
### 6.7.1 General
The echo loss (EL) presented by the 3G, LTE or WLAN network at the POI should
be sufficient during single-talk. This takes into account the fact that the UE
is likely to be used in connections with high transmission delay and in a wide
range of noise environments.
The use of acoustic echo control is not mandated for 3G, LTE or WLAN networks
and the connection between the UE and the POI is zero loss. Therefore the
acoustic echo control provided in the UE should provide a sufficient TCLw at
the POI over the likely range of acoustic end delays.
If acoustic echo control is provided by voice switching, comfort noise should
be injected. This comfort noise shall operate in the same way as that used in
DTX.
### 6.7.2 Acoustic echo control in desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
The TCLw for the desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE shall be ≥ 40 dB
for any setting of the volume control.
The TCLw for the desktop hands-free and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE shall be
≥ 46 dB when measured under free-field conditions at the nominal setting of
the volume control.
NOTE: A TCLw for desktop hands-free and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE of ≥ 55
dB is recommended as a performance objective when measured under free-field
conditions at the nominal setting of the volume control. Depending on the UE
idle channel noise in the sending direction, it may not always be possible to
measure an echo loss ≥ 55 dB.
The echo canceller should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation
and dispersion. In the case of the hands-free UE, this reverberation and
dispersion may be time variant. Compliance with this requirement shall be
checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.7.3 Acoustic echo control in hand-held hands-free UE
The TCLw for hand-held hands-free UE shall be ≥ 40 dB for any setting of the
volume control.
The TCLw for hand-held hands-free UE shall be ≥ 46 dB at the nominal setting
of the volume control.
NOTE: A TCLw for the hand-held hands-free UE of ≥ 55 dB is recommended as a
performance objective when measured under free-field conditions at the nominal
setting of the volume control. Depending on the UE idle channel noise in the
sending direction, it may not always be possible to measure an echo loss ≥ 55
dB.
The echo canceller should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation
and dispersion. In the case of the hands-free UE, this reverberation and
dispersion may be time variant. Compliance with this requirement shall be
checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.7.4 Acoustic echo control in a handset UE
The TCLw for handset UE shall be ≥ 46 dB for any setting of the volume
control.
The TCLw for handset UE should be ≥ 55 dB at the nominal setting of the volume
control.
With the volume control set to maximum TCLw should be ≥55 dB.
It is recommended that the volume control should be set back to nominal after
each call unless TCLw ≥ 55 dB can also be maintained with the maximum volume
setting.
> NOTE. Depending on the UE idle channel noise in the sending direction, it
> may not always be possible to measure an echo loss ≥ 55 dB.
The echo canceller should be capable of dealing with the variations in handset
positions when in normal use. The implications of this are under study.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
### 6.7.5 Acoustic echo control in a headset UE
The TCLw for headset UE shall be ≥ 46 dB for any setting of the volume
control.
The TCLw for headset UE shall be ≥ 55 dB at the nominal setting of the volume
control.
The volume control shall be set back to nominal after each call unless a TCLw
≥ 55 dB can also be maintained with the maximum volume setting.
> NOTE: Depending on the UE idle channel noise in the sending direction, it
> may not always be possible to measure an echo loss ≥ 55 dB.
Due to the obstacle effect of the head in this type of terminal, careful
design might mean that no active echo control is necessary.
The echo cancellation algorithm should be designed to cope with the expected
reverberation and dispersion.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
## 6.8 Distortion
### 6.8.1 Sending distortion
The sending part shall meet the following distortion requirements:
NOTE 1: Digital signal processing other than the transcoder itself is included
in this requirement (e.g., echo cancelling).
Distortion shall be measured between the MRP and the SS audio output (output
of the reference speech decoder of the SS). The ratio of signal‑to‑total
distortion power measured with the proper noise weighting (see table 4 of
ITU‑T Recommendation G.223) shall be above the limits given in table 15.
NOTE 2: Frequencies from 315 Hz to 816 Hz do not apply to the hands-free UE
case, but only to handset and headset UE.
Table 15: Limits for signal‑to‑total distortion ratio
+----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Sending level | Sending Ratio (dB) | | | | | | | (dBPa at the MRP) | | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 315 | -4,7 | 28 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 408 | -4,7 | 32 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 510 | -4,7 | 32 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 816 | -4,7 | 32 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 1 020 | 5 | 30 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | | 0 | 35 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | | -4.7 | 35 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | | -10 | 33 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | | -15 | 30 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | | -20 | 27 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+
Limits for intermediate levels are found by drawing straight lines between the
breaking points in table 15 on a linear (dB signal level) ‑ linear (dB ratio)
scale.
Compliance of the sending distortion shall be checked by the test described in
TS 26.132.
NOTE 3: It should be ensured that the test signal is treated by speech
processing algorithms as a speech-like signal, and not a noise-like signal.
Test signals with a time-stationary envelope may be treated by certain
algorithms, e.g., noise suppression algorithms defined in 3GPP TS 06.77 R99
[16], as a noise-like signal. If speech processing algorithms, including but
not limited to noise suppression algorithms, are shown to treat the test
signal as a noise-like signal, even where an activation signal has been
utilized, then the test should be repeated with said speech processing
algorithms disabled. The results of both sets of tests and the state of the
processing algorithms should be documented in the test report.
### 6.8.2 Receiving
The receiving part between the SS audio input (input of the reference speech
encoder of the SS) and the applicable acoustic measurement point (DRP with
diffuse-field correction for handset and headset modes; free field correction
for hands-free modes) shall meet the requirements in this clause at the
nominal setting of the volume control (except where another volume setting is
specified):
The ratio of signal to total distortion power measured with the proper noise
weighting (see table 4 of ITU-T Recommendation G.223) shall be above the
limits given in table 16 when the sound pressure at the applicable acoustic
measurement point is \ S-MOS-LQOw
\- The average of S-MOS-LQOw scores across all test conditions shall be ≥ 3.0
\- As a performance objective, the average of the S-MOS-LQOw scores across all
test conditions should be ≥ 3.5
> N-MOS-LQOw
\- The average of the N-MOS-LQOw scores across all test conditions shall be ≥
2.3
\- As a performance objective, the average of N-MOS-LQOw scores across all
test conditions should be ≥ 3.0
> G-MOS-LQOw
\- No requirement.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 6.10.3 Connections with Handheld hands-free UE
It is recommended that the UE meets the following performance objectives:
> S-MOS-LQOw
\- The average of S-MOS-LQOw scores across all five test conditions should be
≥ 3.4
N-MOS-LQOw
\- The average of N-MOS-LQOw scores across all test conditions should be ≥ 2.3
> G-MOS-LQOw
\- No performance objective.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
## 6.11 Delay
### 6.11.0 UE delay definition
For UMTS circuit-switched operation and MTSI-based speech with LTE or WLAN
access, the UE delays in the send and receive directions are defined as:
\- The UE delay in the send (uplink) direction is the delay between the first
acoustic event at the MRP to the last bit of the corresponding speech frame at
the UE antenna
\- The UE delay in the receive (downlink) direction is the delay between the
first bit of a speech frame at the UE antenna and the first acoustic event at
the DRP corresponding to that speech frame
NOTE: In order to harmonize UMTS and LTE delay definitions, the reference
points for UMTS UE delay have been changed in Rel-12. Prior to Rel-12, the UE
reference points for UMTS were implicitly defined by the compensation factors
declared by system simulator vendors, i.e. half of the air interface delay was
attributed to the UE, and the last acoustic event at DRP was used for the
receive measurement instead of the first.
Considering 10ms for half of the transmission time in each direction of a UMTS
call, a speech frame size of 20ms, a codec look-ahead of 5ms, and a difference
between the first and the last acoustic event of 20 ms, the previous reference
points took into account a UE implementation independent delay of 2x10ms + 25
ms + 20 ms = 65 ms. The same UE delay remains in the new definition above,
which attributes the full air interface delay to the UE but uses the first
acoustic event at the DRP, instead of the last (2x20ms + 25 ms + 0 ms = 65
ms). Hence, the UMTS requirements with these new reference points remain the
same.
### 6.11.1 Handset UE
It is in general desirable to minimize UE delays to ensure low enough end-to-
end delays and hence a good conversational experience, guidance is found in
ITU-T Recommendation G.114.
For UMTS circuit-switched AMR-WB speech codec operation, the sum of the UE
delays in sending and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) shall in any case be
≤ 220ms and should be ≤ 185ms.
NOTE: A delay ≤ 185 ms might not be achievable in some cases due to UE
implementation trade-offs between delay and other parameters such as speech
quality enhancement, performance of noise reduction or UE power consumption
optimization, and UE implementation issues such as rebuffering between
components.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in error and jitter free
conditions and AMR-WB speech codec operation, the sum of the UE delays in
sending and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) should be ≤ 150ms. _If this
performance objective cannot be met, the sum of the UE delays_ in sending and
receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) _shall in_ any case be ≤ 190ms.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in conditions with
simulated packet arrival time variations and packet loss and AMR-WB speech
codec operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending and receiving directions
(T~S~ + T~R~) shall be less than or equal to the delay requirements in Table
16a1, while meeting the speech quality targets defined.
NOTE: The UE delay requirements for MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN
access are derived from:
\- A speech frame buffering and codec look-ahead of 25ms.
\- An air interface transmission time of 1ms on receive and 1ms on the send
direction.
\- A budget allowance for a jitter buffer depth of 40ms for error and jitter
free conditions and test conditions 0 and 1 of Table 16a1, and 80ms for test
condition 2 of Table 16a1.
_\- A budget allowance for vendor specific implementation of 83ms
corresponding to the performance objective and 123ms corresponding to the
required maximum UE send and receive delay._
Table 16a1: UE delay and speech quality requirements for LTE and WLAN access
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | Delay and | Performance | R | Speech | | Condition | Loss | Objectives | equirements | Quality | | | Profile | for Maximum | for Maximum | | | | | Delay | Delay | Re | | | (Note 1) | | | quirements\ | | | | | | (Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | Error and | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | No | | | jitter free | ≤ 150ms | ≤ 190ms | r | | | condition | | | equirement, | | | | | | reference | | | | | | score\ | | | | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_20m | ≤ 150ms | ≤ 190ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 190ms | ≤ 230ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and target | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 10%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 3ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | injected at | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | layer of | | | | | | the test | | | | | | system. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | attached | | | | | | ele | | | | | | ctronically | | | | | | to document | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 26.132 | | | | | | [1]. The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles in | | | | | | test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | static | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variation | | | | | | conditions | | | | | | and do not | | | | | | expose the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget as | | | | | | defined for | | | | | | QCI1 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.203 | | | | | | [18]. A | | | | | | third test | | | | | | condition | | | | | | that | | | | | | exposes the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | non | | | | | | -stationary | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | experienced | | | | | | in live | | | | | | operation | | | | | | and packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget for | | | | | | QCI1, and | | | | | | accompanied | | | | | | delay and | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements, | | | | | | is for | | | | | | further | | | | | | study. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | purpose of | | | | | | this test | | | | | | is to | | | | | | provide a | | | | | | relative | | | | | | comparison | | | | | | of the | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | between the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | and test | | | | | | conditions. | | | | | | This test | | | | | | is not to | | | | | | be | | | | | | construed | | | | | | as a method | | | | | | to evaluate | | | | | | the | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality of | | | | | | the device. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 6.11.2 Headset UE
#### 6.11.2.1 Wired headset
It is in general desirable to minimize UE delays to ensure low enough end-to-
end delays and hence a good conversational experience, guidance is found in
ITU-T Recommendation G.114.
For UMTS circuit-switched AMR-WB speech codec operation, the sum of the UE
delays in sending and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) shall in any case be
≤ 220ms and should be ≤ 185ms.
NOTE: A delay ≤ 185 ms might not be achievable in some cases due to UE
implementation trade-offs between delay and other parameters such as speech
quality enhancement, performance of noise reduction or UE power consumption
optimization, and UE implementation issues such as rebuffering between
components.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in error and jitter free
conditions and AMR-WB speech codec operation, the sum of the UE delays in
sending and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) should be ≤ 150ms. _If this
performance objective cannot be met, the sum of the UE delays_ in sending and
receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) _shall in_ any case be ≤ 190ms.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in conditions with
simulated packet arrival time variations and packet loss and AMR-WB speech
codec operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending and receiving directions
(T~S~ + T~R~) shall be less than or equal to the delay requirements in Table
16a2, while meeting the speech quality targets defined.
NOTE: The UE delay requirements for MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN
access are derived from:
\- A speech frame buffering and codec look-ahead of 25ms.
\- An air interface transmission time of 1ms on receive and 1ms on the send
direction.
\- A budget allowance for a jitter buffer depth of 40ms for error and jitter
free conditions and test conditions 0 and 1 of Table 16a2, and 80ms for test
condition 2 of Table 16a2.
_\- A budget allowance for vendor specific implementation of 83ms
corresponding to the performance objective and 123ms corresponding to the
required maximum UE send and receive delay._
Table 16a2: UE delay and speech quality requirements for LTE and WLAN access
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | Delay and | Performance | R | Speech | | Condition | Loss | Objectives | equirements | Quality | | | Profile | for Maximum | for Maximum | | | | | Delay | Delay | Re | | | (Note 1) | | | quirements\ | | | | | | (Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | Error and | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | No | | | jitter free | ≤ 150ms | ≤ 190ms | r | | | condition | | | equirement, | | | | | | reference | | | | | | score\ | | | | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_20m | ≤ 150ms | ≤ 190ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 190ms | ≤ 230ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and target | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 10%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 3ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | injected at | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | layer of | | | | | | the test | | | | | | system. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | attached | | | | | | ele | | | | | | ctronically | | | | | | to document | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 26.132 | | | | | | [1]. The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles in | | | | | | test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | static | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variation | | | | | | conditions | | | | | | and do not | | | | | | expose the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget as | | | | | | defined for | | | | | | QCI1 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.203 | | | | | | [18]. A | | | | | | third test | | | | | | condition | | | | | | that | | | | | | exposes the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | non | | | | | | -stationary | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | experienced | | | | | | in live | | | | | | operation | | | | | | and packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget for | | | | | | QCI1, and | | | | | | accompanied | | | | | | delay and | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements, | | | | | | is for | | | | | | further | | | | | | study. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | purpose of | | | | | | this test | | | | | | is to | | | | | | provide a | | | | | | relative | | | | | | comparison | | | | | | of the | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | between the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | and test | | | | | | conditions. | | | | | | This test | | | | | | is not to | | | | | | be | | | | | | construed | | | | | | as a method | | | | | | to evaluate | | | | | | the | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality of | | | | | | the device. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
#### 6.11.2.2 Wireless headset
For further study.
## 6.12 Echo control characteristics
Echo cancellation is commonly deployed in the UE to fulfil the Acoustic echo
control requirements. Echo cancellers are complex devices of which the
subjective performance is affected by several attributes. The main attribute
is its ability to suppress echo. The process of suppressing the echo may
introduce impairments to the near-end speech signal, mainly manifested as
distortion or clipping of the near-end signal during simultaneous speech from
both the far and near-end (\"double-talk\").
To characterise the echo control performance, the activity (in % of total
time) and averaged level difference (in dB) of the duration of any level
difference according to Figure 14b and Table 16b between the clean near-end
signal and the send-signal shall be reported for \"double-talk\" as well as
the far-end single talk periods adjacent to the \"double-talk\".
NOTE: The limits for specifying the categories in Figure 14b and Table 16b are
provisional pending further analysis and validation.
NOTE: The categories in Figure 14b and Table 16b are labelled in a functional
order and the subjective impression of the respective categories is for
further study.
All percentage values and averaged level differences described in the relevant
test of 3GPP TS 26.132 shall be reported.
Figure 14b: Classification of echo canceller performance
Table 16b: Categories for echo canceller performance classification
* * *
Category Description **A1** Full-duplex and full transparency **A2** Full-
duplex with level loss in Tx **B** Very short clipping **C** Short clipping
resulting in loss of syllables **D** Clipping resulting in loss of words **E**
Very short residual echo **F** Echo bursts **G** Continuous echo
* * *
### 6.12.1 Handset
Requirements are for further study.
### 6.12.2 Headset
Requirements are for further study.
### 6.12.3 Handheld hands-free
Requirements are for further study.
### 6.12.4 Desktop and vehicle mounted hands-free
Requirements are for further study.
## 6.13 Clock accuracy
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access, the clock skew in send
direction between the device under test and the reference client should be
less than 50 PPM (in absolute value) in error-free conditions.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 6.14 Jitter buffer management behaviour
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access, a jitter buffer is used in
receiving to handle the variation in packet receiver timing (see clause 8 of
TS 26.114 [17]).
If the jitter buffer management (JBM) behaviour is evaluated, the following
statistics shall be reported for conditions specified in TS 26.132:
\- Delay histogram (on a per sentence basis)
\- Quality loss histogram (on a per sentence pair basis)
and all measured delay and quality loss values for these conditions shall be
reported as a function of measurement time, together with minimum and maximum
values.
The relevant test is described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
# 7 Super-wideband telephony transmission performance
## 7.1 Applicability
The performance requirements in this clause shall apply when a UE is used to
provide super-wideband telephony, either as a stand-alone service, or as part
of a multimedia service. The requirements in the clause apply only when the
far-end terminal is also providing super-wideband telephony. When a super-
wideband-enabled terminal is providing narrowband telephony, the requirements
in clause 5, 'narrowband telephony transmission performance' shall apply. When
a super-wideband-enabled terminal is providing wideband telephony, the
requirements in clause 6, 'Wideband telephony transmission performance' shall
apply.
## 7.2 Overall loss/loudness ratings
### 7.2.1 General
An international connection involving a 3G, LTE or WLAN network and the PSTN
should meet the overall loudness rating (OLR) limits in ITU-T Recommendation
G.111 [4]. The national parts of the connection should therefore meet the send
and receive loudness rating (SLR, RLR) limits in ITU-T Recommendation G.121
[5].
For the case where digital routings are used to connect the 3G, LTE or WLAN
network to the international chain of circuits, the SLR and RLR of the
national extension will be largely determined by the SLR and RLR of the 3G,
LTE or WLAN network. The limits given below are consistent with the national
extension limits and long term objectives in ITU-T Recommendation G.121 [5].
The SLR and RLR values for the 3G, LTE or WLAN network apply up to the POI.
However, the main determining factors are the characteristics of the UE,
including the analogue to digital conversion (ADC) and digital to analogue
conversion (DAC). In practice, it is convenient to specify loudness ratings to
the Air Interface. For the normal case, where the 3G, LTE or WLAN network
introduces no additional loss between the Air Interface and the POI, the
loudness ratings to the PSTN boundary (POI) will be the same as the loudness
ratings measured at the Air Interface. However, in some cases loss adjustment
may be needed for interworking situations in individual countries.
### 7.2.2 Connections with handset UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to the POI shall be:
SLR = 8 ± 3 dB;
RLR = 2 ± 3 dB.
Where a user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, the RLR shall
meet the nominal value for at least one setting of the control. When the
control is set to maximum, the RLR shall not be ≤ (equal or louder than) -13
dB and shall not be ≥ (equal or quieter than) ‑3 dB.
With the volume control set to the minimum position the RLR shall not be ≥
(equal or quieter than) 18 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 7.2.2a Connections with handset UE in the presence of background noise
In the presence of background noise, the RLR at maximum volume control shall
not be ≤ (equal or louder than) ‑13 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 7.2.3 Connections with desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 13 ± 4 dB;
RLR = 2 ± 4 dB (for vehicle-mounted hands-free UE);
RLR = 5 ± 4 dB (for desktop hands-free UE).
1\. For a vehicle-mounted hands-free UE:\ Where a user-controlled volume
control is provided, the RLR shall meet the nominal value for at least one
setting of the control. It is recommended that a volume control giving at
least 15 dB increase from the nominal RLR (louder) is provided for hands-free
units intended to work in the vehicle environment. This is to allow for the
increased acoustic noise level in a moving vehicle.\ RLR at the maximum volume
control setting should be ≤ (equal or louder than) -2 dB.
2\. For a desktop hands-free UE:\ Where a user-controlled volume control is
provided, the RLR shall meet the nominal value for at least one setting of the
control. It is recommended that a volume control giving at least 15 dB
increase from the nominal RLR (louder) is provided for hands-free units. This
is to allow for increased acoustic noise level in the usage environment.\ RLR
at the maximum volume control setting should ≤ (equal or louder than) 1 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
NOTE: The target value for nominal RLR, as recommended in ITU-T G.111 Annex B
-- Table B.1 [4], lies between 1 and 3 dB. The higher RLR requirement of 5 dB
for desktop hands-free is appreciative of the limitations in transducer output
with current typical form factors.
### 7.2.4 Connections with hand-held hands-free UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 13 ± 4 dB;
RLR = 9 +9/-7 dB.
Where a user-controlled volume control is provided, the RLR shall meet the
nominal value for at least one setting of the control.
The value of RLR at the maximum volume control shall be ≤ (equal or louder
than) 12 dB. As a performance objective it is recommended that the RLR at the
maximum volume control setting is ≤ (equal or louder than) 2 dB.
Where a user-controlled volume control is provided, the RLR shall meet the
nominal value for at least one setting of the control. It is recommended that
a volume control range ≥ 15 dB be provided.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 7.2.5 Connections with headset UE
The SLR and RLR should be measured and computed using methods given in ITU-T
Recommendation P.380 [9]. This Recommendation currently gives a measuring
technique for supra-aural earphone and insert type receivers. Study is
continuing on other types of ear-pieces in ITU-T Study Group 12.
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 8 ± 3 dB;
RLR = 2 ± 3 dB;
RLR (binaural headset) = 8 ± 3 dB for each earphone.
Where a user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, the RLR shall
meet the nominal value for at least one setting of the control. When the
control is set to maximum, the RLR shall not be ≤ (equal or louder than) -13
dB.
With the volume control set to the minimum position the RLR shall not be ≥
(equal or quieter than) 18 dB and shall not be ≥ (equal or quieter than) 24 dB
for a binaural headset.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 7.2.5a Connections with headset UE in the presence of background noise
In the presence of background noise, the RLR at maximum volume control shall
not be ≤ (equal or louder than) ‑13 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
## 7.3 Idle channel noise (handset and headset UE)
### 7.3.1 Sending
The maximum noise level produced by the apparatus at the output of the SS
under silent conditions in the sending direction shall not exceed -64 dBm0(A).
NOTE 1: This level includes the eventual noise contribution of an acoustic
echo canceller under the condition that no signal is received.
NOTE 2: This figure applies to the total noise level with A-weighting. It is
recommended that the level of single frequency disturbances should be ≤ -74
dBm0(A) in the frequency range from 100 Hz to 16 kHz.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 7.3.2 Receiving
The maximum (acoustic) noise level at the handset and headset UE when no
signal is transmitted to the input of the SS shall be as follows:
\- If no user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, or, if it is
provided, at the setting of the user-controlled receiving volume control at
which the RLR is equal to the nominal value, the noise measured at the DRP
with diffuse-field correction contributed by the receiving equipment alone
shall not exceed -57 dBPa(A).
\- Where a volume control is provided, the measured noise shall be ≤ -54
dBPa(A) at the maximum setting of the volume control.
For the nominal volume control setting, the level of single frequency
disturbances shall be ≤ ‑60 dBPa(A) in the frequency range from 100 Hz to 16
kHz. As a performance objective it is recommended that the level should be ≤
‑64 dBPa(A).
NOTE: In a connection with the PSTN, noise conditions as described in ITU-T
Recommendation G.103 [3] can be expected at the input (POI) of the 3G, LTE or
WLAN network. The characteristics of this noise may be influenced by the
speech transcoding process (for further study).
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 7.4 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
### 7.4.0 General
It is recommended for all configurations (handset, headset etc) to have a flat
sending frequency response in super-wideband mode.
Tolerance masks apply to the center frequencies of the fractional octave bands
specified for the respective tests in TS 26.132.
### 7.4.1 Handset and headset UE sending
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the mouth
reference point (MRP) to the digital interface or from the MRP to the SS audio
output (digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS), shall be
within a mask, which can be drawn between the points given in table 17.
The masks are drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in the
tables on a logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 17: Handset and headset sending sensitivity/frequency requirement mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit (dB) Lower limit (dB) 100 4  
200 4 -4 5000 4 -4 12500 4 -6 16000 4  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
Table 18: Void
{width="6.700694444444444in" height="3.4402777777777778in"}
Figure 15: Handset and headset sending sensitivity/frequency masks. The
frequency response of the EVS codec operating as specified in TS 26.132
(super-wideband 24,4kbit/s, using the specified P.501 speech test signal), is
plotted for reference, normalized to 0dB at 1kHz.
A UE operating in super-wideband mode shall pass the super-wideband
requirements (i.e. when measured according to in 1/3rd octaves) as specified
in Table 17, and shall also pass the wideband sensitivity/frequency
characteristics requirements in the wideband range using the wideband
measurement (i.e. measured in 1/12th octaves) as specified in Table 9.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 7.4.2 Handset and headset UE receiving
#### 7.4.2.1 Handset UE receiving
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the digital
interface to the DRP with diffuse-field correction or from the SS audio input
(analogue or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the
DRP with diffuse-field correction, shall be within a mask, which can be drawn
with straight lines between the breaking points in table 19 on a logarithmic
(frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 19: Handset receiving sensitivity/frequency requirement mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit (dB) Lower limit (dB) 100 5  
200 5 -8 250 5 -5 5000 5 -5 12500 5 -11 16000 5  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
It is desired as a performance objective that the receiving
sensitivity/frequency response be within the mask which can be drawn with
straight lines between the breaking points in table 20.
Table 20: Handset receiving sensitivity/frequency performance objective mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit (dB) Lower limit (dB) 100 4  
200 4 -4 250 4 -4 5000 4 -4 12500 4 -7 16000 4  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
{width="6.700694444444444in" height="3.9805555555555556in"}
**Figure 16: Handset receiving sensitivity/frequency masks. The frequency
response of the EVS codec operating as specified in TS 26.132 (super-wideband
24,4kbit/s, using the specified P.501 speech test signal), is plotted for
reference, normalized to 0dB at 1kHz.**
A UE operating in super-wideband mode shall pass the super-wideband
requirements (i.e. when measured according to in 1/3rd octaves) as specified
in Table 19, and shall also pass the wideband sensitivity/frequency
characteristics requirements in the wideband range using the wideband
measurement (i.e. measured in 1/12th octaves) as specified in Table 10.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
#### 7.4.2.2 Headset UE receiving
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the digital
interface to the DRP with diffuse-field correction or from the SS audio input
(analogue or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the
DRP with diffuse-field correction, shall be within a mask, which can be drawn
with straight lines between the breaking points in table 21 on a logarithmic
(frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 21: Headset receiving sensitivity/frequency requirement mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit (dB) Lower limit (dB) 100 [TBD] [TBD] 200  
250  
5000  
12500  
16000  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
It is recommended as a performance objective that the receiving
sensitivity/frequency response be within the mask which can be drawn with
straight lines between the breaking points in table 22.
Table 22: Headset receiving sensitivity/frequency performance objective mask
+------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Upper limit (dB) | Lower limit (dB) | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 100 | [3] | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 200 | [3] | [-6] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 250 | [3] | [-3] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 5000 | [3] | [-3] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 12500 | [3] | [-6] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 16000 | [3] | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: All sensitivity | | | | values are expressed in dB | | | | on an arbitrary scale. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Values within [] | | | | are provisional and expected | | | | to be confirmed, revised or | | | | removed based on future | | | | studies. | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+
**TBD**
**Figure 17: Headset receiving sensitivity/frequency masks**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 7.4.3 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE sending
The sending sensitivity frequency response from the MRP to the SS audio output
(digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS) shall be as
follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which can
be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 23 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 23: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency
mask
+------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Upper limit (dB) | Lower limit (dB) | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 100 | [3...5] | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 200 | [3...5] | [-3...-5] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 5000 | [3...5] | [-3...-5] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 12500 | [3...5] | [-5...-7] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 16000 | [3...5] | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: All sensitivity | | | | values are expressed in dB | | | | on an arbitrary scale. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Values within [] | | | | are provisional and expected | | | | to be defined as single | | | | values based on future | | | | studies. | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+
It is recommended as a performance objective that the sending
sensitivity/frequency response be within the mask which can be drawn with
straight lines between the breaking points in table 24.
Table 24: Handset and headset sending sensitivity/frequency performance
objective mask
+------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Upper limit (dB) | Lower limit (dB) | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 100 | [3] | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 200 | [3] | [-3] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 5000 | [3] | [-3] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 12500 | [3] | [-5] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 16000 | [3] | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: All sensitivity | | | | values are expressed in dB | | | | on an arbitrary scale. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Values within [] | | | | are provisional and expected | | | | to be confirmed, revised or | | | | removed based on future | | | | studies. | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+
TBD
**Figure 18: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free sending
sensitivity/frequency masks**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 7.4.4 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE receiving
The receiving sensitivity frequency response from the SS audio input (analogue
or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the free-field
shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which
can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 25 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 25: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free receiving
sensitivity/frequency mask
+------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | Frequency | Upper limit (dB) | Lower limit (dB) | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | NOTE: The limits for | | | | intermediate frequencies lie | | | | on a straight line drawn | | | | between the given values on | | | | a linear (dB) - logarithmic | | | | (Hz) scale. | | | | | | | | All sensitivity values are | | | | expressed in dB on an | | | | arbitrary scale. | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+
It is recommended as a performance objective that the receiving sensitivity
frequency response be within the mask which can be drawn with straight lines
between the breaking points in table 26 on a logarithmic (frequency) - linear
(dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 26: Performance objective for desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free
receiving sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit (dB) Lower limit (dB) TBD TBD TBD
* * *
TBD
**Figure 19: Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free receiving
sensitivity/frequency masks**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 7.4.5 Hand-held hands-free UE sending
The sending sensitivity frequency response from the MRP to the SS audio output
(digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS) shall be as
follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which can
be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 27 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 27: Hand-held hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency mask
+------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Upper limit (dB) | Lower limit (dB) | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 100 | [3...5] | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 200 | [3...5] | [-3...-5] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 5000 | [3...5] | [-3...-5] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 12500 | [3...5] | [-5...-7] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 16000 | [3...5] | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: All sensitivity | | | | values are expressed in dB | | | | on an arbitrary scale. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Values within [] | | | | are provisional and expected | | | | to be defined as single | | | | values based on future | | | | studies. | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+
It is recommended as a performance objective that the sending
sensitivity/frequency response be within the mask which can be drawn with
straight lines between the breaking points in table 28.
Table 28: Hand-held hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency performance
objective mask
+------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Upper limit (dB) | Lower limit (dB) | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 100 | [3] | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 200 | [3] | [-3] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 5000 | [3] | [-3] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 12500 | [3] | [-5] | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 16000 | [3] | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: All sensitivity | | | | values are expressed in dB | | | | on an arbitrary scale. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Values within [] | | | | are provisional and expected | | | | to be confirmed, revised, or | | | | removed, based on future | | | | studies. | | | +------------------------------+------------------+------------------+
TBD
**Figure 20: Hand-held hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency masks**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 7.4.6 Hand-held hands-free UE receiving
The receiving sensitivity frequency response from the SS audio input (analogue
or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the free-field
shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which
can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 29 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 29: Hand-held hands-free receiving sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit (dB) Lower limit (dB) TBD TBD TBD
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
TBD
It is recommended as a performance requirement that the receiving sensitivity
frequency response be within the mask which can be drawn with straight lines
between the breaking points in table 30 on a logarithmic (frequency) - linear
(dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 30: Performance objective for hand-held hands-free receiving
sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit (dB) Lower limit (dB) TBD TBD TBD
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
TBD
**Figure 21: Hand-held hands-free receiving sensitivity/frequency masks**
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.]
## 7.5 Sidetone characteristics (handset and headset UE)
### 7.5.1 Sidetone loss
The talker sidetone masking rating (STMR) shall be ≥ 15 dB and should be ≤ 23
dB for the nominal setting of the volume control. For all other positions of
the volume control, the STMR shall be ≥ 10 dB.
In case the STMR is below the lower limit also when the electrical sidetone
path has been disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
NOTE 1: Where a user-controlled receiving volume control is provided, it is
recommended that the sidetone loss is independent of the volume control
setting.
NOTE 2: In general, it is recommended to provide a terminal sidetone path for
handset and headset UEs.
NOTE 3: In case the human air-conducted sidetone paths are obstructed (one
example being some binaural insert type headset UEs), it is important to
provide a terminal sidetone path.
NOTE 4: The STMR calculation algorithm being used was developed for
quantifying the audibility of the electrical sidetone path using a sealed
coupler. The air-conducted path was not intended to be included in the test
setup. A lower STMR limit was specified to avoid annoying effects (e.g.
howling, increase of ambient noise level in the ear) of an excessive
electrical sidetone. In HATS-based measurements, the air-conducted path cannot
be avoided in the test setup. With some UE form factors the air-conducted path
can be substantial resulting in low STMR figures also when there are no
annoying effects from any excessive electrical sidetone. See ITU-T
Recommendation P.76 for definitions of sidetone paths.
### 7.5.2 Sidetone delay
The maximum sidetone delay shall be ≤ 5 ms, measured in an echo-free setup.
NOTE: The measured result is only applicable where the level of the electrical
sidetone is sufficiently high to be measured. While the STMR value may
indicate the presence of sidetone it should be ensured that this is not
primarily due to the acoustical or mechanical sidetone path when interpreting
sidetone delay results.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 7.6 Stability loss
The stability loss presented to the PSTN by the 3G, LTE or WLAN network at the
POI should meet the principles of the requirements in clauses 2 and 3 of ITU-T
Recommendation G.122 [6]. These requirements will be met if the attenuation
between the digital input and digital output at the POI is ≥ 6 dB at all
frequencies in the range 100 Hz to 16 kHz under the worst case acoustic
conditions at the UE (any acoustic echo control should be enabled). For the
normal case of digital connection between the Air Interface and the POI, the
stability requirement can be applied at the Air Interface.
The worst case acoustic conditions will be as follows (with volume control set
to maximum for each following condition):
> **Handset UE:** the handset lying on, and the transducers facing, a hard
> surface with the ear-piece uncapped;
>
> **Headset UE:** for further study;
>
> **Hands-free UE:** no requirement other than echo loss.
NOTE: The test procedure must take into account the switching effects of echo
control and discontinuous transmission (DTX) if applicable.
## 7.7 Acoustic echo control
### 7.7.1 General
The echo loss (EL) presented by the 3G, LTE or WLAN network at the POI should
be sufficient during single-talk. This takes into account the fact that the UE
is likely to be used in connections with high transmission delay and in a wide
range of noise environments.
The use of acoustic echo control is not mandated for 3G, LTE or WLAN networks
and the connection between the UE and the POI is zero loss. Therefore the
acoustic echo control provided in the UE should provide a sufficient TCLw at
the POI over the likely range of acoustic end delays.
If acoustic echo control is provided by voice switching, comfort noise should
be injected. This comfort noise shall operate in the same way as that used in
DTX.
### 7.7.2 Acoustic echo control in desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
The TCLw for the desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE shall be ≥ 40 dB
for any setting of the volume control.
The TCLw for the desktop hands-free and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE shall be
≥ 46 dB when measured under free-field conditions at the nominal setting of
the volume control.
NOTE: A TCLw for desktop hands-free and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE of ≥ 55
dB is recommended as a performance objective when measured under free-field
conditions at the nominal setting of the volume control. Depending on the UE
idle channel noise in the sending direction, it may not always be possible to
measure an echo loss ≥ 55 dB.
The echo canceller should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation
and dispersion. In the case of the hands-free UE, this reverberation and
dispersion may be time variant. Compliance with this requirement shall be
checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 7.7.3 Acoustic echo control in hand-held hands-free UE
The TCLw for hand-held hands-free UE shall be ≥ 40 dB for any setting of the
volume control.
The TCLw for hand-held hands-free UE shall be ≥ 46 dB at the nominal setting
of the volume control.
NOTE: A TCLw for the hand-held hands-free UE of ≥ 55 dB is recommended as a
performance objective when measured under free-field conditions at the nominal
setting of the volume control. Depending on the UE idle channel noise in the
sending direction, it may not always be possible to measure an echo loss ≥ 55
dB.
The echo canceller should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation
and dispersion. In the case of the hands-free UE, this reverberation and
dispersion may be time variant. Compliance with this requirement shall be
checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 7.7.4 Acoustic echo control in a handset UE
The TCLw for handset UE shall be ≥ 46 dB for any setting of the volume
control.
The TCLw for handset UE should be ≥ 55 dB at the nominal setting of the volume
control.
With the volume control set to maximum TCLw should be ≥55 dB.
It is recommended that the volume control should be set back to nominal after
each call unless TCLw ≥ 55 dB can also be maintained with the maximum volume
setting.
NOTE. Depending on the UE idle channel noise in the sending direction, it may
not always be possible to measure an echo loss ≥ 55 dB.
The echo canceller should be capable of dealing with the variations in handset
positions when in normal use. The implications of this are under study.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
### 7.7.5 Acoustic echo control in a headset UE
The TCLw for headset UE shall be ≥ 46 dB for any setting of the volume
control.
The TCLw for headset UE shall be ≥ 55 dB at the nominal setting of the volume
control.
The volume control shall be set back to nominal after each call unless a TCLw
≥ 55 dB can also be maintained with the maximum volume setting.
NOTE: Depending on the UE idle channel noise in the sending direction, it may
not always be possible to measure an echo loss ≥ 55 dB.
Due to the obstacle effect of the head in this type of terminal, careful
design might mean that no active echo control is necessary.
The echo cancellation algorithm should be designed to cope with the expected
reverberation and dispersion.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
## 7.8 Distortion
### 7.8.1 Sending distortion
The sending part shall meet the following distortion requirements:
NOTE 1: Digital signal processing other than the transcoder itself is included
in this requirement (e.g., echo cancelling).
Distortion shall be measured between the MRP and the SS audio output (output
of the reference speech decoder of the SS). The ratio of signal‑to‑total
distortion power measured with the proper noise weighting (see table 4 of
ITU‑T Recommendation G.223) shall be above the limits given in table 31.
NOTE 2: Frequencies from 315 Hz to 816 Hz do not apply to the hands-free UE
case, but only to handset and headset UE.
Table 31: Limits for signal‑to‑total distortion ratio
+----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Sending level | Sending Ratio (dB) | | | | | | | (dBPa at the MRP) | | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 315 | -4,7 | 28 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 408 | -4,7 | 32 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 510 | -4,7 | 32 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 816 | -4,7 | 32 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 1 020 | 5 | 30 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | | 0 | 35 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | | -4.7 | 35 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | | -10 | 33 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | | -15 | 30 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+ | | -20 | 27 | +----------------+-------------------+--------------------+
Limits for intermediate levels are found by drawing straight lines between the
breaking points in table 31 on a linear (dB signal level) ‑ linear (dB ratio)
scale.
Compliance of the sending distortion shall be checked by the test described in
TS 26.132.
NOTE 3: It should be ensured that the test signal is treated by speech
processing algorithms as a speech-like signal, and not a noise-like signal.
Test signals with a time-stationary envelope may be treated by certain
algorithms, e.g., noise suppression algorithms defined in 3GPP TS 06.77 R99
[16], as a noise-like signal. If speech processing algorithms, including but
not limited to noise suppression algorithms, are shown to treat the test
signal as a noise-like signal, even where an activation signal has been
utilized, then the test should be repeated with said speech processing
algorithms disabled. The results of both sets of tests and the state of the
processing algorithms should be documented in the test report.
### 7.8.2 Receiving
The receiving part between the SS audio input (input of the reference speech
encoder of the SS) and the applicable acoustic measurement point (DRP with
diffuse-field correction for handset and headset modes; free field correction
for hands-free modes) shall meet the requirements in this sub-clause at the
nominal setting of the volume control (except where another volume setting is
specified):
The ratio of signal‑to‑total distortion power measured with the proper noise
weighting (see table 4 of ITU-T Recommendation G.223) shall be above the
limits given in table 32 when the sound pressure at the applicable acoustic
measurement point is \ S-MOS-LQO~fb~
\- The average of S-MOS-LQO~fb~ scores across all test conditions shall be ≥
3.7
\- As a performance objective, the average of the S-MOS-LQO~fb~ scores across
all test conditions should be ≥ 3.9
> N-MOS-LQO~fb~
\- The average of the N-MOS-LQO~fb~ scores across all test conditions shall be
≥ 2.7
\- As a performance objective, the average of N-MOS-LQO~fb~ scores across all
test conditions should be ≥ 3.3
> G-MOS-LQO~fb~
\- No requirement.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 7.10.3 Connections with Handheld hands-free UE
It is recommended that the UE meets the following performance objectives:
> S-MOS-LQO~fb~
\- The average of S-MOS-LQO~fb~ scores across all five test conditions should
be ≥ 3.4
N-MOS-LQO~fb~
\- The average of N-MOS-LQO~fb~ scores across all test conditions should be ≥
2.3
> G-MOS-LQO~fb~
\- No performance objective.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
## 7.11 Delay
### 7.11.0 UE delay definition
For MTSI-based speech with LTE or WLAN access, the UE delays in the send and
receive directions are defined as:
\- The UE delay in the send (uplink) direction is the delay between the first
acoustic event at the MRP to the last bit of the corresponding speech frame at
the UE antenna
\- The UE delay in the receive (downlink) direction is the delay between the
first bit of a speech frame at the UE antenna and the first acoustic event at
the DRP corresponding to that speech frame
### 7.11.1 Handset UE
It is in general desirable to minimize UE delays to ensure low enough end-to-
end delays and hence a good conversational experience, guidance is found in
ITU-T Recommendation G.114.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in error and jitter free
conditions and EVS speech codec operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending
and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) should be ≤ 157ms. _If this performance
objective cannot be met, the sum of the UE delays_ in sending and receiving
directions (T~S~ + T~R~) _shall in_ any case be ≤ 197ms.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in conditions with
simulated packet arrival time variations and packet loss and EVS speech codec
operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending and receiving directions (T~S~
+ T~R~) shall be less than or equal to the delay requirements in Table 32a1,
while meeting the speech quality targets defined.
NOTE: The UE delay requirements for MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN
access are derived from:
\- A codec algorithmic delay of 32ms including speech frame buffering and
encoder lookahead.
\- An air interface transmission time of 1ms on receive and 1ms on the send
direction.
\- A budget allowance for a jitter buffer depth of 40ms for error and jitter
free conditions and test conditions 0 and 1 of Table 32a1, and 80ms for test
condition 2 and 3 of Table 32a1. This budget is also applied in Table 32b1
(when testing in EVS 13.2 kbit/s channel-aware mode).
\- A budget allowance for vendor specific implementation of 83ms corresponding
to the performance objective and 123ms corresponding to the required maximum
UE send and receive delay.
Table 32a1: UE delay and speech quality requirements for LTE and WLAN access
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | Delay and | Performance | R | Speech | | Condition | Loss | Objectives | equirements | Quality | | | Profile | for Maximum | for Maximum | | | | | Delay | Delay | Re | | | (Note 1) | | | quirements\ | | | | | | (Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | Error and | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | No | | | jitter free | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | r | | | condition | | | equirement, | | | | | | reference | | | | | | score\ | | | | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_20m | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 197ms | ≤ 237ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 197ms | ≤ 237ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_22pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | -- 1.0 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and initial | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 10%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 3ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profile for | | | | | | test | | | | | | condition 3 | | | | | | is | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and initial | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 22%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 6ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | injected at | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | layer of | | | | | | the test | | | | | | system. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | attached | | | | | | ele | | | | | | ctronically | | | | | | to document | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 26.132 | | | | | | [1]. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | purpose of | | | | | | this test | | | | | | is to | | | | | | provide a | | | | | | relative | | | | | | comparison | | | | | | of the | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | between the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | and test | | | | | | conditions. | | | | | | This test | | | | | | is not to | | | | | | be | | | | | | construed | | | | | | as a method | | | | | | to evaluate | | | | | | the | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality of | | | | | | the device. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
When tested in EVS 13.2kbit/s channel aware mode, the UE shall meet the
additional requirements in Table 32b1:
Table 32b1: UE delay and speech quality requirements for LTE and WLAN access
when tested in EVS 13.2kbit/s channel aware mode
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | Delay and | Performance | R | Speech | | Condition | Loss | Objectives | equirements | Quality | | | Profile | for Maximum | for Maximum | | | | | Delay | Delay | Re | | | (Note 1) | | | quirements\ | | | | | | (Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | Error and | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | No | | | jitter free | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | r | | | condition | | | equirement, | | | | | | reference | | | | | | score\ | | | | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_20m | ≤ [157]ms | ≤ 197ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ [197]ms | ≤ 237ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ [197]ms | ≤ 237ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_22pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and initial | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 10%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 3ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 3 | | | | | | is | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and initial | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 22%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 6ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | injected at | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | layer of | | | | | | the test | | | | | | system. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | attached | | | | | | ele | | | | | | ctronically | | | | | | to document | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 26.132 | | | | | | [1]. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | purpose of | | | | | | this test | | | | | | is to | | | | | | provide a | | | | | | relative | | | | | | comparison | | | | | | of the | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | between the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | and test | | | | | | conditions. | | | | | | This test | | | | | | is not to | | | | | | be | | | | | | construed | | | | | | as a method | | | | | | to evaluate | | | | | | the | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality of | | | | | | the device. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 7.11.2 Headset UE
#### 7.11.2.1 Wired headset
It is in general desirable to minimize UE delays to ensure low enough end-to-
end delays and hence a good conversational experience, guidance is found in
ITU-T Recommendation G.114.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in error and jitter free
conditions and EVS speech codec operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending
and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) should be ≤ 157ms. _If this performance
objective cannot be met, the sum of the UE delays_ in sending and receiving
directions (T~S~ + T~R~) _shall in_ any case be ≤ 197ms.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in conditions with
simulated packet arrival time variations and packet loss and EVS speech codec
operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending and receiving directions (T~S~
+ T~R~) shall be less than or equal to the delay requirements in Table 32a2,
while meeting the speech quality targets defined.
NOTE: The UE delay requirements for MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN
access are derived from:
\- A codec algorithmic delay of 32ms including speech frame buffering and
encoder lookahead.
\- An air interface transmission time of 1ms on receive and 1ms on the send
direction.
\- A budget allowance for a jitter buffer depth of 40ms for error and jitter
free conditions and test conditions 0 and 1 of Table 32a2, and 80ms for test
condition 2 and 3 of Table 32a2. This budget is also applied in Table 32b2
(when testing in EVS 13.2 kbit/s channel-aware mode).
_\- A budget allowance for vendor specific implementation of 83ms
corresponding to the performance objective and 123ms corresponding to the
required maximum UE send and receive delay._
Table 32a2: UE delay and speech quality requirements for LTE and WLAN access
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | Delay and | Performance | R | Speech | | Condition | Loss | Objectives | equirements | Quality | | | Profile | for Maximum | for Maximum | | | | | Delay | Delay | Re | | | (Note 1) | | | quirements\ | | | | | | (Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | Error and | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | No | | | jitter free | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | r | | | condition | | | equirement, | | | | | | reference | | | | | | score\ | | | | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_20m | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 197ms | ≤ 237ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 197ms | ≤ 237ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_22pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | -- 1.0 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and initial | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 10%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 3ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profile for | | | | | | test | | | | | | condition 3 | | | | | | is | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and initial | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 22%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 6ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | injected at | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | layer of | | | | | | the test | | | | | | system. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | attached | | | | | | ele | | | | | | ctronically | | | | | | to document | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 26.132 | | | | | | [1]. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | purpose of | | | | | | this test | | | | | | is to | | | | | | provide a | | | | | | relative | | | | | | comparison | | | | | | of the | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | between the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | and test | | | | | | conditions. | | | | | | This test | | | | | | is not to | | | | | | be | | | | | | construed | | | | | | as a method | | | | | | to evaluate | | | | | | the | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality of | | | | | | the device. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
When tested in EVS 13.2kbit/s channel aware mode, the UE shall meet the
additional requirements in Table 32b2.
Table 32b2: UE delay and speech quality requirements for LTE and WLAN access
when tested in EVS 13.2kbit/s channel aware mode
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | Delay and | Performance | R | Speech | | Condition | Loss | Objectives | equirements | Quality | | | Profile | for Maximum | for Maximum | | | | | Delay | Delay | Re | | | (Note 1) | | | quirements\ | | | | | | (Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | Error and | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | No | | | jitter free | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | r | | | condition | | | equirement, | | | | | | reference | | | | | | score\ | | | | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_20m | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 197ms | ≤ 237ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_10pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | MO | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 197ms | ≤ 237ms | S-LQO~TEST~ | | | sDRX_22pct | | | ≥\ | | | _BLER_e2e | | | M | | | | | | OS-LQO~REF~ | | | | | | - 0.5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and initial | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 10%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 3ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 3 | | | | | | is | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and initial | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 22%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 6ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | injected at | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | layer of | | | | | | the test | | | | | | system. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | attached | | | | | | ele | | | | | | ctronically | | | | | | to document | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 26.132 | | | | | | [1]. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | purpose of | | | | | | this test | | | | | | is to | | | | | | provide a | | | | | | relative | | | | | | comparison | | | | | | of the | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | between the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | and test | | | | | | conditions. | | | | | | This test | | | | | | is not to | | | | | | be | | | | | | construed | | | | | | as a method | | | | | | to evaluate | | | | | | the | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | objective | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality of | | | | | | the device. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
#### 7.11.2.2 Wireless headset
For further study.
## 7.12 Echo control characteristics
Echo cancellation is commonly deployed in the UE to fulfil the Acoustic echo
control requirements. Echo cancellers are complex devices of which the
subjective performance is affected by several attributes. The main attribute
is its ability to suppress echo. The process of suppressing the echo may
introduce impairments to the near-end speech signal, mainly manifested as
distortion or clipping of the near-end signal during simultaneous speech from
both the far and near-end (\"double-talk\").
To characterise the echo control performance, the activity (in % of total
time) and averaged level difference (in dB) of the duration of any level
difference according to Figure 22 and Table 33 between the clean near-end
signal and the send-signal shall be reported for \"double-talk\" as well as
the far-end single talk periods adjacent to the \"double-talk\".
NOTE: The limits for specifying the categories in Figure 22 and Table 33 are
provisional pending further analysis and validation.
NOTE: The categories in Figure 22 and Table 33 are labelled in a functional
order and the subjective impression of the respective categories is for
further study.
All percentage values and averaged level differences described in the relevant
test of 3GPP TS 26.132 shall be reported.
Figure 22: Classification of echo canceller performance
Table 33: Categories for echo canceller performance classification
* * *
Category Description **A1** Full-duplex and full transparency **A2** Full-
duplex with level loss in Tx **B** Very short clipping **C** Short clipping
resulting in loss of syllables **D** Clipping resulting in loss of words **E**
Very short residual echo **F** Echo bursts **G** Continuous echo
* * *
### 7.12.1 Handset
Requirements are for further study.
### 7.12.2 Headset
Requirements are for further study.
### 7.12.3 Handheld hands-free
Requirements are for further study.
### 7.12.4 Desktop and vehicle mounted hands-free
Requirements are for further study.
## 7.13 Clock accuracy
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access, the clock skew in send
direction between the device under test and the reference client should be
less than 50 PPM (in absolute value) in error-free conditions.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 7.14 Jitter buffer management behaviour
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access, a jitter buffer is used in
receiving to handle the variation in packet receiver timing (see clause 8 of
TS 26.114 [17]).
If the jitter buffer management (JBM) behaviour is evaluated, the following
statistics shall be reported for conditions specified in TS 26.132:
\- Delay histogram (on a per sentence basis)
\- Quality loss histogram (on a per sentence pair basis)
and all measured delay and quality loss values for these conditions shall be
reported as a function of measurement time, together with minimum and maximum
values.
The relevant test is described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
# 8 Fullband telephony transmission performance
## 8.1 Applicability
The performance requirements in this clause shall apply when UE is used to
provide fullband telephony, either as a stand-alone service, or as part of a
multimedia service. The requirements in the clause apply only when the far-end
terminal is also providing fullband telephony. When a fullband-enabled
terminal is providing narrowband telephony, the requirements in clause 5,
'narrowband telephony transmission performance' shall apply. When a fullband-
enabled terminal is providing wideband telephony, the requirements in clause
6, 'Wideband telephony transmission performance' shall apply. When a fullband-
enabled terminal is providing super-wideband telephony, the requirements in
clause 7, 'Super-wideband telephony transmission performance' shall apply.
## 8.2 Overall loss/loudness ratings
### 8.2.1 General
See requirements for super-wideband.
### 8.2.2 Connections with handset UE
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 8.2.2a Connections with handset UE in the presence of background noise
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 8.2.3 Connections with desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 8.2.4 Connections with hand-held hands-free UE
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 8.2.5 Connections with headset UE
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 8.2.5a Connections with headset UE in the presence of background noise
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
## 8.3 Idle channel noise (handset and headset UE)
### 8.3.1 Sending
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 8.3.2 Receiving
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 8.4 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
### 7.4.0 General
It is recommended for all configurations (handset, headset etc) to have a flat
sending frequency response in fullband mode.
Tolerance masks apply to the center frequencies of the fractional octave bands
specified for the respective tests in TS 26.132.
### 8.4.1 Handset and headset UE sending
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 8.4.2 Handset and headset UE receiving
#### 8.4.2.1 Handset UE receiving
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
#### 8.4.2.2 Headset UE receiving
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 8.4.3 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE sending
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 8.4.4 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE receiving
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 8.4.5 Hand-held hands-free UE sending
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 8.4.6 Hand-held hands-free UE receiving
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.]
## 8.5 Sidetone characteristics (handset and headset UE)
### 8.5.1 Sidetone loss
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 8.5.2 Sidetone delay
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 8.6 Stability loss
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 8.7 Acoustic echo control
### 8.7.1 General
See requirements for super-wideband.
### 8.7.2 Acoustic echo control in desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
### 8.7.3 Acoustic echo control in hand-held hands-free UE
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
### 8.7.4 Acoustic echo control in a handset UE
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
### 8.7.5 Acoustic echo control in a headset UE
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
## 8.8 Distortion
### 8.8.1 Sending distortion
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance of the sending distortion shall be checked by the test described in
TS 26.132.
### 8.8.2 Receiving
See requirements for super-wideband.
Compliance of the receiving distortion shall be checked by the appropriate
method in TS 26.132.
## 8.9 Void
## 8.10 Sending performance in the presence of ambient noise
### 8.10.1 General
See requirements for super-wideband (see clause 7.10.1)..
### 8.10.2 Connections with handset UE
See requirements for super-wideband (see clause 7.10.2).
### 8.10.3 Connections with Handheld hands-free UE
See requirements for super-wideband (see clause 7.10.3).
## 8.11 Delay
### 8.11.0 UE delay definition
For MTSI-based speech with LTE or WLAN access, the UE delays in the send and
receive directions are defined as:
\- The UE delay in the send (uplink) direction is the delay between the first
acoustic event at the MRP to the last bit of the corresponding speech frame at
the UE antenna
\- The UE delay in the receive (downlink) direction is the delay between the
first bit of a speech frame at the UE antenna and the first acoustic event at
the DRP corresponding to that speech frame
NOTE: In order to harmonize UMTS and LTE delay definitions, the reference
points for UMTS UE delay have been changed in Rel-12. Prior to Rel-12, the UE
reference points for UMTS were implicitly defined by the compensation factors
declared by system simulator vendors, i.e. half of the air interface delay was
attributed to the UE, and the last acoustic event at DRP was used for the
receive measurement instead of the first.
Considering 10ms for half of the transmission time in each direction of a UMTS
call, a speech frame size of 20ms, a codec look-ahead of 5ms, and a difference
between the first and the last acoustic event of 20 ms, the previous reference
points took into account a UE implementation independent delay of 2x10ms + 25
ms + 20 ms = 65 ms. The same UE delay remains in the new definition above,
which attributes the full air interface delay to the UE but uses the first
acoustic event at the DRP, instead of the last (2x20ms + 25 ms + 0 ms = 65
ms). Hence, the UMTS requirements with these new reference points remain the
same.
### 8.11.1 Handset UE
It is in general desirable to minimize UE delays to ensure low enough end-to-
end delays and hence a good conversational experience, guidance is found in
ITU-T Recommendation G.114.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in error and jitter free
conditions and EVS speech codec operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending
and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) should be ≤ 157ms. _If this performance
objective cannot be met, the sum of the UE delays_ in sending and receiving
directions (T~S~ + T~R~) _shall in_ any case be ≤ 197ms.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in conditions with
simulated packet arrival time variations and packet loss and EVS speech codec
operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending and receiving directions (T~S~
+ T~R~) shall be less than or equal to the delay requirements in Table 33a1,
while meeting the speech quality targets defined.
NOTE: The UE delay requirements for MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN
access are derived from:
\- A codec algorithmic delay of 32ms including speech frame buffering and
encoder lookahead.
\- An air interface transmission time of 1ms on receive and 1ms on the send
direction.
\- A budget allowance for a jitter buffer depth of 40ms for error and jitter
free conditions and test conditions 0 and 1 of Table 33a1, and 80ms for test
condition 2 of Table 33a1.
\- A budget allowance for vendor specific implementation of 83ms corresponding
to the performance objective and 123ms corresponding to the required maximum
UE send and receive delay..
Table 33a1: UE delay and speech quality requirements for LTE and WLAN access
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | Delay and | Performance | R | Speech | | Condition | Loss | Objectives | equirements | Quality | | | Profile | for Maximum | for Maximum | | | | | Delay | Delay | Re | | | (Note 1) | | | quirements\ | | | | | | (Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | Error and | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | ffs | | | jitter free | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | | | | condition | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | ffs | | | rofile_20m | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | | | | sDRX_10pct | | | | | | _BLER_e2e | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | ffs | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 197ms | ≤ 237ms | | | | sDRX_10pct | | | | | | _BLER_e2e | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and target | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 10%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 3ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | injected at | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | layer of | | | | | | the test | | | | | | system. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | attached | | | | | | ele | | | | | | ctronically | | | | | | to document | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 26.132 | | | | | | [1]. The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles in | | | | | | test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | static | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variation | | | | | | conditions | | | | | | and do not | | | | | | expose the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget as | | | | | | defined for | | | | | | QCI1 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.203 | | | | | | [18]. A | | | | | | third test | | | | | | condition | | | | | | that | | | | | | exposes the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | non | | | | | | -stationary | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | experienced | | | | | | in live | | | | | | operation | | | | | | and packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget for | | | | | | QCI1, and | | | | | | accompanied | | | | | | delay and | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements, | | | | | | is for | | | | | | further | | | | | | study. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | P.863 is | | | | | | limited to | | | | | | 14 kHz | | | | | | bandwidth; | | | | | | therefore | | | | | | the speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | are ffs. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 8.11.2 Headset UE
#### 8.11.2.1 Wired headset
It is in general desirable to minimize UE delays to ensure low enough end-to-
end delays and hence a good conversational experience, guidance is found in
ITU-T Recommendation G.114.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in error and jitter free
conditions and EVS speech codec operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending
and receiving directions (T~S~ + T~R~) should be ≤ 157ms. _If this performance
objective cannot be met, the sum of the UE delays_ in sending and receiving
directions (T~S~ + T~R~) _shall in_ any case be ≤ 197ms.
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access in conditions with
simulated packet arrival time variations and packet loss and EVS speech codec
operation, the sum of the UE delays in sending and receiving directions (T~S~
+ T~R~) shall be less than or equal to the delay requirements in Table 33a2,
while meeting the speech quality targets defined.
NOTE: The UE delay requirements for MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN
access are derived from:
\- A codec algorithmic delay of 32ms including speech frame buffering and
encoder lookahead.
\- An air interface transmission time of 1ms on receive and 1ms on the send
direction.
\- A budget allowance for a jitter buffer depth of 40ms for error and jitter
free conditions and test conditions 0 and 1 of Table 33a2, and 80ms for test
condition 2 of Table 33a2.
_\- A budget allowance for vendor specific implementation of 83ms
corresponding to the performance objective and 123ms corresponding to the
required maximum UE send and receive delay._
Table 33a2: UE delay and speech quality requirements for LTE and WLAN access
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Test | Delay and | Performance | R | Speech | | Condition | Loss | Objectives | equirements | Quality | | | Profile | for Maximum | for Maximum | | | | | Delay | Delay | Re | | | (Note 1) | | | quirements\ | | | | | | (Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | Error and | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | ffs | | | jitter free | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | | | | condition | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | ffs | | | rofile_20m | ≤ 157ms | ≤ 197ms | | | | sDRX_10pct | | | | | | _BLER_e2e | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | dly_p | T~S~ + T~R~ | T~S~ + T~R~ | ffs | | | rofile_40m | ≤ 197ms | ≤ 237ms | | | | sDRX_10pct | | | | | | _BLER_e2e | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | for test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | th | | | | | | eoretically | | | | | | constructed | | | | | | to simulate | | | | | | a | | | | | | semi | | | | | | -persistent | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme with | | | | | | DRX enabled | | | | | | and target | | | | | | BLER in | | | | | | sending and | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | directions | | | | | | of 10%, | | | | | | with +/- | | | | | | 3ms of EPC | | | | | | jitter. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | injected at | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | layer of | | | | | | the test | | | | | | system. | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | profiles | | | | | | are | | | | | | attached | | | | | | ele | | | | | | ctronically | | | | | | to document | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 26.132 | | | | | | [1]. The | | | | | | delay | | | | | | profiles in | | | | | | test | | | | | | condition 1 | | | | | | and 2 are | | | | | | static | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variation | | | | | | conditions | | | | | | and do not | | | | | | expose the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget as | | | | | | defined for | | | | | | QCI1 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.203 | | | | | | [18]. A | | | | | | third test | | | | | | condition | | | | | | that | | | | | | exposes the | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | non | | | | | | -stationary | | | | | | packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | experienced | | | | | | in live | | | | | | operation | | | | | | and packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variations | | | | | | in the full | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the packet | | | | | | delay | | | | | | budget for | | | | | | QCI1, and | | | | | | accompanied | | | | | | delay and | | | | | | speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements, | | | | | | is for | | | | | | further | | | | | | study. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | P.863 is | | | | | | limited to | | | | | | 14 kHz | | | | | | bandwidth; | | | | | | therefore, | | | | | | the speech | | | | | | quality | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | are ffs. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
#### 8.11.2.2 Wireless headset
For further study.
## 8.12 Echo control characteristics
See requirements for super-wideband.
### 8.12.1 Handset
Requirements are for further study.
### 8.12.2 Headset
Requirements are for further study.
### 8.12.3 Handheld hands-free
Requirements are for further study.
### 8.12.4 Desktop and vehicle mounted hands-free
Requirements are for further study.
## 8.13 Clock accuracy
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access, the clock skew in send
direction between the device under test and the reference client should be
less than 50 PPM (in absolute value) in error-free conditions.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 8.14 Jitter buffer management behaviour
For MTSI-based speech-only with LTE or WLAN access, a jitter buffer is used in
receiving to handle the variation in packet receiver timing (see clause 8 of
TS 26.114 [17]).
If the jitter buffer management (JBM) behaviour is evaluated, the following
statistics shall be reported for conditions specified in TS 26.132:
> \- Delay histogram (on a per sentence basis)
>
> \- Quality loss histogram (on a per sentence pair basis)
and all measured delay and quality loss values for these conditions shall be
reported as a function of measurement time, together with minimum and maximum
values.
The relevant test is described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
#