# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The Framework for Live Uplink Streaming (FLUS) is an enabler for live media
streaming from a source entity to a sink entity. FLUS offers an IMS-based and
a non-IMS-based instantiation. The IMS/MTSI-based instantiation enables the
establishment of live media streaming between two UEs or between a source
entity and a sink entity, within and across operator networks. Compared with
MTSI, where limited types of QoS for speech or video media are used, FLUS can
provide a wider range of QoS operation, e.g., in the maximum delay, available
bandwidth or target packet loss rate.
In the non-IMS-based instantiation, it is possible to operate FLUS as a more
generic framework that is controlled through a RESTful API and that supports
other media plane protocols (i.e. not based on IMS or MTSI).
In addition to providing a wider range of QoS operation over radio links,
other advanced functionalities of FLUS, such as the signalling of immersive
media, can be used to complement existing 3GPP services.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines a FLUS source entity and a FLUS sink entity that
can support point-to-point transmission of speech/audio, video, and text. It
defines media handling (e.g., signalling, transport, packet-loss handling, and
adaptation). The goal is to ensure a reliable and interoperable service with a
predictable media quality while allowing for flexibility in the service
offerings.
A FLUS source entity, which may be embedded in a single UE, or distributed
among a UE and separate audio-visual capture devices, may support all or a
subset of the features specified in this document.
When used as a generic framework, only the F-C procedures for establishing the
FLUS session are required to be supported by the source and sink entities, and
no other feature or procedure specified in this document is mandated. Impact
on the service quality and network capacity is left to the discretion of the
implementation and the service utilizing the framework. For example,
configuration of media formats and codecs follows the requirements of the
respective service.
When offered as part of a 3GPP IMS/MTSI service, the source and sink are
required to support the IMS control plane and media plane procedures, and the
service quality is determined by the MTSI service policy.
The specification is written in a forward-compatible way in order to allow
additions of media components and functionality in releases beyond Release 15.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Recommendation ITU-R BS.2051-1 (06/2017): \"Advanced Sound System for
Programme Production\".
[3] **ISO/IEC DIS 23090-2: \"Omnidirectional Media Format. N16824\".**
**[4] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction** \".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.235: **\"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS); Protocols and codecs\".**
[6] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IM Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.328: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) media plane security\".
**[11] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".**
**[12] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".**
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**FLUS session:** A logical association between a source and a sink within
which media content can be sent from the source to the sink.
**Media session:** A subset or part of a FLUS session including the duration
to establish the media session, the time period during which media content can
be sent from FLUS source to FLUS sink and the duration to terminate the media
session. One or more media sessions are delivered during a FLUS session. A
media session may be established and controlled by a well-defined control
protocol.
**Media stream:** The content sent from a FLUS source to a FLUS sink within a
media session.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
FLUS Framework for Live Uplink Streaming
HMD Head Mounted Display
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
# 4 System architecture
## 4.1 General
This clause introduces the system architecture for FLUS.
## 4.2 System
### 4.2.1 General
Figure 4.2-1 depicts the architecture showing the relevant entities for
providing an uplink streaming service.
Figure 4.2-1: FLUS architecture
The uplink streaming service architecture is based on a FLUS source located in
a UE and a FLUS sink located in either another UE or in the network.
The FLUS source receives media content from one or more capture devices. In
the context of this specification, the capture devices are considered as parts
of a UE or are connected to it.
When the FLUS sink is located in a UE, the FLUS sink shall forward media
content to a decoding and rendering function.
When the FLUS sink is located in the network, the FLUS sink may forward media
content to a processing or distribution sub-function. The processing and
distribution sub-functions are not in scope of the present specification. The
FLUS sink may act as a Media Gateway Function (MGW) and/or an Application
Function (AF).
The F reference point connects a FLUS source and a FLUS sink. The F reference
point enables the FLUS source to establish and control a single FLUS session.
The F reference point also enables the FLUS sink and the FLUS source to
mutually authenticate and authorize each other.
The F reference point shall support security function for confidentiality
protection of both the FLUS control plane (F-C) and FLUS user plane (F-U).
Details of the FLUS control plane and FLUS user plane functions are shown in
Figure 4.2-2.
Figure 4.2-2: Sub-functions of FLUS
Note that in the above diagram, hatched-filled boxes represent FLUS control
plane functionality, solid line boxes represent mandatory functionality, and
dashed-line boxes corresponds to optional functionality. Also, note that F-C
and F-U denote FLUS control and FLUS user plane functionalities, respectively,
and do not represent reference points.
FLUS ctrl and F-C: FLUS control plane functionality including the associated
processing by FLUS sink of the uploaded media for subsequent downstream
distribution, plus FLUS media instantiation selection. F-C may also support
configuration of static metadata for the session.
FLUS media and F-U: FLUS user plane functionality which includes setup of one
or more media sessions and subsequent media data transmission via media
streams. In some cases, a media session establishment protocol (e.g. IMS
session set-up for MTSI-based FLUS instantiation) is necessary.
NOTE : F-C is not needed when the FLUS sink is an MTSI client that is only
capable of rendering. In such event, logical control plane functions such as
media and session descriptions and support for FLUS session establishment are
encapsulated in FLUS user plane functionality.
F-C is used to establish and control the FLUS session. F-C allows the FLUS
source to
\- select a FLUS media instantiation,
\- provision static metadata associated with each media session present in the
FLUS session,
\- select and configure the processing and distribution sub-functions.
The FLUS media instantiation is defined as part of the FLUS session. The user
plane (F-U) may also contain the media stream establishment procedures when
needed. Multiple media streams may be established for one FLUS session.
A media stream may contain media components of a single content type, e.g.,
audio, or media components of different content types, e.g., audio and video.
A FLUS session may be composed of more than one media stream containing the
same content type, e.g., multiple media streams of video.
### 4.2.2 Uplink streaming for MTSI
The architecture of uplink streaming for MTSI is depicted in Figure 4.2-3.
Figure 4.2-3: Uplink streaming for MTSI
The reception function of an MTSI client, i.e., the "MTSI rx client" as shown
in Figure 4.2-3, is used to realize the FLUS media receiver components in the
FLUS sink. The FLUS sink may be instantiated as another UE or as an MTSI rx
client function in the network.
F-U contains all MTSI-related signalling.
The transmission function of an MTSI client, MTSI tx client, is used to
realize the FLUS media sender components in the FLUS source.
### 4.2.3 Uplink streaming for PSS-based distribution
The architecture of uplink streaming for subsequent PSS distribution is
depicted in Figure 4.2-4.
Figure 4.2-4: Uplink streaming for PSS
The PSS Content Source is located on the UE side and contains the FLUS source.
## 4.3 Terminal
The functional components of a terminal including both a FLUS source and a
FLUS sink that uses 3GPP access are shown in figure 4.3-1.
{width="6.0993055555555555in" height="4.1618055555555555in"}
NOTE 1: It is not required that all components of a FLUS source or a FLUS sink
are included in a terminal.
Figure 4.3-1: Functional components of a FLUS source and a FLUS sink
The scope of the present document is to specify media handling and
interaction, which includes media control, as well as transport of media and
control data.
As indicated in figure 4.3-1, whether or not to employ or how to realize the
audio/video renderer, media controller, or audio/video pre-processor is left
to the configuration of a FLUS source and a FLUS sink, and their
implementation. For these functional components, this document only defines
the signalling of the media controller, which will be used to define the
handling of media.
Timed media may include text, graphics, etc.
If a terminal including a FLUS source uses 3GPP access only for uplink media
transmission, its functional components are shown in figure 4.3-2.
{width="6.0993055555555555in" height="2.4583333333333335in"}
Figure 4.3-2: Functional components of a FLUS source for uplink media
transmission
## 4.4 Procedures
### 4.4.1 General
A FLUS session may include one or more media streams. Media streams are time
bounded to the FLUS session they belong to. When a media stream is active, the
FLUS source can send media content to the FLUS sink.
Figure 4.4-1 depicts an example relationship of a FLUS session with a single
media session containing two media streams.
Figure 4.4-1: FLUS, media sessions and media streams
When the FLUS sink is located in a UE and the UE renders the received media
content directly, the FLUS session may be implicitly present, e.g. it may be
realized through IMS/MTSI.
When the FLUS sink is located on the network side and provides Media Gateway
functionality, the FLUS session is used to select the media session
instantiation and to configure any processing and distribution related sub-
functions.
### 4.4.2 FLUS session establishment
It is assumed that the FLUS source has the necessary information to establish
an F-C connection to a FLUS sink, e.g., in terms of a SIP-URI or an HTTP URL.
### 4.4.3 FLUS session update
The FLUS session establishment procedure creates a FLUS session resource,
which is then configured through the FLUS session update procedure, for
example, resulting in the selection of the media session instantiation.
The FLUS session update procedure includes the following FLUS session
configuration parameters:
\- Selection of the media session instantiation
\- Provision of session specific metadata,
\- Setting a description of the processing of the media data that the FLUS
sink is to perform,
\- Configuration of the distribution and storage options for the media data
### 4.4.4 FLUS sink capability discovery
This procedure allows a FLUS source to discover capabilities of a FLUS sink.
The FLUS sink capabilities include
\- Processing capabilities
\- Supported input formats, codecs and codec profiles / levels, resolutions,
frame rates
\- Transcoding with formats, output codecs, codec profiles / levels, bitrates,
etc,
\- Reformatting with output format,
\- Combination of input media streams, e.g. network based stitching, mixing,
\- Distribution capabilities
\- Storage capabilities,
\- CDN Origin capabilities and CDN Origin Server base URLs,
\- Forwarding, including supported forwarding protocol and associated security
procedures
### 4.4.5 FLUS session termination
The FLUS source may explicitly terminate a FLUS session and all its
provisioned and active media sessions. Alternatively, the FLUS session is
automatically terminated, when the last media session of the FLUS session is
terminated.
## 4.5 FLUS source systems
### 4.5.1 Introduction
FLUS supports different source systems. A source system describes the captured
media sources and their inter-relationships, such that the FLUS sink can make
use of the received media streams. FLUS can be deployed with source systems as
defined in this specification, or with proprietary source systems. A source
system is identified by a unique identifier that can be declared during the
session establishment procedure.
A set of 3GPP-defined source systems is specified in this clause.
### 4.5.2 General source systems
A source system provides a collection of media streams that can be combined by
the FLUS sink to create a full media experience. FLUS provides the ability to
stream continuous media data from a source to a sink.
Media streams within one source system are time-synchronized and self-
descriptive in the source system. Media streams are identified by a unique
identifier in a source system.
Each media stream shall be self-declarative in the announced system.
Media streams may be of the following types: video, audio, text or metadata.
A source system may declare additional metadata in the namespace of the source
system.
Table 4.5-1: General source system description
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | Desc | IM | Non-IM | | | | | System | ription | S-based | S-based | | | | | | | Instan | Instan | | | | | | | tiation | tiation | | | | | | | SDP | Par | | | | | | | Par | ameters | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Source | A URI | a=3gp | JSON | | | | | System | that | p-flus- | Object | | | | | Ide | u | system: | (So | | | | | ntifier | niquely | \ | urceSys | | | | | | ide | | temIden | | | | | | ntifies | | tifier) | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | FLUS | G | a=gro | Not | | | | | media | rouping | up:FLUS | app | | | | | stream | desc | \ | | | | | | session | needed | \... | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | dentify | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | streams | | | | | | | | when a | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | is part | | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | | MTSI | | | | | | | | session | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Config | P | a=3g | Not | | | | | uration | rovides | pp-flus | app | | | | | | source | -config | licable | | | | | | s | uration | | | | | | | ystem-s | :\ | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Media | Descr | m= | Defined | | | | | Stream | iptions | | by the | | | | | | of the | (one | F-U | | | | | | media | per | instan | | | | | | streams | stream) | tiation | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Ide | A | a=mid | Defined | | | | | ntifier | unique | :\ | F-U | | | | | | ntifier | | instan | | | | | | shall | | tiation | | | | | | be | | (may be | | | | | | ass | | im | | | | | | ociated | | plicit) | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | every | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | | | If not | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | resent, | | | | | | | | then | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | ription | | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | | suf | | | | | | | | ficient | | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | niquely | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | dentify | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | stream | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Stream | De | a=3 | Defined | | | | | Config | scribes | gpp-flu | by the | | | | | uration | the | s-media | F-U | | | | | | details | -config | instan | | | | | | of the | uration | tiation | | | | | | media | :\ | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | en | | | | | | | | coding, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | tadata, | | | | | | | | etc. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | stream | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | elf-des | | | | | | | | cribing | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | def | | | | | | | | inition | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | stream, | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | context | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | ription | | | | | | | | infor | | | | | | | | mation, | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | rovided | | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | establi | | | | | | | | shment, | | | | | | | | e.g. by | | | | | | | | a media | | | | | | | | line in | | | | | | | | SDP. | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Ba | Ind | b=AS | Defined | | | | | ndwidth | ication | :\ | by the | | | | | Requ | of the | | F-U | | | | | irement | r | a=b | instan | | | | | | equired | w-info: | tiation | | | | | | network | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | ansport | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | streams | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ma | | | | | | | | ndatory | | | | | | | | if QoS | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | equired | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Trans | O | a=s | Defined | | | | | mission | ptional | endonly | by the | | | | | Di | ind | | F-U | | | | | rection | ication | (man | instan | | | | | | of the | datory) | tiation | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | rection | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | streams | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Codec | Codec | a= | Defined | | | | | | Ide | rtpmap: | by F-U | | | | | | ntifier | | instant | | | | | | | (man | iation. | | | | | | | datory) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Codec | Codec-s | a=fmtp: | Defined | | | | | config | pecific | | by F-U | | | | | uration | config | | instan | | | | | | uration | | tiation | | | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | | set of | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | streams | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | Media | Media | m=\ | Defined | | | | | Type | type of |  | by F-U | | | | | | each | | instan | | | | | | media | (man | tiation | | | | | | stream: | datory) | | | | | | | audio, | | | | | | | | video, | | | | | | | | text, | | | | | | | | etc... | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | Media | Identif | m=\ | Defined | | | | | Tr | ication |  | by F-U | | | | | ansport | of the | \ | instant | | | | | and | media |  | iation. | | | | | Control | tr | RTP/AVP | | | | | | | ansport | | | | | | | | pr | (man | | | | | | | otocol, | datory) | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | R | | | | | | | over | TP/AVPF | | | | | | | IP, for | | | | | | | | this | (if | | | | | | | media | video | | | | | | | stream | rate | | | | | | | in the | ada | | | | | | | source | ptation | | | | | | | system | is | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | esired) | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 4.5.3 Vendor-specific source system
A vendor-specific source system shall be identified by a unique vendor-
specific urn identifier such as urn:[com]:[vendor_x]:[system_y]
### 4.5.4 Default source system
The default source system shall be identified by the unique identifier
urn:org:3gpp:flus:default:2017. This source system is used for planar media
formats.
### 4.5.5 3DOF FLUS source system
#### 4.5.5.1 Introduction
The three-degrees of freedom system is defined to fully describe content that
enables the user to look around from a single observation point in 3D space.
A 3DOF source system is identified with the unique identifier
urn:org:3gpp:flus:3dof:2017.
The coordinate system is defined, as well as the basic structure to describe
this source system.
#### 4.5.5.2 Coordinate system
The direction in which a FLUS sink is interested can be represented using a
coordinate system shown in figure 4.5-1, which consists of three axes, X, Y,
and Z [3]. The X axis is equal to back-to-front axis, Y axis is equal to side-
to-side (or lateral) axis, and Z axis is equal to vertical (or up) axis. Three
angles, pitch, yaw, and roll, are measured around the X, Y, and Z axes
respectively. As the torso is assumed to be fixed, the angles are assumed to
be generated by the movement of the head. If seen from the origin to the
positive direction of each axis, indicated by the arrows, each angle increases
clockwise. The X-Z plane is aligned with the ground. When looking in the
positive direction of Z axis, all angles are zero. The value ranges of yaw and
roll are both −180.0, inclusive, to 180.0, exclusive, degrees. The value range
of pitch is −90.0 to 90.0, inclusive, degrees.
{width="6.497916666666667in" height="3.3625in"}
Figure 4.5-1: Coordinate system at media receiver
A source system is defined as a capturing device that has a center point from
which the content is captured.
The captured content is represented in a reference system that enables a
consumer of FLUS captured content to be able to look around from a single
observation point in 3D space defined by the position of central capturing
device(s).
This ability to look around and listen from a center point in 3D space is
defined as 3 degrees of freedom (3DOF).
\- Tilting side to side on the X-axis referred to as _Roll_ ing
\- Tilting forward and backward on the Y-axis, referred to as _Pitch_ ing
\- Turning left and right on the Z-axis, referred to as _Yaw_ ing
It is worth noting that this center point is not necessarily static - it may
be moving. The center point is defined by a physical location.
The content may be combined with simultaneously captured audio that may be 3D.
Additional timed media sources may be captured and streamed to the FLUS sink.
Signals may represent a 2D signal or a spherical video. Spherical signals
defined in this specification are represented in a spherical coordinate space
in angular coordinates (ϕ, θ) for use in omnidirectional video applications
and 3D audio. The viewing and listening perspective is from the origin
sensing/looking/hearing outward toward the inside of the sphere. The spherical
coordinates are defined so that ϕ is the azimuth (longitude, increasing
eastward) and θ is the elevation (latitude, increasing northward) as depicted
in figure 4.5-1.
Depending on the applications or implementations, not all angles may be
necessary or available at the FLUS source. The 360 video and the 3D audio may
have a restricted coverage. For example, it may not be possible for a FLUS
source to control media encoding parameters related to roll or pitch, e.g.,
when a wheel-shaped camera with a series of lenses is located on a flat
surface, in which case only yaw needs to be fed back. The means to measure
these angles is outside the scope of this document.
For video, such a center point may exist for each eye, referred to as stereo
signal. And obviously, the video consists of three color components, typically
expressed by the luminance (Y) and two chrominance components (U and V).
Although this coordinate system is defined for FLUS sink, and a FLUS source
may use a typical spherical coordinate system as defined in [2], where the
layout of loud speakers is represented with azimuth and elevation, the FLUS
source should take appropriate actions based on the geometric information it
receives from the far-end. If such a spherical coordinate system is used, the
direction at the FLUS source, when both azimuth and elevation are zero,
corresponds to the direction at FLUS sink when pitch, yaw, and roll are all
zero.
#### 4.5.5.3 Descriptive Parameters
In order to describe the media and metadata components of the system, the
description language needs to provide information on the source system as well
as each media component. The 3DOF FLUS system is described in Table 4.5-2.
Table 4.5-2: 3DOF FLUS source System Description
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3DOF FLUS | Cardinality | Description | | | | source | | | | | | system | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Source | URI | Identifier | | | | System | | of the | | | | Identifier | | source | | | | | | system as a | | | | | | URI, and in | | | | | | this | | | | | | sp | | | | | | ecification | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | set to: | | | | | | urn:o | | | | | | rg:3gpp:flu | | | | | | s:3dof:2017 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Description | | Detailed | | | | | | description | | | | | | of the | | | | | | source | | | | | | system | | | | | | including | | | | | | static | | | | | | metadata, | | | | | | etc. , and | | | | | | which shall | | | | | | be conveyed | | | | | | in a | | | | | | separate | | | | | | namespace | | | | | | from that | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Source | | | | | | System | | | | | | Identifier. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Video | 0 ... 1 | At most one | | | | Stream | | video | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | contained. | | | | | | | | | | | | If present, | | | | | | the media | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | identified | | | | | | by the | | | | | | media type | | | | | | "video", | | | | | | such that | | | | | | no | | | | | | additional | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | is needed. | | | | | | The video | | | | | | stream | | | | | | shall | | | | | | contain | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | information | | | | | | to be | | | | | | self- | | | | | | declarative | | | | | | in the | | | | | | coordinate | | | | | | system as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 4.5.5.2. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Identifier | 0 ... 1 | Unique | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | | video | | | | | | stream in | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system. If | | | | | | not | | | | | | present, | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system | | | | | | should | | | | | | contain | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | information | | | | | | to uniquely | | | | | | identify | | | | | | the video | | | | | | stream in | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Type | 1 | Provides | | | | | | the type of | | | | | | the | | | | | | contained | | | | | | video | | | | | | stream | | | | | | | | | | | | - 360 | | | | | | mono: The | | | | | | video | | | | | | represents | | | | | | a single | | | | | | spherical | | | | | | video. | | | | | | | | | | | | - 360 | | | | | | stereo: The | | | | | | video | | | | | | contains | | | | | | two | | | | | | spherical | | | | | | videos, one | | | | | | for each | | | | | | eye. | | | | | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | > Unknown: | | | | | | > will be | | | | | | > provided | | | | | | > by source | | | | | | > system. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Description | 1 | Describes | | | | | | the details | | | | | | of the | | | | | | video | | | | | | stream | | | | | | including | | | | | | the | | | | | | encoding, | | | | | | the | | | | | | metadata, | | | | | | etc. The | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | self | | | | | | -describing | | | | | | in the | | | | | | source | | | | | | system. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Audio | 0 ... 1 | If present, | | | | Stream | | the media | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | identified | | | | | | by the | | | | | | media type | | | | | | "audio", | | | | | | such that | | | | | | no | | | | | | additional | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | is needed. | | | | | | The audio | | | | | | stream | | | | | | shall | | | | | | contain | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | information | | | | | | to be | | | | | | self | | | | | | -describing | | | | | | in the | | | | | | coordinate | | | | | | system as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 4.5.4.2. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Identifier | 0 ... 1 | Unique | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | | audio | | | | | | stream in | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system. If | | | | | | not | | | | | | present, | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system | | | | | | should | | | | | | contain | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | information | | | | | | to uniquely | | | | | | identify | | | | | | the audio | | | | | | stream in | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Type | 1 | Defines the | | | | | | type of the | | | | | | contained | | | | | | audio | | | | | | stream: | | | | | | | | | | | | - 2D: the | | | | | | audio | | | | | | describes a | | | | | | planar | | | | | | version of | | | | | | the | | | | | | surrounding | | | | | | audio. No | | | | | | heights are | | | | | | included. | | | | | | | | | | | | - 3D: the | | | | | | audio | | | | | | includes 3 | | | | | | dimensions | | | | | | with | | | | | | heights. | | | | | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | > Unknown: | | | | | | > will be | | | | | | > provided | | | | | | > by source | | | | | | > system. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Description | 1 | Describes | | | | | | the details | | | | | | of the | | | | | | audio | | | | | | stream | | | | | | including | | | | | | the | | | | | | encoding, | | | | | | the | | | | | | metadata, | | | | | | etc. The | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | self | | | | | | -describing | | | | | | in the | | | | | | source | | | | | | system | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Other Media | 0 ... N | If present, | | | | Stream | | each media | | | | | | stream | | | | | | shall | | | | | | include an | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides an | | | | | | exact | | | | | | description | | | | | | of each | | | | | | (non- video | | | | | | or audio) | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | Note that | | | | | | metadata is | | | | | | also | | | | | | considered | | | | | | as a | | | | | | separate | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | | | | | | | Each such | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream | | | | | | shall | | | | | | contain | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | information | | | | | | to be | | | | | | self | | | | | | -describing | | | | | | in the | | | | | | coordinate | | | | | | system | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 4.5.5.2. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Identifier | 1 | Unique | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | (for each | | | | | | instance) | | | | | | of the | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream in | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system. The | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | value shall | | | | | | be provided | | | | | | to describe | | | | | | the | | | | | | metadata. | | | | | | Examples | | | | | | for | | | | | | metadata | | | | | | description | | | | | | are 4CC | | | | | | codes in | | | | | | the file | | | | | | format. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Description | 1 | Describes | | | | | | the details | | | | | | of this | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream | | | | | | including | | | | | | the | | | | | | encoding, | | | | | | the | | | | | | metadata, | | | | | | etc. The | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | self | | | | | | -describing | | | | | | in the | | | | | | source | | | | | | system | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 5 Protocols
## 5.1 General
Protocol instantiations that can be configured by the functionalities in
clause 7 may be used in the context of this specification.
## 5.2 IMS-based system
### 5.2.1 System configuration
#### 5.2.1.1 Introduction
In an IMS-based FLUS system, the FLUS control plane or F-C enables the
configuration and selection of a FLUS sink for the reception of media streams
delivered over the FLUS user plane or F-U during a FLUS session.
#### 5.2.1.2 FLUS sink configuration and selection
The means for discovery or configuration, and selection by the FLUS source of
the FLUS sink depend on the deployment scenario and location of the FLUS sink,
as described in sub-clauses 5.2.1.2.1 and 5.2.1.2.2.
##### 5.2.1.2.1 UE-based FLUS sink
In this deployment scenario, the FLUS sink is a directly-targeted recipient of
the media content streamed by the FLUS source, The FLUS source is expected to
be aware of the identity of the FLUS sink, in the form of a SIP URI, which
will be included in the Request-Line of the SIP INVITE message. There is no
need for a separately-defined FLUS sink configuration and selection procedure
in the delivery of the SIP INVITE from the source to the sink.
##### 5.2.1.2.2 Network-based FLUS sink
In this deployment scenario, the FLUS sink is a network ingest server that
performs post-processing of the media streams(s) uploaded from the FLUS
source, for subsequent distribution to the recipient UEs. It acts as a SIP
Application Server (AS) in the IMS network architecture, and its identity
shall be in the form of a \"FLUS Factory URI.
The FLUS source may be pre-provisioned with the FLUS Factory URI of the FLUS
sink. In that case, the FLUS source shall send the INVITE message with the
Request-Line-URI set to the value of that URI. If the FLUS Factory URI is not
pre-provisioned in the UE, the UE shall construct a default FLUS Factory URI
(similar to the procedures defined in clause 13.10 of TS 23.003 [7] regarding
default Conference Factory URI construction) in either of the following
formats:
a) sip:flus@flus-factory.operator.com, when the UE of the FLUS source contains
the ISIM application and assumes that the name of its home network domain is
\'operator.com\', or
b) sip:flus\@flus-factory.ims.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org, when the UE
of the FLUS source does not contain the ISIM application, and has a home
network domain name of \'ims.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org\'.
Such a FLUS Factory URI shall in turn be used by the S-CSCF to select an
appropriate FLUS sink (AS) to which the INVITE message from the FLUS source is
routed for IMS session establishment.
#### 5.2.1.3 FLUS management object
The UE may be pre-provisioned with a FLUS sink URI through a 3GPP FLUS
Management Object.
The FLUS Management Object shall have a Management Object Identifier:
"urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-flus:1.0". The MO shall be compatible with OMA Device
Management protocol specification version 1.2 and above as described in [OMA-
ERELD_DM-VI]. The following nodes for FLUS configuration are defined:
**Node: /_\ _**
This interior node specifies the unique object id of a FLUS management object.
The purpose of this interior node is to group together the parameters of a
single object.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
The following interior nodes shall be contained if the FLUS sink in the
terminal supports the FLUS Management Object.
**_/\ /Sink/\_**
This node is a collection of information about a FLUS sink
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
**_/\ /Sink/\/SIP_URI_**
This leaf node provides the SIP URI for the FLUS sink that is described by the
parent node.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: string
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
**_/\ /Sink/\/Capabilities_**
This leaf node provides a URL to a JSON or XML document that describes the
capabilities of the FLUS sink. The format of the document is outside the scope
of this specification.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: string
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
The structure of this FLUS MO is depicted in Figure X.
**/_\ _/Sink/_\ _/Ext**
The Ext is an interior node where the vendor specific information can be
placed (vendor meaning application vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually the
vendor extension is identified by vendor specific name under the ext node. The
tree structure under the vendor identified is not defined and can therefore
include one or more un-standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
**/_\ _/Ext**
The Ext is an interior node where the vendor specific information can be
placed (vendor meaning application vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually the
vendor extension is identified by vendor specific name under the ext node. The
tree structure under the vendor identified is not defined and can therefore
include one or more un-standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
{width="3.686111111111111in" height="2.6125in"}
Figure 5.2-1: FLUS management object tree
### 5.2.2 Session management
The IMS-based FLUS System uses the SIP protocol for all session management.
The FLUS Sink and FLUS Source shall support the IMS procedures as defined by
TS 24.229 [12].
### 5.2.3 Data transport
The FLUS Source and Sink that implement the IMS-based FLUS system shall
support data transport as specified in section 7 of TS 26.114 [4].
## 5.3 Generic FLUS system
### 5.3.1 System configuration
In this version of the specification, this function is left for
implementation, but expected to be specified in a future version.
### 5.3.2 Session management
#### 5.3.2.1 FLUS sink capability discovery
This procedure allows a FLUS source to discover capabilities of the FLUS sink.
{width="2.6486111111111112in" height="1.2875in"}
Figure 4.4-5: Get current FLUS sink capabilities
> 1\. The FLUS source sends the FLUS sink capability request to a known URL of
> the FLUS sink.
>
> 2\. The FLUS sink provides a list of FLUS sink capabilities in response.
#### 5.3.2.2 FLUS session establishment
It is assumed that the FLUS source has selected a FLUS sink and acquired the
necessary information to establish an F-C connection to that FLUS sink (i.e.
the HTTPS URL).
The procedure allows a FLUS source to create a new FLUS session. Session
configuration properties and in particular FLUS media instantiation selection
is added in subsequent procedures.
{width="2.223611111111111in" height="1.4583333333333333in"}
Figure 4.4-2: FLUS session creation
> 1\. The FLUS session is created. The FLUS source provides a valid access
> token.
>
> 2\. On successful creation, the FLUS sink responds with the resource id of
> the session. FLUS session properties are fetched and modified with
> subsequent transactions.
5.3.2.3 Get FLUS session properties
The procedure allows a FLUS source to fetch the current configuration of the
FLUS session.
{width="2.6486111111111112in" height="1.4583333333333333in"}
Figure 4.4-3: Get current FLUS session properties
> 1\. The FLUS source sends along with the session property request, the
> access token and the resource id of the session.
>
> 2\. The FLUS sink provides the FLUS session properties in response.
#### 5.3.2.4 FLUS session update
The procedure allows a FLUS source to update the current configuration of the
FLUS session.
{width="2.6486111111111112in" height="1.2013888888888888in"}
Figure 4.4-4: FLUS session update
The FLUS source may first fetch the current FLUS session configuration using
the Get FLUS session properties procedure.
> 1\. The FLUS source modifies the properties of the session resource. The
> procedure may allow modification of individual properties or all properties.
>
> 2\. The FLUS source updates the resource identified by the id of the
> session.
#### 5.3.2.5 FLUS session termination
The FLUS source may explicitly terminate a FLUS session and all its
provisioned and active media sessions. Alternatively, the FLUS session is
automatically terminated, when the last media session of the FLUS session is
terminated. The procedure allows a FLUS source to terminate a FLUS session.
All media streams will be terminated automatically with the termination of the
FLUS session.
{width="2.223611111111111in" height="1.4583333333333333in"}
Figure 4.4-6: FLUS session termination
> 1\. The FLUS source sends the terminate FLUS session command. The access
> token and the resource id of the FLUS session is provided as input.
>
> 2\. The FLUS sink terminates the FLUS session, including all active media
> streams and acknowledges the reception of the request.
#### 5.3.2.6 List of FLUS sink capabilities
> The FLUS sink capabilities should include the features that are listed under
> 4.4.4.
#### 5.3.2.7 List of FLUS session properties
All FLUS session properties, except for the resource id, are always carried in
an HTTP message body. The access-token is always carried as part of HTTP
headers. Except for the FLUS session creation request (where the id is not
present), the resource id shall be present in the URL of all requests that
relate to a specific FLUS session.
In the table below, the following assertions are made:
\- Table header: C stands for Create FLUS session procedure, G is for Get FLUS
session properties procedure, U is for Update FLUS session properties
procedure and T is for Terminate FLUS session procedure. "I", and "O"
respectively denote "request" (going **I** nto the FLUS sink), and response
(going **O** ut of the FLUS sink).
\- Optional ("O") means that the property may or may not be sent/received
during a REST transaction. It does not necessarily mean that the property is
optional. It is possible, for example, that a session is not yet active
because the FLUS source has not set the property in any previous update
transaction using the PUT or PATCH HTTP method, as opposed to representing a
hint on the importance of the property for the FLUS sink.
\- A property marked as optional (O) in a request message may be present in
the request. When not present in the request body, the property, if present in
the FLUS sink, will not be updated.
\- A property marked as optional (O) in a response message is only present in
the response when a value is assigned or changed by the FLUS sink.
\- A property marked as mandatory (M) in a response message is always present
in the response. The FLUS sink provides defaults, which may be modified
subsequently by the content provider.
\- A blank cell in the table means "forbidden" (the property cannot be added
to the request or returned by the FLUS sink, depending on the transaction
direction)..
Table 5.3.2.7-1: List of FLUS session properties
+----------+----------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | ** | ** | **C\ |** C\ | **G\ |** G\ | **U\ |** U\ | **T\ | | Property | Property | I** | O**| I** | O**| I** | O**| I** | | Name**| Descr | | | | | | | | | | iption** | | | | | | | | +----------+----------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | id | Id | | M | | | | | | | | entifier | | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | esource. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note, | | | | | | | | | | the id | | | | | | | | | | is only | | | | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | | | an HTTP | | | | | | | | | | body | | | | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Create | | | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | esponse. | | | | | | | | | | Ot | | | | | | | | | | herwise, | | | | | | | | | | the id | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | | | | URL to | | | | | | | | | | identify | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | | | sink. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | | ------- | | | | | | | | | | ------ - | | | | | | | | | | -------- | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Type | | | | | | | | | | Unit | | | | | | | | | | Default | | | | | | | | | | Inte | | | | | | | | | | ger No | | | | | | | | | | ne N/A | | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | | ------- | | | | | | | | | | ------ - | | | | | | | | | | -------- | | | | | | | | +----------+----------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | F-U | Id | | | | M | O | | | | Insta | entifier | | | | | | | | | ntiation | of the | | | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | | | insta | | | | | | | | | | ntiation | | | | | | | | | | that is | | | | | | | | | | used by | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | | | session. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Vendor | | | | | | | | | | specific | | | | | | | | | | enu | | | | | | | | | | meration | | | | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | 'vnd-' | | | | | | | | | | followed | | | | | | | | | | by a | | | | | | | | | | unique | | | | | | | | | | vendor | | | | | | | | | | name and | | | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | | | tionally | | | | | | | | | | followed | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | | | ditional | | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | | racters. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The F-U | | | | | | | | | | insta | | | | | | | | | | ntiation | | | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | | | | as a | | | | | | | | | | globally | | | | | | | | | | unique | | | | | | | | | | URN. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ------ | | | | | | | | | | ------ - | | | | | | | | | | -------- | | | | | | | | | | Type | | | | | | | | | | Unit | | | | | | | | | | Default | | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | | RI No | | | | | | | | | | ne All | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ------ | | | | | | | | | | ------ - | | | | | | | | | | -------- | | | | | | | | +----------+----------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | En | Entry | | | | | | | | | trypoint | point | | | | | | | | | URL | URL | | | | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | | | | (e.g., | | | | | | | | | | SIP URL) | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | esta | | | | | | | | | | blishing | | | | | | | | | | the F-U | | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | | nnection | | | | | | | | | | to start | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | reaming. | | | | | | | | | | Details | | | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | | | En | | | | | | | | | | trypoint | | | | | | | | | | URL is | | | | | | | | | | F-U | | | | | | | | | | insta | | | | | | | | | | ntiation | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | pecific. | | | | | | | | +----------+----------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Pr | The | | | | O | O | | | | ocessing | property | | | | | | | | | Des | stores a | | | | | | | | | cription | media | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | ocessing | | | | | | | | | | des | | | | | | | | | | cription | | | | | | | | | | document | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | defines | | | | | | | | | | the post | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | ocessing | | | | | | | | | | pipeline | | | | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | | | sink | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | | | | received | | | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | | ponents. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | pipeline | | | | | | | | | | des | | | | | | | | | | cription | | | | | | | | | | also may | | | | | | | | | | also set | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | dist | | | | | | | | | | ribution | | | | | | | | | | target | | | | | | | | | | (incl | | | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | | | sink | | | | | | | | | | storage) | | | | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | | | | media. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | format | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | emantics | | | | | | | | | | of this | | | | | | | | | | document | | | | | | | | | | are out | | | | | | | | | | of scope | | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | | | specif | | | | | | | | | | ication. | | | | | | | | +----------+----------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
### 5.3.3 Data transport
In this version of the specification, this function is left for
implementation, but expected to be specified in a future version.
# 6 Terminal capabilities
## 6.1 General
In this version of the specification, this function is left for
implementation, but expected to be specified in a future version.
# 7 Uplink Streaming Control Interface
## 7.1 General
A UE with a FLUS source can connect to a FLUS sink and start live uplink
streaming of content that is captured by the UE or by a set of connected
capture devices. This section specifies REST API procedures for FLUS sink
discovery, capability discovery, FLUS session setup, and session termination
between the FLUS source and the FLUS sink.
### 7.1.1 Resources
F-C defines a set of resources managed at the FLUS sink that are controlled by
the FLUS source. The set of resources are defined in the following table:
Table 7.1.1-1: Resources for managing FLUS sessions at FLUS sink
* * *
**Resource Name** **Resource Type** **Description** **Sink** **Instance
resource** **Represents a single FLUS sink as described in section 7.1.1.1.
The FLUS source can query the properties of that sink. However, a FLUS source
cannot create, update, or terminate a FLUS sink. The creation, update, and
termination of FLUS sinks are controlled exclusively by the network** Session
Instance resource Represents a single FLUS session resource as described in
section 7.1.1.2. The FLUS source can provision or modify a single session at
the FLUS sink. Sessions Collection Resource Represents a collection of FLUS
session resources.
* * *
#### 7.1.1.1 Sink Resource
A Sink resource provides a representation of the capabilities of a FLUS sink.
It also contains a sessions property that represents a collection of FLUS
sessions. A FLUS source can query sink resources using REST API methods to
examine the properties of the sink resource. Different properties of sink
resources represent the capabilities of the corresponding FLUS sink.
Each sink resource has the set of properties described in Table 7.1.1.1-1.
Table 7.1.1.1-1: Properties of Sink Resource
* * *
**Property Name** **Description** **Example Values** capabilities List of
supported features and instantiations by the FLUS sink. Each capability is to
be expressed using an URN. urn:vnd:xzy:capability-name
* * *
As described in Table 7.1.1.1-1 above, each sink resource describes the
capabilities of the corresponding FLUS sink. A FLUS source can retrieve the
resource description of a sink resource and find out its capabilities and make
a decision if it wants to use the corresponding FLUS sink as described using
the capability exchange procedure in section 7.3.
#### 7.1.1.2 Session Resource
A Session resource provides the representation of a session between a FLUS
source and a FLUS sink. A FLUS source can create a session at a FLUS sink
using REST API methods operating on the session resource described in this
section.
Each session resource has the set of properties described in Table
**5.2.2.7-1**.
FLUS sources use the above session resource representation to create and
manage sessions at the selected FLUS sink. Different procedures that operate
on the sink and session resources are discussed in the following sections.
### 7.1.2 Supported Methods
The F-C API follows the RESTful design principles. All operations shall be
performed using HTTP 1.1 (IETF RFC 7231 [6]) over TLS (3GPP TS 33.246 [7]).
* * *
**HTTP Method** **CRUD** **Resource** **PATH** POST Create Session
/flus/v1.0/sessions GET Read Session /flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id} Sink
/flus/v1.0/sinks/{sink-res-id}/ PUT Replace Session
/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id} PATCH Modify Session
/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id} DELETE Delete Session
/flus/v1.0/session/{session-res-id}
* * *
### 7.1.3 Error Handling
The Uplink Streaming Interface API shall use the HTTP status codes to indicate
any errors that might occur in the processing of operations on FLUS resources.
Unless defined otherwise, the HTTP status codes shall be interpreted as
specified in IETF RFC 7231 [6]. API operations that are not successfully
handled shall not leave the resource at an undefined state. The response
should provide sufficient information for a human operator to understand and
locate the error.
## 7.2 Discovery
The FLUS sink discovery procedure is used by the FLUS source to discover
available FLUS sinks that are provided by the operator.
To query the list of available FLUS sinks, the FLUS REST client shall use one
of the following procedures:
\- The operator provides one or more FLUS sink URLs to the FLUS source.
\- DNS discovery of the FLUS sink
\- The FLUS Sources uses the pre-defined URL:
http://flus.mnc\.mcc\.pub.3gppnetwork.org/flus/v1.0/sinks/ in an
HTTP request. The response shall be a JSON document that represents an array
of objects, each of which contains a URL to the entry point to the FLUS Sink.
## 7.3 Capability retrieval
**GET /flus/v1.0/capabilities**
Using this capability exchange procedure, the FLUS source enquires about the
supported features and instantiations of the FLUS sink.
To retrieve the capabilities of a FLUS sink, the FLUS source shall use the
HTTP GET method on the "sink" instance resource as follows:
\- the request URI with the "path" is set to "/flus/v1.0/capabilities"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
The URL in the request is set according to the information retrieved using the
Discovery procedure described in section 7.2.
The sink resource information provides in detail the capabilities of the FLUS
sink. The response from the FLUS sink to the FLUS source shall contain the
following:
\- The Content-Type field specifying the MIME type (JSON) using which the sink
resource information is encoded.
\- The Content-Length is the length of the content body.
The above header fields are followed by the content body in the format
indicated by the Content-Type field. The content body includes the detailed
representation of the sink resource as described in section 7.1.1.1 from which
the capabilities of that FLUS sink can be inferred.
The possible response messages from the FLUS sink to the FLUS source are shown
in Table 7.3-1.
Table 7.3-1: Response status code, message, and contents for sink resource
retrieval using HTTP GET
* * *
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents** 200 OK The request has succeeded The
FLUS sink provides the sink capabilities to the FLUS source. 403 Forbidden
Request cannot be fulfilled The FLUS sink may include optional text to
indicate why the request could not be fulfilled Note: In addition to the above
response codes, the FLUS sink can also send appropriate response codes
described in IETF RFC 7231 [6] as applicable.
* * *
## 7.4 Uplink streaming configuration
### 7.4.1 FLUS session properties fetch procedure
**GET /flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id}**
Sessions can be read by the FLUS source when it wishes to know the latest
representation of the session resource at the FLUS sink. To fetch the
properties of a FLUS session, the FLUS source sends a HTTP GET request to the
FLUS sink as follows:
\- the request URI with the "path" set to "/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-
id}"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
The {session-res-id} in the request URI is the session resource identifier of
the session previously created between the FLUS source and the FLUS sink.
Upon receiving HTTP GET request from the FLUS source, the FLUS sink checks to
see if such a session exists that matches the given session resource
identifier. If such a session exists, the FLUS sink shall respond to the FLUS
source with a 200 OK message along with the complete representation of the
session resource. The response from the FLUS sink to the FLUS source shall
contain the following:
\- The Content-Type field specifying the MIME type (JSON) using which the
session resource information is encoded.
\- The Content-Length is the length of the content body.
The content body of this response message shall be the representation of the
session resource as described in sub clause 7.1.1.2
Alternatively, if such a session cannot be found by the FLUS sink, it shall
send a 404 Not Found message to the FLUS sink. If the request cannot be
fulfilled, the FLUS sink shall send a 403 Forbiddent message to the FLUS
source.
The possible response messages from the FLUS sink, depending on whether the
GET request is successful or unsuccessful, are shown in Table 7.4.1-1.
Table 7.4.1-1: Response status code, message, and contents for service
modification using HTTPS GET
* * *
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents** 200 OK The request has succeeded The
FLUS sink provides session properties of the session resource to the FLUS
source 403 Forbidden Request cannot be fulfilled The FLUS sink may include
optional text to indicate why the request could not be fulfilled 404 Not Found
Requested resource not found None Note: In addition to the above response
codes, the FLUS sink can also send appropriate response codes described in
IETF RFC 7231 [6] as applicable.
* * *
### 7.4.2 FLUS session update procedure
The sessions at the FLUS sink can be modified partially or completely using
the following two procedures
#### 7.4.2.1 Partial modification of FLUS session
**PATCH /flus/v1.0/session/{session-res-id}**
To update some of the FLUS session parameters at the sink, the FLUS source
sends an HTTP PATCH request as follows:
\- the request URI with the "path" is set to "/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-
res-id}"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
\- The Content-Type field specifying the MIME type (JSON) using which the
session resource information is encoded.
\- The Content-Length is the length of the content body.
The {session-res-id} in the request URI is the session resource identifier of
the session whose modification is sought.
The content body of the HTTP PATCH message shall contain the updated partial
representation of the session resource.
Upon receiving the HTTP PATCH request from the FLUS source, the FLUS sink
checks to see if such a session exists at the sink. If such a sink exists,
FLUS sink shall update the session properties based on the values from the
incoming request. Upon successful update of the requested session, the FLUS
sink shall respond to the FLUS source with a 200 OK success message indicating
that the session was successfully updated. The FLUS sink shall also include
the session resource identifier of the session that is updated. As alternative
to the 200 OK message, FLUS sink may send a 204 No Content success message
without any message content to the FLUS source. If the session cannot be
updated, the FLUS sink shall send a 403 message. If the session is not found,
the FLUS sink shall send a 404 message.
The possible response messages from the FLUS sink, depending on whether the
PATCH request is successful or unsuccessful, are shown in Table 7.4.2.1-1.
Table 7.4.2.1-1: Response status code, message, and contents for session
modification using HTTP PATCH
* * *
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents** 200 OK The request has succeeded The
FLUS sink provides the session resource identifier of the session that is
modified 204 No Content The request has succeeded None 403 Forbidden Request
cannot be fulfilled The FLUS sink may include optional text to indicate why
the request could not be fulfilled 404 Not Found Requested resource not found
None Note: In addition to the above response codes, the FLUS sink can also
send appropriate response codes described in IETF RFC 7231 [6] as applicable.
* * *
#### 7.4.2.2 Full modification of FLUS session
**PUT /flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id}**
For complete update of the session parameters at the FLUS sink, the FLUS
source sends an HTTP PUT request as follows:
\- the request URI with the "path" is set to "/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-
res-id}"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
\- The Content-Type field specifying the MIME type (JSON) using which the
session resource information is encoded.
\- The Content-Length is the length of the content body.
The {session-res-id} in the request URI is the session resource identifier of
the session whose modification is sought.
The content body of the HTTP PUT message shall contain the updated complete
representation of the session resource.
Upon receiving the HTTP PUT request from the FLUS source, the FLUS sink checks
to see if such a session exists at the sink. If such a sink exists, FLUS sink
shall update the session properties based on the values from the incoming
request. Upon successful update of the requested session, the FLUS sink shall
respond to the FLUS source with a 200 OK success message indicating that the
session was successfully updated. The FLUS sink shall also include the session
resource identifier of the session that is updated. As alternative to the 200
OK message, FLUS sink may send a 204 No Content success message without any
message content to the FLUS source. If the session cannot be updated, the FLUS
sink shall send a 403 message. If the session is not found, the FLUS sink
shall send a 404 message.
The possible response messages from the FLUS sink, depending on whether the
PATCH request is successful or unsuccessful, are shown in Table 7.4.2.2-1.
Table 7.4.2.2-1: Response status code, message, and contents for session
modification using HTTP PATCH
* * *
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents** 200 OK The request has succeeded The
FLUS sink shall send the session resource identifier of the session that is
modified 204 No Content The request has succeeded None 403 Forbidden Request
cannot be fulfilled The FLUS sink may include optional text to indicate why
the request could not be fulfilled 404 Not Found Requested resource not found
None Note: In addition to the above response codes, the FLUS sink can also
send appropriate response codes described in IETF RFC 7231 [6] as applicable.
* * *
## 7.5 Session establishment
**POST /flus/v1.0/sessions**
To create a session at the FLUS sink, the FLUS source shall use the HTTP GET
method on the "sessions" collection resource as follows:
\- the request URI with the "path" is set to "/flus/v1.0/sessions"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
\- the Content-Type field specifying the MIME type (JSON) using which the
session resource information is encoded.
\- the Content-Length is the length of the content body.
The content body of the POST request shall contain the representation of the
session resource. The session resource representation includes the details
such as the media streams, their formats and codecs, the relationship between
them, and the selected user plane instantiation and user plane control
protocol.
Upon receipt of HTTP POST to create a session, the FLUS sink shall create a
session. Upon successful creation of session resource, the FLUS sink shall
respond back to the FLUS source with a 201 success message indicating that the
session is successfully created along with the session resource of the created
session. The session information returned to the FLUS source along with the
201 message includes the parameters applied for the session, thus confirming
the parameters, and any default values assigned to session parameters which
were not supplied by the FLUS source in the HTTP POST message.
The session resource identifier is the identifier that uniquely identifies the
session within the list of all sessions at that sink. When the FLUS source
receives the session resource identifier, it shall use this identifier in
subsequent requests to the FLUS sink to refer to this session.
Alternatively, if the creation of session is failed, the FLUS sink shall send
a 403 message.
The possible response messages from the FLUS sink, depending on whether the
POST request is successful or unsuccessful, are shown in Table 7.5-1.
Table 7.5: Response status code, message, and contents for session creation
* * *
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents** 201 Created Session created
successfully The FLUS sink provides the session resource identifier of the
created session and detailed session information 403 Forbidden Request cannot
be fulfilled The FLUS sink may include optional text to indicate why the
request could not be fulfilled Note: In addition to the above response codes,
the FLUS sink can also send appropriate response codes described in IETF RFC
7231 [11] as applicable
* * *
## 7.6 Session termination
**DELETE /flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id}**
To terminate a FLUS session, the FLUS sink shall use the HTTP DELETE method on
the "session" instance resource as follows:
\- the request URL with the "path" is set to "/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-
res-id}"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
The {session-res-id} is the session resource identifier for which the session
termination is sought.
Upon reception of a HTTP DELETE request, the FLUS sink will check to see if
the session with the given session resource identifier exists at the given
sink. If such a session exists, the FLUS sink shall delete the session
instance associated with the given session resource identifier. Further, the
FLUS sink responds back to the FLUS source with a 200 success message along
with the session resource identifier indicating that the session was
successfully deleted. Alternately, if the session cannot be deleted, the FLUS
sink shall send a 403 Forbidden message. If the session was not found, or if
the sink was not found, the FLUS sink returns back with a 404 message.
The possible response messages from the FLUS sink, depending on whether the
DELETE request is successful or unsuccessful, are shown in Table 5.2.2.2.4-1.
Table 7.6-1: Response status code, message, and contents for session deletion
* * *
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents** 200 OK The request has succeeded The
FLUS sink shall send the session resource identifier of the session that is
deleted 204 No Content The request has succeeded None 403 Forbidden Request
cannot be fulfilled The FLUS sink may include optional text to indicate why
the request could not be fulfilled 404 Not Found Requested resource not found
None Note: In addition to the above response codes, the FLUS sink can also
send appropriate response codes described in IETF RFC 7231 [6] as applicable.
* * *
# 8 FLUS Security
## 8.1 IMS-based FLUS
Security functionality for IMS is specified at both the control and media
planes. From the FLUS system perspective, it is described in clause 4.2.1 that
the FLUS media/user planes contain both the media session establishment and
the subsequent media data transmission functions. In other words, in an IMS-
based FLUS system, both the IMS control and media plane security
functionalities are combined in FLUS media and F-U as shown in Figure 4.2-2.
From a logical standpoint, security functionality pertaining to session
establishment procedures in the IMS-based FLUS system corresponds to IMS
control plane security, which in turn consists of access and core network
related security functions. The former, on access security, is defined in TS
33.203 [8], while the core network security functionality is defined in TS
33.210 [9]. Media data transmission in the IMS-based FLUS system include RTP
transport of continuous media content, and its associated security
functionality is defined in TS 33.328 [10].
## 8.2 Non-IMS-based FLUS
In this version of the specification, this function is left for
implementation, but expected to be specified in a future version.
#