# Foreword
The present document describes the Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec within
the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This Telecommunication Standard (TS) describes the detailed mapping from an
MPEG-4 bitstream containing Enhanced aacPlus coded audio to PCM sample output.
The Enhanced aacPlus audio codec is based on the AAC, SBR and Parametric
Stereo coding tools defined in the MPEG-4 Audio standard [5][6][7]. In
addition it includes further tools such as error concealment, spline
resampler, and stereo-to-mono downmix.
This Telecommunication Standard (TS) also describes the detailed mapping from
a PCM sample input to an MPEG-4 bitstream containing Enhanced aacPlus coded
audio.
# 2 Normative references
This TS incorporates by dated and undated reference, provisions from other
publications. These normative references are cited in the appropriate places
in the text and the publications are listed hereafter. For dated references,
subsequent amendments to or revisions of any of these publications apply to
this TS only when incorporated in it by amendment or revision. For undated
references, the latest edition of the publication referred to applies.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.410 : Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Floating-point
ANSI-C Code.
[2] 3GPP TS 26.403 : Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Encoder
Specification AAC part.
[3] 3GPP TS 26.404 : Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Encoder
Specification SBR part.
[4] 3GPP TS 26.405 : Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Encoder
Specification Parametric Stereo part.
[5] ISO/IEC 14496-3:2001, Information technology - Coding of audio-visual
objects - Part 3: Audio.
[6] ISO/IEC 14496-3:2001/Amd.1:2003, Bandwidth Extension.
[7] ISO/IEC 14496-3:2001/Amd.1:2003/DCOR1.
[8] ISO/IEC 14496-3:2001/Amd.2:2004, Parametric Coding for High Quality Audio.
[9] 3GPP TS 26.402: Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Additional Decoder
Tools.
[10] 3GPP TS 26.411 : Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Fixed-point ANSI-C
Code.
[11] 3GPP TS 26.234 : Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS) ; Protocols and codecs.
[12] ISO/IEC 14496-3:2001/Amd.2:2004/DCOR 1.
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS, the following abbreviations apply.
> AAC Advanced Audio Coding
>
> AAC-LC Advanced Audio Coding Low Complexity Object Type
>
> AAC-LTP Advanced Audio Coding Long Term Predictor Object Type
>
> aacPlus MPEG-4 High Efficiency AAC, the combination of MPEG-4 AAC and MPEG-4
> Bandwidth extension (SBR)
>
> Enhanced aacPlus MPEG-4 High Efficiency AAC plus MPEG-4 Parametric
> StereoMDCT Modified Discrete Cosine Transform
>
> QMF Quadrature Mirror Filter
>
> SBR Spectral Band Replication
# 4 Outline description
This TS is structured as follows:
Section 5 gives a general overview of the parts in the Enhanced aacPlus codec.
It further specifies what parts of the cited ISO standards apply.
Section 7 gives a more detailed overview of the Enhanced aacPlus encoder, and
references the relevant detailed technical description documents.
Section 8 gives a more detailed overview of the ISO standardised parts of the
Enhanced aacPlus decoder, and references the relevant ISO standards.
Section 9 gives a more detailed overview of the additional tools present in
the Enhanced aacPlus decoder that are not part of the cited ISO standards, and
references the relevant detailed technical description documents.
# 5 General
The Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec consists of MPEG-4 AAC, MPEG-4 SBR
and MPEG-4 Parametric Stereo. The AAC is a general audio codec, SBR is a
bandwidth extension technique offering substantial coding gain in combination
with AAC, and Parametric Stereo enables stereo coding at very low bitrates. In
addition to the above parts of the Enhanced aacPlus codec that are specified
in ISO standards [5][6][7][8][12] there are 3 additional tools included in the
Enhanced aacPlus decoder:
\- Error concealment tools for AAC, SBR, and Parametric Stereo make the
decoder robust against transmission errors like frame loss. These tools
mitigate audible effects of such errors.
\- The stereo-to-mono downmix tool enables a decoder only capable of mono
output to downmix a stereo bitstream. For the AAC part this is done in the
time domain after the stereo decoding but for SBR this is done on the SBR
parameters and thus saving complexity since only a mono decoding of SBR is
needed.
\- The Spline resampler tool gives the possibility to resample the output to a
sampling frequency different than what was supplied in the bitstream. This
gives for example handsets with a D/A converter only capable of 16 kHz
sampling frequency the possibility to play bit streams encoded with 22.05 kHz
sampling frequency.
The 3GPP Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec offers monophonic and
stereophonic coding. For stereophonic coding two stereo modes are used:
parametric stereo for low bitrates and M/S stereo for high bitrates. The codec
is based on the MPEG-4 Audio ISO standard. The cited ISO standards define
several profiles and levels of which not all are applicable in the 3GPP
context. From the ISO standards the following subset shall be used:
The Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec implements the High Efficiency AAC
Profile at Level 2[^1] as defined in [6]. In addition, the following
restriction applies:
\- frameLengthFlag in GASpecificConfig() shall be 0 (i.e., 960 framing is not
supported);
> For terminals supporting stereophonic output the following additional
> statements apply:
\- for mono and parametric stereo bitstreams, the Enhanced aacPlus decoder
operates the SBR tool in HQ mode, thus the SBR HQ tool is required;
\- the parametric stereo enhancement implements the baseline version of the
parametric stereo coding tool in direct combination with the SBR tool, as
defined in [8].
\- for M/S stereo bitstreams, it is recommended that the Enhanced aacPlus
decoder operates the SBR tool in Low Power mode.
For terminals that are only capable of producing monophonic output the
following additional statements apply:
\- implementation of the parametric stereo tool is not required. The decoder
would skip the parametric stereo data and only decode the mono portion of the
signal.
\- the stereo-to-mono-downmix tool is required in order to be able to decode
M/S stereo bitstreams.
\- implementation of the SBR HQ tool is not required. Instead it is
recommended to only implement the SBR Low Power tool since it allows for
reduced computational complexity and lower memory requirements
Figure 1 illustrates how the AAC, SBR and the Parametric Stereo tools are
combined to form the enhanced aacPlus codec: aacPlus consists of AAC and SBR.
Enhanced aacPlus consists of aacPlus and the additional Parametric Stereo
tool. Enhanced aacPlus is thus a true superset of aacPlus and AAC.
Figure 1: MPEG tools used to form the Enhanced aacPlus codec
# 6 Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec: ANSI-C code
The Floating-point ANSI --C-code of the general audio codec Enhanced aacPlus
is described in [1]. The Fixed-point ANSI --C-code of the general audio codec
Enhanced aacPlus is described in [10].
# 7 Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec: Enhanced aacPlus encoder
Figure 2 shows a block diagram of the Enhanced aacPlus encoder. The input PCM
time domain signal is first fed to a stereo-to-mono downmix unit, which is
only applied if the input signal is stereo but the chosen audio encoding mode
is selected to be mono.
Next, the (mono or stereo) input time domain signal is fed to an IIR
resampling filter in order to adjust the input sampling rate _fs~in~_ to the
best-suited sampling rate _fs~enc~_ for the encoding process. The usage of the
IIR resampler is only applied if the input signal sampling rate differs from
the encoding sampling rate. The IIR resampler may either be run as a 3:2
downsampler (e.g. to downsample from 48 kHz to 32 kHz) or as a 1:2 upsampler
(e.g. to upsample from 16 to 32 kHz).
The Enhanced aacPlus encoder basically consists of the well-known AAC[^2]
(Advanced Audio Coding) waveform encoder, the SBR (Spectral Band Replication)
high frequency reconstruction encoding tool and the Parametric Stereo encoding
tool. The Enhanced aacPlus encoder is operating in a dual rate mode, whereas
the SBR encoder operates at the encoding sampling rate _fs~enc~_ as delivered
from the IIR resampler and the AAC encoder at half of this sampling rate
_fs~enc~_ /2. Consequently a 2:1 downsampler is present at the input to the
AAC encoder. For an efficient implementation an IIR (Infinite Impulse
Response) filter algorithm is used. The Parametric Stereo tool is used for
low-bitrate stereo coding, i.e. at and below a bitrate of 44 kbit/s. The AAC
encoder implementation complies with the AAC Low Complexity Object Type [5].
{width="6.625694444444444in" height="2.9444444444444446in"}
Figure 2: Enhanced aacPlus Encoder overview
The SBR encoder consists of a QMF (Quadrature Mirror Filter) analysis filter
bank, which is used to derive the spectral envelope of the original input
signal. Furthermore the SBR related modules control the selection of a input
signal adaptive grid partitioning of the QMF samples on the time axis (i.e.
control the framing), analyse the relation of noise floor to tonal components
in the high band, collect guidance information for the transposition process
in the decoder and detect missing harmonic components which could not be
reconstructed by pure transposition. This gathered information about the
characteristics of the input signal, together with the spectral envelope data
forms the SBR stream. The amount of bits for the SBR stream is subtracted from
the bits available to the AAC encoder in order to achieve a constant bitrate
encoding of the multiplexed Enhanced aacPlus stream.
For stereo bitrates at and below 44 kbit/s, the Parametric Stereo encoding
tool in the Enhanced aacPlus encoder is used. For stereo bitrates above 44
kbit/s, normal stereo operation is performed. The Parametric Stereo encoding
tool estimates parameters characterizing the perceived stereo image of the
input signal. These stereo parameters are embedded in the SBR stream. At the
same time, a signal-adaptive mono downmix of the input signal is generated in
the QMF domain and fed into the SBR encoder operating in mono. This downmix is
also processed by a downsampled QMF synthesis filterbank to obtain the time
domain input signal for the AAC core encoder with the sampling rate fs~enc~/2.
In this case, the 2:1 IIR downsampler is not active.
The embedding of the SBR stream (including the Parametric Stereo data) into
the AAC stream is done in a backwards compatible way, i.e. a legacy Release 5
AAC decoder is able to parse the Enhanced aacPlus stream and decode the AAC
core part.
The Enhanced aacPlus encoder is described in detail in [2], [3] and [4].
# 8 Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec: Enhanced aacPlus decoder
Figure 3 shows a block diagram of the Enhanced aacPlus decoder. In the decoder
the bitstream is de-multiplexed into the AAC and the SBR stream. Error
concealment, e.g. in case of frame loss, is achieved by designated algorithms
in the decoder for AAC, SBR and Parametric Stereo: the AAC core decoder
employs signal-adaptive spectrally shaped noise generation for error
concealment, in the SBR and Parametric Stereo decoders, error concealment is
based on extrapolation of guidance, envelope, and stereo information.
For the SBR processing, the Low-Power tool of SBR as described in [6] is used
for full stereo decoding in order to keep the peak computational complexity as
low as possible over all channel modes. Usage of the SBR Low-Power tool
provides a computational complexity of an aacPlus stereo decoder in the same
range as plain AAC stereo decoders.
The lowband AAC time domain signal, sampled at _fs~enc~/2,_ is first fed to a
32-channel QMF analysis filter bank. The QMF lowband samples are then used to
generate a highband signal, whereas the transmitted transposition guidance
information is used to best match the original input signal characteristics.
The transposed highband signal is then adjusted according to the transmitted
spectral envelope signal to best match the original\'s spectral envelope.
Also, missing components that could not be reconstructed by the transposition
process are introduced. Finally, the lowband and the reconstructed highband
are combined to obtain the complete output signal in the QMF domain.
In case of a stream using parametric stereo, the mono output signal from the
underlying aacPlus decoder is converted into a stereo signal. This processing
is carried out in the QMF domain and is controlled by the parametric stereo
parameters embedded in the SBR stream. The relevant blocks for the Parametric
Stereo operation are highlighted using grey background colour in Figure 3.
A 64-channel QMF synthesis filter bank is used to obtain the time domain
output signal, sampled at the encoding sampling rate _fs~enc~_. The synthesis
filter bank may also be used to apply an implicit downsampling by a factor of
2, resulting in an output sampling rate of _fs~enc~/2._
{width="6.665277777777778in" height="3.1756944444444444in"}
Figure 3: Enhanced aacPlus Decoder overview
The Enhanced aacPlus decoder is described in [5], [6], [7] and [8]. This
description does not cover the additional decoder tools; error-concealment,
SBR stereo-to-mono downmix and the spline resampler, that are not part of the
cited ISO standards and therefore explained in section 9.
# 9 Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec: Additional Decoder Tools
Three additional tools are incorporated in the Enhanced aacPlus that are not
part of the cited ISO standards. These are a error concealment algorithm,
stereo-to-mono downmix, and a spline resampler.
The error concealment, e.g. in case of frame loss, is achieved by designated
algorithms in the decoder for AAC, SBR andParametric Stereo: the AAC core
decoder employs signal-adaptive spectrally shaped noise generation for error
concealment, in the SBR and Parametric Stereo decoders, error concealment is
based on extrapolation of guidance, envelope, and stereo information.
If the transmitted stream is a M/S stereo stream, but a monophonic output is
requested, for each of the two components a stereo-to-mono downmix tool is
available. In case of AAC the downmix is applied in the time-domain after AAC
decoding. In case of SBR the stereo SBR stream is mapped to a mono SBR stream,
thus resulting in low computational complexity since all further processing is
then done on one channel only. If the transmitted stream uses parametric
stereo, but a monophonic output is requested, the Parametric Stereo decoder is
deactivated.
Finally a spline resampler algorithm is used to match the Enhanced aacPlus
decoder output sampling rate to any arbitrary sampling rate. The spline
resampler is only used if the handset requires any other specific output
sampling rate different from _fs~enc~_ or _fs~enc~/2,_ e.g. 8 or 16 kHz if
_fs~enc~_ is 44.1 kHz.
The additional decoder tools are described in [9].
# 10 Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec: Compatibility
Due to the modular approach the **enhanced aacPlus encoder also includes a
fully featured aacPlus and AAC-LC encoder.**
A further consequence of the modular approach is decoder backwards
compatibility: a Release-5 AAC decoder is able to decode the AAC part of an
Enhanced aacPlus bitstream which contains both, SBR and Parametric Stereo
data. However playback quality will be significantly limited. It is therefore
recommended to not use this kind of compatibility unless it is specifically
desired. Restricted backward compatibility can be accomplished by selecting
the appropriate signalling as described in [6].
Table 1 illustrates the bitstream and decoding compatibilities as outlined
above.
Table 1: Playback capabilities of decoders
* * *
                 Decoder                                                                                                                                                             
                 Enhanced aacPlus                                        Release-5 AAC-LC, backwards compatible signalling   Release 5 AAC-LC, non backwards compatible signalling
Encoder mode Enhanced aacPlus stereo, at and below 44 kbit/s Yes Mono only, no
SBR No Enhanced aacPlus mono or stereo above 44 kbit/s Yes No SBR No Release 5
AAC-LC Yes Yes Yes
* * *
Note: the table does not contain information on AAC-LTP, which is an optional
audio codec since Release 5.
# 11 SBR Signalling in Payload formats
The decoder shall support all three signalling types defined in [6]. If
implicit signalling is used, AAC-LC shall be signalled as described in Rel.5
of TS 26.234, in order to maintain backwards compatibility. If, in such a
case, the sampling rate as indicated by the AAC object type descriptor (in the
SDP) is 24 kHz or below and \"SBR-enabled\" (see [11]) is not specified in the
SDP (i.e. the content does not originate from a Rel.6 server), the decoder
output shall be configured to twice the AAC sampling rate.
#