# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Timed graphics is a media type that enables advanced subtitle like services in
parallel to video. It enables high quality text and graphics at a low cost.
In low bit-rate video, the areas which are often perceived as the worst are
subtitles and graphics or tables (encoded as part of the video). Encoding
subtitles as timed text instead of as part of the video can increase the
perceived quality of the video substantially. Timed Text [4] solves the
problem of subtitles and when used gives a perceptual quality much higher that
encoding the text as part of the video stream. DIMS [5] allows the placement
of vector graphics on top of video - but from an application perspective and
requires DIMS to control the media. Timed Graphics works together with these
abovementioned specifications, or independently, to enable better \"video\"
quality.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines a timed graphics media type which reuses
components from existing media types. A transport system is defined as is a
storage format.
The specification is written in a forward-compatible way in order to allow
additions of media components and functionality in future releases.
It enhances the user experience by enabling graphics to be encoded as graphics
(as opposed to video) and without requiring an umbrella system such as SMIL or
DIMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] W3C Recommendation: \"**Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) Tiny 1.2
Specification\"**.
[3] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.245: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Timed text format\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.142: \"\"Dynamic and Interactive Multimedia Scenes (DIMS\")\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation T.81 (1992) \| ISO/IEC 10918-1:1993: \"Information
technology -- Digital compression and coding of continuous-tone still images
-- Requirements and guidelines\".
[7] CompuServe Incorporated: \"GIF Graphics Interchange Format: A Standard
defining a mechanism for the storage and transmission of raster-based graphics
information\", Columbus, OH, USA, 1987.
[8] CompuServe Incorporated: \"Graphics Interchange Format: Version 89a\",
Columbus, OH, USA, 1990.
[9] IETF RFC 2083: \"PNG (Portable Networks Graphics) Specification Version
1.0\", Boutell T., et al., March 1997.
[10] IETF RFC 4396: \"RTP Payload Format for 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP) Timed Text\", Rey J, Matsui Y, February 2006
[11] ETSI EN 300 743 v1.4.1\"Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB); Subtitling
systems\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Timed Graphics Entity:** A byte aligned, network independent unit containing
timed graphics data
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DIMS Dynamic and Interactive Multimedia Scenes
# 4 Overview and architecture
Timed graphics has two main components: The graphics description, i.e. the
actual images, and the layout, i.e. a coordinate system describing the
placement of the images.
Timed graphics is designed in as a media type. It can coexist with umbrella
systems (e.g. DIMS or SMIL) just as other media types do, yet contains
components from DIMS or other media types.
{width="4.661111111111111in" height="1.5847222222222221in"}
Figure 1: Example of a Timed Graphics stream, in parallel to an audio and
video stream.\ No \"umbrella\" scene description is present.
Timed graphics may be realized in one of two ways: SVG-based timed graphics or
simple timed graphics mode. In the SVG-based timed graphics, the layout and
timing are controlled by the SVG scene. The transport and storage are
inherited from DIMS. In the simple timed graphics mode, a binary
representation format is defined to enable simple embedding of graphics
elements. The transport over RTP and the storage in the 3GP file format are
defined by this specification.
# 5 SVG-based Timed Graphics
## 5.1 Introduction
SVG-based Timed Graphics is defined as a profile of DIMS with certain
restrictions and a layout mechanism for rendering timed graphics with external
continuous media (i.e. video). Similarly to DIMS, SVG-based Timed Graphics
consists of a multimedia scene. The multimedia scene is described using SVG
Tiny 1.2 [2] and may consist of any combination of still pictures and animated
graphics. In SVG-based Timed Graphics, continuous media such as audio and
video are not allowed and shall be ignored by the receiver. The profile
limitations are described in the following sections.
## 5.2 Scene Description Restrictions
SVG Tiny 1.2 shall be used for the description of SVG-based Timed Graphics.
The base scene description shall not contain any references to continuous
media such as audio or video.
The following restrictions to SVG Tiny 1.2 apply to the SVG scene of SVG-based
Timed Graphics:
\- Timed Media Elements: audio, video, and animation elements shall not be
present in a timed graphics scene and should be ignored by the timed graphics
client.
\- Interactivity: scripting and handling of events is not allowed and shall be
ignored by the timed graphics client.
Furthermore, SVG-based Timed Graphics scenes should not contain any elements
or attributes from DIMS scene extensions.
## 5.3 Scene Commands
Timed Graphics does not support scene commands. In a Timed Graphics scene,
DIMS scene commands should not be present and shall be ignored by a terminal
that conforms to this specification.
## 5.4 Timed Graphics Media Unit Restrictions
SVG-based Timed Graphics media units are DIMS media units that are restricted
to complete SVG documents. The DIMS compression method may be applied to Timed
Graphics unit body.
For Timed Graphics the Unit header fields shall be set as follows:
> S: is-Scene: shall be set to 1 and may be ignored by a Timed Graphics
> decoder.
>
> M: is-RAP: shall be set to 1 and may be ignored by a Timed Graphics decoder.
>
> I: is-redundant: shall be set to 0 and may be ignored by a Timed Graphics
> decoder.
>
> D: redundant-exit: shall be to 0 and may be ignored by a Timed Graphics
> decoder.
>
> P: priority shall be set to 1 and may be ignored by a Timed Graphics
> decoder.
>
> C: compression: indicates the compression applied;\ 0 indicates no
> compression (textual format);\ 1 indicates that the content is compressed
> using the encoding signalled in stream setup.
>
> X: reserved: shall be set to 0 and shall be ignored by the receiver
## 5.5 Timing model
Timed Graphics consists of a sequence of SVG scenes where each incurs a reset
of the scene time to 0. The synchronization to external continuous media is
achieved using the transport protocol (RTP) timestamps and the sample
timestamps in the 3GP file format.
The SVG scene itself defines its own timeline, which has as origin the time
that corresponds to the presentation time given by the RTP or sample
timestamp. The usage of internal timelines should be limited to timing the
presentation and removal of the graphics content. This is ensured by
disallowing continuous media components including the animation element in the
SVG scene for timed graphics.
## 5.6 Processing Model
In SVG-based Timed Graphics, a Scene Description is a random access point
(RAP) and is processed as a complete replacement for the current scene tree.
That is, the entire DOM is discarded and replaced with the result of parsing
the newly received SVG element.
The following state diagram illustrates the states. The state diagram should
be implemented by timed graphics terminals.
In the state diagram, the terminal may be processing a stream under one of two
conditions:
a) normal processing, \'normal\';
b) after tuning in, performing random access, or when loss is detected,
\'tune-in\'.
Tune-in state is entered under any of the following circumstances:
a) after opening a stream;
b) after performing random access;
c) after loss of a timed graphics Unit in normal processing.
The terminal transfers to \'normal\' state after processing any received timed
graphics sample.
Figure 2
## 5.7 Rendering Model
The \ root element of the Timed Graphics scene shall be rendered on the
parent canvas (provided by the media player) originating at the upper left
corner. The \ element shall be completely transparent and should contain
the attribute \"viewport-fill\" that shall be set to \"none\".
Timed Graphics media shall have a higher rendering order than other continuous
media such as video and timed text. In case multiple Timed Graphics streams
co-exist in the same multimedia session, the rendering order shall be
established based on the media identifiers, or, if not present, the order of
appearance in the 3GP file or the SDP.
## 5.8 Transport
SVG-based Timed Graphics uses from the same transport mechanisms as DIMS. It
may be downloaded using HTTP, as part of a file format or it may be streamed
over RTP.
Timed Graphics reuses the DIMS RTP payload format and the 3GP file format
extensions. The Timed Graphics also reuses the SDP syntax and media type
parameters defined for DIMS. The profile shall indicate Timed Graphics by
carrying the value 5.
## 5.9 Timed Graphics Profile
A new Profile Indicator with value 5 is allocated for the Timed Graphics
profile.
Support for the following media types shall also be supported in Timed
Graphics Profile:
\- The Still Image media formats and the Bitmap Graphics formats of [3].
As required in the SVG specification, SVG fonts shall be supported. The lack
of hinting in SVG fonts means that small text which is anti-aliased may become
unreadable. This problem is even more evident when text is rotated or
animated. Recommendation: SVG fonts should be used with care.
The Open Font Format [4] should be supported at advanced simple text profile,
level 2, with the following constraints: if Open Type fonts are supported, the
DIMS Timed Graphics Profile client shall support downloadable OpenType fonts
with TrueType outlines, TrueType hinting shall be supported for improved text
readability, and advanced typographic features may be supported.
Note: When OpenType fonts are supported, download of them may be initiated
using the font-face-uri element from [1].
Device-native fonts and fonts identified by generic family names may be used.
## 5.10 Timed Graphics Level 5
This level contains the following restrictions:
Table 1: Timed Graphics Level 5 Limits
+------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | | Level 5 | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Scene bitrate (includes the static media | 200 kbit/sec | | embedded within the scene/commands and | | | referenced media payloads) | | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Simultaneous video playing | 0 | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Simultaneous audio playing | 0 | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Simultaneous active Timed Graphics scenes | 1 | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Minimum pixel output buffer size | 16 wide by 16 tall | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Maximum path segments across all paths | 3000 | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Maximum text content size (this refers to the | 10k bytes | | number of characters and does not include the | | | glyph) | | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Maximum dash array size | 16 | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Maximum number of gradient stops | 32 | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Maximum recommended DOM tree size | 20 nodes | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Minimum recommended screen refresh rate | 0.2 frames/sec | | | | | Note: Depending on the DOM tree size, the | | | recommended screen refresh rate value may not | | | be feasible and a lower screen refresh rate | | | might be expected. | | +------------------------------------------------+--------------------+
# 6 Simple Timed Graphics
## 6.1 Media definition
### 6.1.1 Introduction
Simple Timed Graphics does not define any new media components, but instead
refers to components from existing graphics and image formats. Each format has
its own units which are described below. A Simple Timed Graphics \"stream\"
may contain a combination of units of different types, some possibly
containing basic interactivity.
This section defines media component entities that together make simple Timed
Graphics.
### 6.1.2 Media component entities
#### 6.1.2.1 JPEG
A JPEG image, as specified in [JPEG], is a timed graphics media entity. The
support requirement for ISO/IEC JPEG only applies to the following two modes:
\- baseline DCT, non-differential, Huffman coding, as defined in table B.1,
symbol \'SOF0\' in [6];
\- progressive DCT, non-differential, Huffman coding, as defined in table B.1,
symbol \'SOF2\' [6].
#### 6.1.2.2 GIF and PNG
GIF87a [7], GIF89a [8] and PNG [9] images are timed graphics media entities.
#### 6.1.2.3 Timed Text
A timed text sample, as defined in section 5.17 of [4], is a timed graphics
media entity.
## 6.2 Layout definition
### 6.2.1 Introduction
In Simple Timed Graphics, each graphic is given a position on the rendering
surface.
### 6.2.2 Rendering position and composition
Graphics are rendered with a region (a concept derived from SMIL). A graphics
box is then set within that region. This permits the terminal to position the
graphics within the overall presentation. In the case that the graphic
contains internal layout information e.g. an SVG graphic, the explicit layout
mode defines the point which the graphic treats as an origin.
A Simple Timed Graphics region is defined which is a rendering area defined
using the following attributes:
tx: Translation value from the coordinate origin (x component)
ty: Translation value from the coordinate origin (y component)
width: Width of the Timed Graphics Region
height: Height of the Timed Graphics Region
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="3.4034722222222222in"}
Figure 3: Illustration of graphics region using with a video being origin.
Graphics regions may be layered, in a similar way to the z-index in SMIL,
using the \'layer\' attribute.
Layer: Specifies the front-to-back ordering of the graphics region; lower
numbers are closer to the viewer. 0 is the normal value, and -1 would be in
front of track 0, and so on.
The actual representation of the abovementioned attributes is dependent on the
transport/storage format and defined elsewhere.
If the content is provided along with stereoscopic 3D video, the disparity of
the timed graphics may be signalled in order for it to be displayed at an
appropriate depth thus avoiding any perceptual depth conflicts with the video.
The disparity is the difference between the horizontal positions of a pixel
representing the same point in space in the right and left views of a
stereoscopic 3D image. Positive disparity values move the timed graphics away
from the viewer whilst negative values move it towards the viewer. A value of
zero places the timed graphics in the plane of the display screen. When
rendering timed graphics accompanying stereo video, the UE shall make use of
the disparity information so as to render the timed graphics appropriately.
NOTE: The disparity is measured in the same units as the track dimensions.
## 6.3 Random access
All Timed graphics samples are random access points (RAPs) and RAPs are
processed by terminals in all states.
A RAP contains the entire content of a timed graphics sample and replaces the
corresponding previous data.
There may be multiple timed graphics contents with the same timestamp. When
received, the RAP replaces the corresponding previous data per content.
## 6.4 Timing and processing model
### 6.4.1 Timing model
Timed Graphics inherits the timing model from timed text [4]. This section
defines the timing model of Timed Graphics samples.
The timed graphics samples are associated with the following parameters:
the media timestamp. The time when the timed graphics sample is applied;
the sample duration.
When multiple timed graphics contents are received simultaneously, the timing
model is maintained separately for each content.
The actual representation of the abovementioned attributes is dependent on the
transport/storage format and defined elsewhere.
### 6.4.2 Processing model
A RAP is processed as a complete replacement to the previous data of the
corresponding contents. The same process is applied during tune-in and
standard decoding.
Two RAPs with the same timestamp, and in the same flow (i.e. with the same
content_ID) are considered redundant alternatives to each other. Upon
reception of two such RAPs, it is not required to process both.
When multiple timed graphics contents are received simultaneously, the
terminal processes each content separately.
## 6.5 Transport and Storage
### 6.5.1 Overview
### 6.5.2 Storage in ISO base media file format files
#### 6.5.2.1 Track Header
A track header box with the following data is used for Timed Graphics tracks:
aligned(8) class TrackHeaderBox\ extends FullBox(\'tkhd\', version, flags){\
if (version==1) {\ unsigned int(64) creation_time;\ unsigned int(64)
modification_time;\ unsigned int(32) track_ID;\ const unsigned int(32)
reserved = 0;\ unsigned int(64) duration;\ } else { // version==0\ unsigned
int(32) creation_time;\ unsigned int(32) modification_time;\ unsigned int(32)
track_ID;\ const unsigned int(32) reserved = 0;\ unsigned int(32) duration;\
}\ const unsigned int(32)[2] reserved = 0;\ int(16) layer;\ template int(16)
alternate_group = 0;\ template int(16) volume = 0;\ const unsigned int(16)
reserved = 0;\ template int(32)[9] matrix=\ {
0x00010000,0,0,0,0x00010000,0,tx,ty,0x40000000 };\ // unity matrix\ unsigned
int(32) width;\ unsigned int(32) height;\ }
The values tx, ty, width, height and layer are defined in section 6.2. All
other values are defined as per the ISO base file format.
Note: This track header is identical to its use in [4].
#### 6.5.2.2 Media component specific configurations
##### 6.5.2.2.1 Introduction
Within the sample entry there are one or more boxes. Each box has two
functions:
a) it declares that samples of that type may occur in the track;
b) it contains the setup information for samples of that type.
##### 6.5.2.2.2 Timed Text
class TG3gttConfiguration extends Box(\'3gtt\') {\ {
unsigned int(32) displayFlags;\ signed int(8) horizontal-justification;\
signed int(8) vertical-justification;\ unsigned int(8) background-color-
rgba[4];\ BoxRecord default-text-box;\ StyleRecord default-style;\
FontTableBox font-table;\ DisparityBox default-disparity;\ }
The TimedText configuration contains the boxes defined for 3GPP Timed Text in
clause 5.16 of [4], and that specification also defines which boxes are
mandatory and which are optional.
##### 6.5.2.2.3 JPEG, GIF and PNG
class TG3gttConfiguration extends Box(\'jpeg\')
{
BoxRecord default-box;\ unsigned int(32) displayFlags;\ }
class TG3gttConfiguration extends Box(\'gif \')
{\ BoxRecord default-box;\ unsigned int(32) displayFlags;\ }
class TG3gttConfiguration extends Box(\'png \')\ {
BoxRecord default-box;\ unsigned int(32) displayFlags;\ }
The graphics configurations all include a default-box, as a boxrecord and
displayFlags as defined in clause 5.16 of [4]. The displayFlags declare
transition/appearance behaviour and the fields continuous karaoke, write text
vertically and fill text region shall be set to zero for non-text sample
types.
#### 6.5.2.3 Timed Graphics ContentID Box
class TG3gCIDBox extends FullBox(\'cid \') {\ Uint(4) content_ID;\ Uint(4)
reserved = 0;\ }
The TG3gCIDBox distinguishes Timed Graphics content. The default value (and
recommended value for text flows) is zero.
Each stream of units with the same content_ID is a logically separate streams
and should be processed independently.
#### 6.5.2.4 Sample Entry Name and Format
The sample entry four-character code for timed graphics is \'tigr\'. One or
more configuration boxes shall be present in the sample entry. A timed
graphics ContentID box may be present in the sample entry.
#### 6.5.2.5 Sample Format
The sample structure is very similar to that defined in section 5.17 of [4].
In that specification, the text string is preceded by a length field, and is
followed by modifier boxes. In this specification, the text string or graphics
element is enclosed in a box, whose type MUST match one of the configuration
boxes in the sample entry. Modifier boxes are specific to the sample type.
The modifier boxes for a text sample are defined in [4].
The modifier boxes for a JPEG, PNG or GIF sample are as follows.
#### 6.5.2.6 Sample Modifier Boxes
##### 6.5.2.6.1 Appearance Delay
\'dlay\' - Specifies a delay after a Scroll or fade In and/or before Scroll or
fade Out. A 32-bit integer specifying the delay, in the units of the timescale
of the track. The default delay, in the absence of this box, is 0.
class ScrollDelayBox() extends SampleModifierBox (\'dlay\') {\ unsigned
int(32) scroll-delay;\ }
##### 6.5.2.6.2 HyperText
\'clik\' -- Click-through link.
This box contains these values:
URLLength:-- the number of bytes in the following URL
URL: UTF-8 characters -- the linked-to URL
altLength:-- the number of bytes in the following \"alt\" string
altstring: UTF-8 characters -- an \"alt\" string for user display
The URL should be an absolute URL, as the context for a relative URL may not
always be clear.
The \"alt\" string may be used as a tool-tip or other visual clue, as a
substitute for the URL, if desired by the terminal, to display to the user as
a hint on where the link refers.
Hypertext-linked graphics should not be scrolled. It is hard for the user to
interact with moving graphics.
class TextHyperTextBox() extends TextSampleModifierBox (\'href\') { unsigned
int(8) URLLength;\ unsigned int(8) URL[URLLength];\ unsigned int(8)
altLength;\ unsigned int(8) altstring[altLength];\ }
#### 6.5.2.6.3 Box Over-ride
\'tbox\' --box over-ride. This over-rides the default box set in the sample
description.
class BoxBox() extends SampleModifierBox (\'tbox\') {\ BoxRecord the-box;\ }
##### 6.5.2.6.4 Stereo Disparity
\'disp\' - Specifies the disparity shift for presenting the contents of this
sample on a stereo display. The value expresses the pixel shift applied to
each of the left and right views so the total disparity is twice the
disparity-shift. A negative disparity indicates that the graphics appear
closer to the viewer than the screen plane (the left image is shifted right
and the right image is shifted left), a positive disparity is the opposite.
The default disparity, in the absence of this box, is specified in the sample
entry; if there is no disparity information in the sample entry, the disparity
is inferred to be 0.
class DisparityBox() extends SampleModifierBox (\'disp\') {\ signed int(16)
disparity-shift-in-16th-pel;\ }
disparity-shift-in-16th-pel represents 16 times the shift to be applied to the
left on the left view and to the right on the right view.
NOTE: It allows for a 1/16^th^ pixel accuracy which can be suitable when
scaling the video scene to another resolution. Any processing (either at the
encoder or the decoder) which needs to implement only integer values of
disparity shift should round the values \"towards the viewer\" (i.e. that
positive values of disparity are rounded down and negative values rounded up).
The indication of the disparity value is similar to that of the DVB subtitles
[11].
### 6.5.3 RTP payload format for Timed Graphics
#### 6.5.3.1 General
The RTP payload format for Simple Timed Graphics is laid out the same as, and
uses for the most part the same definition as, the RTP payload format for
Timed Text (RFC 4396). The differences are:
a) that a new MIME type is used, to identify this as a Timed Graphics stream
rather than simply Timed Text;
b) multiple Timed Graphics Streams my be packed into one RTP session, using
the content_ID to distinguish them;
c) where the payload format talks about \'the text string\' and a graphic
element is in use, then the graphic element (e.g. JPEG picture) should be
understood;
d) The U bit is specific to text and should be set to 0 for graphics.
Flows are identified in the content_ID in the 4 bits following the U bit in
the common header; replace
0 1 2 \ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 \
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \|U\| R \|TYPE \| LEN \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
Figure 4a. Common payload header fields
o R (4 bits) \"Reserved bits\": for future extensions. This field MUST be set
to zero (0x0) and MUST be ignored by receivers.
With:
0 1 2 \ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 \
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \|U\| CID \|TYPE \| LEN \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
Figure 4b. Common payload header fields
o F (4 bits) contentID. This field distinguishes flows. The default value (and
recommended value for text flows) is zero.
Each stream of units with the same contentID is a logically separate stream in
the RTP session and should be processed independently.
## 6.6 Registered Types
### 6.6.1 RTP Payload format MIME Type
**Type name:** video
**Subtype name:** timedgraphics
**Required parameters:**
\- As defined in [10]
**Optional parameters:**
\- As defined in [10]
**Encoding considerations:**
\- This media type is currently only defined for transport via RTP.
**Security considerations:**
\- RTP packets using the payload format defined in the present document are
subject to the security considerations discussed in the RTP specification [15]
and any applicable RTP profile, e.g. AVP [21].
**Interoperability considerations:**
\- None.
**Published specification:**
\- 3GPP TS 26.430
**Applications that use this media type:**
\- Timed Graphics Streaming applications.
**Additional information:**
\- Magic number(s): None.
\- File extension(s): None.
\- Macintosh file type code(s): None.
**Person and email address to contact for further information:**
\- John Meredith.
\- john.meredith\@3gpp.org
**Intended usage:**
\- COMMON.
**Restrictions on usage:**
\- None.
**Author:**
\- 3GPP SA4 WG.
**Change controller:**
\- 3GPP TSG SA.
### 6.6.2 \'Codecs\' Parameter for 3GP files
When timed graphics content is supplied in 3GP files which are identified by
MIME type, the \'codecs\' parameter defined in [14] may be used to indicate
that Timed Graphics content is present. The codecs parameter takes the sample
entry name as defined above (that is, \'tigr\').
#