# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
**The Enhanced Voice Services** (EVS) Codec is specified in Technical
Specifications 3GPP TS 26.441 [11] to TS 26.451 [19]. The generic frame format
for 3G CS networks is specified in TS 26.453 [19]. The allowed EVS
Configurations of the UMTS_EVS Codec Type are specified in TS 26.103 [20].
The present document specifies the mapping of the EVS generic frame format
(3GPP TS 26.453 [19]) to the Iu Interface (3GPP TS 25.415 [4]) and the Uu
Interface, including handling of the EVS-CMR by the UE and the Iu-terminating
MGW.
The present document specifies also the mapping to the Nb Interface in a BICC-
based circuit switched core network. (3GPP TS 29.415 [7]) and the Nb-Interface
in a SIP-I-based circuit switched core network (3GPP TS 23.231 [3]).
The present document specifies also the interworking of different EVS
Configurations on the terminations of the MGW and the interworking between EVS
and AMR-WB on the terminations of the MGW.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Specification set\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.231: \"SIP-I based circuit-switched core network; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.415: \"Iu Interface CN-UTRAN User plane Protocols\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.163: \"Interworking between the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem and Circuit Switched (CS) networks\"
[6] 3GPP TS 29.414: \"Core network Nb data transport and transport
signalling\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.415: \"Core Network Nb Interface User Plane Protocols\".
[8] IETF RFC 3550 (2003): \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
Applications\",\ H. Schulzrinne, S. Casner, R. Frederick and V. Jacobson.
[9] IETF RFC 4733 (2006): \"RTP Payload for DTMF Digits, Telephony Tones, and
Telephony Signals\", H. Schulzrinne and T. Taylor.
[10] 3GPP TS 25.133: \"Requirements for support of radio resource management
(FDD)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.441: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); General
overview\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
algorithmic description\".
[13] 3GPP TS 26.446: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) backward compatible functions\".
[14] 3GPP TS 26.447: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Error
concealment of lost packets\".
[15] 3GPP TS 26.448: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Jitter buffer
management\".
[16] 3GPP TS 26.449: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Comfort Noise
Generation (CNG) aspects\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.450: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 26.451: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Voice Activity
Detection (VAD)\".
[19] 3GPP TS 26.453: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Speech codec
frame structure\".
[20] 3GPP TS 26.103: \"Speech codec list for GSM and UMTS\".
[21] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Active EVS-CMR:** EVS-CMR containing the requested (maximum) bit rate,
(maximum) audio bandwidth and the major operation mode.
**DL EVS-CMR:** the most recent successfully in downlink (DL) received codec
mode request, relevant for encoding at the local UE.
**EVS Configuration for Iu:** The MSC selects the EVS configuration for Iu and
informs the MGW and the RNC in RAB Assignment.
**EVS Configuration for Uu:** The RNC selects the EVS configuration for Uu.
**EVS Configuration for UE:** The UE deducts the EVS configuration for UE from
the Radio Bearer Configuration, i.e. the Set of TFCs.
**EVS Configuration for Nb:** The MSC selects the EVS configuration for Nb and
informs the MGW.
**major operation mode:** This is either an EVS Primary mode of operation or
an EVS AMR-WB IO mode of operation.
**Set of available rates:** Rates of the EVS Configuration for UE, constrained
further by RNC allowed TFCs and further constrained by the UE autonomous rate.
**UE autonomous rate** : Maximum bit rate set by UE transport layer to
optimize uplink performance (frame loss rate) if the TX power limit is
reached.
**UL EVS-CMR:** EVS-CMR sent by the UE in uplink (UL); relevant for encoding
at the remote media-sender (e.g. remote UE or remote CN Transcoder),
requesting the (maximum) codec mode to be used on the local DL to the UE.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BICC Bearer Independent Call Control
CN Core Network
CMR Codec Mode Request (for AMR and AMR-WB, often also used for EVS)
DL Downlink
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
EVS-CMR Codec Mode Request for EVS (here explicitly used to differentiate)
EVS-SID SID for EVS (here explicitly used to differentiate)
FQC Frame Quality Classification (Iu and Nb Interfaces)
IM-MGW IP Multimedia Media Gateway Function
Nb Interconnection point between two MGWs of the CS Core Network
Nc Interconnection point between two MSCs of the CS Core Network
NO_REQ No Requirement (is present)
Mb Interconnection point between the MGW of the CS Core Network and the IMS
NboIP Nb-Interface user plane transport over RTP/UDP/IP when SIP-I is used on
Nc
RC Ack Rate Control Procedure Acknowledgement (on Iu)
RC Proc Rate Control Procedure Request (on Iu)
RFC RAB sub-flow Combination (on Iu and Nb)
RFCI RFC Indicator
RFCS RFC Set
SCR Source Controlled Rate, synonym for DTX
SIP-I SIP with encapsulated ISUP (variant of ISUP)
SMpSDU Support Mode for Predefined SDU sizes
TC Transcoder
TrFO Transcoder Free Operation
UMTS_EVS Name of the EVS Codec Type in CS Networks
Uu The radio interface between UTRAN and the User Equipment
WB-CMR CMR for AMR-WB
WB-SID SID for AMR-WB (and EVS AMR-WB IO)
# 4 General
The Iu-Interface is defined in two different variants for speech telephony in
CS networks:
a) for the ATM bearer with Iu-framing; and
b) for the IP bearer with Iu-framing.
The Nb-Interface is defined in three different variants for speech telephony:
a) for the ATM bearer with Nb-framing in a BICC-based Core Network,
b) for the IP bearer with Nb-framing in a BICC-based Core Network, and
c) for the IP bearer with RTP packing in a SIP-I-based Core Network.
The Mb-Interface is defined in one variant for speech telephony:
a) for the IP bearer with RTP packing.
The mapping of the EVS generic frame format (TS 26.453 [19]) to the Iu
interface specifies the speech data exchange between the RNC and the Iu-
terminating MGW in PDU Type 0 (see TS 25.415 [4]). This mapping is independent
of the radio interface in the sense that it has the same structure for both
Frequency Division Duplex and Time Division Duplex modes of UTRAN.
The EVS-CMR is transported on the Iu and Uu interfaces appended to the speech
payload, transparent to the RNC. The RNC Rate Control commands (UL RC Proc),
sent uplink to the Iu-terminating MGW for downlink rate control, are contained
in PDU Type 14 messages (see TS 25.415 [4]). The Iu-terminating MGW combines
the UL EVS-CMR, received in uplink from the UE, with the UL RNC Rate Control
commands, received in uplink from the RNC. The present document describes the
interworking.
The mapping of the EVS Speech Codec parameters to the Nb interface in a BICC-
based Core Network specifies the speech data exchange between two MGWs in PDU
Type 0. This mapping is very similar to the mapping on the Iu interface.
However, PDU Type 14 is not used for Rate Control on Nb. The present document
specifies the User Plane interworking between Iu and Nb.
The mapping into PDU Type 0 on the Nb Interface in a BICC-based Core Network
is identical to the one on the Iu Interface. In case of Transcoder Free
Operation, the MGW is relaying the Speech Data Units unaltered between Iu and
Nb Interfaces. The EVS-CMR, contained in Iu and Nb frames, may be modified by
the MGW.
The mapping of the EVS Speech Codec parameters to the Nb interface in a SIP-I-
based Core Network is as specified in TS 26.445 [3], with some restrictions,
as specified in the present document.
The mapping between the EVS Codec and the Radio Access Network within the UE
is not an open interface and need not to be detailed. The present document
specifies the interworking within the UE between EVS-CMR, Rate Control by the
RNC and transmit-power-limitations.
For the 3GPP Codec Type UMTS_EVS the framing is 20 ms and also the packing
time is 20 ms in all versions of the Iu and Nb-Interface. On the Mb interface,
a different RTP packing may be applied.
The mapping of the EVS Speech Codec parameters to the Mb interface specifies
the speech data exchange in RTP packets between the CS network and the IMS
network. This mapping is specified in TS 26.445 [3]. TS 29.163 [5] specifies
the User Plane interworking between Nb and Mb; the present document specifies
further details.
The present document specifies also the Interworking within the MGWs on User
Plane and the interworking in case of the EVS Channel Aware Mode.
# 5 RAB aspects
3GPP TS 26.103 [20] specifies all allowed EVS Configurations, EVS (Set x), for
UMTS_EVS. All these EVS Configurations are multi-mode Configurations. One of
these EVS Configurations is selected by the MSC for a given call and the
corresponding parameters for the \"Transport Format Combination Set\" (TFCS)
are sent in RAB Assignment Request to the RNC. The RNC may accept the RAB
Assignment Request as a whole or reject it as a whole. The RNC may, however,
select also a subset of the requested TFCS for the Uu interface, as long as
these are TrFO-compatible to the requested TFCS. Example: instead of EVS (Set
2), the RNC may select EVS (Set 1) or even EVS (Set 0).
UMTS_EVS is applied with Equal Error Protection (EEP) on the radio interface.
Only class A bits are defined. Class B and Class C bits are not present.
During the RAB Assignment procedure, initiated by the CN to establish the RAB
for EVS, the RAB parameters are defined. The EVS RAB is established with one
RAB sub-flow with predefined sizes and QoS parameters.
Some of the QoS parameters in the RAB assignment procedure are determined from
the Bearer Capability Information Element used at call set up. These QoS
parameters as defined in TS 23.231 [3] may be set as follows:
Table 5-1: Example of mapping of BC IE into QoS parameters for UMTS AMR
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | RAB service | RAB service | Comments | | | | attribute | attribute | | | | | | value | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | Traffic Class | C | | | | | | onversational | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | RAB Asymmetry | Symmetric, | Symmetric | | | | Indicator | bidirectional | RABs are used | | | | | | for uplink | | | | | | and downlink | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | Maximum bit | 24.75 | This value | | | | rate\ | (Co | depends on | | | | (kbit/s) | nfig-EVS-Code | the highest | | | | | 2) or\ | rate in the | | | | | 13.55 | RFCS | | | | | (Co | | | | | | nfig-EVS-Code | | | | | | 1 and 3) or\ | | | | | | 8.35 | | | | | | (Co | | | | | | nfig-EVS-Code | | | | | | 0) | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | Guaranteed | 24.75 or\ | One of the | | | | bit rate | 16.75 or\ | values is | | | | (GBR)\ | 13.55 or\ | chosen, | | | | (kbit/s) | 9.95 or\ | depending on | | | | | 8.35 | the lowest | | | | | | rate | | | | | | -controllable | | | | | | SDU format | | | | | | (note 2) | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | Delivery | Yes | (note 1) | | | | Order | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | Maximum SDU | 495 | Maximum size | | | | size\ | (Co | of payload | | | | (bits) | nfig-EVS-Code | field in Iu | | | | | 2) or | UP, according | | | | | | to the | | | | | 271 | highest mode | | | | | (Co | rate in the | | | | | nfig-EVS-Code | RFCS | | | | | 1 and 3) or\ | | | | | | 167 | | | | | | (Co | | | | | | nfig-EVS-Code | | | | | | 0) | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | Traffic | Not | Parameter not | | | | Handling | applicable | applicable | | | | Priority | | for the | | | | | | c | | | | | | onversational | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | class. (note | | | | | | 1) | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | Source | Speech | (note 1) | | | | statistics | | | | | | descriptor | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | SDU | RAB sub-flow | The number of | | | | Parameters | 1 (Class A | SDU, their | | | | | bits) | number of RAB | | | | | | sub-flow and | | | | | | their | | | | | | relative | | | | | | sub-flow size | | | | | | is subject to | | | | | | operator | | | | | | tuning (note | | | | | | 3) | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | SDU error | [7 * | (note 3) | | | | ratio | 10^-3^] | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | Residual bit | [10^-5^] | (note 3) | | | | error ratio | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | Delivery of | yes | All bits are | | | | erroneous | | delivered | | | | SDUs | | with Frame | | | | | | Quality | | | | | | C | | | | | | lassification | | | | | | (FQC) | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | SDU format | | (note 4) | | | | information | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | | Sub-flow SDU | (note 5) | | | | | size | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | NOTE 1: These | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | apply to all | | | | | | UMTS speech | | | | | | codec types. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | guaranteed | | | | | | bit rate | | | | | | (GBR) depends | | | | | | on the | | | | | | periodicity | | | | | | and the | | | | | | lowest | | | | | | rate | | | | | | -controllable | | | | | | SDU size. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: These | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | are subject | | | | | | to operator | | | | | | tuning. The | | | | | | values in | | | | | | brackets [] | | | | | | are for | | | | | | further | | | | | | study, see | | | | | | also TS | | | | | | 26.114 | | | | | | [21], Annex | | | | | | E, clauses | | | | | | E.31 to E.34. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: SDU | | | | | | format | | | | | | information | | | | | | has to be | | | | | | specified for | | | | | | each EVS | | | | | | payload size | | | | | | (i.e. with | | | | | | Speech bits | | | | | | and SID bits) | | | | | | included in | | | | | | the RFCS as | | | | | | defined in TS | | | | | | 26.453 | | | | | | [19]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The | | | | | | sub-flow SDU | | | | | | size | | | | | | corresponding | | | | | | to an EVS | | | | | | core frame | | | | | | type | | | | | | indicates the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | bits in the | | | | | | class A | | | | | | fields. | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+
The RAB parameters shall be set so that DTX (SCR) is always supported in
uplink and downlink.
The conversational traffic class shall be used for the speech service. The
parameters traffic class, transfer delay, traffic handling priority and source
statistics descriptor shall be the same for all speech codec types applicable
for UMTS.
# 6 Iu Interface User Plane (RAN-CN)
## 6.1 Frame structure on the Iu UP transport protocol
### 6.1.1 General
The data structures exchanged on the Iu interface are symmetrical, i.e. the
structure of the uplink data frames is identical to that of the downlink data
frames.
### 6.1.2 Initialisation
At the initialisation of the SMpSDU mode of operation, several parameters are
set by the CN on Control Plane. Some of these parameters are related to the
MSC-selected **EVS Configuration for Iu** , corresponding to one of the EVS
Configurations for UMTS_EVS, as defined in TS 26.103 [20].
The EVS implementation shall use the \"Support mode for predefined SDU sizes,
version 2\", see TS 25.415 [4].
The initialisation procedure for the Iu User Plane is described in TS 25.415
[4].
**\- RFCS (RAB sub-flow Combination Set):** \ The RFCS on Iu corresponds to
the EVS Configuration for Iu, as selected by the MSC.\ Each RFCS Index (RFCI)
corresponds to one bit rate of the selected EVS Configuration for Iu.\ \
**Note:** The Traffic Format Combination Set (TFCS) on Uu, selected by the
RNC, may belong to a smaller EVS Configuration. Example: Instead of EVS (Set
2), the RNC may select EVS (Set 1) or even EVS (Set 0).\ The UE determines the
EVS Configuration for UE based on the selected TFCS, see also clause 7.\ \ The
RFCS on Iu in uplink is the same as the RFCS on Iu in downlink.\ \ The actual
RFCI used in downlink in a speech frame may, however, be different to the RFCI
used in uplink for another speech frame.
**-** SCR (Source Controlled Rate), also known as DTX (Discontinuous
Transmission),\ shall be supported in uplink and downlink.
**\- Delivery of erroneous SDUs:** \ This parameter shall be set to YES.
Erroneous or lost frames may be used to assist the error concealment
procedures. PDU Type 0, containing a Payload CRC, shall be used for the
transport of EVS data on Iu.
### 6.1.3 Time Alignment Procedure
The Transcoder in the Iu-terminating MGW, if present, should adjust the timing
of the speech data transmission in downlink direction according to the time
alignment frames sent by the RNC in Iu PDU Type 14 messages, see TS 25.415
[4]. The Time alignment procedure shall be dismissed in case of TrFO.
## 6.2 Mapping of the bits
The mapping of the bits between the generic frame format for EVS and Iu PDU
Type 0 is the same for both, uplink and downlink frames. The bits of the
generic frame format for EVS, as defined in TS 26.453 [19], follow immediately
after the Payload CRC of Iu PDU Type 0. Then follows the EVS-CMR, see also TS
26.453 [19]. All parameters are sent MSB first. Figure 6.2-1 gives the general
example for EVS primary rates, Figure 6.2-2 for the CMR-Only frame and Figure
6.2-3 for the example EVS AMR-WB IO 6.60 kbps.
{width="6.525in" height="3.05625in"}
Figure 6.2-1: Iu PDU Type 0 for all EVS Primary rates
{width="6.532638888888889in" height="2.6555555555555554in"}
Figure 6.2-2: Iu PDU Type 0 for CMR-Only packets
{width="6.533333333333333in" height="3.70625in"}
Figure 6.2-3: Iu PDU Type 0 for the EVS AMR-WB IO rate 6.60 kbps
The following table 6.2-1gives the correspondence of the bit fields between
the generic frame format for EVS at the transcoder interface and the Iu PDU
Type 0, exchanged with the Iu transport layer.
Table 6.2-1: Mapping of generic frame format for EVS onto Iu PDU Type 0
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **PDU field** | Corresponding field | Comment | | | within the\ | | | | generic frame format | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **PDU Type** | N/A | Type 0 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Frame Number** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **FQC** | FQC | The FQC of the Iu | | | | Frame is used | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **RFCI** | payload size | the payload size | | | | identifies the EVS | | | | rate | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Payload CRC** | N/A | result included in | | | | the FQC | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Header CRC** | N/A | result included in | | | | the FQC | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Payload Fields (N | Class A: mandatory\ | equal error | | Sub-flows)** | Class B: not | protection is | | | applicable | applied on the Uu | | | | interface for | | | Class C: not | UMTS_EVS, therefore | | | applicable | only class A bits | | | | are defined. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **SDU #1** | Most important bits | mandatory | | | come first | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **SDU #2** | n/a | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **SDU #3** | n/a | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The following Table 6.2-2 shows examples of mapping between RFCIs
([R]{.underline}AB sub-[F]{.underline}low [C]{.underline}ombination
[I]{.underline}ndicator[s]{.underline}) and EVS rates. The RFCI definition is
given in these examples in order of increasing SDU sizes. Note that the RFCIs
for EVS (Set 3) are in this example not contiguous: RFCI values 3, 5, 6 are
punctured out. In EVS (Set 3) the EVS Primary rates 2.8, 7.2 and 8.0 are not
allowed.
Table 6.2-2: Examples for EVS with SCR (DTX) and equal error protection
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | UMTS | UMTS | UMTS | UMTS | RAB | So | Co | | | | _EVS | _EVS | _EVS | _EVS | sub- | urce\ | mment | | | | | | | | flows | rate\ | | | | | | | | | | (kb | | | | | | | | | | it/s) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | RFCIs | RFCIs | RFCIs | RFCIs | sub- | sub- | sub- | | | | for\ | for\ | for\ | for\ | | | | | | | EVS | EVS | EVS | EVS | flow | flow | flow | | | | (Set | (Set | (Set | (Set | 1 | 2 | 3 | | | | 0) | 1) | 2) | 3) | | | | | | | | | | | | (N/A) | (N/A) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 7 | - | - | ( | CMR | | | | | | | | | rare) | -Only | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 40 | - | - | - | EVS | | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | | MR-WB | | | | | | | | | | IO | | | | | | | | | | SID | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 55 | - | - | - | EVS | | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | | imary | | | | | | | | | | SID | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | 3 | 3 | - | 63 | - | - | 2.8 | EVS | | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | | imary | | | | | | | | | | 2.8 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 139 | - | - | 6.6 | EVS | | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | | MR-WB | | | | | | | | | | IO | | | | | | | | | | 6.6 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | 5 | 5 | - | 151 | - | - | 7.2 | EVS | | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | | imary | | | | | | | | | | 7.2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | 6 | 6 | - | 167 | - | - | 8.0 | EVS | | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | | imary | | | | | | | | | | 8.0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | - | 7 | 7 | 7 | 184 | - | - | 8.85 | EVS | | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | | MR-WB | | | | | | | | | | IO | | | | | | | | | | 8.85 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | - | 8 | 8 | 8 | 199 | - | - | 9.6 | EVS | | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | | imary | | | | | | | | | | 9.6 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | - | 9 | 9 | 9 | 260 | - | - | 12.65 | EVS | | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | | MR-WB | | | | | | | | | | IO | | | | | | | | | | 12.65 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | - | 10 | 10 | 10 | 271 | - | - | 13.2 | EVS | | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | | imary | | | | | | | | | | 13.2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | - | - | 11 | - | 335 | - | - | 16.4 | EVS | | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | | imary | | | | | | | | | | 16.4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | - | - | 12 | - | 495 | - | - | 24.4 | EVS | | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | | imary | | | | | | | | | | 24.4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 6.3 Frame handlers
### 6.3.0 General
The Iu PDU Frame handling functions are described in 3GPP TS 25.415 [4].
The following clauses describe the mandatory frame handling functions at the
EVS generic frame interface.
### 6.3.1 Handling of frames from TC to Iu interface (downlink)
#### 6.3.1.0 General
The frames from the EVS Transcoder (TC) in generic EVS frame format are mapped
onto the Iu PDU Type 0 as follows.
#### 6.3.1.1 Frame Quality Classification
The Frame Quality Classification (FQC EVS) from the EVS Transcoder is directly
mapped to the Frame Quality Classification (FQC PDU) of the Iu frame according
to Table 6.3-1.
Table 6.3-1: FQC EVS to FQC IuPDU mapping in downlink
* * *
FQC EVS FQC value\ FQC PDU FQC value\ (2 bit) (2 bit)
GOOD 00 GOOD 00
BAD 01 BAD 01
reserved 10 BAD Radio 10
reserved 11 reserved 11
* * *
Note**:** The EVS Transcoder in the Iu-terminating MGW sends always FQC=00
(GOOD).
#### 6.3.1.2 Frame size
The received generic EVS frame with a given frame size is mapped onto the
corresponding RFCI in the Iu PDU Type 0 Header thanks to the assigned RFCS
table, defined at RAB Assignment.
#### 6.3.1.3 Codec Mode Indication
void
#### 6.3.1.4 EVS Codec Mode Request and Rate Control Command in downlink
The EVS Codec Mode Request (EVS-CMR) in downlink direction (DL EVS CMR) is
part of the Iu PDU Type 0 payload. The EVS-CMR is defined in TS 26.453 [19].
The EVS-CMR follows in the Iu PDU Type 0 Frame immediately after the Speech or
SID payload bits.
The DL EVS CMR shall be mapped into the selected EVS Configuration for Iu, see
clause 6.1.1.
The PDU Type 14 Rate Control Procedure, downlink from the MGW to the RNC (DL
RC Proc), is not applied for EVS. See also clause 6.3.2.4. Only DL RC Ack is
sent from the Iu-terminating MGW to the RNC.
#### 6.3.1.5 Optional internal 8 bits CRC
void
#### 6.3.1.6 Mapping of Speech or SID bits
As defined in TS 26.453 [19], see also clause 6.2.
### 6.3.2 Handling of frames from Iu interface to TC (uplink)
#### 6.3.2.0 General
If the EVS Transcoder (TC) is within the Iu-terminating MGW, then the uplink
Iu frames are mapped onto the EVS generic frame format as follows.
#### 6.3.2.1 Frame Quality Classification
At reception of UL Iu PDU Type 0 the Iu frame handler function set the EVS
Frame Quality Classification (EVS FQC) according to the received PDU FQC, the
Header-CRC check, and the Payload-CRC check (see 25.415 [4]). The EVS payload
size (EVS bit rate) and EVS Frame Quality Classification are determined
according to the following table, if the Header-CRC and the Payload-CRC
indicate a correctly received PDU:
Table 6.3-2: PDU FQC to EVS FQC and EVS payload size mapping
* * *
PDU FQC PDU FQC value\ EVS FQC value\ EVS FQC resulting\ (2 bits) (2 bits)
payload size
GOOD 00 00 GOOD from RFCI
BAD 01 01 BAD from RFCI
BAD Radio 10 10 BAD Radio from RFCI
Reserved 11 11 Reserved Reserved
* * *
Note**:** A Speech or SID Frame received on Iu with FQC \"BAD Radio\" is an
indication that the UE is still sending and at least the payload is partly
received, i.e. the connection is not lost. In case of BAD SID frames Comfort
Noise Generation is continued, based on the previous SID parameter set.
#### 6.3.2.2 Frame Type
void
#### 6.3.2.3 Codec Mode Indication
void
#### 6.3.2.4 EVS Codec Mode Request and Rate Control Procedure
The EVS codec rate in downlink direction is controlled by two complementing
procedures, see Figure 6.3.2.4-1, which shows the example, where the Iu-
terminating MGW hosts the Transcoder (TC), consisting of the EVS Encoder and
the EVS Decoder, e.g. to/from a PCM interface.
{width="6.531944444444444in" height="4.013888888888889in"}
Figure 6.3.2.4-1: EVS Rate and Mode Control for downlink speech
Each UL PDU Type 0, received by the MGW via the Iu-Interface in uplink,
contains the UL EVS CMR (Iu), as sent by the UE in uplink.
UL PDU Type 14, received by the MGW via the Iu-Interface in uplink, may
contain an UL RC Proc, specifying the maximum bit rate the RNC allows in
downlink for all subsequent speech frames. This UL RC Proc contains all
initialized RFCIs. The RFCIs with bit rates exceeding the maximum bit rate
allowed in downlink are banned by the RNC by setting their RFCI flags to value
1, see TS 25.415 [4].
The DL RC Ack, to be sent in downlink, shall contain all initialized RFCIs.
The RFCIs with bit rates exceeding the maximum bit rate allowed by the DL EVS
CMR (Iu) shall be banned by setting their RFCI flags to value 1, see TS 25.415
[4].
The Iu-terminating MGW shall combine both, UL EVS CMR (Iu) and the maximum
rate, as allowed by the UL RC Proc (see the RC combiner in Figure 6.3.2.4-1)
and shall restrict the received UL EVS CMR (Iu) to the maximum rate the RNC
allows for downlink, resulting in **UL EVS CMR i** (\"i\" like \"internal\").
If necessary, the RC combiner modifies the audio bandwidth contained in the UL
EVS CMR (Iu) to the next smaller audio bandwidth that fulfils the maximum rate
requirement set by the RNC for downlink with UL RC Proc or UL Iu_Init.
Note**:** The RNC parameters, also the RNC max rate in DL, are subject to
operator policy.
The **major operation mode** contained in the UL EVS CMR (Iu) shall, however,
not be modified by this RC combiner. If necessary, the RC combiner selects the
next lower rate that corresponds to the received **major operation mode**.
In addition, subject to operator policy, the MGW may filter and modify the
resulting UL EVS CMR i further. The MGW shall remember the resulting UL EVS
CMR i, until it is modified again, see also clause 11.
In each new frame that is sent to the local EVS Encoder, if present, the
remembered UL EVS CMR i is resent, in order to control the EVS Encoder-mode
for the downlink direction.
The EVS Decoder within the Iu-terminating MGW, if present, shall accept and
decode every (good) Speech and SID frame received in uplink direction. This
decoder generates in addition the DL EVS CMR i, defining the maximum EVS mode
this decoder wants to receive in uplink. Typically this \"DL EVS CMR i\" is
identical with the highest EVS mode of the EVS Configuration for Iu. The
decoder may reduce it to a lower mode, e.g. if the UL Speech frames have a
high frame loss rate.
If the Iu-terminating MGW does not contain the Transcoder (i.e. the MGW is in
TrFO mode), then the remembered UL EVS CMR i is sent on the other, outgoing
interface, potentially mapped to the outgoing EVS Configuration, see also
clause 11. Figure 6.3.2.4-2 shows this principle for the case that the Iu-
terminating MGW hosts no transcoder and has an Nb-interface on the opposite
outgoing termination in UL.
{width="6.531944444444444in" height="3.910416666666667in"}
Figure 6.3.2.4-2: EVS Rate and Mode Control for downlink speech in TrFO
It is possible, that the EVS Configuration for Iu and the outgoing EVS
Configuration (here on Nb) are different, although TrFO compatible. In such a
case, the MGW shall forward all Speech and SID frames unmodified with respect
to the Speech and SID payload. The EVS-CMR, however, may be filtered and
modified by the MGW in both directions:
The MGW shall map each received DL EVS CMR (Nb), after potential filtering and
modifying, into the EVS Configuration for Iu, before it send this as DL EVS
CMR (Iu) towards the RNC. If a DL RC Ack has to be sent, then the latest DL
EVS CMR (Iu) shall be considered to populate this DL RC Ack.
The MGW shall map each received UL EVS CMR (Iu), after combining with the
latest UL RC Proc and potential filtering and modifying, into the EVS
Configuration for Nb, before it send this as UL EVS CMR (Nb) towards the next
MGW.
The details, how this filtering, modifying and mapping is performed, are
specified in clause 11.
#### 6.3.2.5 Optional internal 8 bits CRC
void
#### 6.3.2.6 Speech and SID bits
The Speech and SID bits are mapped from the received PDU Type 0 to the payload
of the generic EVS frames, as defined in TS 26.453 [19], with the reverse
function of clause 6.3.1.6.
# 7 Uu Interface User Plane (UE-RAN)
## 7.1 General
The interface between the EVS Encoder and Decoder within the UE and the Radio
Access Network within the UE is an UE-internal interface and is not detailed
in the present document. The mapping of Speech, SID and EVS-CMR bits
corresponds to the mapping described in clause 6 for the Iu interface.
The UE shall decode every Speech or SID frame received in downlink direction,
regardless of the EVS mode of operation in uplink.
The UE shall always apply in uplink the \"Source Controlled Operation\" (SCR),
also called \"Discontinuous Transmission\" (DTX).
If the UE uses the EVS AMR-WB IO mode of operation to encode speech for the
uplink direction, then it shall restrict changes of the Codec Mode to every
other frame (40 ms grid) and to neighbouring modes.
**NOTE:** In case of modification of the maximum rate (e.g. by the RNC), it
takes a short time period until the speech frames sent by the UE to the Radio
Access Network comply with the modified maximum rate. To facilitate
optimization of performance (for instance avoiding problems like audio gaps
due to discarded packets) in sending direction from the UE to the network when
changing mode as requested, it is a good implementation practice to allow
adaptation of the UE Encoder to take effect, and to maintain currently used
rate for the next few frames after the information about the rate adaptation
has been sent to the UE Encoder.
## 7.2 Determination of the local EVS encoding mode
Table 7.2-1: Local EVS encoding mode and Interworking
+----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | # | Item | Interworking | Motivation/ | | | | | comment/discussion | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | **Set of available | The UE shall | The UE may | | | rates** | confine the EVS | otherwise not be | | | | encoder operation | able to send. | | | | to modes, whose | | | | | rates are within | | | | | the **Set of | | | | | available rates**. | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | **DL EVS-CMR** | The EVS-UE shall | Shortest possible | | | | take into account | reaction time is | | | | a **DL EVS-CMR** | required for | | | | as soon as | optimal adaptation | | | | possible, at | speed. | | | | maximum within 60 | | | | | ms after reception | Typically, the UE | | | | on the radio | uses the highest | | | | interface. | rate and bandwidth | | | | | of the DL EVS-CMR | | | | The UE shall | for encoding in | | | | follow the | uplink. | | | | received DL EVS | | | | | CMR, unless it is | | | | | in conflict with | | | | | the **Set of | | | | | available rates,** | | | | | in which case the | | | | | **CMR conflict | | | | | resolution** | | | | | applies. | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 3 | **CMR conflict | If the received | A change of the | | | resolution** | **DL EVS-CMR** is | **Major operation | | | | outside the** Set | mode**(EVS | | | | of available | primary \  EVS | | | | rates**, then the | AMR-WB IO) can | | | | rate requested by | only be initiated | | | | **DL EVS-CMR** | through **DL | | | | shall be changed | EVS-CMR** via the | | | | to the closest | CN, but not | | | | rate supported by | through another | | | | the **Set of | change of the | | | | available rates** | **Set of available | | | | that complies with | rates**. | | | | the **Major | Otherwise, such a | | | | operation mode** | change of the | | | | of the **DL |** major operation | | | | EVS-CMR**. That | mode** from EVS | | | | is: | AMR-WB IO to EVS | | | | | primary would | | | | if **DL EVS-CMR** | result in an | | | | corresponds to an | interworking | | | | EVS AMR-WB IO | failure, if the | | | | rate, then the | remote UE is an | | | | requested rate is | AMR-WB-only phone. | | | | changed to an | A change from EVS | | | | allowed EVS AMR-WB | primary to EVS | | | | IO rate; | AMR-WB IO would | | | | | result in | | | | if DL EVS-CMR | non-optimal audio | | | | corresponds to an | quality, if the | | | | EVS Primary mode, | remote UE is an | | | | then the requested | EVS phone. | | | | rate is changed to | | | | | an allowed EVS | The MSC guarantees | | | | Primary rate and | through GBR that | | | | bandwidth. | at least the | | | | | lowest AMR-WB IO | | | | | mode and at least | | | | | the lowest EVS | | | | | Primary mode of | | | | | the **EVS | | | | | Configuration for | | | | | UE** remain | | | | | selectable. The | | | | | RNC behaviour and | | | | | GBR setting is | | | | | subject to | | | | | operator policy. | | | | | | | | | | The UE | | | | | reduces/increases | | | | | the requested rate | | | | | to the closest | | | | | rate of the | | | | | requested **Major | | | | | operation Mode,** | | | | | supported by the | | | | | **Set of available | | | | | rates**. | | | | | | | | | | If the requested | | | | | **Major operation | | | | | mode** equals the | | | | | EVS primary mode, | | | | | then the rate is | | | | | modified within | | | | | the set of rates | | | | | of 24.4, 16.4, | | | | | 13.2 (non-CA), | | | | | 9.6, 8, 7.2, as | | | | | far as these are | | | | | within the **EVS | | | | | Configuration for | | | | | UE**. | | | | | | | | | | If requested | | | | | **Major operation | | | | | mode** equals the | | | | | EVS AMR-WB IO | | | | | mode, the rate is | | | | | modified within | | | | | the set of rates | | | | | of 12.65, 8.85 and | | | | | 6.60, as far as | | | | | these are within | | | | | the **EVS | | | | | Configuration for | | | | | UE**. | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 4 | **UE autonomous | The control logic | Otherwise, the | | | rate** | for the **UE | result might be | | | | autonomous rate** | interworking | | | | shall guarantee | failure, if the | | | | that at least the | remote UE is an | | | | lowest AMR-WB IO | AMR-WB only phone, | | | | mode and at least | or the result may | | | | the lowest EVS | be non-optimal | | | | Primary mode of | audio quality. | | | | the **EVS | | | | | Configuration for | | | | | UE** are included | | | | | in the **Set of | | | | | available rates**. | | | | | | | | | | In addition, this | | | | | control logic | | | | | shall guarantee | | | | | that the **Set of | | | | | available Rates** | | | | | at least includes | | | | | the lowest EVS | | | | | Primary rate | | | | | supporting the | | | | | audio bandwidth | | | | | requested by the | | | | | **DL EVS-CMR** | | | | | (after mapping the | | | | | DL EVS-CMR into | | | | | the **EVS | | | | | Configuration for | | | | | UE**). | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 5 | **EVS Channel | The EVS-CA mode | The remote UE may | | | Aware mode | shall solely be | request and the CN | | | (EVS-CA)** | selected through | may select or | | | | **DL EVS-CMR**. | deselect the EVS | | | | The UE shall not | CA mode, e.g. | | | | enter or leave the | based on the | | | | EVS-CA based on | perceived | | | | RNC command or its | transmission | | | | autonomous mode. | channel condition, | | | | | see also clause | | | | | 11. | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 6 | **EVS VBR mode | The EVS-VBR mode | The use of the | | | (EVS-VBR)** | shall solely be | EVS-VBR mode | | | | selected through | requires that the | | | | DL EVS-CMR. The UE | upper limit of the | | | | shall not enter or | **Set of available | | | | leave the EVS VBR | rates** is greater | | | | based on RNC | or equal to 8 | | | | command or its | kbps. A | | | | autonomous mode. | prerequisite for | | | | | ensuring the EVS | | | | | VBR mode is a GBR | | | | | of at least 8 | | | | | kbps. | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
## 7.3 Generation of UL EVS-CMR for the remote media-sender
Table 7.3-1: UL EVS-CMR
+----+----------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | # | Topic | Interworking | Motivation/comment | +----+----------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | **UL EVS-CMR** | The UE shall | The present | | | | always send an | encoding mode has | | | | **UL EVS-CMR** | no influence on | | | | with the highest | the **UL EVS-CMR** | | | | bit rate and audio | to be sent. | | | | bandwidth it wants | | | | | to receive; it | The UE may | | | | shall never send a | generate **UL | | | | NO_REQ. | EVS-CMR** for a | | | | | different bit | | | | The UE shall send | rate, bandwidth or | | | | UL EVS-CMR for | for requesting the | | | | modes, which are | switching between | | | | inside the **EVS | non-CA and EVS-CA | | | | configuration for | mode. | | | | UE**. | | | | | | An **UL EVS-CMR** | | | | | for a modified | | | | | audio bandwidth | | | | | may be generated, | | | | | if the local audio | | | | | playback | | | | | capability | | | | | changes. | | | | | | | | | | The EVS-CA mode | | | | | may be optimized | | | | | by sending **UL | | | | | EVS-CMR** | | | | | adjusting the | | | | | redundancy level | | | | | or the redundancy | | | | | offset. | +----+----------------+--------------------+--------------------+
## 7.4 Interworking in case of the EVS Channel Aware Mode
In CS networks, 3G-UEs do typically not deploy de-jitter buffers for the
received speech frames, since the frames arrive essentially without any jitter
every 20 ms (except in speech pauses). A MGW in the speech path in PS to CS
calls shall remove any PS uplink jitter, see also clause 11, before the EVS
frames are sent over the Iu interface.
There are nevertheless cases, where the use of the EVS CA mode may be
advantageous within the 3G-UE. One such case is that the EVA CA mode is used
for improving the robustness against PS-uplink and CS-downlink frame losses in
PS to CS interworking. In that case, a part of the EVS CA mode processing is
done in conjunction with Jitter Buffer Management (JBM) operation in a MGW
between the PS-uplink and CS-downlink. Clause 11 describes the details.
The 3G-UE shall check every received EVS CA frame, if the use_partial_copy
signalling bit (see clause 11) is set to 1 or 0. If the signalling bit is set
to 0, then the EVS CA primary frame shall be decoded and the redundant part is
ignored. If the signalling bit is set to 1, then the redundant part of this
EVS CA frame shall be decoded, as if received in (the future) frame (N+K). The
difference to a PS-UE is that the 3G-UE does not have to wait for frame (N+K),
but can decode immediately without additional delay. The frame received with
signalling bit 1 is saved in a buffer to improve the performance of CS-
downlink loss, if frame (N+K) is lost on the CS downlink.
# 8 Nb Interface User Plane (CN-CN) of a BICC-based CS Core Network (NbF)
## 8.0 General
The data structures exchanged on the Nb interface of a BICC-based Circuit
Switched Core Network are symmetrical, i.e. the structures of the sent and
received data frames are identical.
The Nb-Interface is defined in a BICC-based Core Network in two different
variants, a) for the ATM bearer with Nb-framing, b) for the IP bearer with Nb-
framing. The Nb-framing and the use of PDU Type 0 for the speech payload is
common for both versions of the Nb-Interface.
These two versions also share the principle of \"Nb_Init\" by PDU Type 14
messages, where the Nb-Interface is initialized on User Plane level.
## 8.1 Frame structure on the Nb UP transport protocol
### 8.1.0 General
Delivery of erroneous SDUs for EVS-coded speech on the Nb-Interface shall be
set to: \"YES\" in a BICC-based Circuit Switched Core Network. Erroneous
speech frames may be used to assist the error concealment procedures.
Therefore, PDU Type 0 (with payload CRC) shall be used for the transport of
EVS-coded speech on the Nb interface.
### 8.1.1 Initialisation
The initialisation procedure is used for support mode. At the initialisation,
several parameters are set by the CN. The initialisation procedure for the Nb
Interface is described in TS 29.414 [6].
The EVS implementation shall use the \"Support mode for predefined SDU sizes,
version 2\", see TS 25.415 [4].
### 8.1.2 Time Alignment Procedure
The handling of Time Alignment on the Nb Interface is described in TS 29.414
[6]. The Time alignment procedure shall be dismissed in case of TrFO.
### 8.1.3 SID Frame Generation
The generation of SID frames is determined by the EVS Speech Encoder. The
radio subsystem does not influence this timing.
### 8.1.4 Rate and Mode Control and CMR-Only frames
For EVS the PDU Type 14 is not used on the Nb interface for Rate Control.
Instead, every PDU Type 0 on the Nb interface (with Speech, SID or CMR-Only
content) contains the active EVS-CMR. CMR-code-point NO_REQ shall not be used.
The UE or any node in the speech path (e.g. a MGW during handover) may send
CMR-Only frames during speech pauses, if an urgent EVS Codec Mode Request has
to be sent.
## 8.2 Mapping of the EVS bits
### 8.2.1 Mapping for EVS Speech and SID frames
The mapping of the bits between the generic EVS frames and the PDU Type 0 for
the Nb Interface is identical to the mapping on the Iu Interface for PDU Type
0.
### 8.2.2 Mapping for EVS-CMR
The mapping of the EVS-CMR to the PDU Type 0 for the Nb Interface is identical
to the mapping on the Iu Interface.
## 8.3 Frame handlers
Nb PDU Frame handling functions are described in TS 29.414 [6].
# 9 Nb Interface User Plane (CN-CN) of a SIP-I-based CS Core Network (NboIP)
## 9.1 General
The SIP-I-based Circuit Switched Core Network is specified in 3GPP TS 23.231
[3]. The User Plane in this Core Network is further specified in 3GPP TS
29.414 [6]. RTP is specified in IETF RFC 3550 [8].
RTP is used in a SIP-I-based Circuit Switched Core Network as framing protocol
at the Nb-Interface (without Nb-framing protocol). The rules for the usage of
RTP and RTCP in 3GPP TS 29.414 [6] are applicable in combination with further
Codec-specific rules provided in the present specification.
## 9.2 Frame Structure
### 9.2.0 General
The RTP framing for EVS is specified in TS 26.445 [12]. For details on the
SIP-I-based Nb interface, see clause 9.3.
### 9.2.1 Initialisation
At the Nb-Interface in a SIP-I-based Core Network, direct RTP packing without
Nb-framing is applied. Therefore, the use of PDU Type 0 for the speech payload
and PDU Type 14 for Rate Control is not applicable. In addition, the principle
of \"Nb_Init\" is not applicable for a SIP-I-based Core Network.
### 9.2.2 Time Alignment Procedure
Time Alignment is not specified in a SIP-I-based Circuit Switched Core
Network.
### 9.2.3 SID Frame Generation
The generation of SID frames is determined by the EVS Speech Encoder. The
radio subsystem does not influence this timing.
### 9.2.4 Rate and Mode Control and CMR-Only frames
Every RTP packet on the Nb interface (with Speech, SID or CMR-Only content)
contains the active EVS-CMR.
The UE or any node in the speech path (e.g. a MGW during handover) may send
CMR-Only frames during speech pauses, if an urgent EVS Codec Mode Request has
to be sent.
## 9.3 RTP Packing for EVS on Nb for SIP-I
The RTP packing for EVS on this version of the Nb-Interface is as specified in
TS 26.445[12], with the following additional constraints:
The RTP Payload Type number for EVS for the Nb-Interface is determined by the
MSC-S dynamically.
The headerful format shall be used on Nb for SIP-I.
Each RTP packet on Nb shall contain exactly either one Speech or one SID or
one CMR-Only frame. RTP redundancy is not applied on Nb.
Every RTP packet on Nb shall contain the active EVS-CMR. CMR-code-point NO_REQ
shall not be used.
The active EVS-CMR shall comply with the negotiated EVS Configuration for Nb.
RTCP-APP is not used on the SIP-I based Nb interface.
# 10 Mb Interface User Plane
## 10.1 Overview
TS 29.163 [20] specifies the Interworking between the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem and Circuit Switched (CS) networks. Figure 1 of TS
29.163 defines some terms, reused in the present document for the Mb
interface. Figure 10.1-1 reprints this Figure 1 of TS 29.163.
Figure 10.1-1: IM CN subsystem to CS network logical interworking reference
model
The MGCF (Media Gateway Control Function) is a logical entity, interworking
between CS Control Plane and IMS Control Plane. Depending on the result of the
Codec Negotiation at call setup, the EVS Configuration for Mb may be identical
to the EVS Configuration for Nb, or may be smaller or bigger. As long as both
EVS Configurations are TrFO-compatible, transcoding is not required within the
IM-MGW. TS 29.163 specifies the Codec Negotiation between CS Control Plane and
IMS Control Plane. The MGCF informs the IM-MGW via the Mn-Interface about the
selected Codec Types and Codec Configurations for both interfaces. The IM-MGW
decides on the necessary interworking.
The IM-MGW (IP Multimedia Media Gateway Function) is a logical entity,
interworking the User Plane between the PS-based Mb interface and the CS-based
Nb-interface. Figure 10.1-1 calls this Nb-interface \"CS channels\". If the
Codecs on Mb and Nb are TrFO-compatible, then the IM-MGW does not need to
deploy transcoding.
The IM-MGW may have to perform repacking. The IM-MGW may have to modify the
EVS-CMR. The IM-MGW may have to interwork the various alternatives for Rate
Control on Mb with the Rate Control on Nb.
The present clause recommends the EVS Codec Configurations for the Mb User
Plane, based on TS 26.445 [12]. Clause 11 describes the interworking between
the Mb interface and the Nb Interface.
## 10.2 RTP packing on the Mb Interface
On the Nb interface, each RTP packet contains either one Speech or one SID or
one CMR-Only frame with EVS-CMR in each RTP packet. The UMTS_EVS Codec
Configurations on Nb are symmetrical for both speech path directions.
TS 26.445 [12] allows more freedom, how RTP packets transport EVS Speech and
SID frames and CMR-Only frames on Mb. If this freedom is used, then repacking
is required in the IM-MGW.
The following recommendations for EVS on Mb aim to avoid transcoding and
repacking with UMTS_EVS on Nb:
\- The EVS Codec Configurations on Mb should be symmetrical for both speech
path directions.
\- Each RTP packet on Mb should contain exactly either one Speech or one SID
or one CMR-Only frame.
\- The headerful format should be used on Mb in order to include the EVS-CMR
in every RTP packet.
\- Every RTP packet on Mb should contain the active EVS-CMR, never NO_REQ
(0x7Fh, see TS 26.445).
\- DTX should be allowed on the Mb interface in both directions.
## 10.3 Rate and mode control for EVS on Mb
On the Nb-interface the EVS-CMR provides rate and mode control for UMTS_EVS
and for interworking between EVS and AMR-WB. TS 26.453 [19] specifies EVS-CMR
in accordance with TS 26.445 [12] in sub-clause A.2.2.1.1. On Nb the EVS-CMR
is always transported in every Speech, SID and some rare CMR-Only frames. EVS-
CMR is not acknowledged, because this permanent, redundant transmission is a
reliable Forward Error Correction.
TS 26.445 specifies four different alternatives how to transport CMR on the Mb
interface, depending on the SDP Offer/Answer negotiation.
**Mb-alt 1:** The EVS-CMR is transported in RTP on Mb in every Speech, SID and
some rare CMR-Only frames.
**Mb-alt 2:** The EVS-CMR may be transported in RTP packets on Mb \"on
demand\", i.e. only when the\ EVS-CMR value changes.
**Mb-alt 3:** The EVS-CMR is forbidden in RTP on Mb and instead EVS-CMR is
transported in RTCP-APP\ on demand on Mb. RTCP-APP is not deployed on the Nb
interface.
**Mb-alt 4:** The EVS-CMR is forbidden in RTP and RTCP on Mb. Consequently,
Transcoding is required in the IM-MGW.
Mb-alt 1 is the preferred and recommended alternative for interworking with
UMTS_EVS on Nb.
Clause 11 describes the interworking between these alternatives on Mb and the
transport of EVS-CMR on Nb.
# 11 Interworking between MGW Terminations
## 11.1 Interworking between different EVS Configurations
### 11.1.0 General
It may happen, e.g. to combat cell overload, that the RNC selects a smaller
EVS Configuration for Uu, than the EVS Configuration for Iu, which the MSC has
selected, see also clause 7.
**Example:** The local MSC selects during the Codec Negotiation with the
remote side the EVS Configuration EVS (Set 2), which is equivalent to the SDP
description EVS (br=5.9-24.4, bw=nb-fb). The RAB Assignment Request towards
the local RNC contains the corresponding rates, see Table 6.2-2. The RNC,
however, decides to setup a set of TFCs on the Uu interface that is
corresponding to EVS (Set 1), equivalent to the SDP description EVS
(br=5.9-13.2, bw=nb-swb). The UE determines the EVS Configuration for UE based
on the set of TFCs. When the RNC select a smaller transport channel for Uu,
then this is unknown to the MSC and MGW and to the UE. The RNC may also change
the transport channel for Uu (and by that the EVS Configuration for UE) during
the call without notice to the MSC or MGW. Only indirectly, when by UL Iu_Init
and/or UL RC Proc the maximum rate in DL is set, the MGW gets some information
on limitations of the Uu interface in DL, see clause 6.
In such a situation, the Iu-terminating MGW may send DL EVS-CMRs that are
outside the EVS Configuration for UE. The UE maps these EVS-CMRs into its
known EVS Configuration for UE, see clause 7. Example: The Iu-terminating MGW
may send DL EVS-CMR (br=24.4; bw=fb) and the UE needs to map this to DL EVS-
CMR (br=13.2; bw=swb).
A similar situation may happen within the IM-MGW between the CS-internal
interface and the Mb interface: different EVS Configurations may be used. The
EVS Configuration for Mb may be often bigger than inside the CS network.
**Example:** After SRVCC, the IMS Selected Codec (applied still on Mb) may be
different, but TrFO-compatible to the Target RAN Codec (applied on the CS
channel of the IM-MGW). The Target RAN Codec may be EVS (Set 3), equivalent to
the SDP description EVS (br=9.6-13.2, bw=swb), while the IMS Selected Codec on
Mb may be equivalent to EVS (br=9.6-24.4; bw=swb). The IMS-side may send CMR
(br=24.4; bw=swb) and the IM-MGW maps this to EVS-CMR (br=13.2; bw=swb).
The same situation may happen between CS-internal interfaces (Iu, Nb, A):
different EVS Configurations may be used on both sides of the MGW. These
scenarios occur mainly after handover, but they are not excluded for call
setup.
In all such cases the EVS-CMR, coming into one termination of the MGW (or IM-
MGW) may have to be mapped into the EVS Configuration on the outgoing
termination. Without this mapping, the receiver of an EVS-CMR may ignore the
EVS-CMR, because it is outside its own EVS Configuration, see TS 26.445,
clause A.2.2.1.1, CMR byte. The only (known) exception is the mapping onto the
Iu Interface and the handling by the 3G-UE, because, as described above, the
3G-UE may get EVS-CMRs that fit to the EVS Configuration for Iu, but are
outside the EVS Configuration for UE.
TS 26.103 [20] specifies three \"EVS Bottom Up Configurations\", EVS (Set 0),
EVS (Set 1) and EVS (Set 2) and one \"Single audio band Configuration\", EVS
(Set 3) for the 3G-CS network.
The Interworking rules are defined in the following clauses.
### 11.1.1 Interworking between EVS Bottom Up Configurations
If the EVS Configurations on both sides of the MGW are identical, then no
mapping is necessary.
If the EVS Bottom up Configuration on one side (e.g. Set 2 on Nb or Mb), is
bigger than the EVS Bottom up Configuration on the other side (e.g. Set 1 on
Iu), then the following rules apply:
\- If the EVS-CMR, which has to be sent on a certain outgoing termination, is
within the EVS Configuration of this outgoing termination, then no mapping is
required.
\- If the EVS-CMR is outside the EVS Configuration of the outgoing
termination, then the EVS-CMR shall first be reduced in its bit rate request,
until it fits to the outgoing Configuration.\ Example: EVS-CMR (br=24.4;
bw=swb) ==> EVS-CMR (br=13.2; bw=swb).
\- The maximum audio bandwidth request should be kept, unless the resulting
bit rate request does not support it, in which case the next smaller maximum
audio bandwidth shall be applied that fits to the requested maximum bit rate.
Example: EVS-CMR (br=24.4; bw=fb) ==> EVS-CMR (br=13.2; bw=swb).
\- The major operation mode shall never be changed by such a mapping, i.e.
EVS-CMR for an EVS primary mode shall remain and an EVS-CMR for an EVS AMR-WB
IO mode shall remain. If necessary, the next lower bit rate shall be used that
fit to the outgoing Configuration without changing the major operation mode.\
Note, however, that a MGW has the right to modify the request for a major
operation mode, e.g. in case of handover.
\- An EVS-CMR request for the EVS-CA mode of operation, not supported by the
outgoing Configuration, shall be mapped to the next fitting EVS primary mode.\
Example: EVS-CMR (br=13.2; bw=swb; CA=on) ==> EVS-CMR (br=8; bw=wb).
Note that it is in principle possible that the EVS Configuration for Mb
consists in fact of two different EVS Configurations, one in direction CS=>IMS
and one in direction CS\ EVS-CMR (br=13.2; bw=swb).
\- The major operation mode shall never be changed by such a mapping, i.e.
EVS-CMR for an EVS primary mode shall remain and an EVS-CMR for an EVS AMR-WB
IO mode shall remain. If necessary, the next lower bit rate shall be used that
fit to the outgoing Configuration without changing the major operation mode.\
Note, however, that a MGW has the right to modify the request for a major
operation mode, e.g. in case of handover.
Note that it is in principle possible that the EVS Configuration for Mb
consists in fact of two different EVS Configurations, one in direction CS=>IMS
and one in direction CS\ IMS. The CS Network is always able to receive
DTX in direction CS \ IMS).
If the IMS side requires interworking with DTX deactivated in its media-send
direction, then the IM-MGW shall insert transcoding in this direction (CS \ IMS interworking.
## 11.5 Interworking between EVS and AMR-WB
It may happen that EVS is used on one termination of the MGW or the IM-MGW and
AMR-WB is used on the other termination.
The EVS Codec includes the EVS AMR-WB IO major operation mode and is therefore
TrFO-compatible to the AMR-WB Codec, if the mode-sets and mode-change-period
parameters are TrFO-compatible. For example, AMR-WB on the Nb-termination and
EVS on the Mb-termination (or vice versa) are TrFO-compatible Codecs, if the
mode-sets are TrFO-compatible and mode-change-period=2 on both sides.
If the MGW or IM-MGW bridges between an EVS Codec Configuration that is TrFO-
compatible to the AMR-WB Codec Configuration, then the following applies:
\- If the Codec of the incoming termination is EVS and the Codec on the
outgoing termination is AMR-WB, then the Rate control procedure for AMR-WB
shall apply at the outgoing termination, with the maximum rate equal to or
lower than the maximum rate received in the EVS-CMR. The MGW or IM-MGW shall
map received EVS-CMRs to the selected mode-set of the outgoing AMR-WB
termination.
\- If the Codec of the incoming termination is AMR-WB and the Codec on the
outgoing termination is EVS, then the Rate control procedure for AMR-WB shall
apply on the incoming termination. It shall determine the maximum rate of the
EVS-CMR to be sent by the MGW or IM-MGW. In this case, the outgoing EVS-CMR
shall request the EVS AMR-WB IO major operation mode.
If the MGW or IM-MGW bridges between an EVS Codec Configuration that is
[not]{.underline} TrFO-compatible to the AMR-WB Codec Configuration, then
transcoding shall apply. Then the rate and mode control procedures on both
terminations are independent.
## 11.6 Interworking for the EVS Channel Aware Mode
### 11.6.1 Introduction
The EVS channel aware (EVS-CA) mode of operation (see TS 26.445 [12]),
includes a source-controlled partial-redundant copy in-band, as part of the
overall codec payload, which operates at a constant bitrate of 13,2 kbps (264
bits/frame). The partial-redundant copy associated with frame N is encoded and
transmitted along with the primary encoding of a \"future\" frame (N+K). The
offset parameter, K, determines the separation between the primary and
redundant frame. K is transmitted inband (2 bit), as well as a CA-flag (1 bit)
and the length-index for the redundant part (3 bits).
The RTP packets may be subjected to varying scheduling and routing conditions
in PS networks, which may result in packets arriving out of order and
experiencing varying end-to-end delay. Packets may also be lost, notably on
the uplink radio channel(s). In packet-switched networks, typically, a
(de-)jitter buffer together with a jitter buffer management (JBM) is used in
speech decoders to remove this jitter and feed the speech frames for decoding
in the right order and timing.
In the EVS-CA mode, if frame N is due for decoding, but is lost, then the de-
jitter buffer is inspected for the availability of future frame (N+K). If
available, the partial-redundant copy in frame (N+K) is extracted for the
synthesis of the lost frame N.
In particular, in the PS downlink (e.g. PS to PS, CS to PS), the de-jitter
buffer at the PS-UE helps retrieve and use the partial-redundant copies for
decoding of packets lost in the network as shown in the example below, Figure
11.6.1-1. In this example, the partial-redundant copies are encoded and sent
at offset K=2 frames.
{width="6.99375in" height="2.129166666666667in"}
Figure 11.6.1-1: PS downlink, de-jitter buffer handling and partial copy
recovery
In CS networks, speech is often also transmitted in RTP packets, but the
jitter is comparably small or even negligible. A 3G-UE therefore does not
deploy a jitter buffer management for decoding. In order to compensate for
this unavailability of a de-jitter buffer in the 3G-UE some interworking is
necessary within a MGW and between the MGW and the remote 3G-UE. In
particular, in the CS downlink (e.g. PS to CS), as there is no de-jitter
buffer available in 3G-UEs, the 3G-UE may perform a concealment as shown in
the example below, Figure 11.6.1-2, if the partial copies are not available.
{width="6.99375in" height="2.1020833333333333in"}
Figure 11.6.1-2: CS downlink, absence of EVS-CA interworking
### 11.6.2 Removal of Jitter in direction PS to CS
The jitter introduced by the PS uplink has to be removed, before the speech
frame can be sent further in the CS network on the Iu Interface. This JBM
should be located within the Iu-terminating MGW, i.e. just before the Iu
Interface, or the transcoder, if present. It is, however, also allowed,
although not recommended, to remove the jitter in an \"earlier\" MGW, e.g. the
IM-MGW. The jitter processing is used in current MGWs for enabling the PS to
CS calls and not detailed here.
The JBM in the Iu-terminating MGW operates as described in clause 11.6.1,
sending in most cases the well-received, reordered, de-jittered speech frame
forward to the Iu interface and the decoder within the 3G-UE in due time, one
frame every 20 ms.
If frame N was lost in the PS network, then the MGW may look into the jitter
buffer and if frame (N+K) is available, then it can send frame (N+K) to the
3G-UE for decoding as partial-redundant copy.
In effect, the MGW serves as the JBM for the 3G-UE.
However, the MGW needs to convey the information to the 3G-UE on how to decode
the frame, e.g. as primary frame or as partial-redundant copy frame. That is,
the 3G-UE, when it receives the 13,2 kbps EVS-CA frame, needs to know, if it
should use the primary portion to decode or use the partial-redundant copy to
decode.
This information is conveyed through the \"use_partial_copy\" signalling bit.
The position of this signalling bit within the EVS CA frame depends on the CA
Frame Type, the Coder Type and the bandwidth mode (swb or wb), as shown in
Table 11.6.2-1. This use_partial_copy signalling bit is unused (i.e. set to 0)
by the EVS encoder in the EVS CA mode and is ignored in the PS-UE EVS decoder,
see TS 26.445 [12].
Table 11.6.2-1: Signalling bit for \"use_partial_copy\" decoding
* * *
                  swb          wb
CA Frame Type Coder type b[i], {i=0,1,...263} Coder type b[i], {i=0,1,...263}
6 2 b[175] 1,2,3 b[187] 5 1,2,3 b[179] 1,2,3 b[191] 4 2,3 b[182] NA  
3 2,3 b[229] 2,3 b[241] 2 3 b[229] 3 b[241] 0,1,7 NA
* * *
If frame N was lost in the PS network, then the JBM in the MGW shall look into
the jitter buffer and if frame (N+K) is available, then the JBM shall send
frame (N+K) to the 3G-UE with the use_partial_copy signalling bit set to 1.
For the case, where the signalling bit is not applicable (e.g. as they are
RF_NO_DATA, SID frames, shown as \"NA\" in Table 11.6.2-1), the MGW shall
simply signal a frame erasure (i.e. send nothing) similar to the case when
partial-redundant copy is not available.
The handling within the 3G-UE is described in clause 7.4.
In some corner cases, it may well be that a call is setup between a PS-UE1 and
a 3G-UE2, until the 3G-UE2 is transferred (by handover, SRVCC, DRVCC) into a
PS-domain (e.g. LTE or Wi-Fi). The CS network and the Iu-terminating CS-MGW
remain in the call path. In such a case, the Iu-terminating CS-MGW, after
performing the User Plane switch to the PS domain, shall delete the received
frame with this signalling bit set to1, getting back to the situation before
the first JBM. Just the first PS-uplink jitter is removed by the first JBM,
but the stream of speech frames after the CS-MGW is the same again as before
the first JBM.
### 11.6.3 Removal of Jitter in direction CS to PS
Since the CS-network does not introduce jitter (or only comparably small
jitter) and since the PS-network introduces and handles jitter anyway in the
PS-UE, there is no need for any jitter removal in the direction CS to PS in a
MGW.
The EVS-CA Mode of operation in the direction CS to PS is helpful to mitigate
frame losses on the sending CS uplink and the receiving PS downlink, if the
JBM is located in the PS-UE.
#