# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The **Enhanced Voice Services** (EVS) Codec is specified in the series of
Technical Specifications 3GPP TS 26.441 [3] to TS 26.451 [13] and it is
characterized in TR 26.952 [14].
The present document describes the \"generic frame format\" for the EVS Codec
for the application in 3G Circuit-Switched Networks. This format is based on
the RTP framing, as specified in TS 26.445 [7]. This generic frame format will
be used as a common reference point, when interfacing speech frames between
different elements of the 3G system. Appropriate mappings to and from this
generic frame format will be used within and between each system element.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Specification set\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.441: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); General
overview\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.442: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.443: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(floating-point)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.444: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Test
Sequences\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
algorithmic description\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.446: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Adaptive Multi-
Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) backward compatible functions\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.447: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Error
concealment of lost packets\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.448: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Jitter buffer
management\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.449: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Comfort Noise
Generation (CNG) aspects\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.450: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 26.451: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Voice Activity
Detection (VAD)\".
[14] 3GPP TR 26.952: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Performance
Characterization\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi-Rate - WideBand
CMR Codec Mode Request (for AMR and AMR-WB and EVS)
CS Circuit Switched
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
EVS-CMR CMR for EVS
EVS-SID SID for EVS
FQC Frame quality Classification
EVS AMR-WB IO EVS AMR-WB Inter Operable (mode of operation)
MSB Most Significant Bit
RTP Real Time Protocol
SID Silence Insertion Descriptor (for AMR and AMR-WB)
ToC Table of Contents
WB-CMR CMR for AMR-WB
WB-SID SID for AMR-WB (and for EVS AMR-WB IO)
# 4 EVS Codec generic frame format in CS Networks
## 4.1 General
This clause describes the \"generic frame format\" of the EVS Codec in 3G CS
networks for the Speech and SID frames of the primary modes of operation and
the Speech and SID frames of the EVS AMR-WB IO mode of operation.
This generic frame format is illustrated in Figure 4.1-1 and it is based on
the RTP format specified in TS 26.445 [7], Annex A, Figure A.3 (c), \"Payload
structure of Header-Full format with CMR + ToC single frame\" and in TS 26.445
[7], Annex A, Figure A.6, \"Payload structure for EVS AMR-WB IO SID (56 bit)
payload\" with the following modifications:
\- The leading \"1\" bit, d(0), in the CMR octet (MSB) is omitted in CS
networks;\ bits d(1) ... d(7) are copied bit by bit in the same order. EVS-CMR
has therefore 7 bits.
\- The ToC octet is omitted (Table of Contents in RTP).
\- The Speech data or SID of the EVS primary and the EVS AMR-WB IO modes are
copied bit by bit.\ Each rate has its own, unique number of bits (n+1).
\- The 40 bits of the AMR-WB SID, d(0) ... d(39), are copied bit by bit into
the generic frame format.
Note that the order of Speech data or SID bits is the same as in in TS 26.445
[7].
{width="4.819444444444445in" height="0.9368055555555556in"}
Figure 4.1-1: EVS Generic Frame Format in CS Networks
## 4.2 EVS payload sizes in CS Networks
Table 4.2-1 lists all EVS Primary rates for the application in CS Networks,
including No_Data. These payload sizes are always integer multiples of 8 bits
(excluding the 7-bit EVS-CMR).
Table 4.2-1: Payload sizes for EVS Primary Rates in CS Networks
* * *
Rate Payload Size (bits) Net bit rate for active speech\ (kbps)
No_Data 0 -
EVS Primary SID 48 -
EVS Primary 2.8 56 2,8
EVS Primary 7.2 144 7,2
EVS Primary 8.0 160 8,0
EVS Primary 9.6 192 9,6
EVS Primary 13.2 264 13,2
EVS Primary 16.4 328 16,4
EVS Primary 24.4 488 24,4
* * *
Table 4.2-2 lists all EVS AMR-WB IO rates for the application in CS Networks.
In contrast to the payload sizes used in RTP, these payloads do not include
any CMR overhead. These payload sizes are not always integer multiples of 8
bits (excluding the 7-bit EVS-CMR).
Table 4.2-2: Payload sizes for EVS AMR-WB IO modes in CS Networks
* * *
Rate Payload Size (bits) Net bit rate for active speech\ (kbps)
EVS-AMR-WB IO SID 40 -
EVS AMR-WB IO 6.6 132 6,6
EVS AMR-WB IO 8.85 177 8,85
EVS AMR-WB IO 12.65 253 12,65
* * *
## 4.3 EVS generic frame header
The EVS Codec generic frame format in CS networks has no header. The payload
size defines the used Codec rate. Parameters inside this EVS payload
differentiate the EVS audio bandwidth and the EVS mode of operation. For
details, see TS 26.445 [7].
## 4.4 EVS frame quality classification
The EVS Codec generic frame format has no own Frame Quality Indicator. If
transported on Iu and Nb the \"Frame Quality Classification\" (FQC) of the Iu
and Nb framing protocol is used.
## 4.5 EVS codec mode request in CS Networks
The EVS Codec Mode Request (EVS-CMR) is specified in TS 26.445 [7], Annex A,
Table A.3: Structure of CMR. The EVS-CMR has a size of 7 bits. The Header bit
(MSB), specified in TS 26.445 [7], is omitted in CS networks.
#