# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document specifies the system level aspects of the Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX) function of the EVS codec.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
Algorithmic Description \".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.442: \" Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.443: \" Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(floating-point)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.444: \" Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Test
Sequences\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.446: \" Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); AMR-WB
Backward Compatible Functions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.447: \" Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Error
Concealment of Lost Packets\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.448: \" Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Jitter Buffer
Management\".
> [9] 3GPP TS 26.449: \" Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Comfort
> Noise Generation (CNG) Aspects\".
>
> [10] 3GPP TS 26.441: \" Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); General
> Overview\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.451: \" Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Voice
Activity Detection (VAD)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"Multimedia Telephony; Media handling and interaction\".
[13] 3GPP TS 26.131: \"Terminal acoustic characteristics for telephony;
Requirements \".
[14] 3GPP TR 26.952: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Performance
Characterization\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACELP Algebraic Code-Excited Linear Prediction
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi Rate Wideband (codec)
CNG Comfort Noise Generator
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
FB Fullband
FEC Frame Erasure Concealment
IP Internet Protocol
JBM Jitter Buffer Management
MSB Most Significant Bit
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
NB Narrowband
PS Packet Switched
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
SAD Signal Activity Detection
SC-VBR Source Controlled - Variable Bit Rate
SID Silence Insertion Descriptor
SWB Super Wideband
VAD Voice Activity Detection
WB Wideband
WMOPS Weighted Millions of Operations Per Second
# 4 General
## 4.1 Background
The present document specifies the system level aspects of the Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX) function of the EVS codec. Specific codec functions that
implement the DTX functionality are described in TS 26.445 [2].
Discontinuous transmission (DTX) is a mechanism for the EVS Codec to encode
the input signal at a lower average rate by taking speech inactivity into
account. The DTX scheme is useful for the following purposes:
\- to conserve UE power,
\- to improve network capacity.
DTX in the transmitting path (uplink) shall be in operation in UEs if
commanded so by the network. The UE shall handle DTX in the receiving path
(downlink) at any time, regardless of whether DTX in the transmitting path is
commanded or not.
## 4.2 General organization
The default DTX mechanism described in the present document requires the
following functions:
\- a Signal Activity Detector (SAD) on the transmit (TX) side;
\- evaluation of the background acoustic noise on the transmit (TX) side in
order to transmit characteristic parameters to the receive (RX) side;
\- generation, on the receive (RX) side, of a similar noise called comfort
noise during periods where the transmission is switched off.
The Signal Activity Detector (SAD) is defined in TS 26.451 [11] and the
comfort noise functions in TS 26.449 [9]. Both are based partly on the EVS
Codec and its internal variables defined in TS 26.445 [2].
In addition to these functions, if the parameters arriving at the RX side are
detected to be seriously corrupted by errors, the speech or comfort noise
shall be generated from substituted data in order to avoid seriously annoying
effects for the listener. These functions are defined in TS 26.447 [7].
An overall description of the speech processing parts can be found in TS
26.441 [10]. An overview of the DTX operation is shown in Figure 1.
{width="6.667361111111111in" height="4.114583333333333in"}
Figure 1: Block diagram of DTX Operation
# 5 EVS Codec DTX Operation
## 5.1 Transmit (TX) side
There are two algorithms for extending the DTX hangover period. One is a
general hangover algorithm and other is specific to music. Both are defined in
clause 5.1.12.5 of TS 26.445 [2].
The main specification of the DTX/CNG algorithms is contained in clause 5.6 of
TS 26.445 [2].
The bit allocation of SID frames generated for DTX operation is defined in
clause 7.2 of TS 26.445 [2].
## 5.2 Receive (RX) side
Operation of the EVS decoder, including decoding of SID frames generated
during DTX operation is described in clause 6.7 of TS 26.445 [2].
#