# Foreword
This Technical report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This technical report studies media handling aspects of 5G conversational
services, focusing on Multimedia Telephony Service over IMS (MTSI) in TS
26.114 [4] and IMS-based Telepresence Service in TS 26.223 [5]. Various
technical aspects including speech codes, video codecs, media rate adaptation,
virtual reality (VR) support and new radio (NR) considerations are addressed,
and related gap analysis and potential solutions are documented.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a study on the media handling aspects of
conversational services in 5G, taking as baseline the Stage-1 requirements
developed in TS 22.261 [2], as well as the Stage-2 architecture for 5G systems
developed in TS 23.501 [3]. This includes the investigation of the following
areas:
\- Media handling aspects of the 5G system architecture in relation to 3GPP
conversational services, e.g., Multimedia Telephony Service over IMS (MTSI) in
TS 26.114 [4] and IMS-based Telepresence Service in TS 26.223 [5].
\- Relevance and potential reuse of components in existing 3GPP conversational
services (e.g., MTSI, IMS-based telepresence, etc.) in the context of 5G
systems and related Stage-2 architecture, e.g., use of MTSI features for
supporting voice and video calls, use of MTSI, MS-MTSI and IMS-telepresence
features for supporting multi-party conferencing, and applicability of
existing QoE monitoring and QoS handling mechanisms.
\- Potential enhancements to existing 3GPP conversational services (e.g.,
MTSI, IMS-based telepresence, etc.) towards better fulfilling the Stage-1
requirements in TS 22.261, e.g., in terms of criteria such as latency and
bandwidth efficiency, while also taking into consideration the Stage-2
architecture for 5G systems:
\- In case existing codecs are unable to address 5G application requirements,
new media codec requirements for 3GPP conversational services may be
developed.
\- The need for, and potential use of, new QoS media handling mechanisms in 5G
systems such as traffic classification and codec-aware network elements in the
context of 3GPP conversational services.
The gap analysis of the above areas and associated recommendations and
conclusions for the proposed improvements are documented in the present
document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service Requirements for Next Generation New Services
and Markets; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.223: \"Telepresence using the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS);
Media handling and interaction\".
[6] 3GPP TR 23.799: \"Study on Architecture for Next Generation System\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G
System\".
[9] 3GPP TR 26.918: \"Virtual Reality (VR) media services over 3GPP\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
Specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[13] 3GPP TR 26.910: \"Study on Media Handling Aspects of RAN Delay Budget
Reporting in MTSI\".
[14] 3GPP TR 26.959: \"Study on enhanced Voice over LTE (VoLTE) performance\".
[15] ISO/IEC 23008-2: \"Information technology -- High efficiency coding and
media delivery in heterogeneous environments -- Part 2: High efficiency video
coding\".
[16] ISO/IEC 23090-2: \" Information technology -- Coded representation of
immersive media -- Part 2: Omnidirectional media format\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.118: \"3GPP Virtual reality profiles for streaming
applications\".
[18] IETF RFC 7798 (2016): \"RTP Payload Format for High Efficiency Video
Coding (HEVC)\", Y.-K. Wang, Y. Sanchez, T. Schierl, S. Wenger, M. M.
Hannuksela.
[19] 3GPP TS 26.238: \"Uplink Streaming\".
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core
AF Application Function
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
AN Access Network
ANBR Access Network Bitrate Recommendation
AS Application Server
CMR Codec Mode Request
CN Core Network
CP Control Plane
ECN Explicit Congestion Notification
IBCF Interconnection Border Control Function
KPI Key Performance Indicator
MRFC Media Resource Function Controller
MRFP Media Resource Function Processor
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service over IMS
MS-MTSI Multi-Stream MTSI
NEF Network Exposure Function
NR New Radio
NRF Network Repository Function
OMAF Omnidirectional MediA Format
PCF Policy Control Function
QoE Quality of Experience
SA Standalone
SEI Supplemental Enhancement Information
SMF Session Management Function
SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity
TMMBN Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Notification
TMMBR Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Request
TrGW Transition Gateway
UDM Unified Data Management
UDR Unified Data Repository
UL Up-link
UP User Plane
UPF User Plane Function
VoLTE Voice over LTE
VoNR Voice over NR
# 4 5G System Overview
## 4.1 Introduction
This clause provides the background on 5G system requirements and
architecture. Clause 4.2 describes the 5G Stage-1 Requirements. Clause 4.3
describes 5G Stage-2 architecture.
## 4.2 Stage-1 Requirements
TS 22.261 [2] developed by SA1 compiles service and operational requirements
that define a 5G system. The 5G system is characterised, for example, by:
\- Support for multiple access technologies
\- Scalable and customizable network
\- Advanced Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) (e.g., availability, latency,
reliability, user experienced data rates, area traffic capacity)
\- Flexibility and programmability (e.g., network slicing, diverse mobility
management, Network Function Virtualization)
\- Resource efficiency (both user plane and control plane)
\- Seamless mobility in densely populated and heterogeneous environment
\- Extreme long range coverage in low density areas
\- Markets requiring minimal service levels with minimal user experience
requirements around performance metrics such as bitrate, latency and coverage
\- Support for real time and non-real time multimedia services and
applications with advanced Quality of Experience (QoE), including services
such as telepresence, virtual presence and telemedicine support
Many of the considered 5G system-related use cases and associated requirements
in TS 22.261 relate to multimedia delivery, processing and storage.
## 4.3 Stage-2 System Architecture
In order to address the Stage-2 architectural aspects of 5G systems, SA2 has
completed normative work \"**5G System - Phase 1\",** defined to support data
connectivity and services enabling deployments to use techniques such as e.g.
Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networking. For this
purpose, the specification TS 23.501 [3] was developed, based on the
conclusions of the Rel-14 study item study item FS_NextGen and related TR
23.799 [6].
TS 23.501 covers the 5G System architecture is defined to support data
connectivity and services enabling deployments to use techniques such as e.g.
Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networking. The 5G System
architecture leverages service-based interactions between Control Plane (CP)
Network Functions where identified. Some key principles and concept are to:
\- Separate the User Plane (UP) functions from the Control Plane (CP)
functions, allowing independent scalability, evolution and flexible
deployments e.g. centralized location or distributed (remote) location.
\- Modularize the function design, e.g. to enable flexible and efficient
network slicing.
\- Wherever applicable, define procedures (i.e. the set of interactions
between network functions) as services, so that their re-use is possible.
\- Enable each Network Function to interact with other NF directly if
required. The architecture does not preclude the use of an intermediate
function to help route Control Plane messages (e.g. like a DRA).
\- Minimize dependencies between the Access Network (AN) and the Core Network
(CN). The architecture is defined with a converged core network with a common
AN - CN interface which integrates different 3GPP and non-3GPP access types.
\- Support a unified authentication framework.
\- Support \"stateless\" NFs, where the \"compute\" resource is decoupled from
the \"storage\" resource.
\- Support capability exposure.
\- Support concurrent access to local and centralized services. To support low
latency services and access to local data networks, UP functions can be
deployed close to the Access Network.
\- Support roaming with both Home routed traffic as well as Local breakout
traffic in the visited PLMN.
The 5G architecture is defined as service-based and the interaction between
network functions is represented in two ways.
\- A service-based representation, where network functions (e.g. AMF) within
the Control Plane enables other authorized network functions to access their
services. This representation also includes point-to-point reference points
where necessary.
\- A reference point representation, shows the interaction exist between the
NF services in the network functions described by point-to-point reference
point (e.g. N11) between any two network functions (e.g. AMF and SMF).
Figure 4.3.1 depicts the non-roaming reference architecture. Service-based
interfaces are used within the Control Plane.
Figure 4.3.1: 5G System architecture
Figure 4.3.2 depicts the 5G System architecture in the non-roaming case, using
the reference point representation showing how various network functions
interact with each other.
Figure 4.3.2: Non-Roaming 5G System Architecture in reference point
representation
The 5G System architecture consists of the following network functions (NF):
\- Application Function (AF) interacts with the 3GPP Core Network in order to
provide services, for example to support the following: Application influence
on traffic routing, accessing Network Exposure Function, interact with the
Policy framework for policy control.
\- Access and Mobility Management function (AMF) includes the following
functionality: Mobility management, connection management, lawful intercept,
transparent proxy, access authentication and authorization.
\- Session Management Function (SMF) includes the following functionality:
Session establishment, modify and release, selection and control of UP
function, UE IP address allocation and management, traffic steering
configuration at UPF, control part of policy enforcement and QoS, charging
data collection.
\- User Plane Function (UPF) includes the following functionality: Packet
routing & forwarding, packet inspection, user plane part of policy rule
enforcement, lawful intercept (UP collection), traffic usage reporting,
external PDU session point of interconnect to data network.
\- Policy Control Function (PCF) includes the following functionality: Provide
policy rules to control plane functions to enforce them, serve as a front end
to access subscription information relevant for policy decisions.
\- Network Exposure Function (NEF) includes the following functionality:
Provide the means to securely expose the services and capabilities of the 3GPP
network to third parties, including application functions and edge computing.
\- Network Repository Function (NRF) includes the following functionality:
Support of service discovery, maintains NF profile of available NF instances
and provides information of the discovered NF instances.
\- Unified Data Management (UDM) includes the following functionality: 3GPP
AKA Authentication Credential Processing, User Identification Handling, Access
Authorization, Registration/Mobility management, Subscription management, SMS
management.
\- Unified Data Repository (UDR) includes the following functionality: Storage
and retrieval of subscription data by the UDM, storage and retrieval of policy
data by the PCF, storage and retrieval of application data (including packet
flow descriptions) by the NEF.
# 5 Impacts of 5G Stage-1 Requirements on 3GPP Conversational Services
## 5.1 Technical Aspect 1: Efficient Speech User Plane
### 5.1.1 Description
Clause 6.1 of TS 22.261 [2] requires an efficient 5G user plane. While the
requirement text focuses on efficient user plane routing, user plane
\"efficiency\" in the sense of achieved media quality per transmitted bit
should also be in scope.
### 5.1.2 Implications on MTSI
Current MTSI speech does not mandate use of the most bit-efficient and highest
quality speech, but leaves it optional. To better meet 5G requirements, the
most bit-efficient, highest quality speech should be made mandatory.
### 5.1.3 Implications on IMS-based Telepresence
Current IMS-based Telepresence already mandates use of the most bit-efficient
and highest quality speech, so there is no foreseen impact from this aspect.
### 5.1.4 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that 5G MTSI UE support for AMR and AMR-WB codecs is
mandated, so as to minimize transcoding needs.
It is also recommended that the level of support for EVS and SWB operation be
developed.
[It is recommended that support for EVS is mandated for 5G MTSI UE supporting
SWB, such that an example EVS SDP offer may be:
\- include an EVS bw parameter that includes swb as either a single bandwidth
or in a bandwidth range, depending on operator configuration, and
\- include an EVS br parameter that includes 13.2, as either a single bitrate
or in a bitrate range or 24.4 in a bit rate range, depending on operator
configuration.
Recommendations on SDP offer for 5G MTSI UE supporting WB may be also
considered.
Regarding references from TS 26.114 to TS 26.131 on acoustic performance, it
is recommended that a large variety of different 5G UE form factors is
considered. Super-wideband acoustic performance may not be possible for 5G
MTSI UE\'s where it would impact form and function.]
### 5.1.5 Gap Analysis
In current MTSI, super-wideband speech support is optional, and the most bit-
efficient wideband and narrowband codecs are optional.
### 5.1.6 Potential Solutions
[A solution to achieve super-wideband speech support in 5G MTSI is to mandate
support of the currently optional super-wideband EVS.]
> Editor\'s note: More discussion is needed for the above, indicated by
> including it in square brackets. Mandating support of EVS for wideband and
> narrowband should also be considered, since that is more efficient in terms
> of quality per bitrate than the currently mandatory AMR-WB and AMR-NB.
## 5.2 Technical Aspect 2: Efficient Video User Plane
### 5.2.1 Description
Clause 6.1 of TS 22.261 [2] requires an efficient 5G user plane. While the
requirement text focuses on efficient user plane routing, user plane
\"efficiency\" in the sense of achieved media quality per transmitted bit
should also be in scope.
### 5.2.2 Implications on MTSI
Currently, it is not mandated for video-capable MTSI endpoints to use the most
bit-efficient and highest quality video, but it is left as optional. To better
meet 5G requirements, it should be mandatory for video-capable 5G MTSI
endpoints to use the most bit-efficient, highest quality video.
### 5.2.3 Implications on IMS-based Telepresence
Currently, it is not mandated for video-capable IMS-based Telepresence
endpoints to use the most bit-efficient and highest quality video, but it is
left as optional. To better meet 5G requirements, it should be mandatory for
video-capable 5G IMS-based Telepresence endpoints to use the most bit-
efficient, highest quality video.
### 5.2.4 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that support for H.265/HEVC (with the levels and profiles
currently recommended respectively in TS 26.114 and TS 26.223) is mandated for
video-capable 5G MTSI and IMS Telepresence clients in terminals.
In addition, it is recommended that 5G MTSI UEs support H.264 (AVC)
constrained baseline profile level 1.2, and that 5G IMS Telepresence UEs
support H.264 (AVC) constrained high profile level 3.1 and H.264 (AVC)
constrained baseline profile level 1.2, as currently specified in TS 26.114
and TS 26.223, as to minimize transcoding needs.
Editor\'s Note: Further recommendations on H.264/AVC support may be
considered.
### 5.2.5 Gap Analysis
Currently, H.265/HEVC support is optional for MTSI and IMS Telepresence
endpoints.
### 5.2.6 Potential Solutions
A solution to achieve support for the most bitrate-efficient and highest
quality video in 5G MTSI, is to mandate support in video-capable endpoints for
the, currently optional, H.265/HEVC Main Tier, Main Profile, Level 3.1.
A solution to achieve support for the most bitrate-efficient and highest
quality video in 5G Telepresence, is to mandate support in video-capable
endpoints for the, currently optional, H.265/HEVC Main Tier, Main Profile,
Level 4.1.
## 5.3 Technical Aspect 3: Media Rate Adaptation
### 5.3.1 Description
Clause 6.16 of TS 22.261 [2] requires handling markets requiring minimal
service levels. Interoperability between such markets and other markets
without such minimal service levels would be improved if the higher service
level markets are capable to automatically adapt to the lower service level.
Clause 6.17 of TS 22.261 [2] requires handling extreme long range coverage in
low density areas. It can be assumed that extreme long range coverage would
also mean use of very low media bitrates, as well as dynamically removing or
adding entire media components, when passing some minimum bitrate threshold
for inclusion of that media component in the session. Transcoding-free
interoperability between UE camping in low density area and UE in other areas
without such major bitrate limits would be improved if UE without bitrate
limitations are capable to automatically and dynamically adapt to the UE
having such limitation.
Clause 7.1 of TS 22.261 [2] requires handling high data dates and traffic
densities. Seen from a media perspective for an individual UE, handling high
data rates allows using high media bitrates. On the other hand, handling high
traffic densities can mean that the same, individual UE gets allotted a fairly
low media bitrate. Since traffic density as well as general radio conditions
can be expected to vary over time, the available media bitrate can in general
also be expected to vary over time, even during a single call. Meeting those
requirements will be easier if the UE has the capability to automatically and
dynamically adapt its sending bitrate to match available bitrate on the local
uplink, and assist the remote media sender to match available bitrate on the
local downlink. End-to-end transcoding-free operation is enabled by
dynamically adapting sending bitrate to the minimum of the total end-to-end
media path, including local uplink and remote downlink.
Clause 7.2 of TS 22.261 [2] requires handling low latency and high
reliability. Seen from a media perspective for an individual UE, a key part of
keeping low media latency and high reliability is to, at any point in time,
avoid sending higher media bitrate than what the end-to-end media path can
currently support. Such media bitrate is assumedly always lower than the
maximum allowed, negotiated bandwidth, but there can also be more dynamically
varying limitations that are lower than that negotiated upper limit, e.g.
caused by other network traffic and/or various types of physical limitations
in the end-to-end media path. Sending a higher bitrate that what the end-to-
end media path can transport, can either cause data buffering, which increases
media latency, or if buffering capabilities are limited, instead decrease
reliability by causing excess media data loss/discard. Meeting those
requirements will be easier if the UE has the capability to automatically and
dynamically adapt its sending bitrate to match available bitrate on the end-
to-end media path.
### 5.3.2 Implications on MTSI and IMS-based Telepresence
Current MTSI and IMS-based Telepresence does not mandate support and use of
all bitrate adaptation functionality included in the respective specification,
but leaves some parts of it optional. To better meet 5G requirements, the best
possible bitrate adaptation using available methods should be made mandatory.
### 5.3.3 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that best possible bitrate adaptation using available
methods is made mandatory for 5G MTSI and IMS Telepresence.
### 5.3.4 Gap Analysis
In current MTSI and IMS Telepresence, use of a=bw-info, ANBR, ECN, sending
CMR, and video triggers capable to detect 10% or more reduction in video
bitrate are optional.
### 5.3.5 Potential Solutions
[A tentative solution to achieve best possible bitrate adaptation with
available methods in 5G MTSI and IMS Telepresence, is to mandate:
\- Including a=bw-info, as described by clauses 10.6 and 19 of TS 26.114 [2],
in SDP offer, and in SDP answer if found in the corresponding SDP offer, and
using it for bitrate adaptation.
\- If so configured by the operator, support of ANBR as adaptation trigger, as
described by clause 10.7 of TS 26.114 [2].
\- If so configured by the operator, support of ECN as adaptation trigger, as
described by clause 10.5 of TS 26.114 [2].
\- If so configured by the operator, speech media receiver capability to
trigger sending CMR in the corresponding media sender RTP stream, based on
estimated media receive direction channel quality, as described in clause 10.2
of TS 26.114 [2].
\- Speech media sender taking all of the above adaptation triggers into
account and adapting the sent bitrate to the highest mode in the negotiated
mode-set (if any) that is lower than or equal to the minimum of the adaptation
triggers.
\- Video media receiver capability to use one or more adaptation triggers,
jointly capable to detect a needed reduction in throughput of 10% or more, and
to send RTCP TMMBR accordingly.
\- Video media sender taking all of the above adaptation triggers into account
and adapting the sent bitrate to the highest bitrate that is still lower than
or equal to the minimum of the adaptation triggers, and to send RTCP TMMBN
accordingly.]
Editor\'s note: More discussion is needed for the above, indicated by
including it in square brackets. Some parts of the above should be left up to
operator policy and configuration. When the UE is triggering adaptation, there
is a need to also specify minimum performance adaptation logic.
## 5.4 Technical Aspect 4: VR Services
### 5.4.1 Description
Clause 7.2.3 of TS 22.261 [2] includes requirements toward supporting virtual
reality (VR) and interactive conversation use cases, including relevant
motion-to-photon and motion-to-sound latency requirements. Moreover, clauses
5.9, 5.10 and 5.11 of TR 26.918 [9] contain use cases on conversational VR
(i.e., spherical video calls, videoconferencing with 360 video), user-
generated VR live streaming (i.e., \"See what I see\") and virtual world
communication, respectively, involving interactive real-time encoding,
delivery and consumption of VR content relevant for MTSI and IMS-based
telepresence.
### 5.4.2 Implications on MTSI
Currently, MTSI endpoints as specified in TS 26.114 [4] does not support
mechanisms to encode, deliver and consume VR content.
### 5.4.3 Implications on IMS-based Telepresence
Currently, IMS-based Telepresence endpoints as specified in TS 26.223 [5] does
not support mechanisms to encode, deliver and consume VR content.
### 5.4.4 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that 5G MTSI and IMS Telepresence endpoints support VR
capabilities relevant for real-time encoding, delivery and consumption of 3D
spatial audio and 360 videos toward fulfilling the recommended objectives in
clause 9.3.2 of TR 26.918 [9].
### 5.4.5 Gap Analysis
The gap analysis presented in clauses 5.9.3 and 9.3.1 of TR 26.918 [9] is
applicable for 5G MTSI and IMS Telepresence endpoints.
On top of these gaps, the following detailed gaps specific to 5G MTSI and TP
endpoints may be listed:
\- To enable VR support, it is necessary to define SDP-based mechanisms for
the negotiation of VR capabilities across MTSI / TP senders and receivers
during both call setup and mid-call. VR capabilities here include the related
codecs, formats and media handling mechanisms for encoding, delivery and
consumption of 3D spatial audio and 360 degree videos. This for instance
includes the negotiation of relevant projection and/or packing format(s)
(including fish-eye video) to be used by the sender and receiver during
delivery of 360 degree videos.
\- In addition, for interactive navigation, it is beneficial to define
suitable formats for real-time signalling of field-of-view (FOV) or viewport
information from an MTSI / TP receiver to an MTSI / TP sender and vice versa
during a multimedia telephony session, including consideration of the related
RTP/RTCP based protocol impacts. Such indication of the viewport can allow for
encoding optimizations on the sender side, toward delivering a higher quality
stream and/or reduction of the bandwidth consumption.
### 5.4.6 Potential Solutions
Clause 9.3.3 of TR 26.918 [9] documents a few potential solutions.
Further potential solutions are for further study.
The relevant interoperability points for VR support over MTSI and IMS-
telepresence are:
\- Media profiles providing RTP and elementary stream constraints for a single
media type.
\- Rendering Scheme types for post-decoder processing of decoder output
signals together with rendering metadata.
\- Potential Viewport test points for rendered output signals.
Note that this applies to both media types, audio and video. The elementary
stream constraints of a media profile may be indicated by a requirement to
comply with a certain profile and level of the media coding specification,
possibly including additional constraints and extensions, such as a
requirement of the presence of certain information for rendering and
presentation.
Figure 5.4.6.1 provides an overview of a possible receiver architecture that
recovers the spherical video in an MTSI or IMS Telepresence UE. Note that this
figure does not represent an actual implementation, but a logical set of
receiver functions. Based on a received RTP media stream, the UE parses,
possibly decrypts and moves the elementary stream to the HEVC decoder. The
HEVC decoder obtains the decoder output signal, referred to as the
\"texture\", as well as the decoder metadata. The Decoder Metadata contains
the Supplemental Information Enhancement messages to be used in the rendering
phase. In particular, the SEI messages may be used by the Texture-to-Sphere
Mapping function to generate a spherical video based on the decoded output
signal, i.e., the texture. The viewport is then generated from the spherical
video signal by taking into account viewport position information from
sensors, display characteristics as well as possibly other metadata such as
initial viewport information.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="1.738888888888889in"}
Figure 5.4.6.1: Potential receiver architecture for VR support over MTSI and
IMS Telepresence
In addition, the definitions and reference systems in clause 4.1 of TS 26.118
[17] are applicable to VR support over MTSI and IMS telepresence.
Note: Considering that real-time encoding of 360 degree video content could
have significant latency, the initial consideration of VR support over MTSI is
not on conversational VR, but rather on the user generated live VR streaming
use cases. The use of MTSI in this context relies on live encoding of VR
content, as in the case of Framework for Live Uplink Streaming (FLUS) in TS
26.238 [19].
For 360 degree video, the potential solutions can consider the following
principles:
\- The RTP stream would contain an HEVC bitstream with Supplemental
Enhancement Information (SEI) messages in regards to omnidirectional media. In
particular, SEI messages describing the decoder rendering metadata on the
omnidirectional video as defined in ISO/IEC 23008-2 [15] may be present.
\- Video elementary streams may be encoded following the requirements in the
Omnidirectional Media Format (OMAF) specification ISO/IEC 23090-2 [16], clause
10.1.2.2.
Relevant SEI messages contained in the elementary stream with decoder
rendering metadata may include the following information as per ISO/IEC
23008-2 [15]:
\- Region-wise packing information, e.g., carrying packing format indication
and also any coverage restrictions
\- Projection mapping (indicates projection format), with indication of Equi-
Rectangular projection (ERP) or Cubemap projection
\- Padding, indicates whether there is padding in the packed frame
\- Frame packing arrangement, indicating packing format for stereoscopic
content
\- Content prerotation information, including sphere rotation
The output signal, i.e. the decoded picture or \"texture\", is then rendered
using the SEI messages contained in the video elementary streams. Metadata is
used when performing rendering operations such as region-wise unpacking,
projection de-mapping and rotation toward creating spherical content for each
eye.
Viewport dependency could be achieved by sending from the MTSI receiver RTCP
feedback or RTP header extension messages with the desired viewport
information and then encoding and streaming the corresponding viewport by the
MTSI sender. This is expected to deliver resolutions higher than the viewport
independent approach for the desired viewport. Approaches such as tiling and
viewport-dependent profile of OMAF in ISO/IEC 23090-2 [16] etc. are not
relevant for the 5G conversational setting, as the MTSI sender can customize
the encoding according to the viewport chosen by the MTSI receiver and
signalled to the MTSI sender using RTCP feedback or RTP header extension
messages.
Editor\'s Note: Considerations for viewport dependency in the case of multi-
party conferencing are TBD.
OMAF Video profiles in ISO/IEC 23090-2 [16] are based on HEVC Main 10 Profile,
Main Tier, Level 5.1 in order to deliver high quality VR experiences. In the
meantime, MTSI in TS 26.114 [4] recommends H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main
Tier, Level 3.1 for video, and IMS telepresence in TS 26.223 [5] recommends
H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 4.1 for video.
Editor\'s Note: It would be necessary to revisit video codecs for VR support
in MTSI and IMS telepresence, and it may be needed to define new codec
requirements aligned with OMAF and/or TS 26.118 [17]. These video codec
requirements are TBD. Furthermore, the session setup and negotiation
procedures for VR support in MTSI and IMS telepresence would also need to be
specified as aligned with the new video codec requirements and are TBD.
With regards to the negotiation of SEI messages for carriage of decoder
rendering metadata, procedures specified in IETF RFC 7798 [18] on the RTP
payload format for HEVC may be reused. In particular, RFC 7798 can allow
exposing SEI messages related to decoder rendering metadata for
omnidirectional media in the SDP using the 'sprop-sei\' parameter, which
allows to convey one or more SEI messages that describe bitstream
characteristics. When present, a decoder can rely on the bitstream
characteristics that are described in the SEI messages for the entire duration
of the session. Intentionally, RFC 7798 does not list an applicable or
inapplicable SEI messages to be listed as part of this parameter, so the newly
defined SEI messages for omnidirectional media in ISO/IEC 23008-2 [15] can be
signalled.
Editor\'s Note: The details of which SEI messages to consider for VR support
over MTSI and IMS telepresence are TBD.
## 5.5 Technical Aspect 5: 5G New Radio (NR) Access
### 5.5.1 Description
5G New Radio (NR) has been defined by 3GPP as a new access technology [10] -
[11] for Release 15. The 5G system will support 3GPP access technologies,
including one or more NR and E-UTRA as well as non-3GPP access technologies.
Standalone (SA) NR will be connected to 5GC and use 5G QoS. Interoperability
among the various access technologies will be imperative. For optimization and
resource efficiency, the 5G system will select the most appropriate 3GPP or
non-3GPP access technology for a service, potentially allowing multiple access
technologies to be used simultaneously for one or more services active on a
UE. Clause 5.1 of TS 22.261 [2] includes high level requirements toward
supporting 5G access technologies, including NR. Clause 6.3 of TS 22.261
contains requirements for interworking with the various combinations of 5G
access technologies including NR.
### 5.5.2 Implications on MTSI
5G NR is a new type of access for an MTSI client to connect to IMS.
Currently, MTSI endpoints as specified in TS 26.114 [4] do not address media
handling aspects with 5G NR access.
### 5.5.3 Implications on IMS-based Telepresence
5G NR is a new type of access for an IMS-based Telepresence client to connect
to IMS.
Currently, IMS-based Telepresence endpoints as specified in TS 26.223 [5] do
not address media handling aspects with 5G NR access.
### 5.5.4 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that media handling for NR access is supported for 5G MTSI
and IMS Telepresence endpoints, including that for speech and video.
Note: NR is not necessarily the preferred access over LTE access. It is TBD on
what the preferred access would be when multiple access technologies are
available.
### 5.5.5 Gap Analysis
From MTSI perspective, the introduction of NR as a new type of access leads to
several gaps in TS 26.114 [4], some of which can be listed as follows:
\- In Tables 7.1 and 12.1 of TS 26.114 [4] for the MTSI client and MTSI media
gateway, respectively, the speech frame encapsulation parameters for the SDP
offer-answer messages including ptime and maxptime need to be defined for NR
as a new radio access bearer technology
\- Access Network Bitrate Recommendation (ANBR) (as defined in clause 10.7 of
TS 26.114 [4]) information may be signalled to the MTSI client in the UE using
NR access, and in this scenario the message mapping to NR access needs to be
provided.
Note 1: Support for RAN-assisted codec adaptation and ANBR signalling in NR is
currently TBD.
\- Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) is not supported in NR, and hence
ECN-triggered media rate adaptation for speech and video will not be possible
for MTSI clients with NR access. In the meantime, ECN is supported for E-UTRAN
and UTRA/HSPA, MTSI clients connected with these access technologies may
optionally offer ECN, and relevant recommendations on use of ECN in MTSI for
such settings are present in TS 26.114 [2]. As such, media handling
requirements and recommendations are needed for the support and use of ECN for
MTSI clients in terminal with NR access. Relevant interworking recommendations
for ECN are also needed for the MTSI media gateway for sessions involving MTSI
clients with NR access.
\- RAN delay budget reporting mechanisms, as specified in TS 36.331 [12] for
LTE access, may also be used by MTSI UEs with NR access in order to locally
adjust air interface delay, towards improving end-to-end delay and quality
performance. As such, media handling aspects of RAN-based delay budget
reporting as described in TR 26.910 [13] may be applicable for MTSI clients
with NR access.
Note 2: Support for RAN delay budget reporting in NR is currently TBD. Support
for associated repetition-based reliability enhancement mechanisms over NR,
e.g., TTI bundling, PUSCH coverage enhancement techniques, etc., is also
currently TBD.
\- Media handling enhancements for enabling codec-aware optimizations of
Single radio voice call continuity (SRVCC) handover thresholds in Voice over
LTE (VoLTE) as described in TR 26.959 [14] are also applicable for speech
services to MTSI clients with NR access, including fallback/handover from
Voice over NR (VoNR) to VoLTE.
Note 3: In the first release of NR for Rel-15, the interworking with 2G/3G is
not supported, and VoNR can only be supported via IMS. SRVCC from 5GS to UTRAN
support for VoNR is work in progress.
For IMS-based telepresence in TS 26.223 [5], the same gaps observed for MTSI
above are applicable and no further gaps are foreseen.
### 5.5.6 Potential Solutions
TBD
# 6 Impacts of 5G Stage-2 System Architecture on 3GPP Conversational Services
## 6.1 Technical Aspect 1: Mapping of Conversational Services to 5G System
### 6.1.1 Description
Clause 4.3 describes the Stage-2 architecture for the 5G system. The 5G system
is to support 3GPP conversational services including MTSI and IMS-based
telepresence and it is of interest to understand the mapping of these services
to the 5G system. In that regard, the control-plane and user-plane
functionality of a network slice on MTSI and IMS-based telepresence are of
interest and how these would map to the 5G system architecture.
### 6.1.2 Implications on MTSI and IMS-based Telepresence
The use of 5G System to access IMS in Rel-15 has been specified in TS 23.228
Annex Y [7]. In addition, PCC aspects are described in TS 23.503 [8].
As described in the specifications referenced above, for Rel-15 it is assumed
that the IMS can be accessed via 5G System without any changes to the IMS. The
IMS subsystem connects to the underlying 5G System using the Sh/Cx interface
towards the UDM/HSS and the N5 or Rx interface to the PCF.
The N5 reference point is a point-to-point representation of the service-based
(HTTP-based) interface Npcf/Naf. While both N5 and Rx can be used for
communication between the IMS and the PCF, it is noted that in Rel-15 the two
reference points are functionally equivalent.
IMS functional blocks relevant for MTSI and IMS-based Telepresence services,
including Application Server (AS), S-CSCF, I-CSCF, P-CSCF, HSS, MRFC, MRFP,
IBCF, TrGW, etc. are considered as part of the AF and are transparent to the
5G System as long as the reference points N5/Rx, Sh and Cx remain unchanged.
Furthermore, the 5G system architectural requirements specified in clause
5.16.3 of TS 23.501 [3] on IMS support impacting AMF, SMF and PCF are
applicable for MTSI.
# 7 Codecs for 5G Conversational Services
## 7.1 Introduction
Clause 5 of the present document describes some codec aspects for 5G
conversational services. As described there, reuse of codecs that are already
part of 3GPP conversational services seems sufficient to meet most 5G
requirements. This clause describes new codecs and new usage of existing
codecs that are enabled by the 5G system.
# 8 QoS Handling for 5G Conversational Services
## 8.1 Introduction
TBA
# 9 Conclusions
It is recommended to conduct normative work toward specifying the following
functionality in TS 26.114 and TS 26.223:
\- For video, mandate support for H.265/HEVC and H.264/AVC for 5G MTSI and IMS
Telepresence endpoints, as per the recommendations in clause 5.2.4.
\- For speech, mandate support for AMR, AMR-WB, and develop further codec
requirements based upon EVS, potentially including SWB operation, as per the
recommendations in clause 5.1.4.
###### ### Annex \: \
TBA
#