# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document reports the study on video telephony robustness
improvements extensions in Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS (MTSI) and
provides recommendation on their applicability for MTSI video telephony
applications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services and service capabilities\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[4] IETF RFC 4588: \"RTP Retransmission Payload Format\", July 2006.
[5] IETF RFC 6865: \"Simple Reed-Solomon Forward Error Correction (FEC) Scheme
for FECFRAME\", February 2013.
[6] IETF RFC 5109: \"RTP Payload Format for Generic Forward Error
Correction\", December 2007.
[7] IETF RFC 4585: \"Extended RTP Profile for Real-time Transport Control
Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)\", July 2006.
[8] K. Yamagishi, T. Hayashi, \"Parametric Packet-Layer Model for Monitoring
Video Quality of IPTV Services\", IEEE ICC 2008, pp. 110-114, May 2008.
[9] Q. Huynh-Thu, M. Ghanbari, \"Impact of Jitter and Jerkiness on Perceived
Video Quality\", Proc. of the Second International Workshop on Video
Processing and Quality Metrics for Consumer Electronics (VPQM), 2006.
[10] C. Wang, X. Jiang, Y. Wang, \"Video Quality Assessment Models for IPTV
Services\", JDCTA, April 2013.
[11] Pierre Ferre, Dimitris Agrafiotis, Tuan Kiang Chiew, Angela Doufexi,
Andrew Nix, David Bull, \"Packet Loss Modelling for H.264 Video Transmission
over IEEE 802.11g Wireless LANs\", IEEE WIAMIS 2005.
[12] S. Holmer, M. Shemer, M. Paniconi, \"Handling Packet Loss in WebRTC\",
pp. 1860-1864, ICIP, 2013.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.
AV Audio Video
AVC Advanced Video Coding
AVPF Audio-Video Profile with Feedback
ER Error Resiliency
FPS Frames Per Second
HEVC High Efficiency Video Coding
IMS-VT IP Multimedia Subsystem Video Telephony
KB Kilo Byte
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
OTT Over The Top
PLI Picture Loss Indication
PLR Packet Loss Rate
QVGA Quarter Video Graphics Array
RPS Reference Picture Selection
RPSI Reference Picture Selection Indication
RTT Round Trip Time
VGA Video Graphics Array
VT Video Telephony
VTRI_EXT Video Robustness Improvements Extensions
Wifi Wireless Fidelity
Note: Wifi is synonymous with Wi-Fi as defined by the Wi-Fi Allicance
# 4 Background
The present document reports the study on video telephony robustness
improvements extensions in Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS and provides
recommendation on their applicability for MTSI video telephony applications.
These extensions target error robustness for higher bitrate MTSI video
telephony as well as inter-working with WLAN use cases where error resiliency
is more important. In order to be technically competitive, e.g. to some
proprietary systems, MTSI should have the capability to employ mechanisms that
can offer different trade-offs between rendering delay, video rendering jitter
(smoothness) and video quality that can adapt to varying channel conditions
for better user experience. Retransmission, Forward Error Correction (FEC),
and complementary reference picture selection indication (RPSI) AVPF feedback
mechanisms offer these trade-offs. The present document first provides an
overview of the additional error resiliency (ER) tools that could improve the
performance of the Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS (TS 26.114 [3]). Then
test conditions representative of error conditions experienced in IMS Video
Telephony are presented. Following the description of the test conditions,
evaluation criteria for determining the benefits of proposed tools and
mechanisms is presented. Performance of the proposed ER tools is evaluated
under the defined testing conditions that take into account packet loss
rate/pattern, end to end delay, bitrate overhead and video smoothness (dropped
frames, rendering jitter). Based on the performance results, conclusions are
made in terms of recommendations for support of proposed ER tools and
mechanisms for Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS.
# 5 Overview of video robustness improvements extensions (VTRI_EXT) tools
## 5.1 Introduction
Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS (MTSI 3GPP TS 26.114 [3]) defines MTSI
clients\' sender and receiver behaviour utilizing IETF RFC 4585 [7] AVPF
Generic NACK and Picture Loss Indication (PLI) feedback messages for ER.
Current error correction scheme provides basic error correction through codec
level error resiliency (ER) mechanisms. Transport and application level error
resiliency schemes such as Retransmission (NACK), Forward Error Correction
(FEC) along with advanced codec level ER schemes such as Reference Picture
Selection (RPS) provide alternative error correction mechanisms that offer
different performance trade-offs. The performance of error correction schemes
varies with end-to-end delay, channel bandwidth and packet loss rate.
## 5.2 Retransmission
Retransmission (NACK) scheme [4] provides efficient error correction in terms
of bandwidth under short round-trip-time (RTT) cases with low packet loss
rates. The efficiency of retransmission scheme becomes more pronounced at
higher bitrates since selective retransmission of lost packets instead of
entire pictures are needed. Under low RTT scenarios it can provide low video
rendering jitter dependent on the de-jittering mechanism at the cost of
additional delay. If additional delay cannot be accommodated, then
retransmission can still provide recovery from error with video freezes during
recovery similar to the existing error resiliency scheme in TS 26.114.
## 5.3 Forward error correction
Forward Error Correction (FEC) schemes [5] and [6] provide a mechanism that
balances video quality and end-to-end delay. FEC schemes can adapt to varying
channel error conditions. FEC is suitable for high RTT channels with high
packet loss rates where retransmission leads to high video rendering delay and
codec based recovery mechanisms like RPSI, PLI lead to frequent video freezes
and/or corruptions. FEC schemes are complemented by retransmission (NACK) or
RPSI, PLI feedback mechanisms to address FEC failure cases.
## 5.4 Reference picture selection
Reference picture selection indication (RPSI) feedback message in AVPF [7]
that is currently not supported in TS 26.114 offers establishment of common
reference point for recovery between the sender and the receiver. In essence
it provides codec level ER mechanism similar to the transport layer ER
mechanism supported by the generic NACK message in TS 26.114.
# 6 Test cases and conditions
## 6.1 QoS requirements for conversational video services
Specification TS 22.105 [2] defines the range of QoS requirements and end user
QoS requirements for conversational video services. According to TS 22.105,
the following requirements should be supported.
Table 6.1-1: Range of QoS requirements copied from TS 22.105 (clause 5.4)
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Real Time (Constant | Non Real Time | | | Delay) | (Variable Delay) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Operating |** BER/Max Transfer | **BER/Max Transfer | | environment** | Delay**| Delay** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Satellite** | Max Transfer Delay | Max Transfer Delay | | | less than 400 ms | 1200 ms or more | | **(Terminal relative | | | | speed to ground up | BER 10-3 - 10-7 | (NOTE 2) | | to 1000 km/h for | | | | plane)** | (NOTE 1) | BER = 10-5 to 10-8 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Rural outdoor** | Max Transfer Delay | Max Transfer Delay | | | 20 - 300 ms | 150 ms or more | | **(Terminal relative | | | | speed to ground up | BER 10-3 - 10-7 | (NOTE 2) | | to 500 km/h) (NOTE | | | | 3)** | (NOTE 1) | BER = 10-5 to 10-8 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Urban/ Suburban | Max Transfer Delay | Max Transfer Delay | | outdoor** | 20 - 300 ms | 150 ms or more | | | | | | **(Terminal relative | BER 10-3 - 10-7 | (Note 2) | | speed to ground up | | | | to 120 km/h)** | (NOTE 1) | BER = 10-5 to 10-8 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Indoor/ Low range | Max Transfer Delay | Max Transfer Delay | | outdoor** | 20 - 300 ms | 150 ms or more | | | | | | **(Terminal relative | BER 10-3 - 10-7 | (NOTE 2) | | speed to ground up | | | | to 10 km/h)** | (NOTE 1) | BER = 10-5 to 10-8 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: There is | | | | likely to be a | | | | compromise between | | | | BER and delay. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The Max | | | | Transfer Delay | | | | should be here | | | | regarded as the | | | | target value for 95% | | | | of the data. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The value of | | | | 500 km/h as the | | | | maximum speed to be | | | | supported in the | | | | rural outdoor | | | | environment was | | | | selected in order to | | | | provide service on | | | | high speed vehicles | | | | (e.g. trains). This | | | | is not meant to be | | | | the typical value | | | | for this environment | | | | (250 km/h is more | | | | typical). | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
And the requirements for end user QoS as performance expectations for
conversational/real-time services is shown in table 6.1-2.
Table 6.1-2: End-user performance expectations (copied from TS 22.105 clause
5.5)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Medium | Appl | Degree | Data | Key | | | | | ication | of | rate | perf | | | | | | s | | ormance | | | | | | ymmetry | | par | | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | target | | | | | | | | values | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | End | Delay | Info | | | | | | -to-end | | rmation | | | | | | One-way | Va | loss | | | | | | | riation | | | | | | | Delay | within | | | | | | | | a call | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Convers | Two-way | 4-25 | \<150 | \< 1 | \< 3% | | | ational | | kb/s | msec | msec | FER | | | voice | | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | eferred | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \<400 | | | | | | | | msec | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | NOTE 1 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Video | Vid | Two-way | 32-384 | \< 150 | | \< 1% | | | eophone | | kb/s | msec | | FER | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | eferred | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \<400 | | | | | | | | msec | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Lip | | | | | | | | -synch: | | | | | | | | \< 100 | | | | | | | | msec | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | Te | Two-way | \<28.8 | \< 250 | N.A | Zero | | | lemetry | | kb/s | msec | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | two-way | | | | | | | | control | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | r | Two-way | \< 60 | \< 75 | N.A | \< 3% | | | ealtime | | kb/s | msec | | FER | | | games | | | pr | | pre | | | | | NOTE 2 | eferred | | ferred, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \< 5% | | | | | | | | FER | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | Telnet | Two-way | \< 1 KB | \< 250 | N.A | Zero | | | | | | msec | | | | | | (asym | | | | | | | | metric) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | overall | | | | | | | | one way | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | mobile | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | | (from | | | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | | | PLMN | | | | | | | | border) | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | approx | | | | | | | | imately | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | 00msec. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Thes | | | | | | | | evalues | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | sidered | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | most | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | manding | | | | | | | | ones | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | respect | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | sup | | | | | | | | porting | | | | | | | | First | | | | | | | | Person | | | | | | | | Shooter | | | | | | | | games). | | | | | | | | Other | | | | | | | | types | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | games | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | require | | | | | | | | higher | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | rates | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | more or | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | | but can | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | olerate | | | | | | | | longer | | | | | | | | end | | | | | | | | -to-end | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
QoS test conditions used to evaluate the proposed tools should follow the
service requirements described in TS 22.105. In addition to QoS networks, test
conditions addressing interworking with non-QoS networks should be considered
for the following reasons:
\- Interworking with non-QoS networks is a relevant deployment use case and
may result in losses in the non-managed part of the delivery.
\- Despite QoS, there may be circumstances for which the QoS guarantees fail
and service continuity is relevant.
## 6.2 Channel conditions
Channels conditions from QoS LTE, best effort over the top (OTT) LTE and WiFi
channels are logged from video telephony calls for video configurations
defined in clause 6.4. Packet captures are conducted on video telephony (VT)
calls under mobile and stationary test conditions. Sending and receiving
rates, delay (RTT/2), packet loss patterns are derived from captures sending
and receiving times, timestamps and sequence numbers. The sources of the
packet losses are from the physical channel as well as congestion. During the
channel capturing process, the operating rate of the VT calls targeted rates
below the available bandwidth for avoiding congestion. It is not always
possible to avoid congestion during the capturing process. Logs exhibiting
frequent large variations in rate due to congestion are filtered out.
Packet losses are characterized by the burst patterns. A packet _loss-free_
burst of order _k~0~_ is observed in the loss pattern when at least _k~0~_
consecutive packets are correctly received. A packet loss burst order _k~0~_
starts and finishes with a missing packet (\"1\") and is composed of at most
_k~0~ -_ 1 consecutive received packets [11]. In the analysis presented in the
present document, _k~0~ =_ 1 is used for simplicity. Sequences of _m_ (total
number of logged packets) loss indicators are divided into _p_ alternating
loss-free burst (_X~j~_) and packet loss bursts (_Y~j~_). Average packet loss
rate _PLR~avg~_ , average loss free duration _X~avg~_ and average loss
duration _Y~avg~_ are computed as:
$\text{PLR}_{\text{avg}} = \frac{\sum_{j = 0}^{p - 1}Y_{j}}{\sum_{j = 0}^{p -
1}{(X_{j} + Y_{j})}}$, (6.2-1)
$X_{\text{avg}} = \frac{1}{p}\sum_{j = 0}^{p - 1}X_{j}$, (6.2-2)
$Y_{\text{avg}} = \frac{1}{p}\sum_{j = 0}^{p - 1}Y_{j}$. (6.2-3)
## 6.3 Error profiles
### 6.3.1 Introduction
Error profiles representing guaranteed QoS and best effort (non-QoS) cases are
used for evaluation. A number of real channel capture logs from QoS and non-
QoS services are provided for emulation of channel conditions and/or
derivation of channel models for simulation of channel conditions. Captured
channel logs are used in the simulations of channel conditions for evaluation
of proposed error resiliency tools.
### 6.3.2 QoS LTE
IMS-VT QoS calls conducted under low speed mobile conditions covering near
cell and edge cell conditions were logged for analysis. QVGA (320x240), 15
fps, 350 kbps (maximum bitrate) H.264 video is used during the IMS-VT call. 17
MO to MT and 17 MT to MO logs selected from \~100 short duration calls (less
than 1 minute) are used. In Table 6.3-1, MO to MT (IMS-QoS Test1) and likewise
MT to MO (IMS-QoS Test2) call statistics are consolidated into one due to
short duration of the calls. Packet loss statistics are tabulated in Table
6.3-1. Clause A.1 provides packet loss patterns for the consolidated logs.
### 6.3.3 LTE-OTT
Video telephony calls over LTE-OTT were conducted under driving conditions.
One of the UEs is positioned in a stationary office environment with good LTE
signal and the other UE in a moving vehicle. VGA (640x480) 30 fps 600 kbps
(VT-LTE OTT Test1 & Test2) and QVGA 15 fps 300 kbps (VT-LTE OTT Test3 & Test4)
videos were used for collecting channel logs. Packet loss statistics are
tabulated in Table 6.3-1. Clause A.2 provides packet loss patterns for LTE-OTT
tests.
### 6.3.4 WiFi
Video telephony calls over WiFi are conducted in office environment.
Stationary office to office call and office to walking UE calls are logged.
720p (1 280x720) 30 fps 1 000 kbps video is used for collecting channel logs.
Total of 8 logs (VT-Wifi Test1-8) are collected. Packet loss statistics are
tabulated in Table 6.3-1. Clause A.3 provides packet loss patterns for WiFi
tests.
### 6.3.5 Summary
Table 6.3-1 summarizes error profiles used during the evaluation process.
Table 6.3-1: Summary of error pattern statistics
* * *
Test Condition Bit -rate (kbps) Frame Rate (fps) Resolution Duration (sec) No.
of packets Avg loss free duration (pkts) Avg. loss duration (pkts) Avg PLR (%)
IMS-QoS Test1 Low mobility 350 15 320x240 309 12032 2 007 1,5 0,07% IMS-QoS
Test2 Low mobility 350 15 320x240 309 11870 627 4,1 0,66% VT-LTE OTT Test1
High mobility 600 30 640x480 2 291 158 699 1 521 4,6 0,30% VT-LTE OTT Test2
High mobility 600 30 640x480 2 290 145 352 1 305 5,7 0,43% VT-LTE OTT Test3
Walk & High mobility 300 15 320x240 982 40 305 2 672 15,1 0,56% VT-LTE OTT
Test4 Walk & High mobility 300 15 320x240 981 39 222 2 440 11,8 0,48% VT-Wifi
Test1 Stationary 1 000 30 1 280x720 766 93 771 1 801 1,9 0,10% VT-Wifi Test2
Stationary 1 000 30 1 280x720 765 92 795 1 685 1,9 0,11% VT-Wifi Test3
Stationary 1 000 30 1 280x720 715 53 698 292 2,7 0,92% VT-Wifi Test4
Stationary 1 000 30 1 280x720 717 72 244 36 1,9 5,02% VT-Wifi Test5 Stationary
1 000 30 1 280x720 620 75 946 1 724 2,2 0,13% VT-Wifi Test6 Stationary 1 000
30 1 280x720 620 75 472 1 477 3,2 0,21% VT-Wifi Test7 Walk 1 000 30 1 280x720
381 24 045 607 9,8 1,60% VT-Wifi Test8 Walk 1 000 30 1 280x720 381 37 093 67
3,4 4,75% VT-Wifi Test9 Walk 1 000 30 1 280x720 913 54 260 39 2,7 7,19% VT-
Random Random 1 000 30 1 280x720 1 013 98 634 - - 10,04%
* * *
## 6.4 Test Content
For evaluation of ER tools, the two main factors that have impact on the
overall performance is the video bitrate and the frame rate. It is assumed
that the video is coded in low delay configuration, i.e. IPPPPP... or
IBBBB.... configuration. The video resolution, content, and codec type (AVC,
HEVC) have minimal impact since as described in clause 7, the corrupted
pictures will be considered as non-rendered pictures. The following video
resolutions, bitrate and frame rates are used during the evaluation process.
Table 6.4-1: Test content configuration
* * *
Resolution Bitrate (kbps) Frame rate (fps) 320x240 300 & 350 15 640x480 600 30
1 280x720 1 000 30
* * *
# 7 Evaluation criteria
## 7.1 Testing configuration
In order to simplify the evaluation process, it will be assumed that corrupted
video frames will not be rendered. When an error occurs, corrective action
based on retransmission, RPSI or FEC will be taken. These proposed tools can
be used alone or in combination. For example FEC and RPSI or FEC and NACK can
be used in combination to complement each other (i.e. when FEC fails, NACK or
RPSI can achieve recovery).
Video bitstreams are packetized into maximum packet length of 1 400 bytes.
Packetization byte overhead is ignored. Packet loss patterns are applied only
in one direction according to the error profiles defined in clause 6.3, i.e.
feedback channel is assumed to be error free. Sender and receiver side
processing (encoding/decoding + various other tasks) times are ignored. Frames
are generated at uniform time interval according to the frame rate.
Transmission delay of packets in each direction is equal to RTT/2. Frames are
packetized and sent as soon as they are encoded (i.e. at frame timestamps) at
the sender, and removed from the packet de-jitter buffer as soon as complete
frame data is available.
Decoding delay (_delay~D~_) is computed as the difference between the time of
removal from the de-jitter buffer for decoding and the capture timestamp (RTP
timestamp). End-to-end rendering delay (_delay~e2e~_) is determined as:
$\text{delay}_{e2e} = \text{avg}_{\text{delay}_{D}} + 3 \times
\text{std}_{\text{delay}_{D}}$, (7.1-1)
where, _avg_delay~D~_ is the average decoding delay and _std_delay~D~_ is
standard deviation of decoding delay. This is to accommodate variation in
arrival time of frames that can be rendered due retransmission. Frames that
are late by more than _delay~e2e~_ are not rendered. A hard limit of 400 ms is
also imposed according to requirements of TS 22.105. Only perfectly
reconstructed frames are rendered.
Every lost packet is reported to the sender side. For RPSI based recovery, it
is assumed that the recovery frame size is same as the frame size in the
bitstream that occurs at the recovery point and it generates an identical
picture to the picture occurring at the recovery point. This simplified
assumption is necessary for simplifying the simulations. It has negligible
effect on the simulation results (without this assumption, the recovery frame
size will be larger than the frame size occurring at the recovery point). For
NACK based recovery, missing packets are retransmitted. For FEC based recovery
an adaptive perfect FEC scheme (Reed Solomon) targeting 0,95 minimum recovery
probability for maximum loss rate occurring during the 10 second history
window is used. There is no interleaving of packets used and FEC packets do
not cross frame boundaries, i.e. FEC packets protect source data that belongs
to one frame. FEC overhead rate can be adjusted according to RTT time to
minimize frequency of freezes when RTT is large. In the simulation
environment, this method was not used.
## 7.2 Performance metrics
Assuming that there will be no corrupted pictures will be rendered, then the
parameters that affect the perceived video quality are:
1\. Bitrate overhead
2\. End-to-end rendering delay
3\. Number of frames not rendered
4\. Rendering smoothness measure (standard deviation of rendering time from
the target rendering time), i.e.
$\text{std}_{\text{renderdelta}} = \sqrt{\frac{1}{N - 1}\sum_{n = 1}^{N}\left(
\Delta_{n} - \Delta_{\text{avg}} \right)^{2}}$. (7.2-1)
$\Delta_{n}$\'s are the time intervals between consecutively rendered frames
and $\Delta_{\text{avg}}$is the average of $\Delta_{n}$ for _N_ frames [12].
In terms of bitrate overhead, FEC and retransmission are the tools that have
bitrate overhead impact, FEC being the one that may have significant overhead.
Given a limited channel bandwidth, full channel utilization, bitrate overhead
impacts spatial video quality. The final effect of the overhead is the
reduction of effective video source rate. Although it is content dependent,
generally, bitrate reductions of 15% or more are perceivable. Bitrate overhead
is measured with respect to the video source rate.
End-to-end rendering delay for video, which impacts audio delay, is critical
for conversational services. The upper limit for tolerable delay is 400 ms.
Delays of 150 ms or below are not noticeable. During a call end-to-end delay
may vary. Among the proposed tools, retransmission is the only tool that may
have impact on the end-to-end delay.
Number frames not rendered convey information on the temporal video quality. A
frame will not be rendered if it has a packet that is missing or it is
dependent on past frames that had missing packets. It is related to ER failure
rate for frames. In general the higher it is, the worse the perceived video
quality is. However the distribution of non-rendered frames also impact the
visual quality. In [8], [9] and [10], it is reported that the frequent short
video freezes result in lower MOS scores than long infrequent video freezes.
Rendering smoothness measure in combination with number of not rendered frames
conveys distribution information of video freezes. These two metrics are
applicable to all proposed ER tools.
During the testing process, audio-video (AV) synchronization is assumed to be
preserved, i.e. long term delay in video forces audio to be delayed. End to
end delay in evaluation setup remains within the bounds specified in TS
22.105.
# 8 Results
## 8.1 Test cases
The performance of proposed tools under channel conditions defined in clause
6.3 are evaluated according to metrics defined for video quality in clause
7.2. Video test content defined in clause 6.4 is generated offline using an
H.264 encoder. A test setup that simulates channel conditions according to
conditions defined in clause 6.3 as well as error resiliency behavior of the
proposed tools is used. Evaluations of the proposed tools are conducted under
different round-trip-time (RTT) conditions with the captured channel logs.
Captured channel logs are used for simulating packet losses under RTT of (100
ms, 200 ms, 300 ms, 400 ms). The proposed metrics defined in clause 7.2 are
logged to characterize behavior of each tool. Each tool is tested individually
and in combination with other tools. The following test cases are run:
Table 8.1-1: Test cases
* * *
Test Cases TS 26.114 NACK or RPSI FEC+RPSI Retransmission (NACK) FEC+
retransmission
* * *
## 8.2 Simulation (RTT= 100 ms)
Table 8.2-1 shows the evaluation results for RTT = 100 ms.
Table 8.2-1: RTT = 100 ms
* * *
Tool Test(RTT = 100 ms) PLR% Bitrate Overhead% Total Frames e2e Delay (ms) Std
Render Delta(ms) Rendered Frames Rendered Frame% TS 26.114 NACK or RPSI IMS-
QoS Test1 0,07% 0,00% 4561 50 5 4 550 99,76% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 0,00% 4497 50
24 4 453 99,02% VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 0,00% 77 793 50 9 77 389 99,48% VT-LTE
OTT Test2 0,43% 0,00% 71 249 50 12 70 820 99,40% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 0,00%
19 072 50 34 18 947 99,34% VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 0,00% 18 560 50 24 18 458
99,45% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 0,00% 28 884 50 6 28 677 99,28% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11%
0,00% 28 583 50 6 28 364 99,23% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 0,00% 16 540 50 13 15 948
96,42% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 0,00% 22 253 50 62 17 584 79,02% VT-Wifi Test5
0,13% 0,00% 23 393 50 6 23 223 99,27% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 0,00% 23 247 50 7 23
028 99,06% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 0,00% 7 407 50 23 7 198 97,18% VT-Wifi Test8
4,75% 0,00% 11 425 50 62 9 797 85,75% VT-Wifi Test9 7,19% 0,00% 16 714 50 68
13 142 78,63% VT-Random 10,04% 0,00% 30 381 50 79 13 791 45,39% FEC+RPSI IMS-
QoS Test1 0,07% 6,11% 4 300 50 5 4 290 99,77% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 7,48% 4 186
50 27 4 141 98,93% VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 4,30% 74 587 50 7 74 269 99,57% VT-
LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 2,83% 69 292 50 13 68 925 99,47% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56%
2,06% 18 688 50 31 18 579 99,42% VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 2,13% 18 173 50 14 18
110 99,65% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 9,74% 26 328 50 6 26 141 99,29% VT-Wifi Test2
0,11% 10,84% 25 799 50 6 25 595 99,21% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 26,54% 13 097 50 12
12 746 97,32% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 43,16% 15 566 50 26 14 422 92,65% VT-Wifi
Test5 0,13% 11,17% 21 063 50 6 20 917 99,31% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 13,04% 20 588
50 7 20 391 99,04% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 14,02% 6 502 50 22 6 331 97,37% VT-Wifi
Test8 4,75% 32,00% 8 669 50 42 8 051 92,87% VT-Wifi Test9 7,19% 36,46% 12 261
50 47 11 047 90,10% VT-Random 10,04% 62,92% 18 724 50 11 18 177 97,08%
Retransmit (NACK) IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 0,08% 4 557 73 8 4 540 99,63% IMS-QoS
Test2 0,66% 0,64% 4 468 146 16 4 440 99,37% VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 0,31% 77
555 133 9 77 213 99,56% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 0,44% 70 939 131 9 70 661
99,61% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 0,57% 18 964 400 31 18 871 99,51% VT-LTE OTT
Test4 0,48% 0,48% 18 470 243 19 18 414 99,70% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 0,10% 28 853
76 6 28 631 99,23% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 0,11% 28 550 76 6 28 318 99,19% VT-Wifi
Test3 0,92% 0,92% 16 388 130 13 15 965 97,42% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 5,31% 21 134
339 18 20 804 98,44% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 0,13% 23 363 77 6 23 172 99,18% VT-
Wifi Test6 0,21% 0,21% 23 197 91 6 23 011 99,20% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 1,54% 7
295 331 19 7 206 98,78% VT-Wifi Test8 4,75% 4,90% 10 892 400 44 10 620 97,50%
VT-Wifi Test9 7,19% 7,76% 15 525 400 35 14 975 96,46% VT-Random 10,04% 11,16%
27 330 366 7 27 029 98,90% FEC + NACK IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 5,53% 4 319 72 7 4
303 99,63% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 8,34% 4 159 151 14 4 134 99,40% VT-LTE OTT
Test1 0,30% 4,75% 74 265 125 8 73 983 99,62% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 2,97% 69
196 133 9 68 948 99,64% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 2,13% 18 675 400 29 18 590
99,54% VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 2,78% 18 062 185 16 18 012 99,72% VT-Wifi Test1
0,10% 9,85% 26 299 75 6 26 097 99,23% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 10,97% 25 769 77 6
25 552 99,16% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 27,68% 12 983 112 11 12 686 97,71% VT-Wifi
Test4 5,02% 43,03% 15 577 241 16 15 322 98,36% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 11,32% 21
034 76 6 20 869 99,22% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 13,73% 20 468 91 7 20 304 99,20%
VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 17,01% 6 340 249 15 6 260 98,74% VT-Wifi Test8 4,75%
36,77% 8 363 400 33 8 191 97,94% VT-Wifi Test9 7,19% 45,28% 11 533 400 25 11
258 97,62% VT-Random 10,04% 63,51% 18 654 108 10 18 183 97,48%
* * *
## 8.3 Simulation (RTT= 200 ms)
Table 8.3-1 shows the evaluation results for RTT = 200 ms.
Table 8.3-1: RTT = 200 ms
* * *
Tool Test(RTT = 200 ms) PLR% Bitrate Overhead% Total Frames e2e Delay (ms) Std
Render Delta(ms) Rendered Frames Rendered Frame% TS 26.114 NACK or RPSI IMS-
QoS Test1 0,07% 0,00% 4 561 100 9 4 540 99,54% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 0,00% 4 497
100 25 4 448 98,91% VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 0,00% 77 793 100 11 77 293 99,36%
VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 0,00% 71 249 100 15 70 747 99,30% VT-LTE OTT Test3
0,56% 0,00% 19 072 100 35 18 929 99,25% VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 0,00% 18 560
100 25 18 448 99,40% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 0,00% 28 884 100 10 28 524 98,75% VT-
Wifi Test2 0,11% 0,00% 28 583 100 10 28 202 98,67% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 0,00%
16 540 100 23 15 602 94,33% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 0,00% 22 253 100 76 16 164
72,64% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 0,00% 23 393 100 10 23 098 98,74% VT-Wifi Test6
0,21% 0,00% 23 247 100 12 22 885 98,44% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 0,00% 7 407 100 27
7 135 96,33% VT-Wifi Test8 4,75% 0,00% 11 425 100 81 9 220 80,70% VT-Wifi
Test9 7,19% 0,00% 16 714 100 83 12 141 72,64% VT-Random 10,04% 0,00% 30 381
100 137 10 052 33,09% FEC+RPSI IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 6,10% 4 301 100 8 4 285
99,63% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 7,44% 4 186 100 36 4 133 98,73% VT-LTE OTT Test1
0,30% 4,40% 74 515 100 10 74 083 99,42% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 2,41% 69 577
100 14 69 123 99,35% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 2,10% 18 679 100 28 18 568 99,41%
VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 2,14% 18 172 100 18 18 099 99,60% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10%
9,67% 26 344 100 10 26 012 98,74% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 10,88% 25 790 100 10 25
448 98,67% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 26,53% 13 097 100 18 12 570 95,98% VT-Wifi
Test4 5,02% 40,87% 15 813 100 35 14 037 88,77% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 11,75% 20
958 100 9 20 718 98,85% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 13,03% 20 590 100 12 20 258 98,39%
VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 14,44% 6 480 100 23 6 262 96,64% VT-Wifi Test8 4,75%
32,10% 8 661 100 49 7 814 90,22% VT-Wifi Test9 7,19% 37,19% 12 196 100 55 10
612 87,01% VT-Random 10,04% 62,92% 18 723 100 20 17 814 95,15% Retransmit
(NACK) IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 0,08% 4 557 141 10 4 535 99,52% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66%
0,64% 4 468 262 20 4 434 99,24% VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 0,31% 77 555 215 13 77
114 99,43% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 0,44% 70 939 211 11 70 584 99,50% VT-LTE OTT
Test3 0,56% 0,56% 18 964 400 34 18 863 99,47% VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 0,47% 18
470 368 22 18 404 99,64% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 0,10% 28 853 154 9 28 529 98,88%
VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 0,11% 28 550 156 9 28 210 98,81% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 0,93%
16 388 264 19 15 816 96,51% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 5,31% 21 134 400 34 20 189
95,53% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 0,13% 23 363 156 9 23 086 98,81% VT-Wifi Test6
0,21% 0,21% 23 197 171 9 22 911 98,77% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 1,50% 7 297 400 20
7 197 98,63% VT-Wifi Test8 4,75% 4,89% 10 892 400 53 10 411 95,58% VT-Wifi
Test9 7,19% 7,75% 15 528 400 53 14 364 92,50% VT-Random 10,04% 11,15% 27 331
400 44 22 540 82,47% FEC + NACK IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 6,19% 4 298 140 10 4 277
99,51% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 8,35% 4 158 286 22 4 122 99,13% VT-LTE OTT Test1
0,30% 4,75% 74 264 208 12 73 886 99,49% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 3,06% 69 134
208 11 68 798 99,51% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 2,13% 18 676 400 31 18 583 99,50%
VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 2,69% 18 075 278 18 18 017 99,68% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10%
9,86% 26 297 154 9 25 996 98,86% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 11,00% 25 763 157 9 25
438 98,74% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 27,29% 13 022 240 14 12 702 97,54% VT-Wifi
Test4 5,02% 44,57% 15 411 400 23 15 099 97,98% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 11,81% 20
947 155 9 20 710 98,87% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 13,22% 20 558 171 9 20 305 98,77%
VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 15,29% 6 430 346 17 6 342 98,63% VT-Wifi Test8 4,75%
35,68% 8 433 400 38 8 183 97,04% VT-Wifi Test9 7,19% 44,90% 11 552 400 35 11
047 95,63% VT-Random 10,04% 63,75% 18 626 215 13 18 069 97,01%
* * *
## 8.4 Simulation (RTT= 300 ms)
Table 8.4-1 shows the evaluation results for RTT = 300 ms.
Table 8.4-1: RTT = 300 ms
* * *
Tool Test(RTT = 300 ms) PLR% Bitrate Overhead% Total Frames e2e Delay (ms) Std
Render Delta(ms) Rendered Frames Rendered Frame% TS 26.114 NACK or RPSI IMS-
QoS Test1 0,07% 0,00% 4 561 150 11 4 535 99,43% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 0,00% 4
497 150 34 4 442 98,78% VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 0,00% 77 793 150 14 77 181
99,21% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 0,00% 71 249 150 18 70 701 99,23% VT-LTE OTT
Test3 0,56% 0,00% 19 072 150 36 18 920 99,20% VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 0,00% 18
560 150 26 18 442 99,36% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 0,00% 28 884 150 14 28 371 98,22%
VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 0,00% 28 583 150 14 28 045 98,12% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92%
0,00% 16 540 150 32 15 317 92,61% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 0,00% 22 253 150 94 14
940 67,14% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 0,00% 23 393 150 14 22 972 98,20% VT-Wifi Test6
0,21% 0,00% 23 247 150 16 22 744 97,84% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 0,00% 7 407 150 31
7 078 95,56% VT-Wifi Test8 4,75% 0,00% 11 425 150 95 8 786 76,90% VT-Wifi
Test9 7,19% 0,00% 16 714 150 103 11 258 67,36% VT-Random 10,04% 0,00% 30 381
150 191 7 890 25,97% FEC+RPSI IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 6,12% 4 300 150 11 4 275
99,42% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 7,42% 4 187 150 35 4 134 98,73% VT-LTE OTT Test1
0,30% 4,36% 74 547 150 12 74 056 99,34% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 2,80% 69 310
150 14 68 862 99,35% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 2,06% 18 687 150 32 18 560 99,32%
VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 2,14% 18 171 150 20 18 091 99,56% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10%
9,74% 26 328 150 14 25 855 98,20% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 10,84% 25 798 150 15 25
290 98,03% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 26,53% 13 097 150 26 12 360 94,37% VT-Wifi
Test4 5,02% 41,43% 15 749 150 49 13 495 85,69% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 11,26% 21
046 150 14 20 702 98,37% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 13,08% 20 584 150 17 20 114
97,72% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 14,03% 6 501 150 28 6 227 95,79% VT-Wifi Test8
4,75% 32,97% 8 608 150 56 7 569 87,93% VT-Wifi Test9 7,19% 35,88% 12 312 150
66 10 340 83,98% VT-Random 10,04% 62,90% 18 726 150 28 17 421 93,03%
Retransmit (NACK) IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 0,08% 4 557 212 12 4 530 99,41% IMS-QoS
Test2 0,66% 0,64% 4 468 332 21 4 429 99,13% VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 0,31% 77
555 302 14 77 032 99,33% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 0,44% 70 939 305 15 70 512
99,40% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 0,57% 18 964 400 36 18 843 99,36% VT-LTE OTT
Test4 0,48% 0,47% 18 470 400 25 18 389 99,56% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 0,10% 28 853
239 12 28 427 98,52% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 0,11% 28 550 242 12 28 102 98,43% VT-
Wifi Test3 0,92% 0,92% 16 388 385 18 15 819 96,53% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 5,30%
21 134 400 77 16 388 77,54% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 0,13% 23 363 242 12 23 002
98,45% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 0,21% 23 197 268 13 22 807 98,32% VT-Wifi Test7
1,60% 1,50% 7 297 400 25 7 102 97,33% VT-Wifi Test8 4,75% 4,90% 10 892 400 73
9 348 85,82% VT-Wifi Test9 7,18% 7,73% 15 544 400 93 12 119 77,97% VT-Random
10,04% 11,15% 27 331 400 233 7 393 27,05% FEC + NACK IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 5,55%
4 318 211 12 4 292 99,40% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 8,28% 4 160 358 23 4 119 99,01%
VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 4,61% 74 367 293 14 73 904 99,38% VT-LTE OTT Test2
0,43% 3,05% 69 141 310 15 68 732 99,41% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 2,13% 18 675
400 33 18 563 99,40% VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 2,56% 18 099 358 20 18 032 99,63%
VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 9,85% 26 299 238 11 25 920 98,56% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11%
10,97% 25 769 242 12 25 357 98,40% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 26,86% 13 061 346 17 12
615 96,59% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 46,46% 15 214 400 44 14 018 92,14% VT-Wifi
Test5 0,13% 11,31% 21 036 238 12 20 731 98,55% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 13,72% 20
468 270 13 20 115 98,28% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 15,44% 6 423 400 21 6 262 97,49%
VT-Wifi Test8 4,75% 35,77% 8 425 400 51 7 816 92,77% VT-Wifi Test9 7,19%
44,42% 11 591 400 53 10 534 90,88% VT-Random 10,04% 63,95% 18 602 359 16 17
962 96,56%
* * *
## 8.5 Simulation (RTT= 400 ms)
Table 8.5-1 shows the evaluation results for RTT = 400 ms.
Table 8.5-1: RTT = 400 ms
* * *
Tool Test(RTT = 400 ms) PLR% Bitrate Overhead% Total Frames e2e Delay (ms) Std
Render Delta(ms) Rendered Frames Rendered Frame% TS 26.114 NACK or RPSI IMS-
QoS Test1 0,07% 0,00% 4 561 200 16 4 525 99,21% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 0,00% 4
497 200 34 4 435 98,62% VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 0,00% 77 793 200 15 77 097
99,11% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 0,00% 71 249 200 20 70 648 99,16% VT-LTE OTT
Test3 0,56% 0,00% 19 072 200 38 18 905 99,12% VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 0,00% 18
560 200 27 18 431 99,31% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 0,00% 28 884 200 18 28 218 97,69%
VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 0,00% 28 583 200 19 27 880 97,54% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92%
0,00% 16 540 200 39 15 035 90,90% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 0,00% 22 253 200 109 13
972 62,79% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 0,00% 23 393 200 18 22 846 97,66% VT-Wifi Test6
0,21% 0,00% 23 247 200 20 22 606 97,24% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 0,00% 7 407 200 36
7 012 94,67% VT-Wifi Test8 4,75% 0,00% 11 425 200 95 8 522 74,59% VT-Wifi
Test9 7,19% 0,00% 16 714 200 122 10 630 63,60% VT-Random 10,04% 0,00% 30 381
200 268 6 013 19,79% FEC+RPSI IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 6,11% 4 300 200 16 4 265
99,19% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 7,40% 4 188 200 41 4 120 98,38% VT-LTE OTT Test1
0,30% 4,88% 74 181 200 13 73 605 99,22% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 2,43% 69 566
200 17 68 993 99,18% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 2,11% 18 678 200 31 18 542 99,27%
VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 2,07% 18 183 200 21 18 095 99,52% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10%
9,70% 26 336 200 18 25 724 97,68% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 10,91% 25 782 200 19 25
133 97,48% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 26,55% 13 095 200 33 12 179 93,01% VT-Wifi
Test4 5,02% 43,78% 15 498 200 59 12 918 83,35% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 11,75% 20
957 200 18 20 511 97,87% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 13,11% 20 575 200 21 19 987
97,14% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 14,12% 6 494 200 30 6 183 95,21% VT-Wifi Test8
4,75% 32,81% 8 614 200 64 7 405 85,96% VT-Wifi Test9 7,19% 36,66% 12 248 200
75 10 004 81,68% VT-Random 10,04% 62,70% 18 752 200 37 17 127 91,33%
Retransmit (NACK) IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 0,08% 4 557 286 14 4 525 99,30% IMS-QoS
Test2 0,66% 0,65% 4 468 400 26 4 418 98,88% VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 0,31% 77
555 389 16 76 953 99,22% VT-LTE OTT Test2 0,43% 0,44% 70 939 400 17 70 445
99,30% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 0,57% 18 964 400 39 18 817 99,22% VT-LTE OTT
Test4 0,48% 0,47% 18 470 400 27 18 374 99,48% VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 0,10% 28 853
330 15 28 325 98,17% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11% 0,11% 28 550 333 15 27 994 98,05% VT-
Wifi Test3 0,92% 0,92% 16 388 400 36 15 175 92,60% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 5,30%
21 134 400 142 12 805 60,59% VT-Wifi Test5 0,13% 0,13% 23 363 333 15 22 918
98,10% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 0,21% 23 197 353 16 22 711 97,90% VT-Wifi Test7
1,60% 1,50% 7 297 400 33 6 983 95,70% VT-Wifi Test8 4,75% 4,89% 10 892 400 108
8 158 74,90% VT-Wifi Test9 7,19% 7,53% 15 547 400 169 9 860 63,42% VT-Random
10,04% 11,15% 27 331 400 1756 1 478 5,41% FEC + NACK IMS-QoS Test1 0,07% 6,18%
4 298 286 14 4 267 99,28% IMS-QoS Test2 0,66% 8,28% 4 161 400 29 4 108 98,73%
VT-LTE OTT Test1 0,30% 4,77% 74 251 364 15 73 719 99,28% VT-LTE OTT Test2
0,43% 3,06% 69 138 395 16 68 668 99,32% VT-LTE OTT Test3 0,56% 2,13% 18 676
400 36 18 542 99,28% VT-LTE OTT Test4 0,48% 2,55% 18 101 400 22 18 023 99,57%
VT-Wifi Test1 0,10% 9,86% 26 297 330 15 25 806 98,13% VT-Wifi Test2 0,11%
10,99% 25 765 341 14 25 301 98,20% VT-Wifi Test3 0,92% 27,34% 13 014 400 25 12
338 94,81% VT-Wifi Test4 5,02% 45,79% 15 281 400 65 13 056 85,44% VT-Wifi
Test5 0,13% 11,81% 20 946 329 15 20 569 98,20% VT-Wifi Test6 0,21% 13,72% 20
469 360 16 20 043 97,92% VT-Wifi Test7 1,60% 16,09% 6 386 400 30 6 131 96,01%
VT-Wifi Test8 4,75% 35,68% 8 436 400 74 7 382 87,51% VT-Wifi Test9 7,19%
43,94% 11 624 400 77 9 845 84,70% VT-Random 10,04% 64,48% 18 543 400 34 17 111
92,28%
* * *
## 8.6 Summary
Results in the previous clauses illustrates the behaviour of each tool under
different channel conditions. As a reference the performance of RPSI tool can
be taken since the behaviour of RPSI tool by itself is equivalent to the error
resilience behaviour in TS 26.114 that utilizes PLI and generic NACK messages.
The weakness of this tool is that for every loss point there is a freeze (not
rendered frames) of at least RTT duration. As RTT increases and PLR increases,
the amount of non-rendered frames increases. This can be observed in VT-Wifi
Test4 and Test8 where there is around 5% packet loss. As RTT increases from
100 ms to 400 ms, the percentage of rendered frames decreases from 79 - 85% to
63 - 75%. Since no retransmission is involved in this mechanism end to end
delay is preserved. The main strength of this tool is its efficient handling
of large burst losses that cannot be handled efficiently with other mechanisms
such as FEC and retransmission.
FEC can handle random losses and short burst losses in a way that RPSI,
retransmission cannot handle by introducing bitrate overhead. This becomes
more important as RTT and loss rate increases. By trading of spatial video
quality to temporal smoothness (i.e. less freezes) it can provide a very
robust way of handling errors. For the VT-Wifi Test4 and Test8 cases it can
provide rendered frame percentage of 93% and \~84% for RTT of 100 ms and 400
ms, respectively. FEC overhead can be modulated adaptively to adapt to the
channel conditions, i.e. loss rate and RTT.
Retransmission is an efficient recovery tool for low loss rates and low RTT.
Under these circumstances it can provide the most efficient recovery and
maintain smooth rendering without introducing high delay. This can be seen in
less than 1% packet loss cases with low RTT like 100 ms. In the higher RTT
cases, the end to end delay increases but can be kept under 400 ms cut off if
the loss rate is low.
FEC cannot recover all error cases. It needs a backup mechanism to handle the
error cases that cannot be recovered by FEC. This mechanism can be
retransmission, PLI or RPSI. It can also be combined with the current generic
NACK mechanism specified in TS 26.114.
# 9 Conclusions and recommendations
Results in clause 8 show the trade-offs of each proposed tool under various
channel conditions. FEC and selective retransmission offer benefits that
cannot be achieved by the existing ER tools supported in TS 26.114.
\- FEC provides robustness against moderate packet loss rates at high delay
scenario. FEC can especially handle random losses and short burst losses and
be beneficial in environments with high packet loss rates and/or high delay
(RTT). Use of FEC may however not be appropriate when packet losses are caused
by insufficient throughput (over radio access or due to congestions in
network) since it introduces some bit rate overhead. In order to compensate
for bit rate overhead, FEC may require to be used with efficient rate
adaptation mechanisms to reduce the source bit rate according to channel
conditions and not increase the total RTP bitrate. FEC will be used in
combination with other mechanisms to handle the error cases that cannot be
recovered by FEC (like PLI or RPSI or the current generic NACK mechanism
specified in TS 26.114):
\- For low RTT case with relatively high packet loss, using retransmission in
combination with FEC is beneficial since retransmission can efficiently handle
the FEC failure case.
\- For high RTT, relatively high packet loss conditions, using generic NACK
based recovery in combination with FEC is beneficial since generic NACK based
recovery does not introduce additional delay.
\- Selective retransmission offers efficient recovery mechanism under low
delay (RTT) and low failure (loss) rate conditions. Retransmission needs to
ensure that retransmitted packets arrive in time to meet delay requirements of
the end to end system. Higher packet loss rates may cause loss of
retransmitted packets, hence leading to larger end to end delay.
\- Existing generic NACK, PLI or RPSI based error correction mechanism can
provide an efficient recovery for low packet loss rates with high RTT
conditions. Generic NACK message can be used for indication of packets to be
retransmitted as well as informing the sender of loss of particular RTP
packets for sender to take necessary actions to recover from errors. These two
behaviours of the system for generic NACK message should be differentiated by
signalling or some other means. RPSI is a similar mechanism operating at codec
level that offers, in addition, establishment of common reference point for
recovery between the sender and the receiver. If retransmission based ER is
being used, the support for additional RPSI or existing NACK based error
correction mechanism is not essential since the failure cases for
retransmission based scheme would be rare. In that case PLI message can be
used to recover from errors.
FEC and retransmission provides ER mechanisms that are effective under
different channel conditions that can be encountered. These tools are
beneficial under non-QoS environments that are becoming more widely used with
IMS-VT terminals. In order to be competitive with non-IMS based solutions,
these tools should be supported. Although RPSI provides a clean mechanism to
address cases where FEC or retransmission fails, the existing generic NACK
based ER scheme can provide similar functionality. It is recommended that FEC
and retransmission should be supported in TS 26.114. Support for these
proposed tools should be negotiable during a call or at session setup.
NOTE 1: Proper implementation and usage of these different tools (e.g. trade-
off between quality & delay) are still left to the MTSI client implementers
taking into account the above recommendations. This has to be done according
to the service requirements and expected channel conditions that may differ
from the set of test cases and related error profiles defined in section 6 and
used for evaluation purpose. It is recommended to update TS 26.114 to include
the above text relevant for the mechanisms to recover from packet losses
included in TS 26.114 to provide additional information and guidelines on
usage and benefits under various channel conditions of these mechanisms.
###### ### Annex A: Error patterns
# A.1 IMS-QoS
Packet loss statistics are plotted vs. packet index (X-axis).
IMS-QoS Test1 error pattern.
Figure A.1-1: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,07%
IMS-QoS Test2 error pattern.
{width="6.69375in" height="2.1875in"}
Figure A.1-2: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,66%
# A.2 VT-LTE OTT
Packet loss statistics are plotted vs. packet index (X-axis).
VT-LTE OTT Test1 error pattern.
Figure A.2-1: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,30%
VT-LTE OTT Test2 error pattern.
Figure A.2-2: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,43%
VT-LTE OTT Test3 error pattern.
Figure A.2-3: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,56%
VT-LTE OTT Test4 error pattern.
Figure A.2-4: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,48%
# A.3 VT-Wifi
Packet loss statistics are plotted vs. packet index (X-axis).
VT-Wifi Test1 error pattern.
Figure A.3-1: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,10%
VT-Wifi Test2 error pattern.
Figure A.3-2: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,11%
VT-Wifi Test3 error pattern.
Figure A.3-3: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,92%
VT-Wifi Test4 error pattern.
Figure A.3-4: Packet loss pattern PLR = 5,02%
VT-Wifi Test5 error pattern.
Figure A.3-5: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,13%
VT-Wifi Test6 error pattern.
Figure A.3-6: Packet loss pattern PLR = 0,21%
VT-Wifi Test7 error pattern.
Figure A.3-7: Packet loss pattern PLR = 1,60%
VT-Wifi Test8 error pattern.
Figure A.3-8: Packet loss pattern PLR = 4,75%
VT-Wifi Test9 error pattern.
Figure A.3-9: Packet loss pattern PLR = 7,19%
#