# Foreword
The present document has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
During Release 12, use cases and requirements on IMS-based telepresence were
introduced by SA1 into TS 22.228 to enable telepresence support in IMS
applications. In TS 22.228, telepresence is defined as a conference with
interactive audio-visual communications experience between remote locations,
where the users enjoy a strong sense of realism and presence between all
participants (i.e _._ as if they are in same location) by optimizing a variety
of attributes such as audio and video quality, eye contact, body language,
spatial audio, coordinated environments and natural image size. A telepresence
system is defined as a set of functions, devices and network elements which
are able to capture, deliver, manage and render multiple high quality
interactive audio and video signals in a telepresence conference. An
appropriate number of devices (e.g. cameras, screens, loudspeakers,
microphones, codecs) and environmental characteristics are used to establish
telepresence.
The core network aspects of IMS-based telepresence have been addressed by the
CT groups (CT1, CT3, CT4), including incorporation of new tools into IMS as
defined by IETF\'s ControLling mUltiple streams for tElepresence (CLUE) WG
(see more from: https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/clue/charter/) that achieves
media advertisement and configuration to facilitate controlling and
negotiating multiple spatially related media streams in an IMS conference
supporting telepresence, taking into account capability information, e.g.
screen size, number of screens and cameras, codecs, etc., so that sending
system, receiving system, or intermediate system can make decisions about
transmitting, selecting, and rendering media streams.
This present document provides a study of media handling aspects of IMS-based
telepresence in 3GPP services. This includes identification of codec-level
technical gaps for a telepresence UE (TP UE), which is expected to not only
support Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS (MTSI) UE media handling
capabilities [2], but also more advanced media handling capabilities. Other
SA4-level media handling aspects such as media configuration and session
control, data transport, media adaptation, QoS handling and interworking with
MTSI are also studied.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a study on the media handling aspects of IMS-
based telepresence in 3GPP services. This includes the investigation of the
following areas:
\- Media codecs (speech, video, real-time text) for IMS-based telepresence.
\- Media configuration including session setup and control procedures for IMS-
based telepresence, and media provisioning aspects of capability negotiation
based on SDP and CLUE protocols, etc.
\- Set-up and control of the individual media streams between clients
including interactivity, such as adding and dropping of media components, as
well as end-to-end QoS handling, etc. for IMS-based telepresence.
\- Data transport including usage of RTP / RTCP protocols, RTP profiles, RTP
payload formats, RTP mapping, media synchronization, etc. for IMS-based
telepresence, e.g. in relation to negotiation and establishment of the CLUE
data channel, and exchange of CLUE ADVERTISEMENT and CONFIGURE messages.
\- Requirements and guidelines for media adaptation in IMS-based telepresence,
for example in response to changes of network bandwidth.
\- Media handling requirements and guidelines for fixed-mobile interworking as
well as interworking with MTSI and with GSMA\'s IMS profile on High-Definition
Video Conference (HDVC) service in IR.39.
The gap analysis of the above areas and associated recommendations and
conclusions for the proposed improvements are documented in the present
document. Study and evaluation of end-to-end quality of experience (QoE) for
IMS-based telepresence use cases for various codec, media handling and QoS
configurations are also presented.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem (IMS); Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia scall control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.103: \"Telepresence using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) Subsystem (IMS); Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.803: \"Study on Telepresence using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) Subsystem (IMS); Stage 3\".
[8] draft-ietf-clue-framework-22 (April 2015): \"Framework for Telepresence
Multi-Streams\".
[9] draft-ietf-clue-datachannel-09 (March 2015): \"CLUE Protocol Data
Channel\".
[10] draft-ietf-clue-signaling-05 (March 2015): \"CLUE Signaling\".
[11] draft-ietf-clue-data-model-schema-10 (June 2015): \"An XML Schema for the
CLUE data model\".
[12] void.
[13] draft-ietf-clue-rtp-mapping-04 (March 2015): \"Mapping RTP streams to
CLUE media captures\".
[14] draft-ietf-mmusic-sctp-sdp-14 (March 2015): \"Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP) --Based Media Transport in the Session Description Protocol
(SDP)\".
[15] IETF RFC 4574: \"The Session Description Protocol (SDP) Label
Attribute\".
[16] GSMA PRD IR.39: \"IMS Profile for High Definition Video Conference (HDVC)
Service\".
[17] Recommendation ITU-T H.239 (10/2014): \"Role management and additional
media channels for H.300-series terminals \".
[18] IETF RFC 4796: \"The Session Description Protocol (SDP) Content
Attribute\".
[19] Recommendation ITU-T G.719 (06/2008): \"Low-complexity, full-band audio
coding for high-quality, conversational applications\".
[20] ISO/IEC 14496-3:2009: \"Information technology - Coding of audio-visual
objects. Part 3: Audio\".
[21] IETF RFC 5404: \"RTP Payload Format for G.719\".
[22] IETF RFC 3016: \"RTP Payload Format for MPEG-4 Audio/Visual Streams\".
[23] Recommendation ITU-T H.264 (02/2014): \"Advanced video coding for generic
audio-visual services\" \| ISO/IEC 14496-10:2005: \"Information technology -
Coding of audio-visual objects - Part 10: Advanced Video Coding\".
[24] Recommendation ITU-T F.734 (10/2014): \"Definitions, requirements, and
use cases for Telepresence Systems\".
[25] Recommendation ITU G.1091 (10/2014): \"Quality of Experience requirements
for telepresence services\".
[26] IETF RFC 3264 (2002): \"An Offer/Answer Model with the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)\", J. Rosenberg and H. Schulzrinne.
[27] draft-ietf-tsvwg-sctp-dtls-encaps-09 (January 2015): \"DTLS Encapsulation
of SCTP Packets\".
[28] draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-bundle-negotiation-23 (July 2015): \"Negotiating
Media Multiplexing Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)\".
[29] Recommendation ITU-T H.TPS-AV (02/2015): \"Audio/video parameters for
telepresence systems \".
[30] IETF RFC 6184 (2011): \"RTP Payload Format for H.264 Video\", Y.-K. Wang,
R. Even, T. Kristensen, R. Jesup.
[31] Recommendation ITU-T H.241 (02/2012): \"Extended video procedures and
control signals for ITU-T H.300-series terminals\".
[32] IETF RFC 6236 (2011): \"Negotiation of Generic Image Attributes in the
Session Description Protocol (SDP)\", I. Johansson and K. Jung.
[33] Recommendation ITU-T H.245 (05/2011): \"Control protocol for multimedia
communication\".
[34] IETF RFC 4566 (2006): \"SDP: Session Description Protocol\", M. Handley,
V. Jacobson and C. Perkins.
[35] IETF RFC 6464: \"A Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) Header Extension
for Client-to-Mixer Audio Level Indication\".
[36] Recommendation ITU-T H.264 (04/2013): \"Advanced video coding for generic
audiovisual services\".
[37] Recommendation ITU-T H.265 (04/2013): \"High efficiency video coding\".
[38] draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-simulcast-01 (July 2015): \"Using Simulcast in SDP
and RTP Session\".
[39] draft-ietf-mmusic-data-channel-sdpneg-03 (July 2015): \"SDP-based Data
Channel Negotiation\".
[40] N10032, MPEG audio subgroup, \"Report on the Verification Test of MPEG-4
Enhanced Low Delay AAC\", 2008, Hannover.
[41] Recommendation ITU-T H.TPS-SIG (10/2014): \"Signalling for telepresence-
enabled conferencing\".
[42] Recommendation ITU-T H.420 (10/2014): \"Telepresence System
Architecture\".
[43] Recommendation ITU-T H.323 (12/2009): \"Packet-based multimedia
communication systems\".
[44] 3GPP TR 26.952: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Performance
characterization\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Actual Size:** A rendered figure in a display is the same size as if the
person is in the room.
**Conference:** An IP multimedia session with two or more participants. Each
conference has a \"conference focus\". A conference can be uniquely identified
by a user. Examples for a conference could be a Telepresence or a multimedia
game, in which the conference focus is located in a game server.
**Eye Contact:** Mutual direct-gaze between two persons communicating.
**Gaze Awareness:** Awareness of gaze direction of persons by watching their
eyes, head and body position. There is awareness of both direct gaze and
averted gaze. Direct gaze is the perception of persons looking at each other
directly and simultaneously. Averted gaze is the perception that other persons
are looking at someone/something else in the environment.
**Gaze Direction** : The vector positioned along the visual axis, pointing
from the fovea of the looker through the centre of the pupil to the looked at
spot.
**IM session:** An IP multimedia (IM) session is a set of multimedia senders
and receivers and the data streams flowing from senders to receivers. IP
multimedia sessions are supported by the IP multimedia CN Subsystem and are
enabled by IP connectivity bearers (e.g. GPRS as a bearer). A user may invoke
concurrent IP multimedia sessions.
**Telepresence:** A conference with interactive audio-visual communications
experience between remote locations, where the users enjoy a strong sense of
realism and presence between all participants by optimizing a variety of
attributes such as audio and video quality, eye contact, body language,
spatial audio, coordinated environments and natural image size.
**Telepresence System:** A set of functions, devices and network elements
which are able to capture, deliver, manage and render multiple high quality
interactive audio and video signals in a Telepresence conference. An
appropriate number of devices (e.g. cameras, screens, loudspeakers,
microphones, codecs) and environmental characteristics are used to establish
Telepresence.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AAC-ELD Advanced Audio Coding -- Enhanced Low Delay
AAC-LD Advanced Audio Coding -- Low Delay
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband
AS Application Server
AV Advanced Video Coding
BFCP Binary Floor Control Protocol
CBP Constrained Baseline Profile
CHP Constrained High Profile
CLUE ControLling mUltiple streams for tElepresence
DTLS Datagram Transport Layer Security
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
FB Fullband
GSMA Groupe Speciale Mobile Association
HD High Definition
HDVC High Definition Video Conference
HEVC High Efficiency Video Coding
ICE Interactivity Connectivity Establishment
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
MCC Multiple Content Capture
MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group
MRFC Multimedia Resource Function Controller
MRFP Multimedia Resource Function Processor
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
NAT Network Address Translation
NB Narrowband
RTCP RTP Control Protocol
RTP Real-time Transport Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SDP Session Description Protocol
SWB Super-wideband
TP Telepresence
TP UE TelePresence User Equipment
> UHD Ultra High Definition
# 4 Overview of IMS-based Telepresence in 3GPP
## 4.1 Introduction
During Release 12, IMS-based telepresence was introduced by SA1 in 3GPP
services, and core network aspects were specified by the CT groups. This
clause provides an overview of IMS-based telepresence in 3GPP.
## 4.2 Service Aspects
### 4.2.1 Overview
The use cases and requirements on IMS-based telepresence were introduced
during Release 12 into TS 22.228 [3] to enable telepresence support in IMS
applications.
In TS 22.228, telepresence is defined as a conference with interactive audio-
visual communications experience between remote locations, where the users
enjoy a strong sense of realism and presence between all participants (i.e _._
as if they are in same location) by optimizing a variety of attributes such as
audio and video quality, eye contact, body language, spatial audio,
coordinated environments and natural image size. A telepresence system is
defined as a set of functions, devices and network elements which are able to
capture, deliver, manage and render multiple high quality interactive audio
and video signals in a telepresence conference. An appropriate number of
devices (e.g. cameras, screens, loudspeakers, microphones, codecs) and
environmental characteristics are used to establish telepresence.
In order to provide a \"being there\" experience for conversational audio and
video session between remote locations, where the users enjoy a strong sense
of realism and presence, capabilities and preferences need to be co-ordinated
and negotiated between local and remote participants such as:
\- audio and video spatial composition information; e.g. spatial relationship
of two or more objects (audio/video sources) in the same room to allow for
accurate reproduction on the receiver side;
\- capabilities of cameras, screens, microphones and loudspeakers, and their
relative spatial relationships;
\- meeting description, such as view information, language information,
participant information, participant type, etc.
### 4.2.2 Use Case
In the scenario below depicted in Figure 4.1, a project team has one of their
weekly reporting meetings using a Telepresence conference. Steven, John and
Marc are in a meeting room in San Francisco. Fred and Liu are in another room
in Paris. Ted is on the road and joins using his mobile phone. Bill is at home
and joins using his PC. Both meeting rooms are equipped with multiple cameras
and large screen monitors. Three cameras and screens are arranged to provide a
panoramic view of the room. Additional cameras and screens are used to share
presentations among the participants.
Multiple video streams are shared along with additional information (e.g.
spatial information, video resolution, and environmental), so that the user
experience is as if they are in same location. Audio information (e.g. spatial
information) is exchanged to facilitate the rendering of the audio in
accordance with the rendering of the video. Users in the meeting enjoy a
strong sense of realism and presence between all participants.
{width="6.002083333333333in" height="2.6104166666666666in"}
Figure 4.1: Telepresence
In the scenario depicted in Figure 4.2, participants may be from different
operator\'s networks, or from enterprise networks. In such cases, IMS-based
Telepresence has interconnection with Telepresence in other networks.
{width="352.33125in" height="1.6701388888888888in"}
Figure 4.2: Interconnection of Telepresence
### 4.2.3 Requirements from TS 22.228
See clauses 7.10.2.2 and 8.8 of TS 22.228 [3].
## 4.3 Core Network Aspects
The core network aspects of IMS-based telepresence have been addressed by the
CT groups, including incorporation of new tools into IMS as defined by IETF\'s
ControLling mUltiple streams for tElepresence (CLUE) WG (see more from:
https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/clue/charter/) [8]-[13] that achieves media
advertisement and configuration to facilitate controlling and negotiating
multiple spatially related media streams in an IMS conference supporting
telepresence, taking into account capability information, e.g. screen size,
number of screens and cameras, codecs, etc., so that sending system, receiving
system, or intermediate system can make decisions about transmitting,
selecting, and rendering media streams. With the establishment of the CLUE
data channel, the participants have consented to use the CLUE protocol
mechanisms to determine the capabilities of the each of the endpoints with
respect to multiple streams support, via the exchange of an XML-based data
format. The exchange of CLUE messages of each participant\'s \"advertisement\"
and \"configure\" is to achieve a common view of media components sent and
received in the IM session supporting telepresence.
Enabling telepresence support involves updating and enhancing the existing IMS
procedures for point-to-point calls as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] and for
multiparty conferences as specified in 3GPP TS 24.147 [5]. This has been
addressed in a new specification, TS 24.103 [6], which incorporates the CLUE
framework with the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), Session Description
Protocol (SDP) and Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) to facilitate
controlling multiple spatially related media streams in an IM session
supporting telepresence.
In [6], CT1 specifies procedures to deal with multiple spatially related media
streams according to the CLUE framework to support telepresence and to
interwork with IM session as below:
1) Initiation of telepresence using IMS, which includes an initial
offer/answer exchange establishes a basic media session and a CLUE channel,
CLUE exchanges to \"advertisement\" and \"configure\" media components used in
the session, then followed by an SDP offer/answer in Re-INVITE request to
complete the session establishment (see more for the general idea in draft-
ietf-clue-framework [8]);
2) Release or leaving of an IM session supporting telepresence, which needs
remove the corresponding CLUE channel;
3) Update of an ongoing IM session supporting telepresence, triggered by CLUE
exchanges modifying existing CLUE information. For example: a new participant
at an endpoint may require the establishment of a specific media stream;
4) Presentation during an IM session supporting telepresence, which may also
be initiated by the exchange of CLUE messages and possibly need an updated SDP
offer/answer and activation of BFCP for floor control; and
5) Interworking with normal IM session, this is to let the normal IMS users be
able to join telepresence using IMS.
## 4.4 Protocols and Architecture for IMS-based Telepresence
### 4.4.1 Introduction
SIP, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] and 3GPP TS 24.147 [5], is used as the
basic session control protocol to create an IM session supporting
telepresence.
The usage of SIP for the point to point call supporting telepresence follows
the procedures as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4]. The usage of SIP for the
multiparty conference supporting telepresence follows the procedures as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.147 [5].
To support an IM session supporting telepresence, a \"+sip.clue\" Contact
header field parameter is defined in clause 3 of draft-ietf-clue-signaling
[10].
SDP, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] and 3GPP TS 24.147 [5], is used to
establish multimedia streams in an IM session supporting telepresence. Each
party in the session usually sends and receives multiple multimedia streams,
which may not be symmetric due to their different capabilities for media
production and rendering.
CLUE, as specified in draft-ietf-clue-framework [8], is used to advertise and
configure audio and video components comprising the media flows in an IM
session supporting telepresence. A data channel for CLUE message, as defined
in draft-ietf-clue-datachannel [9], is negotiated via the first INVITE message
when creating an IM session supporting telepresence. With the establishment of
that channel, the participants have consented to use the CLUE protocol
mechanisms to determine the capabilities of the each of the endpoints with
respect to multiple streams support. The following exchange of CLUE messages
of each participant\'s \"advertisement\" and \"configure\" is to achieve a
common view of media components sent and received in the IM session supporting
telepresence. A corresponding SDP offer/answer may be needed to establish the
media streams based on the user\'s choice in CLUE messages.
BFCP, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.147 [5], is used to offer floor control of
shared resources in an IM session supporting telepresence.
### 4.4.2 Functional Entities
#### 4.4.2.1 General
As specified in TS 24.103 [6], the functional entities of an IMS-based
telepresence system are depicted in Figure 4.3.
Figure 4.3: Functional Entities of an IMS-based Telepresence System
#### 4.4.2.2 User Equipment (UE)
For the purpose of IM session supporting telepresence, the TP UE implements
the role of a participant in both point to point call and multiparty
conference. As such, during registration the TP UE follows the procedures
specified in subclause 5.1.1 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] as a basis, and it includes
a \"+sip.clue\" Contact header field parameter in the SIP REGISTER request.
To establish an IM session supporting telepresence, the TP UE uses the
procedures as specified in subclause 5.1 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] for point to
point call, and follows the conference procedures as specified in subclause
5.3.1 of 3GPP TS 24.147 [5] for multiparty conference, the TP UE includes a
\"+sip.clue\" Contact header field parameter in the SIP INVITE and SIP UPDATE
requests and responses.
TP UE supports the point to point call procedures specified in subclause 6.1
of 3GPP TS 24.229 [4], and also the conference procedures specified in
subclause 6.3.1 of 3GPP TS 24.147 [5] appropriate to the functional entity in
which the participant is implemented for multiparty conference.
As described in TS 24.103 [6], to initiate an IM session supporting
telepresence, the TP UE executes the following procedures:
1) generate an SDP offer in the SIP request, containing basic media streams
and an establishment request for a DTLS/SCTP association used to realize a
CLUE data channel. The initial SDP offer message negotiates the port and
transport information for setting up the DTLS/SCTP association, via a separate
SDP \"m=\" line together with SDP \"fmtp\" and \"sctp-port\" attribute that
indicating the use of a data channel, and a further session-level \"group\"
attribute may be carried to indicate its belonging of a CLUE group, which also
contains all the CLUE-controlled media. The procedures for establishment of
the DTLS/SCTP association via SDP can be found in draft-ietf-mmusic-sctp-sdp
[14].
2) set up the DTLS/SCTP association used for a CLUE data channel with the
remote party, after receiving the SDP answer with information for CLUE data
channel establishment (e.g. an SDP \"m=\" line together with the SDP \"fmtp\"
and \"sctp-port\" attributes to describe a DTLS/SCTP association indicating
the use of a data channel).
3) When the DTLS/SCTP association used to realize a CLUE data channel is
established, the TP UE opens the CLUE data channel via a DCEP message based on
a SCTP stream. After receiving the response DCEP message, the CLUE data
channel is successfully opened. The procedures for using such a protocol can
be found in clause 4 of draft-ietf-clue-datachannel [9]. As defined in draft-
ietf-clue-signaling [10] and draft-ietf-clue-datachannel [9], only a single
CLUE data channel is established within the same IM session supporting
telepresence.
Once the CLUE data channel is connected, the TP UE triggers an updated SDP
offer/answer exchange to set up media streams for transmission of the media
captures. When constructing the SDP offer in both of point to point call and
multiparty conference, the TP UE executes the following procedures:
1) add a corresponding \"m=\" line for each encoding defined in CLUE messages,
using an associated \"label\" attribute for each \"m=\" line to identify the
each encoding in CLUE messages. In addition, mark the \"m=\" line(s) as send
only with an \"a=sendonly\" attribute or as inactive with an \"a=inactive\"
attribute used to represent the sender\'s encode ability and policies; and
2) use an SDP \"group\" session-level attribute to signal that the \"m=\"
line(s) are CLUE-controlled.
When the SDP offer is sent, the following SDP negotiation procedures follows
normal rules as defined in IETF RFC 3264 [26].
In the conference case, if a TP UE acting as a conference participant joins in
the conference, the TP UE follows the above steps to set up an IM session
supporting telepresence.
Further detail on session update and termination procedures for a TP UE can be
found in TS 24.103 [6].
The TP UE typically supports both of the two roles in CLUE protocol, i.e.
media provider and media consumer, in an IM session supporting telepresence.
However, a TP UE may only act as a media provider if it only sends media
streams but does not receive, or it may only act as a media consumer if it
only receives media streams.
As specified in draft-ietf-clue-framework [8], a media provider representing
an entity that intends to send CLUE-controlled media streams, sends CLUE
ADVERTISEMENT message to describe the content of the media and the media
streams encodings via encoding groups and individual encodings as specified in
clause 9 of draft-ietf-clue-framework [8]. As such, a TP UE acting as a media
provider sends a CLUE ADVERTISEMENT message and receives the corresponding
CLUE CONFIGURE message from the remote party. The detailed information and
format of CLUE messages can be found in draft-ietf-clue-data-model-schema
[11].
Once the CLUE data channel is connected during an IM session supporting
telepresence, the TP UE, acting as a media provider sends a CLUE ADVERTISEMENT
message with multiple media captures related to the video and audio content it
can provide, and carry the identities of these media captures together with
information elements to describe characteristics of these media captures
including video capture spatial information in order to allow the remote party
to select the source(s) it wants to consume, according to draft-ietf-clue-
framework [8].
The TP UE, acting as media provider, may send a new CLUE ADVERTISEMENT message
to update the media captures anytime during the ongoing session, as specified
in draft-ietf-clue-framework [8]. When the media provider receives the CLUE
CONFIGURE message, the media provider triggers an updated SDP offer to
establish the media streams based on the latest received CLUE CONFIGURE
message.
To provide media switching or composition for multiple contents with respect
to time and space during an IM session supporting telepresence, the acting
media provider, a TP UE can include one or more Multiple Content Capture (MCC)
that is composed of multiple individual captures in the CLUE ADVERTISEMENT
message, as defined in subclause 7.2 of draft-ietf-clue-framework [8].
As specified in draft-ietf-clue-framework [8], a media consumer representing
an entity that intends to receive CLUE-controlled media streams, sends CLUE
CONFIGURE message to specify the content and media streams it wants to
receive. A TP UE acting as a media consumer can send CLUE CONFIGURE message to
select the media captures based on the latest received CLUE ADVERTISEMENT
message. The detailed information and format of CLUE messages can be found in
draft-ietf-clue-data-model-schema [11].
Once the CLUE data channel is connected in both point to point cases and
conference cases, the TP UE acting as a media consumer executes the following:
1) be prepared to receive a CLUE ADVERTISEMENT message from a remote party;
2) select the media captures it wants to receive based on the information
elements of the media captures in the received CLUE ADVERTISEMENT message; and
3) send the selected media captures within a CLUE CONFIGURE message to the
remote party.
The TP UE, acting as a media consumer, may choose to have a switching or
composed media by using of Multiple Content Capture (MCC) via CLUE exchange as
defined in subclause 7.2 of draft-ietf-clue-framework [8].
#### 4.4.2.3 Media Resource Function Controller (MRFC) and Media Resource
Function Processor (MFRP)
For the purpose of IM session supporting telepresence, the MRFC supports the
procedures as described in subclauses 5.2.2 and 6.2.2 of 3GPP TS 24.147 [5].
The MRFC and MRFP support both of the two roles in CLUE protocol, i.e. media
provider and media consumer, as specified in draft-ietf-clue-framework [4].
#### 4.4.2.4 Conferencing Application Server (Conferencing AS)
For the purpose of IM session supporting telepresence, the TP enabled
conferencing AS implements the role of a conference focus. The TP conferencing
AS may also implement the role of a participant.
The TP conference focus follows the procedures specified in subclauses 5.3.2
and 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 24.147 [5] appropriate to the functional entity in which
the conference focus is implemented. The TP conference focus includes the
\"+sip.clue\" Contact header field parameter when generating a SIP request or
response for the establishment of an IM conference supporting telepresence.
Once CLUE data channels between the TP enabled conference focus and TP UEs are
connected, the TP enabled conference focus executes the following:
1) trigger an updated SDP offer/answer exchange to set up media streams for
transmission of the media captures between individual TP UE and the TP enabled
conference focus based on the received CLUE CONFIGURE messages; and
2) follow the procedures with TP UEs as described in subclause 4.2.2.2.
When the conference focus receives an update message to the ongoing IM session
supporting telepresence, the conference focus executes the following:
1) finalize the CLUE exchange and possible update of SDP offer/answer
according to clause 5 in draft-ietf-clue-signaling [10]; and
2) if session update is needed between the TP enabled conference focus and
other participants in the same conference, the TP enabled conference focus
initiates the update procedures accordingly.
The Conferencing AS supports both of the two roles in CLUE protocol, i.e.
media provider and media consumer, as specified in draft-ietf-clue-framework
[8].
A TP-enabled conference focus, acting as a media provider, sends a CLUE
ADVERTISEMENT message and receives the corresponding CLUE CONFIGURE message
from the remote party. The detailed information and format of CLUE messages
can be found in draft-ietf-clue-data-model-schema [11].
Once the CLUE data channel is connected during an IM session supporting
telepresence, the TP enabled conference focus, acting as a media provider
sends a CLUE ADVERTISEMENT message with multiple media captures related to the
video and audio content it can provide, and carry the identities of these
media captures together with information elements to describe characteristics
(see clause 4) of these media captures including video capture spatial
information in order to allow the remote party to select the source(s) it
wants to consume, according to draft-ietf-clue-framework [8].
The TP enabled conference focus acting as a media provider may further
construct a new CLUE ADVERTISEMENT message to a TP UE in the conference based
on the media capture information received from the other TP UEs.
To provide media switching or composition for multiple contents with respect
to time and space during an IM session supporting telepresence, the acting
media provider, a TP enabled conference focus, can include one or more
Multiple Content Capture (MCC) that is composed of multiple individual
captures in the CLUE ADVERTISEMENT message, as defined in subclause 7.2 of
draft-ietf-clue-framework [8].
A TP enabled conference focus acting as a media consumer sends CLUE CONFIGURE
message to select the media captures based on the latest received CLUE
ADVERTISEMENT message. The detailed information and format of CLUE messages
can be found in draft-ietf-clue-data-model-schema [11].
The TP enabled conference focus, acting as a media consumer, may choose to
have a switching or composed media by using of Multiple Content Capture (MCC)
via CLUE exchange as defined in subclause 7.2 of draft-ietf-clue-framework
[8].
In the conference case, the TP enabled conference focus can select the media
captures based on the CLUE CONFIGURE messages received from other TP UEs.
# 5 Gap Analysis on Media Handling Aspects of IMS-based Telepresence
## 5.1 Media Handling Aspects of CLUE
### 5.1.1 Introduction on CLUE
CLUE, under development in IETF, is used to advertise and configure audio and
video components comprising the media flows in an IM session supporting
telepresence, see more from: https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/clue/charter/ [8]
- [13]. A data channel for CLUE message is negotiated via the first INVITE
message when creating an IM session supporting telepresence. With the
establishment of that channel, the participants have consented to use the CLUE
protocol mechanisms to determine the capabilities of the each of the endpoints
with respect to multi-stream support, via the exchange of an XML-based data
format. The following exchange of CLUE messages of each participant\'s
\"advertisement\" and \"configure\" is to achieve a common view of media
components sent and received in the IM session supporting telepresence. A
corresponding SDP offer/answer may be needed to establish the media streams
based on the user\'s choice in CLUE messages.
A Telepresence (TP) UE is expected to support CLUE while an MTSI UE is not,
and therefore all media handling aspects relevant for enabling or enhancing
CLUE support are relevant for this study.
While TS 24.103 [6] addresses IMS aspects of telepresence at a core network
level, 3GPP-based media handling requirements and features for a TP UE with
regards to the usage of CLUE have not been established. The following gaps are
observed.
### 5.1.2 Media Handling Requirements for TP UE
#### 5.1.2.1 Data Channel for CLUE Messages
The exchange of CLUE messages requires a data transport channel over DTLS/SCTP
(Datagram Transport Layer Security / Stream Control Transmission Protocol)
[14] negotiated via the initial SDP offer and answer, and usage of the SDP-
based \"SCTP over DTLS\" data channel negotiation mechanism (see more in
draft-ietf-mmusic-data-channel-sdpneg [39]) in order to open the CLUE data
channel based on a SCTP stream in each direction. Therefore a TP UE needs to
support these protocols over the user plane, while the MTSI client protocol
stack depicted Figure 4.3 of TS 26.114 currently lacks these capabilities.
The non-media data conveyed over a data channel is handled by using SCTP
encapsulated in DTLS. Furthermore, Using DTLS over UDP in combination with ICE
enables middle box traversal in IPv4 and IPv6 based networks. This data
transport service operates in parallel to the RTP media transport, and all of
them can be eventually share a single transport-layer port number.
The layering of protocols for data channel is shown in the following Figure
5.1.
Figure 5.1: Protocol stack of data channel
The session setup for data channel transported non-media data can determine:
IP address, UDP port number, SCTP port number (the default value is 5000),
SCTP protocol identifier (i.e. DTLS/SCTP), media format and additional session
parameters.
A TP UE can offer a DTLS/SCTP association together with the media format
indicating the use of a data channel in the first SDP offer or subsequent SDP
offers. A TP client can further open the data channel via the SDP-based \"SCTP
over DTLS\" data channel negotiation mechanism to indicate specific non-
conversational application (e.g. CLUE protocol) over it.
#### 5.1.2.2 RTP / RTCP Level Requirements
No media handling requirements and recommendations on a TP UE have been
specified in TS 24.103 with regards to the usage of RTP / RTCP protocols in
relation to negotiation and establishment of the CLUE data channel. It is
expected that the normative work will address these gaps.
One such example media handling aspect is the use of RTP multiplexing and
mapping of RTP streams to CLUE media captures in the context of IMS-based
telepresence. Due to the potentially large number of RTP flows required for a
TP session involving potentially many endpoints, each of which can have many
media captures and media renderers, it is desirable to multiplex multiple RTP
media flows onto the same transport address, so to avoid using the port number
as a multiplexing point and the associated shortcomings such as NAT/firewall
traversal. The mapping of those RTP flows to the header fields of the RTP
packets incurs the large number of possible permutations, and hence it can be
beneficial to enable a mapping framework that allows narrowing down the number
of possible options that a SIP offer-answer exchange has to consider. Such
mappings include CLUE individual encodings to SDP and RTP media streams to
SDP. Every m-line representing CLUE encoding contains a \"label\" attribute as
defined in RFC 4574 [15]. Various recommendations are provided in [13]
addressing how RTP and RTCP streams should be encoded and transmitted, and how
their relation to CLUE Media Captures should be communicated, and can also be
considered for a TP UE in the context of IMS-based telepresence.
Another example problem to be observed in this context has already been
observed in clause 5.8 of TR 24.803 [7], with regards to the creation of RTP
streams before the completion of CLUE negotiations. Various solution
approaches have also been analysed, such as the following:
\- No media exchanged until completion of CLUE negotiation, i.e. hold the
basic RTP streams until the completion of CLUE negotiation. Once the CLUE
negotiation is completed, SDP may or may not be updated to adapt the transport
of CLUE encodings.
\- Transfer simple media content, where the initial SDP offer-answer is
negotiated with the basic RTP streams, which are configured based on a simple
one-screen/one-speaker view of the room. The RTP streams are flowing on after
they are established, even though the CLUE negotiation is still in progress.
Once the CLUE negotiation is completed, SDP may or may not be updated to adapt
the transport of CLUE encodings.
The information about CLUE-controlled media streams is split between SDP and
CLUE, and CLUE-controlled media is not to be sent unless it has been
negotiated both in CLUE and SDP based on the recommendations specified in
clause 5 of the draft-ietf-clue-signaling [10]. In addition, an ongoing SDP
exchange is not to be delayed regardless of the completion of CLUE
negotiations.
In IMS-based telepresence, RTP streams and CLUE media captures can be
initiated by the TP UEs and TP-enabled conference focus. Each RTP stream uses
a single 5-tuple, and each CLUE media capture is a source of media (e.g. from
one or more capture devices).
In order to associate the media in different protocols (i.e. RTP/RTCP, SDP and
CLUE), the mapping of RTP streams to CLUE media captures can be achieved by
the following steps:
1) a media capture in CLUE \"configure\" message is assigned respectively a
specific media capture encoding (i.e. \"encID\"); and
2) the media capture encoding is represented by a CLUE-controlled m-line with
a label value corresponding to the context of the \"encID\"; and
3) the RTP stream associated with the media capture can be identified by the
transport address in the CLUE-controlled m-line associated with the media
capture encoding.
If multiple RTP streams share a single 5-tuple using RTP multiplexing
according to the draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-bundle-negotiation [28], it is
necessary to add an additional mechanism to identify these RTP streams except
transport address. In order to realize the mapping, the CLUE-controlled m-line
further contains an \"mid\" attribute, which is carried as both an RTP header
extension and an RTCP SDES message.
Furthermore, if a media capture acts as an MCC (i.e. an Multiple Content
Capture is composed of multiple other media captures) using media switching
and composition as specified in subclauses 7.3.1.2.1 and 7.3.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS
24.103 [6], a media capture encoding can be assigned to the MCC in CLUE
\"configure\" message. And therefore it needs to identify these media captures
in the same MCC. Accordingly, the MCC specifies an identifier (i.e. CaptureId)
for each media capture in it, and then the identifier(s) are carried as both
an RTP header extension and an RTCP SDES message.
### 5.1.3 Guidelines and Examples of SDP and CLUE for Telepresence
In the MTSI context, TS 26.114 provides an extensive set of SDP examples as
guidelines to facilitate vendors\' implementations and ensure
interoperability. A similar effort is desired for the anticipated normative
work on IMS-based telepresence systems, where guidelines and examples of SDP
and CLUE can be provided for various scenarios such as the following:
\- Interactions of the CLUE protocol, with SDP offer/answer negotiations.
\- SDP and CLUE examples that demonstrate various standardized features of the
CLUE protocol as described in [8], such as grouping, SCTP/DTLS data channel
activation, multiplexing of CLUE controlled media, etc.
\- Sessions initiated by TP UE or initiated by media gateway.
\- SDP and CLUE examples when adding, modifying or removing media components,
as well as enabling and disabling CLUE during mid-call.
\- SDP and CLUE examples for inter-working with other IMS or non-IMS IP
networks, including MTSI.
### 5.1.4 Session Setup and Control Procedures for TP UE
The session set up for real-media data based on RTP is specified in subclause
6.2 of 3GPP TS 26.114 [2], subclauses 5.3.1 and 6.3.1 of 3GPP TS 24.103 [6].
Due to the asymmetric nature of CLUE, the negotiation of media configuration
(i.e. bandwidth and QoS parameters) of the CLUE-controlled media should be
unidirectional.
This session set-up for non-real-media (i.e. CLUE messages) based on DTLS/SCTP
is specified in subclause 5.1.2.1. And the detail information about how SCTP
is used on the top of the DTLS protocol can be found in draft-ietf-tsvwg-sctp-
dtls-encaps [27].
A TP UE supporting multiple media components initiates a telepresence session,
where CLUE-controlled media components may be complementary with each other
(e.g. an additional audio stream is a translation or commentary of the
conference). In order to associate the different CLUE-controlled media
components, the TP UE should use the CLUE media capture attribute (i.e.
\"Related to\") defined in draft-ietf-clue-framework [8].
During an IM session supporting telepresence, the session can be renegotiated
due to adding and removing CLUE-controlled media based on subclause 6.3 of
3GPP TS 26.114 [2]. In particular, when adding CLUE-controlled media, the
renegotiation of the session requires changes to both SDP and CLUE messages as
specified in the clause 5 of draft-ietf-clue-signaling [10].
A TP UE supporting multiple CLUE-controlled media components may add one or
more media components to an on-going telepresence session. In order to
identify the CLUE-controlled media components with the same media type, the TP
UE should use the CLUE media captures attributes (i.e. \"presentation\",
\"view\", \"description\" and \"lang\") defined in draft-ietf-clue-framework
[8].
### 5.1.5 Gap Analysis
The observed gaps from a media handling perspective include the following:
\- User plane protocol stack for MTSI UEs does not include support of CLUE
data channel
\- Media handling aspects with regards to the usage of RTP / RTCP protocols
need to be specified for TP UEs, e.g. the use of RTP multiplexing and mapping
of RTP streams to CLUE media captures
\- Guidelines and examples on SDP and CLUE usage should be provided for IMS-
based telepresence.
## 5.2 GSMA IR.39 IMS Profile for High Definition Video Conference
### 5.2.1 Introduction
The IMS Profile for High Definition Video Conference (HDVC) service,
documented in the specification IR.39 [16] defines a minimum mandatory set of
features that a video communication client and the network are required to
implement to guarantee an interoperable, high quality IMS-based video
communication service over fixed and mobile access. The HDVC service comprise
point-to-point video calls and video conferences with one full duplex audio
stream with tight synchronization to one main video stream and another video
stream aimed for sharing of for example presentation slides.
Several mandated or recommended media handling features of GSMA IR.39 could be
adopted by a Telepresence (TP) UE toward better interoperating with an HDVC
UE. In particular, the following UE capabilities mandated or recommended in
the present document constitute a gap with respect to the media handling
capabilities of an MTSI UE.
### 5.2.2 Screen Sharing
It is mandatory for an HDVC UE to support screen sharing by a dedicated video
stream, typically using low frame rate and high resolution, similar to what is
specified for ITU-T Recommendation H.239 [17].
The screen sharing media is sent from one sender to all participants in a
conference.
The screen sharing media stream is identified in SDP with a video media line
placed after the media line for the main video content. The media line uses
the attribute \"a=content:slides\", as defined in IETF RFC 4796 [18] and uses
the \"3gpp_sync_info: No Sync\" attribute as defined in clause 6.2.6 of 3GPP
TS 26.114 [2] to indicate that the stream is not synchronized with the main
voice and video streams.
Accordingly, it is mandatory for an HDVC UE to support the use of a second
video stream in point to point video calls and in conferences.
### 5.2.3 Voice Codecs
Mandatory and recommended voice codec requirements of IR.39 for HDVC UEs
contain those in TS 26.114 for MTSI clients using 3GPP access and partially
those for MTSI clients using fixed access (there are some additional codecs
recommended in TS 26.114 for MTSI clients using fixed access based on TS 181
005). Beyond that, some further requirements on voice codecs are specified in
GSMA IR.39 for HDVC UEs. The discussion below provides some of these
requirements.
If super-wideband or fullband voice is supported, an HDVC UE of GSMA IR.39 is
required to support the Enhanced Voice Services (EVS) codec and recommended to
support the ITU-T G.719 codec (described in ITU-T G.719 recommendation) [19]
or the AAC-LD codec (described in recommendation ISO/IEC 14496-3:2009) [20].
Furthermore, according to the GSMA IR.39 profile, the entities in the IMS core
network that terminate the user plane are mandated support the EVS codec. The
ITU-T G.719 codec or the AAC-LD codec and the transcoding between EVS and
these codecs may be supported if needed for super-wideband or fullband voice
interoperability with UEs not supporting EVS (non HDVC UEs or HDVC UEs before
EVS is introduced). Accordingly, the following RTP payload format
considerations apply:
\- G.719 Payload Format Considerations: When an HDVC UE supports G.719, it
also supports the G.719 payload format of IETF RFC 5404 [21] according to GSMA
IR.39.
\- AAC-LD Payload Format Considerations: When an HDVC UE supports AAC-LD, it
also supports the MP4A-LATM payload format of IETF RFC 3016 [22], according to
GSMA IR.39.
Currently existing telepresence systems offer improved user experience over
regular video conferencing. In order to provide a \"being there\" experience
where the users enjoy a strong sense of realism and presence for
conversational audio, super-wideband (SWB) and fullband (FB) audio coding can
be considered for IMS-based telepresence services.
As an example, one of the codecs supporting SWB and FB audio coding is EVS. To
show the quality benefits of SWB audio coding relative to WB and NB, 3GPP has
conducted extensive EVS characterization testing, in TR 26.952 [44], where the
following was concluded:
\- Clean and Noisy speech: The EVS-SWB codec performance is significantly
better than the previously standardized AMR-WB codec. The subjective quality
of EVS-SWB coding at 9.6 kbps is better than the AMR-WB at 23.85 kbps.
Further, the EVS-SWB codec performance is significantly better than the
existing super-wideband codecs, such as the ITU-T G.719, both in clean channel
as well as under impaired channel conditions. The EVS-SWB clean speech quality
at 13.2 kbps is comparable to that of the ITU-T G.719 at 48 kbps.
\- Music/audio coding: The subjective quality of EVS-SWB coding starting at
13.2 kbps is significantly better than the AMR-WB at its highest bit rate
23.85 kbps. Further, EVS-SWB shows major improvements for mixed-content and
music, performing equally or better than the existing super-wideband codecs,
such as the AMR-WB+, the ITU-T G.719 at much lower algorithmic delay than
those codecs.
Consequently, super-wideband or fullband coding can be a more suitable and
compelling choice for IMS-based telepresence services as the extended coding
of audio bandwidth (as depicted in Figure 5.2), would provide not only an
improved sense of presence and contribute to better music quality but also
improve naturalness.
{width="6.489583333333333in" height="2.0416666666666665in"}
Figure 5.2: Audio bandwidth depiction, NB (\~300 Hz to 4 kHz), WB (\~100 Hz to
7 kHz), and SWB (\~50Hz to 16 kHz)
### 5.2.4 Video Codecs
Mandatory and recommended video codec requirements of IR.39 for HDVC UEs
contain those in TS 26.114 for MTSI clients, but also some further aspects on
video codecs are specified in GSMA IR.39. In particular, GSMA IR.39 specifies
optional support for H.264 Main and High Profiles [23] for the HDVC UE and the
network.
### 5.2.5 Gap Analysis
The observed gaps from a media handling perspective include the following:
\- Additional codec capabilities for speech and video that are lacking in MTSI
UEs, e.g. those documented in GSMA IR.39 HDVC profile, may be considered for
TP UEs.
\- Further media handling aspects from GSMA IR.39 HDVC profile such as screen
sharing may be considered for TP UEs.
## 5.3 Media Handling Aspects of Telepresence from ITU-T SG16
### 5.3.1 Functional Requirements
In [24], the functional requirements for telepresence systems are defined.
Moreover, in [25] recommendations and guidelines for achieving high QoE in
Telepresence services are provided. From a media handling perspective, the
following requirements and recommendations are relevant and not covered by
those in TS 22.228 [3]. Hence, 3GPP SA4 may consider these requirements and
recommendations during the course of normative work on media handling aspects
of IMS-based telepresence. The control-plane specific requirements from [24]
addressed by TS 24.103 [6] based on IETF CLUE protocol are not addressed here.
#### 5.3.1.1 User Experience
\- It is recommended that a telepresence system support actual size high
definition imaging of videoconferencing participants at the remote end. The
support of actual size is considered an advanced telepresence feature.
\- It is recommended that a telepresence system provide an experience where
there is awareness of both direct gaze and averted gaze, with the remote
participants\' video images being rendered within a tolerable angle in both
horizontal and vertical axes from the gaze direction between the two
communicating participants. NOTE -- The visual clues for determining the gaze
direction may include the orientation of the looker\'s eyes with respect to
their head and the orientation of the looker\'s head with respect to the
environment. Some research suggests that tolerable angles are 3-5 degrees
horizontal and up to 12 degrees upward and 8 degrees downward.
\- It is recommended that a telepresence system support a means of locating
the speaker in a remote meeting room so that local participants can readily
identify the position of different remote speakers.
\- It is recommended that for Telepresence systems: end to end video delay: ≤
320 milliseconds, and end to end audio delay: ≤ 280 milliseconds. It is
recommended that a telepresence system enable synchronization of audio and
video from the remote location. Synchronization includes \"lip-sync\" and the
sequencing of multiple media streams. It is recommended that audio streams
should be less than 40 ms ahead of video streams, and less than 60 ms behind
video streams.
\- It is recommended that a telepresence system support multiple video sources
in each meeting room. It is recommended that these video sources provide a
seamless view of the conference participants.
\- It is recommended that a telepresence system support multiple screens in
each meeting room. It is recommended that the gap width between neighbouring
displays be minimized.
\- It is recommended that a telepresence system allow the receiver to switch
captures between displays and assign desirable display positions for them
(either automatically or via user input).
\- It is recommended that a telepresence system indicate detailed information
associated with a composed capture including the list of originating sources
and the policy of the composition.
\- [A telepresence system can optionally provide each participant with an
experience of being present in the same virtual room, maintaining consistent
spatial relationships among all the participants.]
#### 5.3.1.2 Statistical Information Reporting
It is recommended that a telepresence management system be able to provide
various statistical information about a telepresence conference session (both
during and at the end of the conference) which includes but is not limited to:
media type/s used, the numbers of endpoints, session duration, and data volume
of each media type. Depending on the information required the telepresence
management system may collect the information from multiple different
telepresence system entities, e.g. call resource controller, multi-point
control unit and endpoints.
It is recommended that a telepresence system provide QoS/QoE information
including media network utilization, network delay, loss rate and jitter.
#### 5.3.1.3 Network-Level Aspects
It is recommended that a telepresence system enable reservation of network
resources for assuring QoS for the telepresence session.
It is recommended that a telepresence system enable adaptation of the quality
of media based on the network status. For example: Under a best-effort network
such as the Internet which cannot provide strictly guaranteed network QoS, the
telepresence system may need to manipulate its video quality based on network
status.
It is recommended that a telepresence system provide a means for endpoints to
participate in telepresence conferences when some of telepresence system
components are located in one or more private networks.
### 5.3.2 Audio/Video Parameters
#### 5.3.2.0 General
In [41] and [42], ITU-T SG16 defines signalling and architecture for
telepresence enabled conferencing. The ITU-T recommendation in [41] describes
signalling procedures related to point-to-point and multipoint call processes
in H.245 [33] based telepresence systems, including registration, call session
establishment, capability exchange and negotiation of media stream transport.
The ITU-T recommendation in [42] describes the telepresence system functions,
devices and network elements for capturing, delivering, managing and rendering
multiple high quality interactive audio and video signals in a telepresence
conference. The CLUE framework is utilized as part of ITU-T\'s signalling and
architecture for telepresence enabled conferencing in order to signal
information related to multiple media captures. As such, a H.323 telepresence
session follows additional call signalling procedures to negotiate the use of
CLUE signalling and to link CLUE information to H.245 capabilities.
In this context, ITU-T SG16 also defines in [29] the audio/video/environment
endpoint parameters for telepresence systems applicable for both SIP/IMS
[4]-[5] and H.323 [43] based systems, including those which are used in the
media setup phase during capability negotiation, and [29] also gives the
specific format definitions for these parameters. Collectively, these
audio/video parameters and their associated values can be expected to provide
a high quality telepresence experience and are relevant for 3GPP\'s IMS-based
telepresence services from a media handling point of view. Furthermore,
guidance is provided in [29] on the need for signalling these parameters at
session initiation and during a session.
As far as possible, the audio/video parameters defined in [29] have been
aligned with those specified by the IETF CLUE Working Group. However, there
are several additional parameters that have also been specified. The set of
parameters defined by ITU-T SG16 in [29] that are relevant for 3GPP\'s IMS-
based telepresence services are documented below, and with also an indication
their relationship to IETF CLUE.
#### 5.3.2.1 Capture-Related Parameters
##### 5.3.2.1.1 General parameters
Table 5.1: General parameters
* * *
Parameter Need for signalling at session initiation Need for signalling during
session Remarks media Type Y Y See the \"MediaCapture\" attributes in IETF
CLUE data model schema [11]. captureScene description Y Y See the
\"Description\" attribute in 7.2.1 of IETF CLUE framework [8]. sceneView
description Y Y See the \"View\" attribute in 7.2.2 of IETF CLUE framework
[8]. Lang Y N See \"Language\" in IETF CLUE framework [8]. Priority Y Y See
\"Priority\" in IETF CLUE framework [8]. Embeddedtext Y Y See \"Embedded
Text\" in IETF CLUE framework [8]. relatedTo Y Y See \"Related to\" in IETF
CLUE framework [8]. Presentation Y Y See \"Presentation\" in IETF CLUE
framework [8]. personInfo Y Y As per clause 7.1.1.10 in IETF CLUE framework
[8]. personType Y Y As per clause 7.1.1.11 in IETF CLUE framework [8].
sceneInformation Y Y As per clause 7.3.1.1 in IETF CLUE framework [8].
mediaCapture description Y Y See the \"Description\" attribute in clause 7.1.1
of IETF CLUE framework [8]. captureScene scale Y N See \"Scale Information\"
in IETF CLUE framework [8]. mediaCapture mobility Y N See \"Mobility of
capture\" in IETF CLUE framework [8]. mediaCapture view Y Y See \"View\" in
IETF CLUE framework [8]. maxGroupBandwidth Y N See \"maxGroupBandwidth\" in
IETF CLUE framework [8]. Simulcast Y Y Telepresence systems may provide
multiple encodings for the one capture through a technique known as simulcast.
For example, this may be achieved by sending multiple video coding streams
with different characteristics to allow a receiving endpoint to choose the
stream that meets its needs. IETF CLUE WG has decided to utilize the mechanism
defined in [38].
* * *
##### 5.3.2.1.2 Visual parameters
Table 5.2: Visual parameters
* * *
Parameter Need for signalling at session initiation Need for signalling during
session Remarks colorGamut Y N This parameter indicates the Colour Gamut used
in a Telepresence Video Stream. Signalled as part of the codec information,
e.g. in H.264 and H.265 SEI. lumaBitDepth Y N This parameter indicates the bit
depth of the luma samples in a digital picture. Signalled as part of the codec
information, e.g. in H.264 and H.265 SEI. chromaBitDepth Y N This parameter
indicates the bit depth of the chroma samples in a digital picture. Signalled
as part of the codec information, e.g. in H.264 and H.265 SEI.
effectiveResolution N N This parameter indicates effective resolution of a
rendered video stream as perceived by the viewer. Not signalled. captureArea Y
Y See \"Area of Capture\" in IETF CLUE framework [8]. capturePoint Y Y See
\"Point of Capture\" in IETF CLUE framework [8]. lineOfCapturePoint Y Y See
the \"Point on line of Capture\" attribute in IETF CLUE framework [8].
maxVideoBitrate Y Y This parameter indicates the maximum number of bits per
second relating to a single video encoding and is signalled in the SDP. See
\"max-mbps\" in IETF RFC 6184 [30] and \"CustomMaxMBPS\" in ITU-T H.241 [31].
maxWidth Y N This parameter indicates the maximum video resolution width in
pixels and is signalled in the SDP. See \"horizontal image size\" in IETF RFC
6236 [32] and \"CustomPictureFormat\" in ITU-T H.245 [33]. maxHeight Y N This
parameter indicates the maximum video resolution height in pixels and is
signalled in the SDP. See \"vertical image size\" in IETF RFC 6236 [32] and
\"CustomPictureFormat\" in ITU-T H.245 [33]. maxFramerate Y N This parameter
indicates the maximum video framerate and is signalled in the SDP. See
\"framerate\" in IETF RFC 4566 [34] and \"MaxFPS\" in ITU-T H.241 [31].
* * *
##### 5.3.2.1.3 Audio parameters
Table 5.3: Audio parameters
* * *
Parameter Need for signalling at session initiation Need for signalling during
session Remarks Audio capturePoint Y Y See \"Point of Capture\" in IETF CLUE
framework [8]. Audio lineOfCapturePoint Y Y See the \"Point on line of
Capture\" attribute in IETF CLUE framework [8]. Audio sensitivityPattern Y Y
See the \"Audio Capture Sensitivity Pattern\" attribute in IETF CLUE framework
[8]. maxAudioBitrate Y Y This parameter indicates the maximum number of bits
per second relating to a single audio encoding and signalled in the SDP. See
\"bandwidth\" in IETF RFC 4566 [34] and \"maxBitRate\" in ITU-T H.245 [33].
nominalAudio Level TBD TBD This parameter indicates the nominal audio level
sent in the Telepresence audio stream. See ITU-T H.245 [33]. dynamicAudioLevel
N Y This parameter indicates the actual audio level sent in the Telepresence
audio stream as it varies as a function of time, and may be signalled in the
RTP header extension. See IETF RFC 6464 [35].
* * *
##### 5.3.2.1.4 Delay parameters
Table 5.4: Delay parameters
* * *
Parameter Need for signalling at session initiation Need for signalling during
session Remarks endToEndVideoDelay N N This parameter indicates the one-way
end to end delay (camera lens to video display) of the video media sent
between two Telepresence terminals. In order to provide a high QoE
telepresence experience to end-users, telepresence systems, it is desirable
for the end to end video delay to be less than 320 milliseconds. Not
signalled. endToEndAudioDelay N N This parameter indicates the one-way end to
end delay (mouth to ear) of the audio media sent between two Telepresence
terminals. In order to provide a high QoE telepresence experience to end-
users, telepresence systems, it is desirable for the end to end audio delay to
be less than 280 milliseconds. Not signalled. audioVideoSynchronization N N
This parameter indicates the synchronization between an audio and the
corresponding video media stream (EndtoEndVideoDelay-EndtoEndAudioDelay). In
order to provide high QoE telepresence services to end-users, telepresence
systems should maintain synchronization within 40 and -60 milliseconds (i.e.
synchronization error is less than 40 ms if the audio stream is ahead of the
video stream and less than 60 ms if the video stream is ahead of the audio
stream).Not signalled.
* * *
##### 5.3.2.1.5 Multiple Source Capture parameters
Table 5.5: Multiple Source Capture parameters
* * *
Parameter Need for signalling at session initiation Need for signalling during
session Remarks multContentCapture Y Y See the \' Multiple content capture \'
in IETF CLUE framework [8]. MCC sources Y Y See the \' Multiple content
capture \' in IETF CLUE framework [8]. MCC maxCaptures Y Y See the \' Maximum
Number of Captures within a MCC \' MCC attribute in IETF CLUE framework [8].
MCC policy Y Y See the \' Policy \' MCC attribute in in IETF CLUE framework
[8]. MCC synchronizationID Y Y See the \' Synchronization Identity \' MCC
attribute in IETF CLUE framework [8].
* * *
##### 5.3.2.2 Telepresence System Environment parameters
Table 5.6: Telepresence System Environment parameters
* * *
Parameter Need for signalling at session initiation Need for signalling during
session Remarks illuminantType Y Y This parameter describes the profile of the
visible light at a telepresence endpoint. May need to be signalled if lighting
changes during session. Signalling is based on Annex E of ITU-T H.264 [36] and
Annex E of ITU-T H.265 [37]. illuminantCRI Index Y Y This parameter describes
the colour rendering index (CRI) of the visible (ambient) light at the
telepresence endpoint. Signalling is based on Annex E of ITU-T H.264 [36] and
Annex E of ITU-T H.265 [37]. illuminantColourTemperature Y Y This parameter
describes the correlated colour temperature (CCT) of the visible (ambient)
light at the telepresence endpoint. Signalling is based on Annex E of ITU-T
H.264 [36] and Annex E of ITU-T H.265 [37].
* * *
### 5.3.3 Gap Analysis
The observed gaps from a media handling perspective include the following:
\- Further requirements on TP UEs beyond those in TS 22.228 [3] may be defined
and functional requirements from ITU-T SG16 on telepresence systems addressing
user experience, statistical information reporting and network level aspects
may be considered for this purpose.
\- Audio/video parameters to be used by TP UEs in IMS-based telepresence
sessions need to be profiled, considering IETF CLUE and ITU-T SG16
telepresence specifications including capture-related parameters and system
environment related parameters.
## 5.4 MPEG Codecs Relevant for Telepresence
### 5.4.1 MPEG-4 AAC-ELD
#### 5.4.1.1 Introduction
The Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) updated AAC-LD to AAC-ELD [20],
providing more coding efficiency and lower algorithmic delay [40].
Interoperability is achieved through compliance to the MPEG-4 Audio Profile
Low Delay AAC v2. When the clients are negotiating use of AAC-ELD, then SDP
offers should include both AAC-ELD and AAC-LD, where AAC-ELD is preferred over
AAC-LD.
#### 5.4.1.2 Gap Analysis
Neither AAC-LD nor AAC-ELD is supported in MTSI. As AAC-ELD is an update of
AAC-LD, which is supported in IR.39 (see clause 5.2.3 of the present
document), and widely supported by mobile operating systems, AAC-ELD may also
be considered for TP UEs.
### 5.4.2 MPEG Video Codecs
#### 5.4.2.1 Introduction
IMS-based telepresence services are expected to support higher resolution
video streams including High Definition (HD) video formats or even Ultra-High
Definition (UHD) video formats, due to end terminals with typically larger
screen sizes. Consequently, it is desirable to investigate the relevance of
MPEG\'s advanced video codecs targeted for delivery of HD video and possibly
UHD video streams over IMS-based telepresence services, with resolutions of
1080p or higher, and frame rates up to 60 fps.
In MTSI UEs, the current video codec requirements mandate support of H.264/AVC
Constrained Baseline Profile (CBP), Level 1.2, and recommend support of
H.264/AVC Constrained Baseline Profile (CBP), Level 3.1 and H.265/HEVC Main
Profile, Main Tier, Level 3.1. In the context of IMS-based telepresence
services, it is hence relevant to consider the following MPEG video codec
profiles to be supported by TP UEs:
\- H.264/AVC Constrained High Profile (CHP), Levels 1.3 or higher [36]
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main Profile, Levels 4.1 or higher [37]
#### 5.4.2.2 Gap Analysis
It is possible that both mandatory and recommended codec requirements for TP
UEs may be updated based on these additional MPEG video codec profiles.
# 6 Conclusion
Based on the gap analysis on media handling aspects of IMS-based telepresence,
the following conclusions can be drawn toward normative specification work:
## 6.1 Codecs
Media codec requirements for IMS-based telepresence should be defined for
speech, video and real-time text. Various gaps with respect to MTSI codec
requirements were documented in the present document and these additional
codec capabilities, e.g. as also documented in GSMA\'s IR.39 IMS Profile on
High Definition Video Conference (see clause 5.2), should be considered during
the course of the normative work. In particular, as discussed in clauses 5.2
and 5.4, it is relevant to consider the following codec profiles to be
supported by TP UEs:
\- Audio:
\- ITU-T G.719 [19] and MPEG AAC-LD [20] codecs from GSMA IR.39 profile [16]
\- MPEG AAC-ELD codec in [20]
\- Video:
\- H.264/AVC Constrained High Profile (CHP), Levels 1.3 or higher [36]
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main Profile, Levels 4.1 or higher [37]
## 6.2 Media Handling Aspects
Various gaps with respect to media handling aspects of telepresence were
documented in the present document. Accordingly, the following areas should be
within the scope of the normative work:
\- Data transport aspects of a TP UE, including RTP/RTCP level requirements,
user plane protocol stack aspects beyond the MTSI client, as identified in
clause 5.1
\- Audio/video parameters and their usage for IMS-based telepresence, as
identified in clause 5.3
\- Guidelines and examples for SDP and CLUE usage for IMS-based telepresence,
e.g. similar to the guidelines and examples on SDP usage for MTSI in TS
26.114, as identified in clause 5.1
#