# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
With connected car often considered as one of key applications of 5G, 3GPP has
been working on the features and required technologies of vehicle-to-
everything (V2X), in which coordinated efforts are made by vehicles and
networks to realize advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) or self-driving
vehicles. The initial works on V2X focused on the exchange or delivery of
short control messages to avoid collision, and did not consider the
functionalities required for advanced connected cars. However, the use cases
for advanced driving of eV2X, specified in TR 22.886, include various
scenarios including media, such as video and sensor data.
Although more advanced transmission capabilities are required, media can
overcome the limitations of coded messages that might not be able to describe
arbitrary situations on the road, and can be a more intuitive source of
information for the decision of driver or artificial intelligence, e.g., by
providing visual information that cannot be provided by the on-board cameras
or sensors of vehicles with limited coverage or accuracy. Strong tolerance to
the variance of weather is another advantage of media-based V2X that can
exploit the point-to-point transmission or multicasting/broadcasting
capability of 3GPP radio access.
# 1 Scope
In the present document, media-related use cases of V2X described in TR 22.886
and their requirements in TS 22.186 are analysed in detail, to clarify the
operation of advanced driving using networked visual information. The required
procedures for media capture, compression, and transmission, based on the
mechanisms for media handling and transportation, such as MTSI, MBMS, and
FLUS, are investigated. Operation over the PC5 interface is currently outside
of the scope of this document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TR 22.885: \"Study on LTE support for Vehicle to Everything (V2X)
> services\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TR 22.885: \"Study on LTE support for Vehicle to Everything (V2X)
> services\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TR 22.886: \"Study on enhancement of 3GPP Support for 5G V2X
> Services\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TS 22.186: \"Enhancement of 3GPP Support for V2X Scenarios\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TR 23.785: \"Study on architecture enhancements for LTE support of
> V2X services\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".
>
> [8] 3GPP TR 23.786: \"Study on architecture enhancements for EPS and 5G
> System to support advanced V2X services\".
>
> [9] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE
> (GCSE_LTE); Stage 2\".
>
> [10] 3GPP TR 33.885: \"Study on security aspects for LTE support of Vehicle-
> to-Everything (V2X) services\".
>
> [11] 3GPP TS 33.185: \"Security aspect for LTE support of Vehicle-to-
> Everything (V2X) services\".
>
> [12] 3GPP TR 36.885: \"Study on LTE-based V2X services\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1]. The following definitions of V2X are from [2], [3].
**Road Side Unit:** A stationary infrastructure entity supporting V2X
applications that can exchange messages with other entities supporting V2X
applications.
> NOTE: RSU is a term frequently used in existing ITS specifications, and the
> reason for introducing the term in the 3GPP specifications is to make the
> documents easier to read for the ITS industry. RSU is a logical entity that
> combines V2X application logic with the functionality of an eNB (referred to
> as eNB-type RSU) or UE (referred to as UE-type RSU).
**V2I Service** : A type of V2X Service, where one party is a UE and the other
party is an RSU both using V2I application.
**V2N Service** : A type of V2X Service, where one party is a UE and the other
party is a serving entity, both using V2N applications and communicating with
each other via LTE network entities.
**V2P Service** : A type of V2X Service, where both parties of the
communication are UEs using V2P application.
**V2V Service** : A type of V2X Service, where both parties of the
communication are UEs using V2V application.
**V2X Service** : A type of communication service that involves a transmitting
or receiving UE using V2V application via 3GPP transport. Based on the other
party involved in the communication, it can be further divided into V2V
Service, V2I Service, V2P Service, and V2N Service.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> RSU Road Side Unit
>
> V2I Vehicle-to-Infrastructure
>
> V2N Vehicle-to-Network
>
> V2P Vehicle-to-Pedestrian
>
> V2V Vehicle-to-Vehicle
>
> V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
# 4 V2X overview
3GPP started a feasibility study on V2X as a message-based mechanism for
improved safety and group driving (platooning), defining a variety of use
cases including the interaction of vehicles, networks, and pedestrians, and
their potential requirements [2]. As new needs for facilitating more advanced
applications such as autonomous driving became elevated, the study continued
to investigate the aspects of handling higher bit-rate sensor data and media
[3]. Basic requirements set from these studies were specified in [4], [5].
From the outcomes of these feasibility studies, further studies on the network
architecture that could meet the requirements of V2X followed [6], [7].
Initial consideration of V2X was in the operating environments of LTE but its
applications were extended to 5G [8]. In addition to the conventional Uu
interface between UE (vehicle) and eNodeB/gNB, PC5, a new interface enabling
direct communication between vehicles, were defined, which re-uses the
functionalities of group communication system enablers defined for mission-
critical applications [9]. Based on the V2X architectures defined, security
aspects were studied, and potential vulnerability of new interfaces were
investigated [10], [11]. Finally, advanced features of radio access
technologies are under study for higher performance [12].
# 5 Media use cases in V2X
## 5.1 Use case 1
5.1.1 Description
5.1.2 Requirements
## 5.2 Use case 2
# 6 System architecture
## 6.1 General
## 6.2 System
## 6.3 Terminal
## 6.4 Procedures
# 7 Protocols
## 7.1 General
## 7.2 Uplink
## 7.3 Downlink
## 7.4 Direct link
Editor's note: use of PC5 link for video is not in the scope of this study
item.
# 8 Media consideration
## 8.1 General
## 8.2 Video
###### ### Annex \: \
Annexes are only to be used where appropriate:
Annexes are labelled A, B, C, etc. and are \"informative\" (3GPP TRs are
informative documents by nature).
# A.1 Heading levels in an annex
Heading levels within an annex are used as in the main document, but for
Heading level selection, the \"A.\", \"B.\", etc. are ignored. e.g. **A.1.2**
is formatted using **_Heading 2_** style.
#