# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Conformance Test Specification for a
Universal IC Card (UICC) defined in TS 31.101 [2] with Universal Subscriber
Identity Module (USIM) defined in TS 31.102 [3].
# 2 Normative References
The following documents contain provisions, which through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference to a non-3GPP document, the latest version
applies.
\- For a non-specific reference to a 3GPP document, the latest version in the
same release as the implementation release of the UICC under test applies.
[1] Void.
[2] 3GPP TS 31.101: \"UICC-Terminal Interface; Physical and Logical
Characteristics\".
[3] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the USIM application\".
[4] -- [19] Void.
[20] 3GPP TS 31.122, Rel-15: \"Universal Subscriber Identity Module (USIM)
conformance test specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and coding
Void
4 Requirements
> The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 31.122
> [20].
#