# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document presents a review of the USIM, ISIM and the related
Toolkit aspects (respectively found in TS 31.102 [3], TS 31.103 [4] and TS
31.111 [5]) features and their mandatory/optional support in the light of
actual use or demand in the field is to be conducted. The technical report
documents the justification for the support of features identified as not
being implemented or required (e.g. from SA1 requirements). When a common
understanding is reached about a potential need for a modification of the
required support of a feature, it will be listed for further consideration by
CT6. Should any normative work be derived from the content of the study, it
will be carried out as part of a separate work item.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the Universal Subscriber Identity
Module (USIM) application\".
[4] 3GPP TS 31.103: \"Characteristics of the IP multimedia services identity
module (ISIM) application\".
[5] 3GPP TS 31.111: \"Universal Subscriber Identity Module (USIM) Application
Toolkit (USAT)\".
> [6] ETSI TS 102 223 V11.1.0: \"Smart Cards; Card Application Toolkit\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 21.111: \"USIM and IC card requirements\".
>
> [8] 3GPP TS 31.121: \"Universal Subscriber Identity Module (USIM)
> application test specification\".
>
> [9] 3GPP TS 22.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS)\".
>
> [10] OMA-RD-MMS-V1 3-20110913-A: \"MMS Requirements\".
>
> [11] 3GPP TS 31.124: \"Universal Subscriber Identity Module Application
> Toolkit (USAT) conformance test specification\".
>
> [12] GSMA: \"IMEI Allocation and Approval Process Version 7.0 31^st^ October
> 2013\".
# 3 Definitions, and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
ETSI TS 102 223 [6] clause 3.1 and TR 21.905 [1] apply.
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
ETSI TS 102 223 [6] clause 3.1 and TR 21.905 [1] apply.
ACL Access Control List
GCF Global Certification Forum
ISIM IM Subscriber Identity Module
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
PTCRB PCS Type Certification Review Board
USAT USIM Application Toolkit
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
# 4 Review of USIM, ISIM and USAT features
## 4.1 Background
Claiming support for a given release of 3GPP translates into the requirement
to support all the mandatory features specified for that release. This
requirement is often found to be a superset of the requirements actually
expressed by the customers for 3GPP devices. This relates in particular to
some of the mandatory features specified for USIM, ISIM and the related
Toolkit aspects (respectively found in TS 31.102 [3], TS 31.103 [4] and TS
31.111 [5]), as it appears that there is no intent to use some of those
mandatory features in the field.
With a view to best address their customer\'s requirements, the ME
manufacturers tailor their implementation to the actual requirements expressed
and to their understanding of which features are found to be used in the
field. The current set of CT6 specifications does not allow for such profiling
of features.
The following sub-sections look at individual features and identify if
industry based test cases exist in CT6, RAN5,GCF and PTCRB. Other feature
value attributes are also considered for the feature. Based on this
information a conclusion is drawn if the feature should be made mandatory or
optional in the respective TS 31.102 [3], TS 31.103 [4] and TS 31.111 [5]
specifications.
## 4.2 Local Phonebook
### 4.2.1 Description
A Phonebook is a repository to store information about telephone numbers,
email addresses, groups etc. There are different options where and in which
way to store one or several phonebooks. There is a possibility to store a
global phonebook under the DF~TELECOM~ which is accessible by all applications
of a UICC (e.g. several USIMs, a SIM, a CSIM). In addition it is possible to
have a USIM application specific phonebook that is stored within an ADF~USIM~
which is only accessible by the related USIM application. This is what is
called a \"Local Phonebook\"
Phonebooks are described in 3GPP TS 31.102 [3]. Extract of the feature from
3GPP TS 31.102 [3] is described below.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ### 4.4.2 Contents of files at t | | he DF PHONEBOOK level {#contents-of-files-at-the-df-phonebook-level} | | | | The EFs in the DF~PHONEBOOK~ level contain phone book related | | features as required in TS 21.111 [1]. | | | | The UICC may contain a global phonebook, or application specific | | phonebooks, or both in parallel. When both phonebook types co-exist, | | they are independent and no data is shared. In this case, it shall | | be possible for the user to select which phonebook the user would | | like to access. To achieve this, the terminal shall support the | | global and the application specific phonebooks | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 4.2.2 Input from other groups and bodies
#### 4.2.2.1 GCF CAG
##### 4.2.2.1.1 Operator usage
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
\"Local Phonebook\" appears to be required by just 1 operator for possible
future use, The other 5 network operators are currently not requiring this
feature and UE manufacturers have difficulty implementing it because of OS
limitations, chipset limitations, etc. Additionally, these features may slow
down device boot and it is also confusing for the user to be presented with
several phonebooks.
##### 4.2.2.1.2 Feedback
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
Noting the feedback, CAG would like to suggest that CT6 may consider making
the \"Local Phonebook\" feature OPTIONAL.
#### 4.2.2.2 PTCRB
PTCRB responded in C6-140252. The following is quoted from document C6-140252.
Based on this review by the PTCRB operators we would like to state that we
agree with the GCF CAG evaluation with one exception. Item 2 -- \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" is viewed as required based on
feedback from one of our operator members and we therefore recommend this
feature be set to mandatory.
### 4.2.3 Discussion of Feature Value
##### 4.2.3.1 General
There can be numerous phone books accessible in a device:
a) UICC based phone books
i) Global Phone Book; and
ii) Local Phone Book; and
b) Device based phone books;
i) Application specific; and
ii) Device Specific .e.g. Contacts List.
The UICC phone books are distinct; the local phone book is only accessible to
the USIM application as specified in TS 31.102 [3] while the Global Phone Book
is accessible to all UICC applications. Adding in the complexity of device
based phone books and the roll out of IMS based services that use ISIM as
specified in TS 31.103 [4] it becomes even more complex to manage a phone book
specific to the USIM application.
In addition Global Phone Book is already a mandatory feature.
#### 4.2.3.2 Recommendation
It is proposed to make the support of the local phone book in the ME mandatory
in Feature Phones as specified in [12] only in TS 31.102 [3] and ensure that
when Local Phone Book is supported by the ME the test specification as defined
in TS 31.121 [8] makes the testing of the feature mandatory.
### 4.2.4 Relevant Core Specifications
Stage 1 requirements are in 3GPP TS 21.111 [7].
Stage 3 requirements are in 3GPP TS 31.102 [3].
### 4.2.5 CT6 or RAN5 Test Case
3GPP TS 31.121 [8] defines the test case for Local Phonebook feature. Table
A.1 from 3GPP TS 31.121 [8] indicates if the feature should be mandatory or
optional.
Table A.1: Options
* * *
**Item** **Option** **Status** **Mnemonic** 8 Support of local phonebook C004
O_Local_PB
* * *
C004 If (A.1/18 is supported) AND (terminal is implemented according to Rel-6
or later) then M, else O
### 4.2.6 GCF or PTCRB Certification
TBD
## 4.3 Support of Usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM
### 4.3.1 Description
MMS is described in 3GPP TS 22.140 [9] and OMA-RD-MMS-V1 3-20110913-A.pdf
[10]. It is a feature that allows a user to send and receive messages that
could contain text, voice, images, video etc. An extract of the requirements
from 3GPP TS 22.140 [9] can be found below.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | 5.1 Multimedia message management {#multimedia-message-management} | | --------------------------------- | | | | **.....** | | | | **\- Storage of MMS parameters** | | | | > The USIM shall be able to store the following types of MMS related | | > data: | | > | | > i) a number of sets of issuer configuration information to allow | | > access to MMS services. | | > | | > At least one of these sets of configuration information should be | | > stored on the USIM by the issuer of the USIM. | | > | | > The first issuer configuration information set is denoted as the | | > default configuration set. | | > | | > This configuration information shall only be configurable by the | | > issuer of the USIM. | | > | | > ii) a number of sets of user configuration information to allow | | > access to MMS services. | | > | | > If more than one set of configuration information is present, it | | > shall be possible for the user to select which set is used. If the | | > user has not selected any of the configuration information sets, | | > then the default set in the active USIM is used. | | > | | > **iii) MMS notifications** | | > | | > **iv) MMS user preferences** | | > | | > A terminal using a USIM [7] or a SIM [8] with these MMS | | > parameters, shall by default use them and the related preferred | | > bearer, to access to the MMS services. | | | | NOTE 1: Terminal support of SIM and USIM in general is specified in | | 3GPP TS 22.101[1]. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 4.3.2 Input from other groups and bodies
#### 4.3.2.1 GCF CAG
##### 4.3.2.1.1 Operator usage
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531 and relates to the
storage of MMS configuration parameters (i.e. UST service n°55) (not the
\"Multimedia Message Storage\" feature i.e. UST service n°67).
No operator support has been reported/observed in the field for \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" as the relevant parameters are
typically stored in the device and not on the USIM.
##### 4.3.2.1.2 Feedback
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531 and relates to the
storage of MMS configuration parameters (i.e. UST service n°55) (not the
\"Multimedia Message Storage\" feature i.e. UST service n°67).
CAG would like to kindly ask CT6 to consider making \"Support of usage of MMS
related data stored on the USIM\" OPTIONAL.
#### 4.2.2.2 PTCRB
PTCRB responded in C6-140252. The following is quoted from document C6-140252.
Based on this review by the PTCRB operators we would like to state that we
agree with the GCF CAG evaluation with one exception. Item 2 -- \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" is viewed as required based on
feedback from one of our operator members and we therefore recommend this
feature be set to mandatory.
### 4.3.3 Discussion of Feature Value
#### 4.3.3.1 General
MMS is a feature that is slowly being superseded by social networking and
messaging applications. GCF has reported that no operator support has been
reported or observed. In fact only one operator in PTCRB has indicated that
support for the feature is required.
#### 4.3.3.2 Recommendation
It is proposed that the related test cases defined in TS 31.121 [8] be made
optional.
### 4.3.4 Relevant Core Specifications
Stage 1 is described in 3GPP TS 22.140 [9] and OMA-RD-MMS-V1 3-20110913-A.pdf
[10].
Stage 3 requirements are in 3GPP TS 31.102 [3].
### 4.3.5 CT6 or RAN5 Test Case
3GPP TS 31.121 [8] defines the test case for \"Support of usage of MMS related
data stored on the USIM\" feature. Table A.1 from 3GPP TS 31.121 [8] indicates
if the feature should be mandatory or optional.
Table A.1: Options
* * *
**Item** **Option** **Status** **Mnemonic** 12 Support of usage of MMS related
data stored on the USIM C005 O_MMS_USIM_DATA
* * *
C005 If ((A.1/11 is NOT supported) OR (terminal is implemented according to
R99)) then N/A else if terminal is implemented according to Rel-4 then O else
M
### 4.3.6 GCF or PTCRB Certification
TBD
## 4.4 Launch Browser
### 4.4.1 Description
This command is used to request a browser inside a browser-enabled ME to
interpret the content corresponding to a URL.
### 4.4.2 Input from other groups and bodies
#### 4.4.2.1 GCF CAG
##### 4.4.2.1.1 Operator usage
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531 and the \"LAUNCH BROWSER
event\" is to be understood as the \"LAUNCH BROWSER command\".
For the LAUNCH BROWSER event only the usage of the URL parameter has been
observed in the field.
Usage of the Browser termination event has not been observed in the field.
##### 4.4.2.1.2 Feedback
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
CAG would like to kindly ask CT6 to take the above feedback into account and
consider making support for the LAUNCH BROWSER fields other than \"URL\" and
the support of Browser termination event OPTIONAL for all terminals regardless
off terminal class, release and other capabilities.
#### 4.2.2.2 PTCRB
PTCRB responded in C6-140252. The following is quoted from document C6-140252.
Based on this review by the PTCRB operators we would like to state that we
agree with the GCF CAG evaluation with one exception. Item 2 -- \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" is viewed as required based on
feedback from one of our operator members and we therefore recommend this
feature be set to mandatory.
### 4.4.3 Discussion of Feature Value
#### 4.3.3.1 General
Browsers are a lot more sophisticated these days. The LAUNCH BROWSER command
and its parameters were originally intended to launch WAP based solutions ETSI
TS 102 223 [6] has the URL as mandatory and the other fields as optional.
Extract of the message structure from ETSI TS 102 223 [6] is described below.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | 6.6.26 LAUNCH BROWSER | | | | ----------- | | -------------------------------------- -------- ----- ----- -------- | | Descripti | | on Clause M/O Min Length | | Proa | | ctive UICC command Tag 9.2 M Y 1 | | Length (A | | +B+C+D+E+F1+F2+...+FN+G+H+I+J+K+L+M+N) - M Y 1 or 2 | | Comm | | and details 8.6 M Y A | | Devi | | ce Identities 8.7 M Y B | | Brow | | ser Identity 8.47 O N C | | URL | | 8.48 M Y D | | Bear | | er 8.49 O N E | | Provi | | sioning File Reference 1 8.50 O N F1 | | Provi | | sioning File Reference 2 8.50 O N F2 | | ... | | 8.50 O N Fx | | Provi | | sioning File Reference N 8.50 O N FN | | Text | | String (Gateway/Proxy Identity) 8.15 O N G | | Alph | | a identifier (user confirmation phase) 8.2 O N H | | Icon | | identifier (user confirmation phase) 8.31 O N I | | Text | | Attribute 8.72 C N J | | Fram | | e Identifier 8.80 O N K | | Netw | | ork Access Name 8.70 O N L | | Text | | String (User login) 8.15 O N M | | Text | | String (User password) 8.15 O N N | | ----------- | | -------------------------------------- -------- ----- ----- -------- | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
However TS 31.124 [11] requires the ME to support numerous tests that require
other parameters to be supported. Some of these parameters are for WAP based
browsers. Most UEs don't support WAP-based browsers anymore.
#### 4.3.3.2 Recommendation
It is proposed that the test cases to test the support of the optional
parameters as listed in ETSI TS 102 223 [6] be made optional in TS 31.124
[11].
Editor\'s note: needs to be identified which of the optional parameters in the
LAUNCH BROWSER command are specific to a non-WAP browser.
### 4.4.4 Relevant Core Specifications
Stage 3 requirements are in 3GPP TS 31.111 [5] however these are derived from
ETSI TS 102 223 [6].
### 4.4.5 CT6 or RAN5 Test Case
3GPP TS 31.121 [8] defines the test case for Launch Browser feature. Table A.1
from 3GPP TS 31.121 [8] indicates if the feature should be mandatory or
optional.
Table A.1: Options
* * *
**Item** **Option** **Status** **Mnemonic** 10 Class C: LAUNCH BROWSER O O_LB
* * *
In 3GPP TS 31.124 [11]:
Table E.1: TERMINAL PROFILE support
* * *
**Item** **Terminal Profile** **Release** **Status** **Mnemonic** 42 Event:
Browser Termination R99 C212 AND C267 AND C268 PD_Browser_Term
* * *
### 4.4.6 GCF or PTCRB Certification
TBD
## 4.5 Support of ACL
### 4.5.1 Description
This EF~ACL~ contains the list of allowed APNs (Access Point Names).When the
APN Control List service is enabled, the ME shall check that the entire APN of
any PDP context is listed in EF~ACL~ before requesting this PDP context
activation from the network. If the APN is not present in EF~ACL~, the ME
shall not request the corresponding PDP context activation from the network.
### 4.5.2 Input from other groups and bodies
#### 4.5.2.1 GCF CAG
##### 4.5.2.1.1 Operator usage
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
**BEREC Guidelines on Roaming Regulation Draft** \"requires that domestic
mobile providers shall enable their customers to access regulated voice, SMS
and data roaming services provided as a bundle by any alternative roaming
provider\" [1].\"Support of ACL\" (ACL=APN control list, APN=Access Point
Name) is currently mandatory for terminals supporting E-UTRAN and optional for
other terminals.\ There is a concern that keeping this feature mandatory for
E-UTRA terminals might interfere with **BEREC Guidelines on Roaming Regulation
Draft** that \"requires that domestic mobile providers shall enable their
customers to access regulated voice, SMS and data roaming services provided as
a bundle by any alternative roaming provider\".
##### 4.5.2.1.2 Feedback
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
CAG would like to kindly ask CT6 to take the above feedback into account and
kindly consider making \"Support of ACL\" OPTIONAL for all terminals
regardless of their radio capability.
#### 4.2.2.2 PTCRB
PTCRB responded in C6-140252. The following is quoted from document C6-140252.
Based on this review by the PTCRB operators we would like to state that we
agree with the GCF CAG evaluation with one exception. Item 2 -- \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" is viewed as required based on
feedback from one of our operator members and we therefore recommend this
feature be set to mandatory.
### 4.5.3 Discussion of Feature Value
TBD
### 4.5.4 Relevant Core Specifications
Stage 3 requirements are in 3GPP TS 31.102 [3].
### 4.5.5 CT6 or RAN5 Test Case
3GPP TS 31.121 [8] defines the test case for Support of ACL. Table A.1 from
3GPP TS 31.121 [8] indicates if the feature should be mandatory or optional.
Table A.1: Options
* * *
**Item** **Option** **Status** **Mnemonic** 15 Support of ACL C006 O_ACL
* * *
C006 If (A.1/20 is supported or A.1/21 is supported) then M else O
### 4.5.6 GCF or PTCRB Certification
TBD
## 4.6 Alpha Identifier in REFRESH command
### 4.6.1 Description
Is an indication that when provided in a REFRESH command identities to the ME
if an indication should be given to the user or not. More complete description
can be found in subclause 6.4.7 ETSI TS 102 223 [6].
### 4.6.2 Input from other groups and bodies
#### 4.6.2.1 GCF CAG
##### 4.6.2.1.1 Operator usage
No comments from GCF CAG.
##### 4.6.2.1.2 Feedback
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
CAG would like to kindly ask CT6 to consider making \"Alpha Identifier in
REFRESH command supported by terminal\" OPTIONAL for all terminals even if the
terminal has a display capability.
#### 4.2.2.2 PTCRB
PTCRB responded in C6-140252. The following is quoted from document C6-140252.
Based on this review by the PTCRB operators we would like to state that we
agree with the GCF CAG evaluation with one exception. Item 2 -- \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" is viewed as required based on
feedback from one of our operator members and we therefore recommend this
feature be set to mandatory.
### 4.6.3 Discussion of Feature Value
TBD
### 4.6.4 Relevant Core Specifications
N/A
### 4.6.5 CT6 or RAN5 Test Case
3GPP TS 31.124 [11] defines the test case for Alpha Identifier in REFRESH
command. Table E.1 from 3GPP TS 31.124 [11] indicates if the feature should be
mandatory or optional.
Table E.1: TERMINAL PROFILE support
* * *
**Item** **Terminal Profile** **Release** **Status** **Mnemonic** 180 Alpha
Identifier in REFRESH command supported by terminal Rel-7 C267
PD_Refresh_AlphaIdentifier
* * *
C267 IF A.1/84 THEN M ELSE O.1
NOTE: A.1/84 Terminal supports display capability
### 4.6.6 GCF or PTCRB Certification
TBD
## 4.7 Event: Language Selection
### 4.7.1 Description
Used by the UICC application to instruct the ME that if the language is
changed on the ME that the ME shall inform the UICC of this event.
### 4.7.2 Input from other groups and bodies
#### 4.7.2.1 GCF CAG
##### 4.7.2.1.1 Operator usage
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
There is no or very little network operator support
##### 4.7.2.1.2 Feedback
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
CAG would like to kindly ask CT6 to consider making the below features
OPTIONAL.
#### 4.2.2.2 PTCRB
PTCRB responded in C6-140252. The following is quoted from document C6-140252.
Based on this review by the PTCRB operators we would like to state that we
agree with the GCF CAG evaluation with one exception. Item 2 -- \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" is viewed as required based on
feedback from one of our operator members and we therefore recommend this
feature be set to mandatory.
### 4.7.3 Discussion of Feature Value
TBD
### 4.7.4 Relevant Core Specifications
Stage 3 requirements are in 3GPP TS 31.111 [5] however these are derived from
ETSI TS 102 223 [6].
### 4.7.5 CT6 or RAN5 Test Case
3GPP TS 31.124 [11] defines the test case for EVENT: LANGUAGE SELECTION event.
Table E.1 from 3GPP TS 31.124 [11] indicates if the feature should be
mandatory or optional.
Table E.1: TERMINAL PROFILE support
* * *
**Item** **Terminal Profile** **Release** **Status** **Mnemonic** 41 Event:
Language selection R99 C271 PD_Lang_Select
* * *
C271 IF A.1/88 THEN M ELSE O.1
NOTE: A.1/88 Terminal supports multiple languages (If feature is implemented
according to Rel-8 or later then O, else M.)
### 4.7.6 GCF or PTCRB Certification
TBD
## 4.8 Event Network Search Mode Change
### 4.8.1 Description
There are cases where toolkit applications need to know which Network Search
Mode is selected by the user so it can issue specific roaming behaviour.
An application for roaming management can be deactivated when a user selects
manual mode. When automatic mode is restored the application can be activated
again.
The information can be queried from the ME using either EVENT DOWNLOAD or
PROVIDE LOCAL INFORMATION commands.
### 4.8.2 Input from other groups and bodies
#### 4.8.2.1 GCF CAG
##### 4.8.2.1.1 Operator usage
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
There is no or very little network operator support
##### 4.8.2.1.2 Feedback
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
CAG would like to kindly ask CT6 to consider making the below features
OPTIONAL.
#### 4.2.2.2 PTCRB
PTCRB responded in C6-140252. The following is quoted from document C6-140252.
Based on this review by the PTCRB operators we would like to state that we
agree with the GCF CAG evaluation with one exception. Item 2 -- \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" is viewed as required based on
feedback from one of our operator members and we therefore recommend this
feature be set to mandatory.
### 4.8.3 Discussion of Feature Value
TBD
### 4.8.4 Relevant Core Specifications
Stage 3 requirements are in 3GPP TS 31.111 [5] however these are derived from
ETSI TS 102 223 [6].
### 4.8.5 CT6 or RAN5 Test Case
3GPP TS 31.124 [11] defines the test case for EVENT: NETWORK SEARCH MODE
CHANGE event. Table E.1 from 3GPP TS 31.124 [11] indicates if the feature
should be mandatory or optional.
Table E.1: TERMINAL PROFILE support
* * *
**Item** **Terminal Profile** **Release** **Status** **Mnemonic** 48 Event:
Network Search Mode Change Rel-6 M PD_Evt_NSMC
* * *
### 4.8.6 GCF or PTCRB Certification
## 4.9 Provide Local Information (Language)
### 4.9.1 Description
Allows the UICC to request from the ME the current language being used.
### 4.9.2 Input from other groups and bodies
#### 4.9.2.1 GCF CAG
##### 4.9.2.1.1 Operator usage
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
There is no or very little network operator support
##### 4.9.2.1.2 Feedback
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
CAG would like to kindly ask CT6 to consider making the below features
OPTIONAL.
#### 4.2.2.2 PTCRB
PTCRB responded in C6-140252. The following is quoted from document C6-140252.
Based on this review by the PTCRB operators we would like to state that we
agree with the GCF CAG evaluation with one exception. Item 2 -- \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" is viewed as required based on
feedback from one of our operator members and we therefore recommend this
feature be set to mandatory.
### 4.9.3 Discussion of Feature Value
TBD
### 4.9.4 Relevant Core Specifications
Stage 3 requirements are in 3GPP TS 31.111 [5] however these are derived from
ETSI TS 102 223 [6].
### 4.9.5 CT6 or RAN5 Test Case
3GPP TS 31.124 [11] defines the test case for PROVIDE LOCAL INFORMATION
(language) command. Table E.1 from 3GPP TS 31.124 [11] indicates if the
feature should be mandatory or optional.
Table E.1: TERMINAL PROFILE support
* * *
**Item** **Terminal Profile** **Release** **Status** **Mnemonic** 68 PROVIDE
LOCAL INFORMATION (language) R99 M PD_Provide_Local_LS
* * *
### 4.9.6 GCF or PTCRB Certification
## 4.10 Provide Local Information (search mode change)
### 4.10.1 Description
There are cases where toolkit applications need to know which Network Search
Mode is selected by the user so it can issue specific roaming behaviour.
An application for roaming management can be deactivated when a user selects
manual mode. When automatic mode is restored the application can be activated
again.
The information can be queried from the ME using either EVENT DOWNLOAD or
PROVIDE LOCAL INFORMATION commands.
### 4.10.2 Input from other groups and bodies
#### 4.10.2.1 GCF CAG
##### 4.10.2.1.1 Operator usage
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
There is no or very little network operator support
##### 4.10.2.1.2 Feedback
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
CAG would like to kindly ask CT6 to consider making the below features
OPTIONAL.
#### 4.2.2.2 PTCRB
PTCRB responded in C6-140252. The following is quoted from document C6-140252.
Based on this review by the PTCRB operators we would like to state that we
agree with the GCF CAG evaluation with one exception. Item 2 -- \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" is viewed as required based on
feedback from one of our operator members and we therefore recommend this
feature be set to mandatory.
### 4.10.3 Discussion of Feature Value
TBD
### 4.10.4 Relevant Core Specifications
Stage 3 requirements are in 3GPP TS 31.111 [5] however these are derived from
ETSI TS 102 223 [6].
### 4.10.5 CT6 or RAN5 Test Case
3GPP TS 31.124 [11] defines the test case for PROVIDE LOCAL INFORMATION
(search mode change) command. Table E.1 from 3GPP TS 31.124 [11] indicates if
the feature should be mandatory or optional.
Table E.1: TERMINAL PROFILE support
* * *
**Item** **Terminal Profile** **Release** **Status** **Mnemonic** 144 PROVIDE
LOCAL INFORMATION (search mode change) Rel-6 M PD_Provide_Local_SMC
* * *
### 4.10.6 GCF or PTCRB Certification
TBD
## 4.11 Language Notification
### 4.11.1 Description
Language Notification command allows the UICC to inform the ME of the language
that is currently being used for text strings within proactive commands or
envelop commands. The use of it by the terminal is optional and one example
given is it might allow the ME to pick a specific language for the ME MMI.
### 4.11.2 Input from other groups and bodies
#### 4.11.2.1 GCF CAG
##### 4.11.2.1.1 Operator usage
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
There is no or very little network operator support
##### 4.11.2.1.2 Feedback
The following text is quoted from document C6-130531.
CAG would like to kindly ask CT6 to consider making the below features
OPTIONAL.
#### 4.2.2.2 PTCRB
PTCRB responded in C6-140252. The following is quoted from document C6-140252.
Based on this review by the PTCRB operators we would like to state that we
agree with the GCF CAG evaluation with one exception. Item 2 -- \"Support of
usage of MMS related data stored on the USIM\" is viewed as required based on
feedback from one of our operator members and we therefore recommend this
feature be set to mandatory.
### 4.11.3 Discussion of Feature Value
TBD
### 4.11.4 Relevant Core Specifications
Stage 3 requirements are in 3GPP TS 31.111 [5] however these are derived from
ETSI TS 102 223 [6].
### 4.11.5 CT6 or RAN5 Test Case
3GPP TS 31.124 [11] defines the test case for LANGUAGE NOTIFICATION command.
Table E.1 from 3GPP TS 31.124 [11] indicates if the feature should be
mandatory or optional.
Table E.1: TERMINAL PROFILE support
* * *
**Item** **Terminal Profile** **Release** **Status** **Mnemonic** 70 LANGUAGE
NOTIFICATION R99 C271 PD_Lang_Notif
* * *
### 4.11.6 GCF or PTCRB Certification
TBD
# 5 Conclusions and Recommendations
#