# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document provides a mechanism giving reliable transfer of
signalling messages within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the subset of Base Station System Application
Part (BSSAP) messages and procedures, defined in 3GPP TS 48.006 and 3GPP TS
48.008, which is used on the E‑interface. A general description can be found
in 3GPP TS 23.002 and 3GPP TS 23.009.
For the initiation and execution of handover between MSCs a subset of BSSMAP
procedures are used. For the subsequent control of resources allocated to the
Mobile Station (MS) BSSMAP procedures are used. DTAP is used for the transfer
of connection management and mobility management messages between the MS and
the controlling MSC.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
[1a] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.009: \"Handover procedures\".
[2a] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 48.006: \"Signalling transport mechanism specification for the
Base Station System ‑ Mobile‑services Switching Centre (BSS ‑ MSC)
interface\".
[4] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile-services Switching Centre ‑ Base Station System
(MSC ‑ BSS) interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.010: \"Information element mapping between Mobile Station ‑
Base Station System (MS - BSS) and Base Station System ‑ Mobile‑services
Switching Centre (BSS ‑ MSC); Signalling procedures and the Mobile Application
Part (MAP)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.172: \"Technical realization of Circuit Switched (CS)
multimedia service; UDI/RDI fallback and service modification; Stage 2)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface Radio Access Network Application Part
(RANAP) signalling\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1a] and the following apply:
BSS Base Station System
BSSAP Base Station System Application Part
BSSMAP Base Station System Management Application Part
CCCH Common Control CHannel
DLCI Data Link Connection Identifier
DTAP Direct Transfer Application Part
MSC Mobile‑services Switching Centre
MSC‑A Mobile‑services Switching Centre, Anchor (Anchor MSC)
MSC‑I Mobile‑services Switching Centre, Intermediate (Intermediate MSC)
MSC‑T Mobile‑services Switching Centre, Target (Target MSC)
SAPI Service Access Point Identifier
SCCP Signalling Connection Control Part
TCAP Transaction Capabilities Application Part
# 4 Principles for the use of BSSAP on the E‑interface
## 4.1 General
The mechanisms for the transfer of the BSSAP messages on the E‑interface is
defined in 3GPP TS 29.002 [5]. The operation of the handover procedures
between MSCs and the use of the BSSMAP messages for those procedures is
described in 3GPP TS 23.009 [2] and 3GPP TS 29.010 [6].
In the same way as a SCCP signalling connection is used for the messages
relating to one MS on the MSC‑BSS interface a TCAP dialogue is used on the
E‑interface for messages relating to one MS. As no correspondence to the
connectionless service on the MSC‑BSS interface is used on the E‑interface
none of the global procedures (see 3GPP TS 48.008 [4] subclause 3.1) are
applicable.
The management of the terrestrial circuits and IP connections between the MSCs
is outside the scope of the E‑interface (see 3GPP TS 23.009 [2]), therefore
all procedures, messages and information elements relating to terrestrial
circuits or IP connections are also excluded from the BSSMAP procedures and
messages used on the E‑interface.
## 4.2 Transfer of DTAP and BSSMAP layer 3 messages on the E‑interface
The BSSAP data which on the MSC‑BSS interface is contained in the user data
field of the exchanged SCCP frames (see 3GPP TS 48.006) is on the E‑interface
transferred as the contents of the signalling info in a BSS‑APDU parameter as
described in 3GPP TS 29.002.
The BSSAP data consists of a BSSAP header and a DTAP or BSSMAP layer 3
message. The BSSAP header contains, as specified in 3GPP TS 48.006 (subclauses
6.3.1, 6.3.2 and 6.3.3), of a discrimination parameter, possibly a Data Link
Connection Identification (DLCI) parameter, and a length indicator.
## 4.3 Roles of MSC‑A, MSC‑I and MSC‑T
For the description in the present document, the MSC\'s functionality related
to the handover between MSCs has been split into three logical parts, MSC‑A,
MSC‑T and MSC‑I. The different roles need not necessarily be performed by
different MSCs.
MSC‑A is the call/connection controlling part of the MSC where the
call/connection was originally established and the switching point for
handover between MSCs. (This corresponds to MSC‑A as defined in 3GPP TS 23.009
and 3GPP TS 29.002). The MSC that is the MSC‑A will not be changed during the
duration of a call/connection.
MSC‑T is the part relating to the transitory state during the handover for the
MSC to which the MS is handed over when Basic handover or Subsequent handover
(see 3GPP TS 23.009) take place. (This corresponds, depending on the type of
handover to MSC‑A, MSC‑B or MSC‑B\' in 3GPP TS 23.009 and 3GPP TS 29.002).
MSC‑I is the part of an MSC through which the MSC‑A, via an E‑interface (or an
internal interface) is in contact with the MS. (This corresponds, depending on
the type of handover to MSC‑A, MSC‑B or MSC‑B\' in 3GPP TS 23.009 and 3GPP TS
29.002).
The MSC that is the MSC‑A can also have the role of either the MSC‑I or the
MSC‑T during a period of the call/connection.
The following is applicable for the involved MSCs concerning the exchange of
BSSAP data on an E‑interface before and after a successful inter MSC handover:
1) At Basic handover, two MSCs are involved, one MSC being MSC‑A and one being
MSC‑T. When this handover has been performed, the two MSCs interworking on the
E‑interface have the roles of MSC‑A and MSC‑I respectively, i.e. the MSC that
is the MSC‑T during the handover is now the MSC‑I.
2) At Subsequent handover back to MSC‑A, two MSCs are involved. The MSC having
the role of MSC‑A has also the role of MSC‑T. The other MSC involved has the
role of MSC‑I. When this handover has been completed, there is no exchange of
BSS data on the E‑interface, i.e. the MSC being the MSC‑I before and during
the handover is now no longer taking part.
3) At subsequent handover to an MSC not being MSC‑A, three MSCs are involved.
The roles of these MSCs are MSC‑A, MSC‑I, and MSC‑T respectively. When this
handover has been performed, the two MSCs interworking on an E‑interface have
the roles of MSC‑A and MSC‑I respectively, i.e. the MSC that is the MSC‑T
during the handover is now the MSC‑I and the MSC being MSC‑I during the
handover is now no longer taking part.
# 5 Use of the BSSAP on the E‑interface
DTAP is used on the E‑interface for the transfer of messages between the MSC‑A
and the MS.
The dedicated BSSMAP procedures (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1) used on the
E‑interface to some extent are:
\- assignment;
\- handover resource allocation;
\- handover execution;
\- internal handover indication;
\- release due to BSS generated reasons;
\- classmark handling;
\- cipher mode control;
\- trace invocation;
\- queuing indication;
\- data link control SAPI not equal to \"0\";
\- Location Acquisition;
\- LSA handling;
\- Common ID.
One dedicated BSSMAP procedure is used only on the E‑interface:
\- Service Change (subclause 5.15).
## 5.1 DTAP
For the exchange of the DTAP messages (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 2.2), the
involved MSCs shall act according to the following:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
## 5.2 Assignment
The Assignment procedure (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.1) is applied on the
E‑interface with following conditions:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
The handling of terrestrial resources is not applicable.
## 5.3 Handover resource allocation
At Basic Inter‑MSC Handover (3GPP TS 23.009) the Handover resource allocation
procedure (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.5.2) is applied on the E‑interface
with the following conditions:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑T acts as the target BSS.
At Subsequent Inter‑MSC Handover (3GPP TS 23.009) the Handover resource
allocation procedure (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.5.2) is applied on the
E‑interface with the following conditions:
\- the MSC‑I acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑T acts as the target BSS;
\- if the MSC that is the MSC‑A is not also the MSC‑T, then this MSC shall act
as the target BSS towards the MSC‑I and as the MSC towards the MSC‑T.
The handling of terrestrial resources is not applicable.
## 5.4 Handover execution
For the Handover execution procedure (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.5.3) the
applicable parts on the E‑interface are the transfer of HANDOVER DETECT,
HANDOVER COMPLETE and HANDOVER FAILURE messages at inter MSC handover. For
those parts, the involved MSCs shall act according to the following:
\- the MSC that is the MSC‑A, acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC that is the MSC‑I, if it is not also the MSC‑A, acts as the serving
BSS;
\- the MSC that is the MSC‑T, if it is not also the MSC‑A, acts as the target
BSS.
## 5.5 Internal handover indication
For the Internal handover indication (3GPP TS 48.008 subclauses 3.1.6 and
3.1.7), the involved MSCs shall act according to the following:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
MSC internal handovers (inter‑BSS and intra‑BSS handover) at the MSC‑I are
decided and executed autonomously by that MSC together with the connected
BSSs. At completion of the handover execution the MSC‑I initiates the internal
handover indication procedure.
## 5.6 Release due to BSS generated reasons
For the Release due to BSS generated reasons procedure (3GPP TS 48.008
subclause 3.1.9.2) the involved MSCs shall act according to the following:
\- the MSC‑I acts as the BSS;
\- no further action is taken by the MSC‑A.
Additionally, at Basic Inter‑MSC Handover and at Subsequent Inter‑MSC Handover
(3GPP TS 23.009), if the MSC that is the MSC‑A is not also the MSC‑T, the
Release due to BSS generated reasons procedure (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause
3.1.9.2) is applied on the E‑interface with the following conditions:
\- the MSC‑T acts as the BSS;
\- no further action is taken by the MSC‑A.
## 5.7 Classmark handling
For the Classmark handling (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.13), the involved
MSCs shall act according to the following:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
## 5.8 Cipher mode control
For the Cipher mode control (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.14), the involved
MSCs shall act according to the following:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
## 5.9 Trace invocation
For the Trace invocation (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.11), the involved MSCs
shall act according to the following:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
Additionally, at Basic Inter‑MSC Handover and at Subsequent Inter‑MSC Handover
(3GPP TS 23.009), if the MSC that is the MSC‑A is not also the MSC‑T, the
Trace invocation (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.11) is applied on the
E‑interface with the following conditions:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑T acts as the target BSS.
## 5.10 Queuing indication
For the Queuing Indication (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.17), the involved
MSCs shall act according to the following:
\- at Assignment and at Basic Inter‑MSC handover:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
\- at Subsequent Inter‑MSC handover:
\- the MSC‑I acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑T acts as the BSS;
\- if the MSC that is the MSC‑A is not also the MSC‑T, then this MSC acts as
the target BSS towards the MSC‑I and as the MSC towards the MSC‑T.
## 5.11 Data link control SAPI not equal to \"0\"
For the Data Link Control SAPI not Equal to \"0\" (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause
3.1.18), the involved MSCs shall act according to the following:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
  * the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
## 5.12 Location Acquisition
For the Location Acquisition procedure (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.28), the
involved MSCs shall act according to the following:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
## 5.13 LSA handling
For the LSA handling (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.27), the involved MSCs
shall act according to the following:
\- the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
\- the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
## 5.14 Common ID
For the Common Id (3GPP TS 48.008), the involved MSCs shall act according to
the following:
  * the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
  * the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
## 5.15 Service Change procedure
In the Service Change procedure for network-initiated SCUDIF (see 3GPP TS
23.172), the MSC-I sends the CHANNEL MODIFY REQUEST message (see 3GPP TS
48.008) to the MSC-A. The request was originally sent by the RNC using RAB
MODIFY REQUEST to trigger execution of the alternative RAB configuration (see
3GPP TS 25.413). For the CHANNEL MODIFY REQUEST message, the involved MSCs
shall act according to the following:
  * the MSC‑A acts as the MSC;
  * the MSC‑I acts as the BSS.
# 6 BSSMAP messages transferred on the E‑interface
The following BSSMAP messages, defined in 3GPP TS 48.008 [4] subclause 3.2.1,
are transferred on the E‑interface:
ASSIGNMENT REQUEST (MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑I)
Excluded information elements: CIRCUIT IDENTITY CODE, AoIP Transport Layer
Address (MGW), Call Identifier, Codec List (MSC Preferred)
ASSIGNMENT COMPLETE (MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A)
Excluded information elements: CIRCUIT POOL, CIRCUIT IDENTITY CODE, AoIP
Transport Layer Address (BSS), Speech Codec (Chosen), Codec List (BSS
Supported)
ASSIGNMENT FAILURE (MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A)
Excluded information elements: CIRCUIT POOL, CIRCUIT POOL LIST
* HANDOVER REQUEST (MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑T and MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A)
Excluded information elements: CIRCUIT IDENTITY CODE, AoIP Transport Layer
Address (MGW), Call Identifier, Codec List (MSC Preferred)
* HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE (MSC‑T ‑> MSC‑A and MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑I)
Excluded information elements: CIRCUIT POOL, CIRCUIT IDENTITY CODE, AoIP
Transport Layer Address (BSS), Speech Codec (Chosen), Codec List (BSS
Supported)
* HANDOVER COMPLETE (MSC‑T ‑> MSC‑A)
* HANDOVER FAILURE (MSC‑T ‑> MSC‑A, MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑I and MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A)
Excluded information elements: CIRCUIT POOL, CIRCUIT POOL LIST, Codec List
(BSS Supported)
HANDOVER PERFORMED (MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A)
> Excluded information elements: Speech Codec (Chosen), Codec List (BSS
> Supported)
* HANDOVER DETECT (MSC‑T ‑> MSC‑A)
CLEAR REQUEST (MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A and MSC-T -> MSC-A)
SAPI \"n\" REJECT (MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A)
CONFUSION (MSC‑T ‑> MSC‑A, MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑T,
MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A and MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑I)
# MSC INVOKE TRACE (MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑I and MSC-A -> MSC-T)
# BSS INVOKE TRACE (MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A and MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑T)
CIPHER MODE COMMAND (MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑I)
CIPHER MODE COMPLETE (MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A)
CIPHER MODE REJECT (MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A)
** QUEUING INDICATION (MSC‑T ‑> MSC‑A, MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A, and MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑I)
CLASSMARK UPDATE (MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A and MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑T)
CLASSMARK REQUEST (MSC‑A ‑> MSC‑I)
CONNECTION ORIENTED INFORMATION (MSC-I -> MSC-A, MSC-A->MSC-I)
LSA INFORMATION (MSC-A -> MSC-I)
PERFORM LOCATION REQUEST (MSC-I->MSC-A, MSC-A -> MSC-I)
PERFORM LOCATION ABORT (MSC-I->MSC-A, MSC-A -> MSC-I)
PERFORM LOCATION RESPONSE (MSC-I -> MSC-A, MSC-A->MSC-I)
COMMON ID (MSC-A -> MSC-I)
CHANNEL MODIFY REQUEST (MSC‑I ‑> MSC‑A)
All other BSSMAP messages shall be considered as non‑existent on the
E‑interface.
NOTE: Segmentation procedures for LCS CONNECTION ORIENTED INFORMATION message
in 3GPP TS 48.008 [4] apply to the corresponding message on the E-interface.
Some of the messages above are qualified by *, ** or #. This signifies whether
the message, when sent on the E‑interface, is considered as:
\- handover related message (*);
\- handover related when sent as a response to HANDOVER REQUEST (**); or
\- trace related message (#).
# 7 Exceptions for BSSMAP message contents and information element coding when
transferred on the E‑interface
## 7.1 Message contents
For the applicable BSSMAP messages transferred on the E‑interface the
following exceptions to the descriptions in 3GPP TS 48.008 [4] subclause 3.2.1
are valid:
Assignment request message:
\- excluded information elements:
\- circuit identity code;
\- AoIP Transport Layer Address (MGW);
\- Call Identifier;
\- Codec List (MSC Preferred).
\- if received, the information element shall be treated as an information
element with an unrecognisable identifier.
Assignment complete message:
\- excluded information element:
\- circuit pool;
‑ circuit identity code;
\- AoIP Transport Layer Address (BSS);
\- Speech Codec (Chosen);
\- Codec List (BSS Supported).
\- if received, the information element shall be treated as an information
element with an unrecognisable identifier.
Assignment failure message:
\- excluded information elements:
\- circuit pool;
\- circuit pool list;
\- Codec List (BSS Supported).
\- if received, the information element shall be treated as an information
element with an unrecognisable identifier.
Handover request message:
\- excluded information element:
\- circuit identity code;
\- AoIP Transport Layer Address (MGW);
\- Call Identifier;
\- Codec List (MSC Preferred).
\- if received, the information element shall be treated as an information
element with an unrecognisable identifier.
Handover request acknowledge message:
\- excluded information element:
‑ circuit pool;
‑ circuit identity code;
\- AoIP Transport Layer Address (BSS);
\- Speech Codec (Chosen);
\- Codec List (BSS Supported).
\- if received, the information element shall be treated as an information
element with an unrecognisable identifier.
Handover failure message:
\- excluded information elements:
\- circuit pool;
\- circuit pool list;
\- Codec List (BSS Supported).
\- if received, the information element shall be treated as an information
element with an unrecognisable identifier.
Handover performed message:
\- excluded information elements:
\- Speech Codec (Chosen);
\- Codec List (BSS Supported).
\- if received, the information element shall be treated as an information
element with an unrecognisable identifier.
## 7.2 Information element coding
For the applicable BSSMAP information elements transferred on the E‑interface
the following exceptions to the description in 3GPP TS 48.008 [4] subclause
3.2.2.5 are valid:
Cause information element:
\- excluded causes:
\- call control;
\- CCCH overload;
\- handover successful;
\- requested terrestrial resource unavailable;
\- terrestrial circuit already allocated;
\- circuit pool mismatch;
\- switch circuit pool;
\- Call Identifier already allocated.
The corresponding cause values shall be considered as reserved for national
use.
Cell identifier information element:
\- excluded format:
\- Cell Identity.
The corresponding cell identification discriminator value shall be considered
as reserved.
# 8 BSSAP message error handling when transferred on the E‑interface
The handling of abnormal events related to the BSSAP header (3GPP TS 48.008
subclause 2.4) and the BSSMAP error handling (3GPP TS 48.008 subclause 3.1.19)
are applicable with exception of the following:
\- the handling of faults concerning the use of SCCP is not applicable.
The BSSMAP error messages sent on the E‑interface shall only be sent as
response to BSSAP messages received on the same interface.
#