# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes over the air antenna minimum requirements for
user equipment (UE) and mobile station (MS).
Handheld UE requirements are defined for roaming bands for the speech position
(beside the head and beside the head and hand) and hand phantom browsing mode
position. Laptop mounted equipment requirements are defined for roaming bands
for the data transfer position (laptop ground plane phantom). Laptop embedded
equipment requirements are defined for roaming bands for the data transfer
position (free space).
All bands are potential roaming bands, and the requirements for roaming bands
shall therefore be fulfilled for all bands supported by a UE/MS.
Requirements for operating bands are dependent on how the network has been
built and are thus operator specific and cannot be specified here. Recommended
performance values for operating bands (Annex B) are however included in this
specification for information. It should be recognised that the ability to
meet the recommended performance values depends on the number of frequency
bands supported by the UE/MS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25 101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[4] 3GPP TS 34.114: \"User Equipment (UE) / Mobile Station (MS) Over The Air
(OTA) antenna performance; Conformance testing\".
[5] ETSI ETR 273: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum Matters
(ERM); Improvement of radiated methods of measurement (using test sites) and
evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties; Part 1:
Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment characteristics;
Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".
[6] 3GPP TR 25.914: "Measurements of radio performances for UMTS terminals in
speech mode"
[7] 3GPP TR 37.977: "Verification of radiated multi-antenna reception
performance of User Equipment (UE)"
[8] 3GPP TR 37.902: "Measurements of User Equipment (UE) radio performances
for LTE/UMTS terminals; Total Radiated Power (TRP) and Total Radiated
Sensitivity (TRS) test methodology"
[9] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: "User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio
transmission and reception; Part 1: Conformance Testing;"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] , TR 37.977 [7] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1] or TR 37.977 [7].
**primary mechanical mode:** the mode that is most often used during a call
beside the head. Other mechanical modes are secondary. Every terminal has at
least one primary mechanical mode.
**speech position:** UE used close to head phantom (specific anthropomorphic
mannequin).
**data transfer position:** UE used away from the user's head, applicable for
LME and LEE devices.
**FS:** UE used in a free space configuration.
**LME:** Laptop mounted equipment (such as plug-in devices like USB dongles).
**LEE:** Laptop embedded equipment (such as embedded module card embedded in
notebooks).
## 3.2 Symbols
_TRP~average\ ~_ the average measured total radiated power of low, mid and
high channel
_TRP~min\ ~_ the lowest measured total radiated power of each channel within
an operating band
_TRS~average\ ~_ the average measured total radiated sensitivity of low, mid
and high channel
_TRS~max\ ~_ the highest measured total radiated sensitivity of each channel
within an operating band
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], TR 37.977 [7] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1] or TR 37.977 [7]..
DUT Device Under Test
OTA Over The Air
TRMS Total Radiated Multi-antenna Sensitivity
TRP Total Radiated Power
TRS Total Radiated Sensitivity
# 4 General
## 4.1 Minimum requirements for roaming bands
The minimum requirements for roaming bands apply only to the primary
mechanical mode in the environmental conditions specified in Annex A. All
bands are potential roaming bands, and a UE/MS shall fulfil the minimum
requirements for roaming bands for all bands supported by the UE/MS.
## 4.2 Relationship between minimum requirements for roaming bands and test
requirements
The minimum requirements for roaming bands given in this specification make no
allowance for measurement uncertainty. The test specification 34.114 [4] Annex
F defines test tolerances. These test tolerances are individually calculated
for each test. The test tolerances are used to relax the minimum requirements
in this specification to create test requirements.
The measurement results returned by the test system are compared - without any
modification - against the test requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The shared risk principle is defined in ETR 273 [5] Part 1 sub-part 2 section
6.5.
## 4.3 Terminal classes
### 4.3.1 Mechanical modes
The mechanical modes of a device under test (DUT) are declared by the
manufacturer. A DUT shall have at least one mechanical mode. If only one mode
is supported, then this is defined as the primary.
## 4.4 UTRA chip rates
The requirements defined in this specification for UTRA are based on a chip
rate of 3.84 Mcps (FDD) and 1.28 Mcps (TDD).
NOTE: Other chip rates may be considered in future releases.
# 5 Frequency bands
## 5.1 GSM frequency bands
The requirements defined in this specification for GSM apply to the frequency
bands defined in Table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1: GSM frequency bands
+----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | Operating band | UL frequencies | DL frequencies | | | | | | | MS transmit, BTS receive | MS receive, BTS transmit | +================+==========================+==========================+ | GSM 850 | 824 - 849 MHz | 869 - 894 MHz | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | P-GSM 900 | 890 - 915 MHz | 935 - 960 MHz | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | E-GSM 900 | 880 - 915 MHz | 925 - 960 MHz | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | DCS 1800 | 1710 - 1785 MHz | 1805 - 1880 MHz | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | PCS 1900 | 1850 -1910 MHz | 1930 -1990 MHz | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
## 5.2 UTRA FDD frequency bands
The requirements defined in this specification for UTRA FDD apply to the
frequency bands defined in Table 5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1: UTRA FDD frequency bands
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Operating Band | UL frequencies | DL frequencies | | | | | | | UE transmit, Node B receive | UE receive, Node B transmit | +================+=============================+=============================+ | I | 1920 - 1980 MHz | 2110 - 2170 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | II | 1850 - 1910 MHz | 1930 - 1990 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | III | 1710 - 1785 MHz | 1805 - 1880 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | IV | 1710 - 1755 MHz | 2110 - 2155 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | V | 824 - 849 MHz | 869 - 894 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VI | 830 - 840 MHz | 875 - 885 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VII | 2500 - 2570 MHz | 2620 - 2690 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VIII | 880 - 915 MHz | 925 - 960 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | IX | 1749,9 -- 1784,9 MHz | 1844,9 -- 1879,9 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XIX | 830 - 845MHz | 875 - 890 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded
## 5.3 UTRA TDD frequency bands
The requirements defined in this specification for UTRA TDD apply to the
frequency bands defined in Table 5.3-1.
Table 5.3-1: UTRA LCR TDD frequency bands
+----------------+-----------------+ | Operating Band | Frequencies | +================+=================+ | a | 1900 - 1920 MHz | | | | | | 2010 - 2025 MHz | +----------------+-----------------+ | b* | 1850 - 1910 MHz | | | | | | 1930 - 1990 MHz | +----------------+-----------------+ | c* | 1910 - 1930 MHz | +----------------+-----------------+ | d** | 2570 - 2620 MHz | +----------------+-----------------+ | e | 2300 - 2400 MHz | +----------------+-----------------+ | f | 1880 - 1920 MHz | +----------------+-----------------+
> NOTE: Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded.\ * Used in ITU
> Region 2\ ** Used in ITU Region 1
## 5.4 E-UTRA FDD frequency bands
The requirements defined in this specification for E-UTRA FDD apply to the
frequency bands defined in Table 5.4-1.
Table 5.4-1 E-UTRA FDD operating bands
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD
3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD
4 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz FDD
5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 894MHz FDD
7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD
8 880 MHz -- 915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz FDD
12 699 MHz -- 716 MHz 729 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
13 777 MHz -- 787 MHz 746 MHz -- 756 MHz FDD
19 830 MHz -- 845 MHz 875 MHz -- 890 MHz FDD
20 832 MHz -- 862 MHz 791 MHz -- 821 MHz FDD
21 1447.9 MHz -- 1462.9 MHz 1495.9 MHz -- 1510.9 MHz FDD
28 703 MHz -- 748 MHz 758 MHz -- 803 MHz FDD
32 N/A 1452 MHz -- 1496 MHz FDD^1^
NOTE 1: Restricted to E-UTRA operation when carrier aggregation is configured.
The downlink operating band is paired with the uplink operating band
(external) of the carrier aggregation configuration that is supporting the
configured Pcell.
* * *
Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded.
## 5.5 E-UTRA TDD frequency bands
The requirements defined in this specification for E-UTRA TDD apply to the
frequency bands defined in Table 5.5-1.
Table 5.5-1 E-UTRA TDD operating bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | ‑UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | Oper | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | ating | oper | oper | | | | | | | Band | ating | ating | | | | | | | | band\ | band\ | | | | | | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | rec | tran | | | | | | | | eive\ | smit\ | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=======+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 38 | 2570 | -- | 2620 | 2570 | -- | 2620 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 39 | 1880 | -- | 1920 | 1880 | -- | 1920 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 40 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 41 | 2496 | | 2690 | 2496 | | 2690 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 42 | 3400 | -- | 3600 | 3400 | -- | 3600 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 46 | 5150 | -- | 5925 | 5150 | -- | 5925 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | ^1,2^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | is an | | | | | | | | | unlic | | | | | | | | | ensed | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | restr | | | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | li | | | | | | | | | cense | | | | | | | | | d-ass | | | | | | | | | isted | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | | Frame | | | | | | | | | Stru | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | Type | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: In | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | ve | | | | | | | | | rsion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ifica | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | restr | | | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | onfig | | | | | | | | | ured. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded.
# 6 Transmitter total radiated power
## 6.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for handheld UE
The average measured total radiated power (TRP) of low, mid and high channel
for handheld UE shall be higher than the average TRP requirement specified in
subclauses 6.1.1, 6.1.2 and 6.1.3. The averaging shall be done in linear scale
for the TRP results of both right and left side of the phantom head in case of
beside the head phantom and beside the head and hand phantom positions. For
the hand phantom browsing mode position the averaging shall be done in linear
scale for the TRP results of both right and left hand phantom measurements.
Average TRP requirement is shown in the column "Average" on the requirement
tables.
In addition the lowest TRP of each measured channel shall be higher than
minimum TRP requirement specified in subclauses 6.1.1, 6.1.2 and 6.1.3.
Minimum TRP requirement is shown in the column "Min" on the requirement
tables.
### 6.1.1 Beside the head phantom position
Beside the head phantom test method is defined in TR 25.914 [6] subclauses
5.1.1 and 5.1.2.
#### 6.1.1.1 GSM
Handheld MS TRP minimum performance requirements for GMSK in beside the head
phantom position and the primary mechanical mode are defined in Table
6.1.1.1-1.
Table 6.1.1.1-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for GSM
roaming bands in beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical
mode
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 4 Power
class 5
* * *
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)                                      
                                             Average         Min             Average         Min             Average         Min   Average   Min    Average   Min
GSM 850 19,5 17,5  
GSM 900 20,5 18,5  
DCS 1800 21 19  
PCS 1900 21 19  
NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.
#### 6.1.1.2 UTRA FDD
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in beside the
head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode are defined in Table
6.1.1.2-1.
Table 6.1.1.2-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA FDD
roaming bands in beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical
mode
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 3bis
Power class 4
* * *
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)                      
                                                                             Average         Min                Average         Min    Average   Min
I - - +15 +13 +15 +13 +13 +11 II - - +15 +13 +15 +13 +13 +11 III - - +15 +13
+15 +13 +13 +11 IV - - +15 +13 +15 +13 +13 +11 V - - +11 +9 +11 +9 +9 +7 VI -
- +11 +9 +11 +9 +9 +7 VII - - +15 +13 +15 +13 +13 +11 VIII - - +12 +10 +12 +10
+10 +8 IX - - +15 +13 +15 +13 +13 +11 XIX - - +11,5 +9,5 +11,5 +9,5 +9,5 +7,5
NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.
#### 6.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in beside
the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode are defined in Table
6.1.1.3-1.
Table 6.1.1.3-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA LCR
TDD roaming bands in beside the head phantom position and the primary
mechanical mode
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 4
* * *
                                                      Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)                               
                                                      Average         Min             Average         Min             Average   Min   Average   Min
a － － +15 +13 － － － － b － － TBD TBD － － － － c － － TBD TBD － － － － d － － TBD
TBD － － － － e － － +15 +13 － － － － f － － +15 +13 － － － － NOTE: Applicable for
dual-mode GSM /UTRA LCR TDD.
### 6.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantom position
Beside the head and hand phantom position is defined in TR 25.914 [6]
subclauses 5.1.5 and 5.1.6.
#### 6.1.2.1 UTRA FDD
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in beside the
head and hand phantom position and the primary mechanical mode are defined in
Table 6.1.2.1-1.
Table 6.1.2.1-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for FDD
roaming bands in beside the head and hand phantom position and the primary
mechanical mode
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | ating | class | class | class | class | class | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 3bis | 4 | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | I | - | - | 13,25 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | II | - | - | 13,25 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | V | - | - | 9,40 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VI | - | - | 9,40 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VIII | - | - | 9,40 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | XIX | | | 9,40 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM/ | | | | | | | | | | UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | vices | | | | | | | | | | nar | | | | | | | | | | rower | | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | | 72mm | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | | .914. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | Not | | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | vices | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | CDMA | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | aggre | | | | | | | | | | gated | | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | | ti-ca | | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | | HSPA, | | | | | | | | | | LTE | | | | | | | | | | Ca | | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | | Agg | | | | | | | | | | regat | | | | | | | | | | ion). | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
#### 6.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in beside
the head and hand phantom position and the primary mechanical mode are defined
in Table 6.1.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.2.2-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA LCR
TDD roaming bands beside the head and hand phantom position and the primary
mechanical mode
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 4
* * *
                                                      Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)                               
                                                      Average         Min             Average         Min             Average   Min   Average   Min
a － － TBD TBD － － － － b － － TBD TBD － － － － c － － TBD TBD － － － － d － － TBD
TBD － － － － e － － TBD TBD － － － － f － － TBD TBD － － － － NOTE: Applicable for
dual-mode GSM /UTRA LCR TDD.
#### 6.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD
#### 6.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD
### 6.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position
Hand phantom browsing mode position is defined in TR 25.914 [6] subclauses
5.1.5 and 5.1.7.
#### 6.1.3.1 UTRA FDD
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in hand phantom
browsing mode position are defined in Table 6.1.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA FDD
roaming bands in hand phantom browsing mode position
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 3bis
Power class 4
* * *
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)                     
                                                                             Average         Min                Average         Min   Average   Min
I - - TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD II - - TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD III - - TBD TBD
TBD TBD TBD TBD IV - - TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD V - - TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD
VI - - TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD VII - - TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD VIII - - TBD
TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD IX - - TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD XIX TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD
NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.
#### 6.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD UE in hand
phantom browsing mode position are defined in Table 6.1.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2-1: Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA LCR
TDD roaming bands in hand phantom browsing mode position
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 4
* * *
                                                      Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)                               
                                                      Average         Min             Average         Min             Average   Min   Average   Min
a － － TBD TBD － － － － b － － TBD TBD － － － － c － － TBD TBD － － － － d － － TBD
TBD － － － － e － － TBD TBD － － － － f － － TBD TBD － － － － NOTE: Applicable for
dual-mode GSM /UTRA LCR TDD.
#### 6.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD
#### 6.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD
## 6.2 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LME
The average measured TRP of low, mid and high channel for laptop mounted
equipment shall be higher than the average TRP requirement specified in this
subclause. The averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRP results.
Average TRP requirement is shown in the column "Average" on the requirement
tables.
In addition the lowest TRP of each measured channel shall be higher than
minimum TRP requirement specified in this subclause. Minimum TRP requirement
is shown in the column "Min" on the requirement tables.
LME requirements in this clause are defined to be measured with laptop ground
plane phantom as defined in TR 25.914 [6] subclauses 5.1.3 and 5.1.4.
### 6.2.1 GSM
LME TRP minimum performance requirements for GSM with laptop ground plane
phantom in data transfer position are defined in Table 6.2.1-1.
Table 6.2.1-1: LME TRP minimum performance requirement for GSM in the data
transfer position
Operating band | Power class 1 | Power class 2 | Power class 3 | Power class 4 | Power class 5 |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) |  |  |  |  |   
| Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min  
GSM 850 | - | - | - | - | - | - | TBD | TBD | - | -  
GSM 900 | - | - | - | - | - | - | TBD | TBD | - | -  
DCS 1800 | TBD | TBD | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -  
PCS 1900 | TBD | TBD | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -  
NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. NOTE 2: Applicable for USB plug-in devices. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.2.2 UTRA FDD
LME TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD with laptop ground plane
phantom in data transfer position are defined in Table 6.2.2-1.
Table 6.2.2-1: LME TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA FDD in the
data transfer position
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | ating | class | class | class | class | class | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 3bis | 4 | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | I | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | II | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | V | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VI | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VIII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | XIX | | | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM/ | | | | | | | | | | UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | USB | | | | | | | | | | pl | | | | | | | | | | ug-in | | | | | | | | | | dev | | | | | | | | | | ices. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
### 6.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD
LME TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD with laptop ground
plane phantom in data transfer position are defined in Table 6.2.3-1.
Table 6.2.3-1: LME TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA LCR TDD in the
data transfer position
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | ating | class | class | class | class | | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | a | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | b | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | c | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | d | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | e | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | f | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM | | | | | | | | | | /UTRA | | | | | | | | | | LCR | | | | | | | | | | TDD. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | USB | | | | | | | | | | pl | | | | | | | | | | ug-in | | | | | | | | | | dev | | | | | | | | | | ices. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
### 6.2.4 E-UTRA FDD
### 6.2.5 E-UTRA TDD
## 6.3 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LEE
The average measured TRP of low, mid and high channel for laptop embedded
equipment shall be higher than the average TRP requirement specified in this
subclause. The averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRP results.
Average TRP requirement is shown in the column "Average" on the requirement
tables.
In addition the lowest TRP of each measured channel shall be higher than
minimum TRP requirement specified in this subclause. Minimum TRP requirement
is shown in the column "Min" on the requirement tables.
LEE requirements in this clause are defined to be measured as defined in TR
25.914 [6]: subclause 5.3.1 applies to notebook devices, and subclause 5.3.2
applies to tablet devices.
### 6.3.1 GSM
LEE TRP minimum performance requirements for GSM are defined in Tables 6.3.1-1
and 6.3.1-2.
Table 6.3.1-1: Notebook TRP minimum performance requirement for GSM in the
data transfer position
Operating band | Power class 1 | Power class 2 | Power class 3 | Power class 4 | Power class 5 |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) |  |  |  |  |   
| Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min  
GSM 850 | - | - | - | - | - | - | TBD | TBD | - | -  
GSM 900 | - | - | - | - | - | - | TBD | TBD | - | -  
DCS 1800 | TBD | TBD | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -  
PCS 1900 | TBD | TBD | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -  
NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook devices. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 6.3.1-2: Tablet TRP minimum performance requirement for GSM in the data
transfer position
Operating band | Power class 1 | Power class 2 | Power class 3 | Power class 4 | Power class 5 |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) |  |  |  |  |   
| Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min  
GSM 850 | - | - | - | - | - | - | TBD | TBD | - | -  
GSM 900 | - | - | - | - | - | - | TBD | TBD | - | -  
DCS 1800 | TBD | TBD | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -  
PCS 1900 | TBD | TBD | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -  
NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. NOTE 2: Applicable for tablet devices. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.3.2 UTRA FDD
LEE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD are defined in Tables
6.3.2-1 and 6.3.2-2.
Table 6.3.2-1: Notebook TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA FDD in
the data transfers position
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | ating | class | class | class | class | class | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 3bis | 4 | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | I | - | - | 19,0 | 17,5 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | II | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | V | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VI | - | - | 18,5 | 16,5 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VIII | - | - | 18,5 | 16,5 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | XIX | | | 18,5 | 16,5 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM | | | | | | | | | | /UMTS | | | | | | | | | | /LTE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | ebook | | | | | | | | | | dev | | | | | | | | | | ices. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
NOTE: TRP minimum performance requirements in table 6.3.2-1 apply to HSPA and
LTE UEs supporting only single carrier operation. Their applicability to
multi-carrier operation is FFS. This is because it has not been verified
whether the UEs measured to derive the requirements supported carrier
aggregation or not.
Table 6.3.2-2: Tablet TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA FDD in the
data transfer position
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | ating | class | class | class | class | class | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 3bis | 4 | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | I | - | - | 19 | 17,5 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | II | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | V | - | - | 17 | 15,0 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VI | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VIII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | XIX | | | 17 | 15,0 | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM/ | | | | | | | | | | UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ablet | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | vices | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | | ante | | | | | | | | | | nnas. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
### 6.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD
LEE TRP minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD are defined in
Tables 6.3.3-1 and 6.3.3-2.
Table 6.3.3-1: Notebook TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA LCR TDD
in the data transfer position
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | ating | class | class | class | class | | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | a | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | b | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | c | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | d | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | e | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | f | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM | | | | | | | | | | /UTRA | | | | | | | | | | LCR | | | | | | | | | | TDD. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | ebook | | | | | | | | | | dev | | | | | | | | | | ices. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
Table 6.3.3-2: Tablet TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA LCR TDD in
the data transfer position
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | ating | class | class | class | class | | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+=====+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | a | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | b | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | c | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | d | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | e | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | f | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM | | | | | | | | | | /UTRA | | | | | | | | | | LCR | | | | | | | | | | TDD. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ablet | | | | | | | | | | dev | | | | | | | | | | ices. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
### 6.3.4 E-UTRA FDD
LEE TRP minimum performance requirements for E-UTRA FDD are defined in Table
6.3.4-1 for Tablet devices.
Table 6.3.4-1: Tablet TRP minimum requirements for E-UTRA FDD in the data
transfer position
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | Operating | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | band | Class 1 | Class 2 | Class 3 | Class 4 | | +===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | | | | Average | Min | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 1 | | | 18.5 | 17.0 | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 2 | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 3 | | | 18.5 | 17.0 | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 4 | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 5 | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 7 | | | 18.0 | 16.5 | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 8 | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 12 | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 13 | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 19 | | | 17.5 | 15.5 | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 20 | | | 17.5 | 15.5 | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 21 | | | 17.5 | 16.0 | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 28 | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | pplicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulti-mode | | | | | | | GSM/ | | | | | | | UMTS/LTE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Appl | | | | | | | icability | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | devices | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | upporting | | | | | | | CDMA or | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ggregated | | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | mult | | | | | | | i-carrier | | | | | | | HSPA, LTE | | | | | | | Carrier | | | | | | | Agg | | | | | | | regation) | | | | | | | is FFS. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
### 6.3.5 E-UTRA TDD
# 7 Receiver total radiated sensitivity
## 7.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for handheld UE
The average measured total radiated sensitivity (TRS) of low, mid and high
channel for handheld UE shall be lower than the average TRS requirement
specified in subclauses 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.1.3. The averaging shall be done in
linear scale for the TRS results of both right and left side of the phantom
head in case of beside the head phantom and beside the head and hand phantom
positions. For the hand phantom browsing mode position the averaging shall be
done in linear scale for the TRS results of both right and left hand phantom
measurements. Average TRS requirement is shown in the column "Average" on the
requirement tables.
In addition the highest TRS of each measured channel shall be lower than
maximum TRS requirement specified in subclauses 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.1.3.
Maximum TRS requirement is shown in the column "Max" on the requirement
tables.
### 7.1.1 Beside the head phantom position
Beside the head phantom test method is defined in TR 25.914 [6] subclauses
5.1.1 and 5.1.2.
#### 7.1.1.1 GSM
Handheld MS TRS minimum performance requirements for GMSK in beside the head
phantom position and the primary mechanical mode for TCH/FS at 2% class II
(RBER) [3] are defined in Table 7.1.1.1-1.
Table 7.1.1.1-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirements for GSM roaming bands in
beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode
+-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +=====================================+======+==============+=======+ | | | Average | Max | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | GSM 850 | dBm | -98 | -95 | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | GSM 900 | dBm | -97 | -94 | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | -99,5 | -96,5 | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | -98,5 | -95,5 | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | NOTE 1: For power class 1 and 4 | | | | | this shall be achieved at the | | | | | maximum output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for dual-mode | | | | | GSM/UMTS. | | | | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+
#### 7.1.1.2 UTRA FDD
Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in beside the
head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode for 1% BER with 12.2kbps
DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of [2] are defined in Table
7.1.1.2-1.
Table 7.1.1.2-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD roaming
bands in beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +===============================+==============+==============+=====+ | | | Average | Max | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101 | -98 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99 | -96 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | -98 | -95 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101 | -98 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96 | -93 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96 | -93 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99 | -96 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96 | -93 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | -100 | -97 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96 | -93 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: For Power class 3, | | | | | 3bis and 4 this shall be | | | | | achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For the UE which | | | | | supports both Band III and | | | | | Band IX operating | | | | | frequencies, the reference | | | | | level of TDB dBm TRS | | | | | \ [average and | | | | | min] shall apply for Band | | | | | IX. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For the UE which | | | | | supports DB-DC-HSDPA | | | | | configuration 2, average | | | | | \ level of -98 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz and max | | | | | \ level of -95 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for | | | | | Band II. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: For the UE which | | | | | supports DB-DC-HSDPA | | | | | configuration 2, average | | | | | \ level of -100 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz and max | | | | | \ level of -97 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for | | | | | Band IV. | | | | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
#### 7.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD
Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR FDD in beside
the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode for 1% BER with
12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of [2] are defined in
Table 7.1.1.3-1.
Table 7.1.1.3-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirement for UTRA LCR TDD roaming
bands in beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode
Operating band Unit \
* * *
                                                                    Average      Max
a dBm/1,28 MHz -101 -100 b dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD c dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD d
dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD e dBm/1,28 MHz -101 -100 f dBm/1,28 MHz -101 -100 Note:
Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.
### 7.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantoms position
Beside the head and hand phantom position is defined in TR 25.914 [6]
subclauses 5.1.5 and 5.1.6.
#### 7.1.2.1 UTRA FDD
Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in beside the
head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical mode for 1% BER
with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of [2] are defined
in Table 7.1.2.1-1.
Table 7.1.2.1-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD roaming
bands in beside the head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical
mode
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +===============================+==============+==============+=====+ | | | Average | Max | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101,00 | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99,00 | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96,75 | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96,75 | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96,75 | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | -96,75 | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: For power class 3, | | | | | 3bis and 4 this shall be | | | | | achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For the UE which | | | | | supports both Band III and | | | | | Band IX operating | | | | | frequencies, the reference | | | | | level of TDB dBm TRS | | | | | \ [average and | | | | | min] shall apply for Band | | | | | IX. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For the UE which | | | | | supports DB-DC-HSDPA | | | | | configuration 2, average | | | | | \ level of -98 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz and max | | | | | \ level of -95 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for | | | | | Band II. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: For the UE which | | | | | supports DB-DC-HSDPA | | | | | configuration 2, average | | | | | \ level of -100 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz and max | | | | | \ level of -97 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for | | | | | Band IV. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: Applicable for | | | | | devices narrower than 72mm as | | | | | defined in TR 25.914. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: Not applicable for | | | | | devices supporting CDMA or | | | | | aggregated carriers (e.g. | | | | | multi-carrier HSPA, LTE | | | | | Carrier Aggregation). | | | | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
#### 7.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD
Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in beside
the head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical mode for 1% BER
with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of [2] are defined
in Table 7.1.2.2-1.
Table 7.1.2.2-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirement for UTRA LCR TDD roaming
bands in beside the head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical
mode
Operating band Unit \
* * *
                                                                    Average      Max
a dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD b dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD c dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD d
dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD e dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD f dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD Note:
Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.
#### 7.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD
#### 7.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD
### 7.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position
Hand phantom browsing mode position is defined in TR 25.914 [6] subclauses
5.1.5 and 5.1.7.
#### 7.1.3.1 UTRA FDD
Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in hand phantom
browsing mode position and the primary mechanical mode for 1% BER with
12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of [2] are defined in
Table 7.1.3.1-1.
Table 7.1.3.1-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD roaming
bands in hand phantom browsing mode position
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +===============================+==============+==============+=====+ | | | Average | Max | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: For power class 3, | | | | | 3bis and 4 this shall be | | | | | achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For the UE which | | | | | supports both Band III and | | | | | Band IX operating | | | | | frequencies, the reference | | | | | level of TDB dBm TRS | | | | | \ [average and | | | | | min] shall apply for Band | | | | | IX. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For the UE which | | | | | supports DB-DC-HSDPA | | | | | configuration 2, average | | | | | \ level of -98 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz and max | | | | | \ level of -95 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for | | | | | Band II. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: For the UE which | | | | | supports DB-DC-HSDPA | | | | | configuration 2, average | | | | | \ level of -100 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz and max | | | | | \ level of -97 | | | | | dBm/3,84 MHz shall apply for | | | | | Band IV. | | | | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
#### 7.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD
Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in hand
phantom browsing mode position and the primary mechanical mode for 1% BER with
12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of [2] are defined in
Table 7.1.3.2-1.
Table 7.1.3.2-1: Handheld UE TRS minimum requirement for UTRA LCR TDD roaming
bands in hand phantom browsing mode position
Operating band Unit \
* * *
                                                                    Average      Max
a dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD b dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD c dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD d
dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD e dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD f dBm/1,28 MHz TBD TBD Note:
Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.
#### 7.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD
#### 7.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD
## 7.2 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LME
The average measured TRS of low, mid and high channel for laptop mounted
equipment shall be lower than average TRS requirement specified in this
subclause. The averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRS results.
Average TRS requirement is shown in the column "Average" on the requirement
tables.
In addition the highest TRS of each measured channel shall be lower than
maximum TRS requirement specified in this subclause. Maximum TRS requirement
is shown in the column "Max" on the requirement tables.
### 7.2.1 GSM
LME TRS minimum performance requirements for GPRS PDTCH/CS1 at 10% BLER [3]
with laptop ground plane phantom in data transfer position are defined in
Table 7.2.1-1.
Table 7.2.1-1: LME TRS minimum requirements for GSM in data transfer position
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +=======================================+======+==============+=====+ | | | Average | Max | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | GSM 850 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | GSM 900 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: For power class 1 and 4 this | | | | | shall be achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for dual-mode | | | | | GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for USB plug-in | | | | | devices. | | | | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
### 7.2.2 UTRA FDD
LME TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD with laptop ground plane
phantom in data transfer position mode for 1% BER with 12.2kbps DL reference
channel as defined in Annex C.3 of [2] are defined in Table 7.2.2-1. [The
values in the tables are Îor with no interference.]
Table 7.2.2-1: LME TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD in data transfer
position
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +===============================+==============+==============+=====+ | | | Average | Max | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: For power class 3, | | | | | 3bis and 4 this shall be | | | | | achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for USB | | | | | plug-in devices. | | | | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
### 7.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD
LME TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD with laptop ground
plane phantom in data transfer position mode for 1% BER with 12.2kbps DL
reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of [2] are defined in Table 7.2.3-1.
[The values in the tables are Îor with no interference.]
Table 7.2.3-1: LME TRS minimum requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in data transfer
position
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +=================================+==============+============+=====+ | | | Average | Max | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | a | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | b | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | c | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | d | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | e | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | f | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for USB | | | | | plug-in devices. | | | | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
### 7.2.4 E-UTRA FDD
### 7.2.5 E-UTRA TDD
## 7.3 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for LEE
The average measured TRS of low, mid and high channel for laptop embedded
equipment shall be lower than average TRS requirements specified in this
subclause. The averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRS results.
Average TRS requirement is shown in the column "Average" on the requirement
tables.
In addition the highest TRS of each measured channel shall be lower than
maximum TRS requirement specified in this subclause. Maximum TRS requirement
is shown in the column "Max" on the requirement tables.
### 7.3.1 GSM
LEE TRS minimum performance requirements for GPRS PDTCH/CS1 at 10% BLER [3]
are defined in Tables 7.3.1-1 and 7.3.1-2.
Table 7.3.1-1: Notebook TRS minimum requirements for GSM in data transfer
position
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +=======================================+======+==============+=====+ | | | Average | Max | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | GSM 850 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | GSM 900 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: For power class 1 and 4 this | | | | | shall be achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for dual-mode | | | | | GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for notebook | | | | | devices. | | | | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
Table 7.3.1-2: Tablet TRS minimum requirements for GSM in data transfer
position
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +=======================================+======+==============+=====+ | | | Average | Max | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | GSM 850 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | GSM 900 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: For power class 1 and 4 this | | | | | shall be achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for dual-mode | | | | | GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for tablet | | | | | devices. | | | | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
### 7.3.2 UTRA FDD
LEE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA FDD in data transfer
position mode for 1% BER with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in
Annex C.3 of [2] are defined in Tables 7.3.2-1 and 7.3.3-2. [The values in the
tables are Îor with no interference.]
Table 7.3.2-1: Notebook TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD in data transfer
position
+----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +============================+==============+==============+========+ | | | Average | Max | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | -103,5 | -102,0 | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101,5 | -99,5 | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101,5 | -99,5 | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101,5 | -99,5 | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: For power class 3, | | | | | 3bis and 4 this shall be | | | | | achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for | | | | | multi-mode GSM/UMTS/LTE. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for | | | | | notebook devices. | | | | +----------------------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
NOTE: TRS minimum performance requirements in table 7.3.2-1 apply to HSPA and
LTE UEs supporting only single carrier operation. Their applicability to
multi-carrier operation is FFS. This is because it has not been verified
whether the UEs measured to derive the requirements supported carrier
aggregation or not.
Table 7.3.2-2: Tablet TRS minimum requirements for UTRA FDD in data transfer
position
+---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +===========================+==============+==============+=========+ | | | Average | Max | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | -105,75 | -104,25 | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | -103 | -101,0 | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | -103 | -101,0 | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | NOTE 1: For power class | | | | | 3, 3bis and 4 this shall | | | | | be achieved at the | | | | | maximum output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for | | | | | tablet devices with two | | | | | antennas. | | | | +---------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
### 7.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD
LEE TRS minimum performance requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in data transfer
position mode for 1% BER with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in
Annex C.3 of [2] are defined in Tables 7.3.3-1 and 7.3.2-2. [The values in the
tables are Îor with no interference.]
Table 7.3.3-1: LEE TRS minimum requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in data transfer
position
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +=================================+==============+============+=====+ | | | Average | Max | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | a | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | b | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | c | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | d | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | e | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | f | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook | | | | | devices. | | | | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
Table 7.3.3-2: Tablet TRS minimum requirements for UTRA LCR TDD in data
transfer position
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +=================================+==============+============+=====+ | | | Average | Max | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | a | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | b | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | c | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | d | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | e | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | f | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for tablet | | | | | devices. | | | | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
### 7.3.4 E-UTRA FDD
LEE TRS minimum performance requirements for E-UTRA FDD in data transfer
position mode for throughput ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in section 7.3 of TS 36.521-1 [9] and Annex
A of TS 36.521-1 [9] are defined in Table 7.3.4-1 for Tablet devices.
Table 7.3.4-1: Tablet TRS minimum requirements for E-UTRA FDD in data transfer
position
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | Operating band | Channel | Sensitivity | | | | bandwidth | (dBm) | | +==================+==================+==================+========+ | | | Average | Max | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 1 | 10 MHz | -93.75 | -92.25 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 2 | 10 MHz | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 3 | 10 MHz | -95.0 | -93.5 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 4 | 10 MHz | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 5 | 10 MHz | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 7 | 10 MHz | -93.5 | -92.0 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 8 | 10 MHz | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 12 | 10 MHz | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 13 | 10 MHz | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 19 | 10 MHz | -91.5 | -89.5 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 20 | 10 MHz | -92.5 | -90.5 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 21 | 15 MHz | -90.0 | -88.5 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 28 | 10 MHz | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 32 | 10 MHz | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | multi-mode | | | | | GSM/UMTS/LTE. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicability | | | | | for devices | | | | | supporting CDMA | | | | | or aggregated | | | | | carriers (e.g. | | | | | multi-carrier | | | | | HSPA, LTE | | | | | Carrier | | | | | Aggregation) is | | | | | FFS. | | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
### 7.3.5 E-UTRA TDD
# 8 Receiver total radiated multi-antenna sensitivity
## 8.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands for handheld UE
### 8.1.1 Free Space
Requirements in this section are stated for the free space configuration, are
applicable to handheld devices, and are not applicable to wrist-worn devices.
For the reference MPAC methodology and the harmonized RTS methodology defined
in [7], the average TRMS of free space data mode portrait (FS DMP), free space
data mode landscape (FSDML), and free space data mode screen up (FS DMSU), as
defined in Annex E of TR 37.977 [7], when measured at the mid channel shall be
lower than the average TRMS requirements specified in subclauses 8.1.1.1 and
8.1.1.2. The averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRMS results at
these DUT positions. Two average TRMS quantities are calculated from
sensitivity measurements at 70% and 95% throughput, respectively. Average TRMS
requirement are shown in the column "Average, 70" and "Average, 95" on the
requirement tables.
$\text{TRMS}_{\text{average},70} = 10\text{log}\left\lbrack \frac{3}{\left(
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}_\text{DMP},70}}{10}}} +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}_\text{DML},70}}{10}}} +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}_\text{DMSU},70}}{10}}} \right)} \right\rbrack$
$\text{TRMS}_{\text{average},95} = 10\text{log}\left\lbrack \frac{3}{\left(
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}_\text{DMP},95}}{10}}} +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}_\text{DML},95}}{10}}} +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{S_{\text{FS}_\text{DMSU},95}}{10}}} \right)} \right\rbrack$
Where
$S_{\text{MODE},x} = 10\text{log}\left\lbrack \frac{12}{\left(
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{MODE},x,0}}{10}}} +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{MODE},x,1}}{10}}} + \ldots +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{MODE},x,11}}{10}}} \right)} \right\rbrack$
Such that _MODE_ is one of {_FS_DMP, FS_DML, FS_DMSU_}, _x_ is one of {_70,
95_}, and {_P~MODE,x,0~, ..., P~MODE,x,11~_} are the measured sensitivity
values at each azimuth position.
For the reference MPAC methodology and the harmonized RTS methodology defined
in [7], if 1 azimuth position does not result in a defined measured
sensitivity at 70% or 95% throughput, _S~MODE,70~_ or _S~MODE,95~_ are
calculated using the 11 measured sensitivities and the maximum downlink RS-
EPRE _P~RS-EPRE-MAX~_ (substitution approach) for the one missing result. If 2
azimuth positions do not result in a defined measured sensitivity at 95%
throughput, _S~MODE,95~_ is calculated using the 10 measured sensitivities and
_P~RS-EPRE-MAX~_ for the two missing results. If more azimuth positions result
in undefined values for measured sensitivity at the 70% and/or 95% throughput,
then the TRMS requirement for the corresponding throughput levels has not been
met by such a device. _P~RS-EPRE-MAX~_ is defined as -80 dBm/15 kHz and is the
maximum downlink RS-EPRE supported by the test system.
#### 8.1.1.1 E-UTRA FDD
Handheld UE TRMS minimum performance requirements for E-UTRA FDD in free space
and the primary mechanical mode for 70% and 95% DL throughput with the
reference measurement channel defined in Clause 7 of TR 37.977 [7] are defined
in Table 8.1.1.1-1.
Table 8.1.1.1-1: Handheld UE TRMS minimum requirements for E-UTRA FDD roaming
bands in free space and the primary mechanical mode
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | | Test 1 | | | +==================+==================+==============+=============+ | Channel Model as | SCME urban | | | | defined in | micro-cell | | | | clause 8.2 in | | | | | [7] | | | | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | | | Average, 70 | Average, 95 | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 1 | dBm/15 kHz | -94.75 | -92.75 | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 2 | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 3 | dBm/15 kHz | -93.75 | -91.75 | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 4 | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 5 | dBm/15 kHz | -91.5 | -89.5 | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 7 | dBm/15 kHz | -92.5 | -90.5 | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 8 | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 12 | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 13 | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 19 | dBm/15 kHz | -91.5 | -89.5 | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 20 | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 28 | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 32 (1) | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Restricted to | | | | | E-UTRA operation | | | | | when carrier | | | | | aggregation is | | | | | configured. The | | | | | downlink | | | | | operating band | | | | | is paired with | | | | | the uplink | | | | | operating band | | | | | (external) of | | | | | the carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | configuration | | | | | that is | | | | | supporting the | | | | | configured | | | | | Pcell. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicability | | | | | for devices | | | | | supporting | | | | | 4-receiver | | | | | architectures is | | | | | not confirmed. | | | | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
#### 8.1.1.2 E-UTRA TDD
Handheld UE TRMS minimum performance requirements for E-UTRA TDD in free space
and the primary mechanical mode for 70% and 95% DL throughput with the
reference measurement channel defined in Clause 7 of TR 37.977 [7] are defined
in Table 8.1.1.2-1.
Table 8.1.1.2-1: Handheld UE TRMS minimum requirements for E-UTRA TDD roaming
bands in free space and the primary mechanical mode
+------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | | Test 1 | | | +==================+==================+==============+=============+ | Channel Model as | SCME urban | | | | defined in | micro-cell | | | | clause 8.2 in | | | | | [7] | | | | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | | | Average, 70 | Average, 95 | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 38 | dBm/15 kHz | -95.5 | -93.5 | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 39 | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 40 | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 41 | dBm/15 kHz | -95.5 | -93.5 | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 42 | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | 46 (1,2) | dBm/15 kHz | TBD | TBD | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: This | | | | | band is an | | | | | unlicensed band | | | | | restricted to | | | | | l | | | | | icensed-assisted | | | | | operation using | | | | | Frame Structure | | | | | Type 3 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: In this | | | | | version of the | | | | | specification, | | | | | restricted to | | | | | E-UTRA DL | | | | | operation when | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation is | | | | | configured. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Applicability | | | | | for devices | | | | | supporting | | | | | 4-receiver | | | | | architectures is | | | | | not confirmed. | | | | +------------------+------------------+--------------+-------------+
###### ## Annex A (normative): Environmental conditions
# A.1 General
This normative annex specifies the environmental requirements of the UE.
Within these limits the requirements of the present documents shall be
fulfilled.
# A.2 Environmental requirements
The requirements in this clause apply to all types of UE(s) and MS(s).
## A.2.2 Temperature
All the OTA requirements are applicable in room temperature e.g. 25°C.
## A.2.3 Voltage
The UE or MS shall be equipped with a real battery that is fully charged (in
the beginning of the Test).
###### ## Annex B (informative): Recommended performance
# B.1 General
This annex introduces the concept of recommended OTA performance for operating
bands. This requirement is not mandatory but is recommended.
The concept of recommended performance is to ensure that UE/MS OTA performance
is maximised in order to improve user experience and network performance. It
is recognised that the ability to meet the recommended performance depends on
the number of frequency bands supported by the UE/MS.
# B.2 Transmitter total radiated power
The OTA TRP performance for GSM, UTRA and E-UTRA should be greater or equal
than the recommended values in this clause.
## B.2.1 Recommended performance for handheld UE
### B.2.1.1 Beside the head phantom position
Beside the head phantom test method is defined in TR 25.914 [6] subclauses
5.1.1 and 5.1.2.
#### B.2.1.1.1 GSM
Table B.2.1.1.1-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for GSM in beside
the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 4 Power
class 5
* * *
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)
                                             Average         Average         Average         Average         Average
GSM 850 - - - 24 - GSM 900 - - - 24 - DCS 1800 24 - - - - PCS 1900 24 - - - -
NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.
#### B.2.1.1.2 UTRA FDD
Table B.2.1.1.2-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD in
beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 3bis
Power class 4
* * *
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)
                                             Average         Average         Average         Average            Average
I - - +18 +18 +16 II - - +18 +18 +16 III - - +18 +18 +16 IV - - +18 +18 +16 V
- - +14 +14 +12 VI - - +14,5 +14,5 +12,5 VII - - +18 +18 +16 VIII - - +15 +15
+13 IX - - +18 +18 +16 XIX - - +14,5 +14,5 +12,5 NOTE: Applicable for dual-
mode GSM/UMTS.
#### B.2.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD
Table B.2.1.1.3-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in
beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 3bis
Power class 4
* * *
                                                     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)
                                                     Average         Average         Average         Average            Average
a - +18 - - - b - TBD - - - c - TBD - - - d - TBD - - - e - +18 - - - f - +18
- - - Note: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.
### B.2.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantoms position
#### B.2.1.2.1 UTRA FDD
Table B.2.1.2.1-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD beside
the head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical mode
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | class 1 | class 2 | class 3 | class | class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | I | - | - | 16,25 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | II | - | - | 16,25 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V | - | - | 12,40 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VI | - | - | 12,40 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VIII | - | - | 12,40 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | XIX | - | - | 12,40 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | SM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | devices | | | | | | | narrower | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | 72mm as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | | 25.914. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | Not | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | devices | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | pporting | | | | | | | CDMA or | | | | | | | ag | | | | | | | gregated | | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | -carrier | | | | | | | HSPA, | | | | | | | LTE | | | | | | | Carrier | | | | | | | Aggre | | | | | | | gation). | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### B.2.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD
Table B.2.1.2.2-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in
beside the head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical mode
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 3bis
Power class 4
* * *
                                                     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)
                                                                     Average
a - TBD - - - b - TBD - - - c - TBD - - - d - TBD - - - e - TBD - - - f - TBD
- - - Note: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.
#### B.2.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD
#### B.2.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD
### B.2.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position
#### B.2.1.3.1 UTRA FDD
Table B.2.1.3.1-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD in the
hand phantom browsing mode position
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 3bis
Power class 4
* * *
                                             Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)
                                                                             Average         Average            Average
I - - TBD TBD TBD II - - TBD TBD TBD III - - TBD TBD TBD IV - - TBD TBD TBD V
- - TBD TBD TBD VI - - TBD TBD TBD VII - - TBD TBD TBD VIII - - TBD TBD TBD IX
- - TBD TBD TBD XIX - - TBD TBD TBD NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.
#### B.2.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD
Table B.2.1.3.2-1: Handheld UE TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in
the hand phantom browsing mode position
Operating band Power class 1 Power class 2 Power class 3 Power class 3bis
Power class 4
* * *
                                                      Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)     Power (dBm)        Power (dBm)
                                                                      Average
a - TBD - - - b - TBD - - - c - TBD - - - d - TBD - - - e - TBD - - - f - TBD
- - - Note : Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.
#### B.2.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD
#### B.2.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD
## B.2.2 Recommended performance for LME
### B.2.2.1 GSM
Table B.2.2.1-1: LME TRP recommended performance for GSM in data transfer
position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | class 1 | class 2 | class 3 | class 4 | class 5 | | band | | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM 850 | - | - | - | TBD | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM 900 | - | - | - | TBD | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DCS 1800 | TBD | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | PCS 1900 | TBD | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | SM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for USB | | | | | | | plug-in | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### B.2.2.2 UTRA FDD
Table B.2.2.2-1: LME TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD in data transfer
position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | class 1 | class 2 | class 3 | class | class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | I | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | II | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VI | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VIII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | XIX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | SM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for USB | | | | | | | plug-in | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### B.2.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD
Table B.2.2.3-1: LME TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in data
transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | class 1 | class 2 | class 3 | class | class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | c | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | d | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | e | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | f | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | GSM/UTRA | | | | | | | LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for USB | | | | | | | plug-in | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### B.2.2.4 E-UTRA FDD
Table B.2.2.4-1: Tablet TRP recommended performance for E-UTRA FDD in the data
transfer position
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Operating | Power Class | Power Class | Power Class | Power Class | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | Average | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | | | 21.0 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | | | 20.5 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | | | 20.0 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 19 | | | 20.0 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | | | 19.5 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 21 | | | 20.0 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 28 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Applicable | | | | | | for | | | | | | multi-mode | | | | | | GS | | | | | | M/UMTS/LTE. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | plicability | | | | | | for devices | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | CDMA or | | | | | | aggregated | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | mu | | | | | | lti-carrier | | | | | | HSPA, LTE | | | | | | Carrier | | | | | | A | | | | | | ggregation) | | | | | | is FFS. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### B.2.2.5 E-UTRA TDD
## B.2.3 Recommended performance for LEE
### B.2.3.1 GSM
Table B.2.3.1-1: Notebook TRP recommended performance for GSM in data transfer
position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | class 1 | class 2 | class 3 | class 4 | class 5 | | band | | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM 850 | - | - | - | TBD | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM 900 | - | - | - | TBD | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DCS 1800 | TBD | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | PCS 1900 | TBD | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | SM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | notebook | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table B.2.3.1-2: Tablet TRP recommended performance for GSM in data transfer
position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | class 1 | class 2 | class 3 | class 4 | class 5 | | band | | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM 850 | - | - | - | TBD | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM 900 | - | - | - | TBD | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DCS 1800 | TBD | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | PCS 1900 | TBD | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | SM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | tablet | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### B.2.3.2 UTRA FDD
Table B.2.3.2-1: Notebook TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD in data
transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | class 1 | class 2 | class 3 | class | class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | I | - | - | 21,5 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | II | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VI | - | - | 21,0 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VIII | - | - | 21.0 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | XIX | - | - | 21,0 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | mu | | | | | | | lti-mode | | | | | | | GSM/U | | | | | | | MTS/LTE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | notebook | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
NOTE: TRP minimum performance requirements in table B.2.3.2-1apply to HSPA and
LTE UEs supporting only single carrier operation. Their applicability to
multi-carrier operation is FFS. This is because it has not been verified
whether the UEs measured to derive the requirements supported carrier
aggregation or not.
Table B.2.3.2-2: Tablet TRP recommended performance for UTRA FDD in data
transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | class 1 | class 2 | class 3 | class | class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | I | - | - | 21,5 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | II | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V | - | - | 19,5 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VI | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VIII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | XIX | - | - | 19,5 | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | SM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | tablet | | | | | | | devices | | | | | | | with two | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ntennas. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### B.2.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD
Table B.2.3.3-1: Notebook TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in data
transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | class 1 | class 2 | class 3 | class | class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | c | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | d | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | e | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | f | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | GSM/UTRA | | | | | | | LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | notebook | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table B.2.3.3-2: Tablet TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in data
transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | class 1 | class 2 | class 3 | class | class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | c | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | d | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | e | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | f | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | GSM/UTRA | | | | | | | LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | tablet | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### B.2.3.4 E-UTRA FDD
### B.2.3.5 E-UTRA TDD
# B.3 Receiver total radiated sensitivity
The OTA TRS performance for GSM, UTRA and E-UTRA should be lower or equal than
the recommended values shown in this clause.
## B.3.1 Recommended performance for handheld UE
### B.3.1.1 Beside the head phantom position
Beside the head phantom test method is defined in TR 25.914 [6] subclauses
5.1.1 and 5.1.2.
#### B.3.1.1.1 GSM
Table B.3.1.1.1-1: Handheld UE TRS recommended performance for GSM in beside
the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode.
+------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +==========================================+======+==============+ | GSM 850 | dBm | -100,5 | +------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | GSM 900 | dBm | -100,5 | +------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | -103,5 | +------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | -103,5 | +------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | +------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
#### B.3.1.1.2 UTRA FDD
Table B.3.1.1.2-1: Handheld UE TRS recommended performance for FDD in beside
the head phantom position for the primary mechanical mode
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | +======================================+==============+==============+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | -102 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99,5 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | -102 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | -100 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | -103 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | -101 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For the UE which supports | | | | DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average | | | | \ level of -101 dBm/3.84 | | | | shall apply for Band II. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For the UE which supports | | | | DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average | | | | \ level of -103 dBm/3.84 | | | | MHz shall apply for Band IV. | | | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
#### B.3.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD
Table B.3.1.1.3-1: Handheld UE TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in
beside the head phantom position and the primary mechanical mode.
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +==================================================+==============+============+ | a | dBm/1,28 MHz | -105 | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | b | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | c | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | d | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | e | dBm/1,28 MHz | -105 | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | f | dBm/1,28 MHz | -105 | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
### B.3.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantoms position
#### B.3.1.2.1 UTRA FDD
Table B.3.1.2.1-1: TRS recommended performance for UTRA FDD in the beside the
head and hand phantoms position for the primary mechanical mode
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +======================================+==============+==============+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104,00 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | -102,00 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99,75 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | -99,75 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For the UE which supports | | | | DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average | | | | \ level of -101 dBm/3,84 | | | | shall apply for Band II. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For the UE which supports | | | | DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average | | | | \ level of -103 dBm/3,84 | | | | MHz shall apply for Band IV. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for devices | | | | narrower than 72mm as defined in TR | | | | 25.914 | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: Not applicable for devices | | | | supporting CDMA or aggregated | | | | carriers (e.g. multi-carrier HSPA, | | | | LTE Carrier Aggregation) | | | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
#### B.3.1.2.2 UTRA LCR TDD
Table B.3.1.2.2-1: TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in the beside
the head and hand phantoms position and the primary mechanical mode
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +==================================================+==============+============+ | a | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | b | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | c | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | d | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | e | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | f | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
#### B.3.1.2.3 E-UTRA FDD
#### B.3.1.2.4 E-UTRA TDD
### B.3.1.3 Hand phantom browsing mode position
#### B.3.1.3.1 UTRA FDD
Table B.3.1.3.1-1: TRS recommended performance for UTRA FDD in hand phantom
browsing mode position
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +======================================+==============+==============+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For the UE which supports | | | | DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average | | | | \ level of -101 dBm/3,84 | | | | shall apply for Band II. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For the UE which supports | | | | DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average | | | | \ level of -103 dBm/3,84 | | | | MHz shall apply for Band IV. | | | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
#### B.3.1.3.2 UTRA LCR TDD
Table B.3.1.3.2-1: TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in hand
phantom browsing mode position
+--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +==================================================+==============+============+ | a | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | b | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | c | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | d | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | e | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | f | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | +--------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
#### B.3.1.3.3 E-UTRA FDD
#### B.3.1.3.4 E-UTRA TDD
## B.3.2 Recommended performance for LME
### B.3.2.1 GSM
Table B.3.2.1-1: LME TRS recommended performance for GSM in the data transfer
position
+---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +=============================================+======+==============+ | GSM 850 | dBm | TBD | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | GSM 900 | dBm | TBD | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | TBD | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | TBD | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for USB plug-in devices. | | | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
### B.3.2.2 UTRA FDD
Table B.3.2.2-1: LME TRS recommended performance for UTRA FDD in the data
transfer position
+-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +===========================================+==============+==============+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE: Applicable for USB plug-in devices. | | | +-------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
### B.3.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD
Table B.3.2.3-1: LME TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in the data
transfer position
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +====================================================+==============+============+ | a | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | b | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | c | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | d | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | e | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | f | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for USB plug-in devices. | | | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
### B.3.2.4 E-UTRA FDD
### B.3.2.5 E-UTRA TDD
## B.3.3 Recommended performance for LEE
### B.3.3.1 GSM
Table B.3.3.1-1: Notebook TRS recommended performance for GSM in the data
transfer position
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +============================================+======+==============+ | GSM 850 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | GSM 900 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook devices. | | | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
Table B.3.3.1-2: Tablet TRS recommended performance for GSM in the data
transfer position
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +============================================+======+==============+ | GSM 850 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | GSM 900 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for tablet devices. | | | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
### B.3.3.2 UTRA FDD
Table B.3.3.2-1: Notebook TRS recommended performance for UTRA FDD in the data
transfer position
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +=================================================+==============+==============+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | -106.5 | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104.5 | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104.5 | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | -104.5 | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for multi-mode GSM/UMTS/LTE. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook devices. | | | +-------------------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
NOTE: TRS minimum performance requirements in table B.3.3.2-1 apply to HSPA
and LTE UEs supporting only single carrier operation. Their applicability to
multi-carrier operation is FFS. This is because it has not been verified
whether the UEs measured to derive the requirements supported carrier
aggregation or not.
Table B.3.3.2-2: Tablet TRS recommended performance for UTRA FDD in the data
transfer position
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +======================================+==============+==============+ | I | dBm/3,84 MHz | -108,75 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | II | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | III | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IV | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | V | dBm/3,84 MHz | -106,0 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VI | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VIII | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IX | dBm/3,84 MHz | TBD | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIX | dBm/3,84 MHz | -106,0 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE: Applicable for tablet devices | | | | with two antennas. | | | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
### B.3.3.3 UTRA LCR TDD
Table B.3.3.3-1: Notebook TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in the
data transfer position
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +====================================================+==============+============+ | a | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | b | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | c | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | d | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | e | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | f | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook devices. | | | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
Table B.3.3.3-2: Tablet TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in the
data transfer position
+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | Operating band | Unit | \ | | | | | | | | Average | +====================================================+==============+============+ | a | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | b | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | c | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | d | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | e | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | f | dBm/1,28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for tablet devices. | | | +----------------------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
### B.3.3.4 E-UTRA FDD
Table B.3.3.4-1: Tablet TRS recommended performance for E-UTRA FDD in data
transfer position
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Operating band | Channel bandwidth | Sensitivity (dBm) | +============================+===================+===================+ | | | Average | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 1 | 10 MHz | -96.0 | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 2 | 10 MHz | | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 3 | 10 MHz | -97.0 | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 4 | 10 MHz | | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 5 | 10 MHz | | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 7 | 10 MHz | -95.75 | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 8 | 10 MHz | | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 12 | 10 MHz | | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 13 | 10 MHz | | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 19 | 10 MHz | -94.5 | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 20 | 10 MHz | -94.5 | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 21 | 15 MHz | -93.0 | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 28 | 10 MHz | | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | 32 | 10 MHz | | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for | | | | multi-mode GSM/UMTS/LTE. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicability for | | | | devices supporting CDMA or | | | | aggregated carriers (e.g. | | | | multi-carrier HSPA, LTE | | | | Carrier Aggregation) is | | | | FFS. | | | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
### B.3.3.5 E-UTRA TDD
#