# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum performance requirements for RAT-
Independent Positioning Enhancements for FDD or TDD mode of UTRA and E-UTRA
for the User Equipment (UE).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI TR 102 273-1-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); Improvement on Radiated Methods of Measurement (using test
site) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties; Part 1:
Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment characteristics;
Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.355: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); LTE
Positioning Protocol (LPP)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.509: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Packet Core (EPC); Special conformance testing functions for User
Equipment (UE)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.942: Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio
Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[7] ATIS-0500027: \"Recommendations for Establishing Wide Scale Indoor
Location Performance\", May 2015.
[8] 3GPP TS 34.109: \"Terminal logical test interface; Special conformance
testing functions \".
[9] 3GPP TS 37.571-1: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification for UE positioning; Part 1: Conformance test specification \".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Conformance testing \"
[11] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.355: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP)\".
[13] Specification of the Bluetooth System version 4.2.
[14] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[15] IEEE Standard 802.11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and
Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications.
# 3 Definitions, abbreviations and test tolerances
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
EPA Extended Pedestrian A
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
LPP LTE Positioning Protocol
MBS Metropolitan Beacon System
RRC Radio Resource Control
RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
## 3.3 Test tolerances
The requirements given in the present document make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification 3GPP TS 37.571 -1 [9] will
define test tolerances. These test tolerances are individually calculated for
each test. The test tolerances are then added to the limits in the present
document to create test limits. The measurement results are compared against
the test limits as defined by the shared risk principle.
Shared Risk is defined in ETSI TR 102 273-1-2 [2], subclause 6.5.
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The present document defines the minimum performance requirements for UEs that
support RAT Independent positioning technologies.
## 4.2 MBS Measurements
### 4.2.1 General
Clause 4.2 describes the measurements performed by the UE for MBS positioning.
### 4.2.2 MBS measurement parameters
The measurement parameters are the MBS code phase measurements contained in
the _TBS-MeasurementInformation_ IE provided in the LPP message of type
PROVIDE LOCATION INFORMATION [3] for LTE, and the _UE Positioning AddPos
measured results_ IE in the MEASUREMENT REPORT message for UTRA [6].
### 4.2.3 MBS Measurement time
For LTE, MBS measurement time is defined as the time starting from the moment
that the UE has received the LPP message of type REQUEST LOCATION INFORMATION,
and ending when the UE starts sending the LPP message of type PROVIDE LOCATION
INFORMATION on the Uu interface. For tests that involve sending MBS assistance
data to the UE, the assistance data is sent prior to the PROVIDE LOCATION
INFORMATION message. The response times specified for all test cases are based
on new measurements unless otherwise stated, i.e. the UE shall not re use any
information on measurements or other aiding data that was previously acquired
or calculated and stored internally in the UE. A dedicated test message
\'RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION\' has been defined in TS 36.509 [4]
clause 6.9 for the purpose of deleting this information.
For UTRA, MBS measurement time is defined as the time starting from the moment
that the UE has received the final RRC measurement control message containing
reporting criteria different from \"No Reporting\" sent before the UE sends
the measurement report containing the MBS measured results, and ending when
the UE starts sending the measurement report containing the measured result on
the Uu interface. The response times specified for all test cases are based on
new measurements unless otherwise stated, i.e. the UE shall not re use any
information on measurements or other aiding data that was previously acquired
or calculated and stored internally in the UE. A dedicated test message
\'RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION\' has been defined in TS 34.109 [8]
clause 5.4 for the purpose of deleting this information.
The measurements for n MBS beacons, enabled across the slots of an MBS
transmission period [7], shall be available at the UE by, where can be
expressed as:
ms
where
is the total time for detecting and measuring n beacons
is the elapsed time from the trigger of the measurement to the start of the
first MBS transmission period
is the MBS transmission period (1 second)
is the processing time, an upper-bound for which can be given as where is the
duration of a MBS slot (100 ms) with continuous MBS transmissions
Figure 4.2.3-1: MBS Measurement Time
For this requirement, the assumption is that there is zero frequency offset
for the beacons and the UEs have a minimum of 13 parallel correlators.
The test case requirements for MBS Measurement time can be found in clause
A.3.
### 4.2.4 RRC states for MBS measurements
For LTE, the minimum MBS performance requirements are specified in clause 5
for RRC_CONNECTED state.
For UTRA, the minimum MBS performance requirements are specified in clause 5
for different RRC states that include Cell_DCH and Cell_FACH.
### 4.2.5 MBS Measurement Error Definitions
The code phase measurement error is defined as the difference between the
actual code phase for a given MBS beacon, and the estimated code phase for
that beacon, as reported in the LPP message of type PROVIDE LOCATION
INFORMATION for LTE [3], and the _UE Positioning AddPos measured results_ IE
in the MEASUREMENT REPORT message for UTRA [6]. This difference has to then be
adjusted for the measurement bias introduced by the UE clock to provide the
final code phase measurement error.
4.3 WLAN Measurements
4.3.1 General
Clause 4.3 defines the measurement requirements for the measurements performed
by the UE for WLAN based positioning.
### 4.3.2 WLAN Access Point Measurements
#### 4.3.2.1 E-UTRAN FDD-WLAN Access Point Measurements
##### 4.3.2.1.1 Introduction
The requirements defined in section 4.3.2.1 shall apply provided the E-UTRA
FDD UE has received WLAN-RequestLocationInformation message from E-SMLC via
LPP requesting the UE to report WLAN measurement for one or more WLAN Access
Points [12].
##### 4.3.2.1.2 Measurement Requirements
The measurement delay reporting requirements for WLAN are defined in section
4.3.2.1.3. The WLAN Access Point identification minimum performance
requirements are defined in clause 7.
##### 4.3.2.1.3 Measurement Reporting Delay
For LTE, WLAN measurement time is defined as the time starting from the moment
that the UE has received the LPP message of type REQUEST LOCATION INFORMATION,
and ending when the UE starts sending the LPP message of type PROVIDE LOCATION
INFORMATION on the Uu interface. The response times specified for all test
cases are based on new measurements unless otherwise stated, i.e. the UE shall
not re use any information on measurements or other aiding data that was
previously acquired or calculated and stored internally in the UE. A dedicated
test message \'RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION\' has been defined in
TS 36.509 [4] clause 6.9 for the purpose of deleting this information. No WLAN
assistance data is provided to the UE.
The signals from the WLAN APs shall be available at the UE for the duration of
the measurement time. Each WLAN AP transmits a beacon signal with a beacon
interval smaller or equal to 102.4 ms. The beacon frames from different access
points shall be transmitted in different time slots or non-overlapping
frequency channels. The beacon frames have variable time duration of \~1ms.
The WLAN Measurement Reporting Delay is given as:
sec
where
is the total time for detecting and measuring the WLAN Access Points
is the elapsed time from the trigger of the measurement to the start of the
first WLAN transmission period and is shown in Figure 4.3.2.1.3-1.
Figure 4.3.2.1.3-1: WLAN Measurement Time
#### 4.3.2.2 E-UTRAN TDD-WLAN Access Point Measurements
##### 4.3.2.2.1 Introduction
The requirements defined in section 4.3.2.2 shall apply provided the E-UTRA
TDD UE has received WLAN-ProvideLocationInformation message from E-SMLC via
LPP requesting the UE to report WLAN measurement for one or more WLAN Access
Points [12].
##### 4.3.2.2.2 Measurement Requirements
The measurement reporting delay requirements for WLAN are defined in section
4.3.2.2.3. The WLAN Access Point identification minimum performance
requirements are defined in clause 7.
##### 4.3.2.2.3 Measurement Reporting Delay
Same as 4.3.2.1.3.
## 4.4 Bluetooth Measurements
### 4.4.1 General
Clause 4.4 defines the measurement requirements for the measurements performed
by the UE for Bluetooth based positioning.
4.4.2 Bluetooth Access Point Measurements
#### 4.4.2.1 Introduction
The requirements defined in section 4.4.2.1 shall apply provided the UE has
received BT-RequestLocationInformation message from E-SMLC via LPP requesting
the UE to report Bluetooth measurement for one or more Bluetooth Access Points
[12].
#### 4.4.2.2 Measurement Requirements
In the RRC_CONNECTED state the measurement period for Bluetooth Access Point
identification shall be T~BT_meas~. The value of T~BT_meas~ is 10.24 s, and
can be extended to 40.96 s if extended inquiry is allowed, provided that the
following conditions are met [13]:
\- At least one Bluetooth beacon signal is transmitted on one of the Bluetooth
advertising channels with a broadcast interval of 100 ms.
T~BT_meas~ defined in this section shall apply when no DRX cycle is configured
or when any DRX cycle defined in [14] is configured.
The UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting Bluetooth Access Point(s)
measurements to higher layers within the measurement period of T~BT_meas~.
The Bluetooth RSSI measurement accuracy for all measured access points shall
be fulfilled according to the accuracy as specified in the clause 6.
#### 4.4.2.3 Measurement Reporting Delay
This requirement assumes that that the measurement report is not delayed by
other LPP signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement report to the TTI of
the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x TTI~DCCH~. This measurement
reporting delay excludes any delay caused by no UL resources for UE to send
the measurement report.
# 5 MBS minimum performance requirements
## 5.1 General
The minimum performance requirements specified in clause 5 apply for UEs that
support MBS. This section applies to requirements for both for UTRA and
E-UTRA.
The code phase accuracy requirements in this clause are statistical in nature
and pertain to the 90^th^ percentile of the distribution.
The measurement time for each requirement shall be T~MBS_meas~ as described in
clause 4.2.3. This clause does not include nor consider delays occurring in
the various signalling interfaces of the network.
## 5.2 Sensitivity
A Sensitivity requirement is essential for verifying the performance of MBS
receiver in weak signal conditions. In order to test the most stringent signal
levels for the beacons the Sensitivity test case is performed in AWGN channel.
This test case verifies the UE MBS performance at the lowest expected signal
levels.
In MBS deployments, target sensitivity levels of -130 dBm (at the UE antenna
connector, across the signal bandwidth) are used.
The minimum requirements for Sensitivity are shown in Table 5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1: Requirements for Sensitivity
MBS Configuration Signal Strength (dBm) Code phase measurement accuracy (ms)
* * *
TB1 (2 MHz) [7] -130 1.66 × 10^-4^ TB1 (5 MHz) [7] -130 6.64 × 10^-5^ (Release
14 onwards)
The test case requirements for Sensitivity measurement accuracy can be found
in clause A.4.2.
## 5.3 Nominal Accuracy
The Nominal Accuracy requirement verifies the UE MBS performance under ideal
conditions. The primary aim of the test is to ensure good accuracy when the
MBS signal conditions allow it.
In this requirement AWGN channel model is used and the signal level is above
the noise floor.
The minimum requirements for Nominal are shown in Table 5.3-1.
Table 5.3-1: Requirements for Nominal Accuracy
MBS Configuration Signal Strength (dBm) Code phase measurement accuracy (ms)
* * *
TB1 (2 MHz) [7] -30 5.0 × 10^-5^ TB2 (5 MHz) [7] -30 2.0 × 10^-5^ (Release 14
onwards)
The test case requirements for Nominal measurement accuracy can be found in
clause A.4.2.
## 5.4 Dynamic Range
The Dynamic Range requirement is targeted at testing the performance of the
MBS receiver under time varying signal conditions. This test case is important
for a system such as MBS where the time slotting of beacons is used.
The maximum signal level of a MBS beacon is expected to be -30 dBm (at the UE
antenna connector). This can be shown theoretically by assuming a TX power of
+40 dBm and a minimum coupling loss between the transmitter and the UE of 70
dB [5].
For this requirement, the power level of the MBS beacons shall be alternated
between the strongest and the weakest expected levels across consecutive slots
in the MBS transmission period.
The minimum requirements for Dynamic Range are shown in Table 5.4-1.
Table 5.4-1: Requirements for Dynamic Range
MBS Configuration Signal Strength (dBm) Code phase measurement accuracy (ms)
* * *
TB1 (2 MHz) [7] -30 5.0 × 10^-5^ -130 1.66 × 10^-4^ TB2 (5 MHz) [7] -30 2.0 ×
10^-5^ (Release 14 onwards) -130 6.64 × 10^-5^ (Release 14 onwards)
The test case requirements for Dynamic Range measurement accuracy can be found
in clause A.4.2.
## 5.5 Multipath
The purpose of the test case is to verify the receiver\'s tolerance to
multipath.
The pedestrian channel model used in TS 37.571-1 [9], captured in Annex B of
TS 36.521-1 [10] is used for assessing the MBS performance under the multipath
scenario, specifically the Extended Pedestrian A (EPA) with a maximum Doppler
frequency of 5 Hz (EPA 5Hz).
The minimum requirements for the Multipath scenario are shown in Table 5.5-1.
Table 5.5-1: Requirements for Multipath scenario
MBS Configuration Direct Path Signal Strength (dBm) Code phase measurement
accuracy (ms)
* * *
TB1 (2 MHz) [7] -30 1.66 × 10^-4^
The test case requirements for Multipath measurement accuracy can be found in
clause A.4.3.
# 6 Bluetooth performance requirements
## 6.1 Introduction
The requirements in this clause are valid for terminals capable of Bluetooth.
### 6.1.1 Bluetooth RSSI Measurement
#### 6.1.1.1 Measurement Accuracy
The Bluetooth RSSI metric is an absolute receiver signal strength value in
dBm. The measured Bluetooth RSSI shall be accurate within ±6 dB as defined in
[13].
The reporting range of Bluetooth RSSI is defined in section 6.5.7.2 [12].
# 7 WLAN Access Point Identification minimum performance requirements
## 7.1 General
The minimum performance requirements specified in clause 7 apply for UEs that
support WLAN positioning. This section applies to requirements for E-UTRA.
The measurement requirements in this clause are statistical in nature and
pertain to the 90^th^ percentile of the distribution.
The measurement time for each requirement shall be T~WLAN_meas~ as described
in clause 4.3.2.1.2 for E-UTRA FDD and 4.3.2.2.3 for E-UTRA TDD. This clause
does not include nor consider delays occurring in the various signalling
interfaces of the network.
## 7.2 WLAN Access Point Identification under Sensitivity conditions
The sensitivity conditions for a WLAN receiver are defined by IEEE in [15].
The UE shall be able to identify at least 6 WLAN Access Points if the WLAN
beacons are received at the sensitivity power level. In order to test the most
stringent signal levels for the beacons the Sensitivity test case is performed
in AWGN channel. This test case verifies the UE capability to identify and
report WLAN AP at the lowest expected signal levels but it does not evaluate
measurement accuracy.
Table 7.2-1: Requirements for WLAN Access Point Identification under
Sensitivity conditions
Number of WLAN APs Signal Strength (dBm) \% of reported Access Points
* * *
6 See [15] 90
## 7.3 WLAN Access Point Identification under Nominal conditions
The WLAN Access Point identification under nominal conditions verifies the UE
capability to identify and report WLAN APs when the WLAN signal conditions are
ideal.
In this requirement AWGN channel model is used and the signal level is above
the noise floor.
The minimum requirements for Nominal are shown in Table 7.3-1.
Table 7.3-1: Requirements for WLAN Access Point Identification under Nominal
conditions
Number of WLAN APs Signal Strength (dBm) \% of reported Access Points
* * *
6 -60 90
## 7.4 WLAN Access Point Identification under Dynamic Range conditions
The WLAN Access Point identification under dynamic range conditions verifies
the UE capability to identify and report WLAN APs when the received power
difference between WLAN APs is large. The power difference between APs follows
the adjacent channel rejection criteria defined by IEEE in [15].
The UE shall be able to identify at least 3 WLAN AP located in 3 adjacent
channels where the separation between channels is ≥ 20 MHz and the middle
channel is received with high power and the side channels are received with
low power.
Table 7.4-1: Requirements for WLAN Access Point Identification under Dynamic
Range conditions
Number of WLAN APs Signal Strength (dBm) \% of reported Access Points
* * *
3 See [15] 100
###### ## Annex A (normative): Test Case Requirements
# A.1 Purpose of annex
This Annex specifies test specific parameters for some of the functional
requirements in clause 5. The tests provide additional information to how the
requirements should be interpreted for the purpose of conformance testing. The
tests in this Annex are described such that one functional requirement may be
tested in one or several tests and one test may verify several requirements.
Some requirements may lack a test.
The conformance tests are specified in clauses A.3 and A.4. Statistical
interpretation of the requirements is described in clause A.2.
# A.2 Requirement classification for statistical testing
Requirements in the present document are either expressed as absolute
requirements with a single value stating the requirement, or expressed as a
success rate. There are no provisions for the statistical variations that will
occur when the parameter is tested.
Annex A outlines the tests in more detail and lists the test parameters
needed. The test will result in an outcome of a test variable value for the
device under test (DUT) inside or outside the test limit. Overall, the
probability of a \"good\" DUT being inside the test limit(s) and the
probability of a \"bad\" DUT being outside the test limit(s) should be as high
as possible. For this reason, when selecting the test variable and the test
limit(s), the statistical nature of the test is accounted for.
The statistical nature depends on the type of requirement. Some have large
statistical variations, while others are not statistical in nature at all.
When testing a parameter with a statistical nature, a confidence level is set.
This establishes the probability that a DUT passing the test actually meets
the requirements and determines how many times a test has to be repeated and
what the pass and fail criteria are. Those aspects are not covered by TS
37.171. The details of the tests on how many times to run it and how to
establish confidence in the tests are described in TS 37.571-1 [9]. This Annex
establishes the variable to be used in the test and whether it can be viewed
as statistical in nature or not.
# A.3 UE Measurement Procedures
## A.3.1 MBS Measurement reporting delay test case
### A.3.1.1 Test Purpose and Environment
The purpose of the test is to verify that the MBS measurements meet the
measurement time requirements specified in clause 4.2.3 in an environment with
fading propagation conditions (EPA 5 Hz). This test can be used for both UTRA
and E-UTRA testing.
In this test case there is one beacon transmitted in one beacon slots in the
MBS beacon transmission period (see Figure 4.2.3-1). The position of the
beacon in the beacon transmission period is static for the duration of the
test. In other slots there are no simulated beacons. The beacon has centre
frequency of 925.977 MHz or set using the network assistance data in Release
14. The beacon has transmitted signal strength of -30 dBm. The beacon is
transmitted with code phase (delay) of 1.6678x10^-4^ms, corresponding to 50 m.
The UE shall perform and report the MBS measurements for the beacon within
12000 ms, starting from the receipt of the location request.
NOTE: The MBS measurement time in the test is derived from the following
expression: ms, where n=1, τ is one second, _T_ ~MBS_TP~ is one second and _T_
~Proc~ is one second.
The beacon is of type TB1 (2 MHz) specified in clause 9 of the MBS ICD [7] and
the data transmitted is in Type 2 packets specified in clause 9.6.3 of the MBS
ICD [7] with the following data fields: The MBS Transmitter ID and the Slot
Index shall be set to the MBS slot number; All other beacon payload data shall
be populated with zeros [7].
The beacon shall use a PN code chosen from the PN code list for TB1 [7].
If the UE supports MBS assistance data, the UE will receive the MBS assistance
data for each beacon via LPP, according to Annex A.
Table A.3.1.1-1: General test parameters for measurement reporting delay
Parameter Unit Value Comment
* * *
Centre Frequency MHz 925.977  
RF Channel N/A EPA 5 Hz  
MBS Beacon Configuration N/A TB1 (2 MHz)  
MBS Data Packet Type N/A Type 2  
Beacon PN Code Integer Chosen from the PN code list for TB1  
Beacon transmitted Code Phase (delay) ms 1.6678 × 10^-4^ Corresponds to 50 m.
Constant per beacon for the duration of the test. Beacon Signal Strength dBm
-30
Table A.3.1.1-2: MBS Beacon Payload fields for measurement reporting delay
Parameter Unit Value Comment
* * *
TxID Integer Equal to Slot number  
Slot Index Integer Equal to Slot number  
All other fields N/A 0
### A.3.1.2 Test Requirements
The MBS measurement reporting delay shall fulfil the requirements in clause
4.2.3.
## A.3.2 WLAN Access Point Identification and Reporting Delay
### A.3.2.1 Void
### A.3.2.2 LTE-FDD: WLAN AP Identification and reporting delay under nominal
conditions test
#### A.3.2.2.1 Test purpose and Environment
The purpose of this test is to verify the requirements in Clause 7.3 for WLAN
AP measurements. The UE shall send wlan-MeasurementInformation IE including
WLAN measurements for each AP indicating at least wlan-AP-Identifier (BSSID)
and RSSI (if reporting of RSSI is supported by the UE as indicated by the UE
in the LPP PROVIDE CAPABILITIES message).
In this test, there are cell1 (E-UTRAN FDD) and 6 WLAN APs transmitting beacon
signals at least every 102.4 ms. There is an active LTE connection between the
SS and the UE and the measurements are performed in RRC_CONNECTED state. The
beacon signals from different APs shall be received at different time slots or
in non-overlapping frequency channels. Non-overlapping frequency channels
shall be at least 25 MHz apart in the WLAN 2.4 GHz band and at least 20 MHz
apart in the WLAN 5 GHz band. The APs are transmitting in 3 non-overlapping
frequency channels in the same WLAN Frequency Band. There are 2 APs in every
channel. The test consists of two successive time periods, with duration of T1
and T2, respectively. WLAN-RequestLocationInformation message shall be
provided to the UE during T1. WLAN Access Points only transmit signal during
T2.
Table A.3.2.2.1-1: General WLAN AP test parameters\ for WLAN AP Identification
and reporting delay under nominal conditions test
Parameter Unit Value Comment
* * *
Number of Access Points N/A 6 AP1-AP6 Time Slot 1 ms 1 AP1, AP2 Time Slot 2 ms
1 AP3, AP4 Time Slot 3 ms 1 AP5 Time Slot 4 ms 1 AP6 T1 s 5 During this time
the WLAN signal is not transmitted T2 s 25 UE shall report WLAN measurement
information within 20s
Table A.3.2.2.1-2: E-UTRAN TDD Cell specific and WLAN AP specific test
parameters\ for WLAN AP Identification and reporting delay under nominal
conditions test
Parameter | Unit | Cell 1 | AP 1, 4 | AP 2, 5 | AP 3, 6 |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2  
E-UTRA RF Channel Number |  | 1 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
WLAN Channel Number |  | N/A | 1 | 2 | 3 |  |  |  |   
BW**channel** |  | 10MHz | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
WLAN Channel spacing |  | N/A | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz |  |  |  |   
PDSCH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.0 FDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PCFICH/PDCCH/PHICH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.6 FDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
OCNG Patterns |  | OP.1 FDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RA | dB | 0 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
SSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PCFICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RANote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RBNote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Noc1Note 2 | dBm/15 KHz | -98 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
Noc2Note 3 | dBm/20 MHz | N/A | -75 | -75 | -75 |  |  |  |   
Ês/Noc1 | dB | 3 | 3 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |   
Ês/Iot Note 4 | dB | 3 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |   
RSRP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
SCH_RP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Io Note 3 | dBm/Ch BW | -65.5 | -65.5 |  |  |  |  |  |   
WLAN Received Power Level | dBm | N/A | N/A | \- inf | -60 | \- inf | -60 | \- inf | -60  
WLAN SNRNote 4 | dB | N/A | 15 | 15 | 15 |  |  |  |   
Propagation Condition |  | AWGN |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Antenna Configuration |  | 1x2 | - | - | - |  |  |  |   
Note 1: OCNG shall be used such that all cells are fully allocated and a constant total transmitted power spectral density is achieved for all OFDM symbols. Note 2: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over subcarriers and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc1 to be fulfilled. Note 3: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over the bandwidth and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc2 to be fulfilled. Note 4: Es/Iot, RSRP, SCH_RP, Io and WLAN SNR have been derived from other parameters for information purposes. They are not settable parameters themselves. Note 5: The resources for uplink transmission are assigned to the UE prior to the start of time period T2. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### A.3.2.2.2 Test Requirements
The WLAN Response Time shall fulfil the requirements in section 4.3 and the
WLAN AP report shall fulfil the requirements in section 7.3. This test is, as
stated in Clause 7, statistical in nature and the UE shall meet the
corresponding requirement for at least 90% of the reported cases.
### A.3.2.3 LTE-TDD: WLAN AP Identification and reporting delay under nominal
conditions test
#### A.3.2.3.1 Test purpose and Environment
The purpose of this test is to verify the requirements in Clause 7.3 for WLAN
AP measurements. The UE shall send wlan-MeasurementInformation IE including
WLAN measurements for each AP indicating at least wlan-AP-Identifier (BSSID)
and RSSI (if reporting of RSSI is supported by the UE as indicated by the UE
in the LPP PROVIDE CAPABILITIES message).
In this test, there are cell1 (E-UTRAN TDD) and 6 WLAN APs transmitting beacon
signals at least every 102.4 ms. There is an active LTE connection between the
SS and the UE and the measurements are performed in RRC_CONNECTED state. The
beacon signals from different APs shall be received at different time slots or
in non-overlapping frequency channels. Non-overlapping frequency channels
shall be at least 25 MHz apart in the WLAN 2.4 GHz band and at least 20 MHz
apart in the WLAN 5 GHz band. The APs are transmitting in 3 non-overlapping
frequency channels in the same WLAN Frequency Band. There are 2 APs in every
channel. The test consists of two successive time periods, with duration of T1
and T2, respectively. WLAN-RequestLocationInformation message shall be
provided to the UE during T1. WLAN Access Points only transmit signal during
T2.
Table A.3.2.3.1-1: General WLAN AP test parameters\ for WLAN AP Identification
and reporting delay under nominal conditions test
Parameter Unit Value Comment
* * *
Number of Access Points N/A 6 AP1-AP6 Time Slot 1 ms 1 AP1, AP2 Time Slot 2 ms
1 AP3, AP4 Time Slot 3 ms 1 AP5 Time Slot 4 ms 1 AP6 T1 s 5 During this time
the WLAN signal is not transmitted T2 s 25 UE shall report WLAN measurement
information within 20s
Table A.3.2.3.1-2: E-UTRAN TDD Cell specific and WLAN AP specific test
parameters\ for WLAN AP Identification and reporting delay under nominal
conditions test
Parameter | Unit | Cell 1 | AP 1, 4 | AP 2, 5 | AP 3, 6 |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2  
E-UTRA RF Channel Number |  | 1 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
WLAN Channel Number |  | N/A | 1 | 2 | 3 |  |  |  |   
BW**channel** |  | 10MHz | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
WLAN Channel spacing |  | N/A | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz |  |  |  |   
PDSCH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.0 TDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PCFICH/PDCCH/PHICH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.6 TDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
OCNG Patterns |  | OP.1 TDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RA | dB | 0 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
SSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PCFICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RANote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RBNote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Noc1Note 2 | dBm/15 KHz | -98 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
Noc2Note 3 | dBm/20 MHz | N/A | -75 | -75 | -75 |  |  |  |   
Ês/Noc1 | dB | 3 | 3 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |   
Ês/Iot Note 4 | dB | 3 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |   
RSRP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
SCH_RP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Io Note 3 | dBm/Ch BW | -65.5 | -65.5 |  |  |  |  |  |   
WLAN Received Power Level | dBm | N/A | N/A | \- inf | -60 | \- inf | -60 | \- inf | -60  
WLAN SNR Note 4 | dB | N/A | 15 | 15 | 15 |  |  |  |   
Propagation Condition |  | AWGN |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Antenna Configuration |  | 1x2 | - | - | - |  |  |  |   
Note 1: OCNG shall be used such that all cells are fully allocated and a constant total transmitted power spectral density is achieved for all OFDM symbols. Note 2: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over subcarriers and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc1 to be fulfilled. Note 3: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over the bandwidth and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc2 to be fulfilled. Note 4: Es/Iot, RSRP, SCH_RP, Io and WLAN SNR have been derived from other parameters for information purposes. They are not settable parameters themselves. Note 5: The resources for uplink transmission are assigned to the UE prior to the start of time period T2. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### A.3.2.3.2 Test Requirements
The WLAN Response Time shall fulfil the requirements in section 4.3 and the
WLAN AP report shall fulfil the requirements in section 7.3. This test is, as
stated in Clause 7, statistical in nature and the UE shall meet the
corresponding requirement for at least 90% of the reported cases.
### A.3.2.4 LTE-FDD: WLAN AP Identification and reporting delay under dynamic
range conditions test
#### A.3.2.4.1 Test purpose and Environment
The purpose of this test is to verify the requirements in Clause 7.4 for WLAN
AP measurements. The UE shall send wlan-MeasurementInformation IE including
WLAN measurements for each AP indicating at least wlan-AP-Identifier (BSSID)
and RSSI (if reporting of RSSI is supported by the UE as indicated by the UE
in the LPP PROVIDE CAPABILITIES message).
In this test, there are cell1 (E-UTRAN FDD) and 3 WLAN APs transmitting beacon
signals at least every 102.4 ms. There is an active LTE connection between the
SS and the UE and the measurements are performed in RRC_CONNECTED state. The
beacon signals from different APs shall be received at different time slots or
in non-overlapping frequency channels. Non-overlapping frequency channels
shall be at least 25 MHz apart in the WLAN 2.4 GHz band and at least 20 MHz
apart in the WLAN 5 GHz band. The APs are transmitting in 3 non-overlapping
frequency channels in the same WLAN Frequency Band. There is 1 AP in every
channel. The test consists of two successive time periods, with duration of T1
and T2, respectively. WLAN-RequestLocationInformation message shall be
provided to the UE during T1. WLAN Access Points only transmit signal during
T2.
Table A.3.2.4.1-1: General test parameters for WLAN AP Identification and
reporting delay under dynamic range conditions test
Parameter Unit Value Comment
* * *
Number of Access Points N/A 3 AP1-AP3 Time Slot 1 ms 1 AP1, AP2, AP3 T1 s 5
During this time the WLAN signal is not transmitted T2 s 25 UE shall report
WLAN measurement information within 20s
Table A.3.2.4.1-2: E-UTRAN FDD Cell specific test parameters for WLAN AP
Identification and reporting delay under dynamic range conditions test
Parameter | Unit | Cell 1 | AP 1 | AP 2 | AP 3 |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2  
E-UTRA RF Channel Number |  | 1 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
WLAN Channel Number |  | N/A | 1 | 2 | 3 |  |  |  |   
BW**channel** |  | 10MHz | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
WLAN Channel spacing |  | N/A | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz |  |  |  |   
PDSCH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.0 FDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PCFICH/PDCCH/PHICH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.6 FDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
OCNG Patterns |  | OP.1 FDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RA | dB | 0 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
SSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PCFICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RANote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RBNote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Noc1Note 2 | dBm/15 KHz | -98 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
Noc2Note 3 | dBm/20 MHz | N/A | -85 | -85 | -85 |  |  |  |   
Ês/Noc1 | dB | 3 | 3 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |   
Ês/Iot Note 4 | dB | 3 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |   
RSRP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
SCH_RP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Io Note 3 | dBm/Ch BW | -65.5 | -65.5 |  |  |  |  |  |   
WLAN Received Power Level | dBm | N/A | N/A | \- inf | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: -74 WLAN 5 GHz band: -79 | \- inf | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: -39 WLAN 5 GHz band: -63 | \- inf | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: -74 WLAN 5 GHz band: -79  
WLAN SNRNote 4 | dB | N/A | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 11 WLAN 5 GHz band: 6 | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 46 WLAN 5 GHz band: 22 | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 11 WLAN 5 GHz band: 6 |  |  |  |   
Propagation Condition |  | AWGN |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Antenna Configuration |  | 1x2 | - | - | - |  |  |  |   
Note 1: OCNG shall be used such that all cells are fully allocated and a constant total transmitted power spectral density is achieved for all OFDM symbols. Note 2: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over subcarriers and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc1 to be fulfilled. Note 3: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over the bandwidth and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc2 to be fulfilled. Note 4: Es/Iot, RSRP, SCH_RP, Io and WLAN SNR have been derived from other parameters for information purposes. They are not settable parameters themselves. Note 5: The resources for uplink transmission are assigned to the UE prior to the start of time period T2. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### A.3.2.4.2 Test Requirements
The WLAN Response Time shall fulfil the requirements in section 4.3 and the
WLAN AP report shall fulfil the requirements in section 7.4. This test is, as
stated in Clause 7, statistical in nature and the UE shall meet the
corresponding requirement for at least 90% of the reported cases.
### A.3.2.5 LTE-TDD: WLAN AP Identification and reporting delay under dynamic
range conditions test
#### A.3.2.5.1 Test purpose and Environment
The purpose of this test is to verify the requirements in Clause 7.4 for WLAN
AP measurements. The UE shall send wlan-MeasurementInformation IE including
WLAN measurements for each AP indicating at least wlan-AP-Identifier (BSSID)
and RSSI (if reporting of RSSI is supported by the UE as indicated by the UE
in the LPP PROVIDE CAPABILITIES message).
In this test, there are cell1 (E-UTRAN TDD) and 3 WLAN APs transmitting beacon
signals at least every 102.4 ms. There is an active LTE connection between the
SS and the UE and the measurements are performed in RRC_CONNECTED state. The
beacon signals from different APs shall be received at different time slots or
in non-overlapping frequency channels. Non-overlapping frequency channels
shall be at least 25 MHz apart in the WLAN 2.4 GHz band and at least 20 MHz
apart in the WLAN 5 GHz band. The APs are transmitting in 3 non-overlapping
frequency channels in the same WLAN Frequency Band. There is 1 AP in every
channel. The test consists of two successive time periods, with duration of T1
and T2, respectively. WLAN-RequestLocationInformation message shall be
provided to the UE during T1. WLAN Access Points only transmit signal during
T2.
Table A.3.2.5.1-1: General test parameters for WLAN AP Identification and
reporting delay under dynamic range conditions test
Parameter Unit Value Comment
* * *
Number of Access Points N/A 3 AP1-AP3 Time Slot 1 ms 1 AP1, AP2, AP3 T1 s 5
During this time the WLAN signal is not transmitted T2 s 25 UE shall report
WLAN measurement information within 20s
Table A.3.2.5.1-2: E-UTRAN TDD Cell specific test parameters for WLAN AP
Identification and reporting delay under dynamic range conditions test
Parameter | Unit | Cell 1 | AP 1 | AP 2 | AP 3 |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2  
E-UTRA RF Channel Number |  | 1 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
WLAN Channel Number |  | N/A | 1 | 2 | 3 |  |  |  |   
BW**channel** |  | 10MHz | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
WLAN Channel spacing |  | N/A | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 25 MHz WLAN 5 GHz band: 20 MHz |  |  |  |   
PDSCH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.0 TDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PCFICH/PDCCH/PHICH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.6 TDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
OCNG Patterns |  | OP.1 TDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RA | dB | 0 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
SSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PCFICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RANote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RBNote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Noc1Note 2 | dBm/15 KHz | -98 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
Noc2Note 3 | dBm/20 MHz | N/A | -85 | -85 | -85 |  |  |  |   
Ês/Noc1 | dB | 3 | 3 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |   
Ês/Iot Note 4 | dB | 3 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |   
RSRP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
SCH_RP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Io Note 3 | dBm/Ch BW | -65.5 | -65.5 |  |  |  |  |  |   
WLAN Received Power Level | dBm | N/A | N/A | \- inf | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: -74 WLAN 5 GHz band: -79 | \- inf | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: -39 WLAN 5 GHz band: -63 | \- inf | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: -74 WLAN 5 GHz band: -79  
WLAN SNRNote 4 | dB | N/A | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 11 WLAN 5 GHz band: 6 | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 46 WLAN 5 GHz band: 22 | WLAN 2.4 GHz band: 11 WLAN 5 GHz band: 6 |  |  |  |   
Propagation Condition |  | AWGN |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Antenna Configuration |  | 1x2 | - | - | - |  |  |  |   
Note 1: OCNG shall be used such that all cells are fully allocated and a constant total transmitted power spectral density is achieved for all OFDM symbols. Note 2: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over subcarriers and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc1 to be fulfilled. Note 3: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over the bandwidth and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc2 to be fulfilled. Note 4: Es/Iot, RSRP, SCH_RP, Io and WLAN SNR have been derived from other parameters for information purposes. They are not settable parameters themselves. Note 5: The resources for uplink transmission are assigned to the UE prior to the start of time period T2. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### A.3.2.5.2 Test Requirements
The WLAN Response Time shall fulfil the requirements in section 4.3 and the
WLAN AP report shall fulfil the requirements in section 7.4. This test is, as
stated in Clause 7, statistical in nature and the UE shall meet the
corresponding requirement for at least 90% of the reported cases.
## A.3.3 Bluetooth Measurement Requirements
### A.3.3.1 E-UTRAN FDD Bluetooth identification
#### A.3.3.1.1 Test Purpose and Environment
The purpose of this test is to verify that the UE correctly identify and
report Bluetooth Low Energy devices within the requirements stated in clause
4.4.
The test parameters are given in Tables A.3.3.1.1-1 and A.3.3.1.1-2 below. In
the tests there are cell1 (E-UTRAN FDD) and 6 Bluetooth low energy (BLE)
devices. The test consists of two successive time periods, with duration of T1
and T2, respectively. BT-RequestLocationInformation message shall be provided
to the UE during T1. BLE devices only transmit signal during T2.
Table A.3.3.1.1-1: General test parameters for E-UTRAN FDD Bluetooth
measurement under AWGN in non-DRX
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | Comment | +===================+======+===================+===================+ | Active cell | | Cell 1 | Cell 1 is on | | | | | E-UTRA RF channel | | | | | number 1. | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Bluetooth Low | | BLE 1, BLE 2, | BLE 1 and BLE2 | | Energy (BLE) | | BLE3, BLE4, BLE5 | are on Bluetooth | | Devices | | and BLE6 | Advertising | | | | | Channel 1 (2402 | | | | | MHz). | | | | | | | | | | BLE 3 and BLE4 | | | | | are on Bluetooth | | | | | Advertising | | | | | Channel 2 (2426 | | | | | MHz). | | | | | | | | | | BLE 5 and BLE6 | | | | | are on Bluetooth | | | | | Advertising | | | | | Channel 3 (2480 | | | | | MHz). | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | CP length | | Normal | Applicable to | | | | | cell 1 | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | **E-UTRA RF | | 1 | One E-UTRA FDD | | Channel Number** | | | carrier frequency | | | | | is used. | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Bluetooth | | Channel 1:2402 | Bluetooth | | Advertising | | MHz, | advertising | | Channel Number | | | channels (2402, | | | | Channel 2:2426 | 2426, 2480 MHz) | | | | MHz, | | | | | | | | | | Channel 3:2480 | | | | | MHz | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Bluetooth beacon | ms | 100 ms | | | signal broadcast | | | | | interval | | | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | DRX | | OFF | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | T1 | s | 5 | During this time | | | | | the cell1 shall | | | | | be known to the | | | | | UE; but cell2 | | | | | shall be unknown | | | | | to the UE. | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | T2 | s | 15 | UE should report | | | | | Bluetooth | | | | | measurement | | | | | information | | | | | within 10.24s. | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
Table A.3.3.1.1-2: Cell specific test parameters for E-UTRAN FDD-WLAN event
triggered reporting under AWGN in non-DRX
Parameter | Unit | Cell 1 | BLE1, BLE2 | BLE3, BLE4 | BLE5, BLE6 |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2  
E-UTRA RF Channel Number |  | 1 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
Bluetooth Advertising Channel Number |  | N/A | 1 | 2 | 3 |  |  |  |   
BW**channel** |  | 10MHz | 2 MHz | 2 MHz | 2 MHz |  |  |  |   
PDSCH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.0 FDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PCFICH/PDCCH/PHICH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.6 FDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
OCNG Patterns |  | OP.1 FDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RA | dB | 0 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
SSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PCFICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RANote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RBNote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Noc1Note 2 | dBm/15 KHz | -98 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
Noc2Note 3 | dBm/2MHz | N/A | -84 | -84 | -84 |  |  |  |   
Ês/Noc1 | dB | 3 | 3 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |   
Ês/Iot Note 4 | dB | 3 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |   
RSRP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
SCH_RP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Io Note 3 | dBm/Ch BW | -65.5 | -65.5 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Bluetooth RSSI Note 4 | dBm/2 MHz | N/A | N/A | -infinity | -60 | -infinity | -60 | -infinity | -60  
SINR Note 4 | dB | N/A | N/A | -infinity | -63.2 | -infinity | -63.2 | -infinity | -63.2  
Propagation Condition |  | AWGN |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Antenna Configuration |  | 1x2 | - | - | - |  |  |  |   
Note 1: OCNG shall be used such that all cells are fully allocated and a constant total transmitted power spectral density is achieved for all OFDM symbols. Note 2: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over subcarriers and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc1 to be fulfilled. Note 3: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over the bandwidth and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc2 to be fulfilled. Note 4: Es/Iot, RSRP, SCH_RP, Io and Bluetooth RSSI have been derived from other parameters for information purposes. They are not settable parameters themselves. Note 5: The resources for uplink transmission are assigned to the UE prior to the start of time period T2. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### A.3.3.1.2 Test Requirements
The UE shall send _BT-ProvideLocationInformation_ , with a measurement
reporting delay less than 10.24s from the beginning of time period T2.
The rate of correct events observed during repeated tests shall be at least
90% for each of the events.
NOTE: The actual overall delays measured in the tests may be up to 2×TTI~DCCH~
higher than the measurement reporting delays above because of TTI insertion
uncertainty of the measurement report in DCCH.
### A.3.3.2 E-UTRAN TDD Bluetooth identification
#### A.3.3.2.1 Test Purpose and Environment
The purpose of this test is to verify that the UE correctly identify and
report Bluetooth Low Energy devices within the requirements stated in clause
4.4.
The test parameters are given in Tables A.3.3.2.1-1 and A.3.3.2.1-2 below. In
the tests there are cell1 (E-UTRAN FDD) and 6 Bluetooth low energy (BLE)
devices. The test consists of two successive time periods, with duration of T1
and T2, respectively. BT-RequestLocationInformation message shall be provided
to the UE during T1. BLE devices only transmit signal during T2.
Table A.3.3.2.1-1: General test parameters for E-UTRAN TDD Bluetooth
measurement under AWGN in non-DRX
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | Comment | +===================+======+===================+===================+ | Active cell | | Cell 1 | Cell 1 is on | | | | | E-UTRA RF channel | | | | | number 1. | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Bluetooth Low | | BLE 1, BLE 2, | BLE 1 and BLE2 | | Energy (BLE) | | BLE3, BLE4, BLE5 | are on Bluetooth | | Devices | | and BLE6 | Advertising | | | | | Channel 1 (2402 | | | | | MHz). | | | | | | | | | | BLE 3 and BLE4 | | | | | are on Bluetooth | | | | | Advertising | | | | | Channel 2 (2426 | | | | | MHz). | | | | | | | | | | BLE 5 and BLE6 | | | | | are on Bluetooth | | | | | Advertising | | | | | Channel 3 (2480 | | | | | MHz). | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | CP length | | Normal | Applicable to | | | | | cell 1 | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | **E-UTRA RF | | 1 | One E-UTRA FDD | | Channel Number** | | | carrier frequency | | | | | is used. | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Bluetooth | | Channel 1:2402 | Bluetooth | | Advertising | | MHz, | advertising | | Channel Number | | | channels (2402, | | | | Channel 2:2426 | 2426, 2480 MHz) | | | | MHz, | | | | | | | | | | Channel 3:2480 | | | | | MHz | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Bluetooth beacon | ms | 100 ms | | | signal broadcast | | | | | interval | | | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | DRX | | OFF | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Special subframe | | 6 | As specified in | | configuration | | | table 4.2-1 in TS | | | | | 36.211 [16]. | | | | | The same | | | | | configuration | | | | | applies to all | | | | | cells. | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Uplink-downlink | | 1 | As specified in | | configuration | | | table 4.2-2 in TS | | | | | 36.211 [16]. | | | | | The same | | | | | configuration | | | | | applies to all | | | | | cells | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | T1 | s | 5 | During this time | | | | | the cell1 shall | | | | | be known to the | | | | | UE; but cell2 | | | | | shall be unknown | | | | | to the UE. | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | T2 | s | 15 | UE should report | | | | | Bluetooth | | | | | measurement | | | | | information | | | | | within 10.24s. | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
Table A.3.3.2.1-2: Cell specific test parameters for E-UTRAN TDD-WLAN event
triggered reporting under AWGN in non-DRX
Parameter | Unit | Cell 1 | BLE1, BLE2 | BLE3, BLE4 | BLE5, BLE6 |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | T1 | T2 | T1 | T1 | T1 | T2 | T1 | T2  
E-UTRA RF Channel Number |  | 1 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
Bluetooth Advertising Channel Number |  | N/A | 1 | 2 | 3 |  |  |  |   
BW**channel** |  | 10MHz | 2 MHz | 2 MHz | 2 MHz |  |  |  |   
PDSCH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.0 TDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PCFICH/PDCCH/PHICH parameters: DL Reference Measurement Channel |  | R.6 TDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
OCNG Patterns |  | OP.1 TDD | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RA | dB | 0 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
PBCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
SSS_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PCFICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PHICH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDCCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RA | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
PDSCH_RB | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RANote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
OCNG_RBNote 1 | dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Noc1Note 2 | dBm/15 KHz | -98 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
Noc2Note 3 | dBm/2 MHz | N/A | -84 | -84 | -84 |  |  |  |   
Ês/Noc1 | dB | 3 | 3 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |  |   
Ês/Iot Note 4 | dB | 3 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |   
RSRP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
SCH_RP Note 4 | dBm/15 kHz | -95 | -95 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Io Note 3 | dBm/Ch BW | -65.5 | -65.5 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Bluetooth RSSI Note 4 | dBm/2 MHz | N/A | N/A | -infinity | -60 | -infinity | -60 | -infinity | -60  
SINR Note 4 | dB | N/A | N/A | -infinity | -63.2 | -infinity | -63.2 | -infinity | -63.2  
Propagation Condition |  | AWGN |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Antenna Configuration |  | 1x2 | - | - | - |  |  |  |   
Note 1: OCNG shall be used such that all cells are fully allocated and a constant total transmitted power spectral density is achieved for all OFDM symbols. Note 2: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over subcarriers and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc1 to be fulfilled. Note 3: Interference from other cells and noise sources not specified in the test is assumed to be constant over the bandwidth and time and shall be modelled as AWGN of appropriate power for _N_ oc2 to be fulfilled. Note 4: Es/Iot, RSRP, SCH_RP, Io and WLAN RSSI have been derived from other parameters for information purposes. They are not settable parameters themselves. Note 5: The resources for uplink transmission are assigned to the UE prior to the start of time period T2. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### A.3.3.2.2 Test Requirements
The UE shall send _BT-ProvideLocationInformation_ , with a measurement
reporting delay less than 10.24s from the beginning of time period T2.
The rate of correct events observed during repeated tests shall be at least
90% for each of the events.
NOTE: The actual overall delays measured in the tests may be up to 2×TTI~DCCH~
higher than the measurement reporting delays above because of TTI insertion
uncertainty of the measurement report in DCCH.
# A.4 Measurement Performance Requirements
## A.4.1 General
Unless explicitly stated otherwise:
\- Reported measurements shall be within defined range of accuracy limits
defined in clause 5 for at least 90 % of the reported cases. If multiple
measurement performance requirements are verified in the same test, the
reported measurements for each requirement shall be within defined range of
accuracy limits of the corresponding requirement defined in clause 5 for at
least 90% of the reported cases.
\- Measurements are performed in RRC_CONNECTED state.
## A.4.2 MBS Code Phase Measurement Accuracy Requirements in AWGN
### A.4.2.1 Test Purpose and Environment
The purpose of this test is to verify that the MBS Code Phase measurement
accuracy is within the specified limits. This single test will verify the
requirements in clauses 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 for MBS measurements. The channel
type for this test is AWGN, as specified in the appropriate sub-clause of
clause 5. This test can be used for both UTRA and E-UTRA testing.
In each test, there is one beacon transmitted in each of four consecutive
beacon slots. The position of first of the four consecutive beacons in the
beacon transmission period can be any slot, but it is static for the duration
of the test. In other slots there are no simulated beacons. All beacons are in
the same time slotted RF channel, with centre frequency of 925.977 MHz or set
using the network assistance data. All beacons are of type TB1 (2 MHz) [7], or
set using the network assistance data in Release 14, and the data transmitted
is in Type 2 packets with the following data fields: The MBS Transmitter ID
and the Slot Index shall be set to the MBS slot number; All other beacon
payload data shall be populated with zeros.
In the four slots containing beacon transmissions, every other slot shall
contain a beacon with the higher signal strength beacon, and the other slots
shall contain a beacon with the lower signal strength.
The higher power beacons (-30 dBm) shall have code phase delay of
1.6678x10^-4^ ms (corresponding to 50 m) and the lower power beacons (-130
dBm) shall have code phase delay of 5.00346x10^-3^ ms (corresponding to 1500
m).
Each of the beacons shall use a unique PN code chosen from the PN code list
for TB1 [7].
If the UE supports MBS assistance data, the UE will receive the MBS assistance
data for each beacon via LPP, according to Annex A.
Table A.4.2.1-1: General test parameters for Code Phase measurement Accuracy
Parameter Unit Value Comment
* * *
Centre Frequency MHz 925.977  
RF Channel N/A AWGN  
MBS Beacon Configuration N/A TB1 (2 MHz)  
MBS Packet Type N/A Type 2  
Beacon PN Code Integer Chosen from the PN code list for TB1  
-30 dBm beacon transmitted Code Phase (delay) ms 1.6678x10^-4^ Corresponds to 50 m. Constant per beacon for the duration of the test. -130 dBm beacon transmitted Code Phase (delay) ms 5.00346 × 10^-3^ Corresponds to 1500 m. Constant per beacon for the duration of the test. T~MBS_meas~ ms 12000 
Table A.4.2.1-2: MBS Beacon Payload fields for Code Phase measurement Accuracy
Parameter Unit Value Comment
* * *
TxID Integer Equal to Slot number  
Slot Index Integer Equal to Slot number  
All other fields N/A 0
### A.4.2.2 Test Requirements
The MBS Code Phase measurement accuracy shall fulfil the requirements in
clauses 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4.
## A.4.3 MBS Code Phase Measurement Accuracy Requirements in Multipath
### A.4.3.1 Test Purpose and Environment
The purpose of this test is to verify that the MBS Code Phase measurement
accuracy is within the specified limits. This test will verify the
requirements in clause 5.5 for MBS measurements. The channel type for the test
is specified in clause 5.5. This test can be used for both UTRA and E-UTRA
testing.
In this test, there is one beacon transmitted in each of two chosen slots. The
position of the beacons in the beacon transmission period is static for the
duration of the test. In other slots there are no simulated beacons. Both
beacons are in the same time slotted RF channel, with centre frequency of
925.977 MHz or set using the network assistance data. All beacons are of type
TB1 (2 MHz) [7], or set using the network assistance data in Release 14, and
the data transmitted is in Type 2 packets with the following data fields: The
MBS Transmitter ID and the Slot Index shall be set to the MBS slot number; All
other beacon payload data shall be populated with zeros.
Both beacon slots shall contain a beacon with the signal strength listed in
clause 5.5.
The beacons shall have code phase delay of 1.6678x10^-4^ ms (corresponding to
50 m).
Each of the beacons shall use a unique PN code chosen from the PN code list
for TB1 [7].
If the UE supports MBS assistance data, the UE will receive the MBS assistance
data for each beacon via LPP, according to Annex A.
Table A.4.3.1-1: General test parameters for Code Phase measurement Accuracy
in Multipath
Parameter Unit Value Comment
* * *
Centre Frequency MHz 925.977  
RF Channel N/A EPA 5 Hz  
MBS Beacon Configuration N/A TB1 (2 MHz)  
MBS Packet Type N/A Type 2  
Beacon PN Code Integer Chosen from the PN code list for TB1  
-30 dBm beacon transmitted Code Phase (delay) ms 1.6678 × 10^-4^ Corresponds to 50 m. Constant per beacon for the duration of the test. T~MBS_meas~ ms 12000 
Table A.4.3.1-2: MBS Beacon Payload fields for Code Phase measurement Accuracy
Parameter Unit Value Comment
* * *
TxID Integer Equal to Slot number  
Slot Index Integer Equal to Slot number  
All other fields N/A 0
### A.4.3.2 Test Requirements
The MBS Code Phase measurement accuracy shall fulfil the requirements in
clause 5.5.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Assistance data required for testing (Release
14 and beyond)
# B.1 Introduction
This annex defines the assistance data IEs available at the SS in all test
cases where the UE supports MBS acquisition assistance data. Almanac
assistance data will not be provided since there are only performance
requirements for UE-Assisted mode. The acquisition assistance data shall be
provided for all beacons.
The information elements are given with reference to 3GPP TS 36.355 [3], where
the details are defined.
# B.2 MBS Assistance Data
Table B.2-1 defines the acquisition assistance data elements which shall be
provided to the UE. Assistance data IEs supported by the UE but not listed in
Table B.2-1 shall not be sent.
Table B.2-1: Assistance Data to be provided to the UE for each beacon
MBS Acquisition Assistance Data IE Mesurement reporting delay test case MBS
Code Phase Measurement accuracy test cases
* * *
transmitterID-r14 Yes Yes mbsConfiguration-r14 Yes Yes pnCodeIndex-r14 Yes Yes
freq-r14 Yes Yes
#