# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 37.46x series of
Technical Specifications that define the Iuant Interface for UMTS and E-UTRAN.
The logical Iuant interface is a Node B/eNB internal interface between the
implementation specific O&M function and the RET antennas and TMAs control
unit function of the Node B/ eNB.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
● References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
● For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
● For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[2] 3GPP TS 37.461: \"Iuant Interface: Layer 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 37.462: \"Iuant Interface: Signalling Transport\".
[4] void
[5] ISO/IEC 13239 (2nd Edition, March 2000): \"Information Technology \--
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems -- High-level data
link control (HDLC) procedures\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.442: \"UTRAN implementation-specific O&M transport\".
[7] 3GPP TS 37.466: \"Iuant interface: Application Part\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
HDLC High-Level Data Link Control
IP Internet Protocol
O&M Operations & Maintenance
OSI Open Systems Interconnection
RET Remote Electrical Tilting
RETAP Remote Electrical Tilting Application Part
TMA Tower Mounted Amplifier
TMAAP Tower Mounted Amplifier application part
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
# 4 General aspects
## 4.1 Introduction
The Iuant interface for the control of RET antennas or TMAs is a logical part
of the Node B/eNB as shown in figure 9 of TS 25.401 [1] for UMTS. Therefore,
no new UTRAN/E-UTRAN element for the RET antennas or TMAs and no new
UTRAN/E-UTRAN element manager is needed. The existing Implementation Specific
O&M transport (see TS 25.442 [6] for UMTS) is used for the connection between
the RET antennas or TMAs control unit and the Node B element manager.
The Node B/eNB internal interface Iuant between the Implementation Specific
O&M function and the RET antenna control unit function is specified in detail
in the specifications for layer 1, signalling transport and RET application
part (TS 37.461 [2], TS 37.462 [3], TS 37.466 [7]).
## 4.2 Iuant interface general principles
For the control of RET antennas a standard data interface between the Node B
Implementation Specific O&M function and the Node B/eNB RET antenna control
function according to TS 25.401 [1] for UMTS is defined by means of which
functional parameters of the device can be remotely controlled. The Iuant
interface for the RET antenna control is based on a three-layer protocol
model. The three-layer model is a compact form of the OSI seven-layer
reference model and includes only layers 1, 2 and 7:
\- The Physical Layer (Layer 1) defines the signalling levels and basic data
characteristics including the data rates;
\- The Data Link Layer (Layer 2) for the Signalling Transport uses a specific
class of the HDLC standard as defined in ISO/IEC 13239 [5];
\- The Application Layer (Layer 7) defines the data payload format and the
required command set. This layer is called the \"Iuant: Application Part\".
This compact model for the control interface provides an efficient protocol
stack suitable for implementation on a single embedded micro-controller.
## 4.3 Iuant interface specification objectives
The Iuant interface specifications shall facilitate the following:
\- Controlling the tilting of RET antennas remotely from the O&M Network and
locally from the Node B;
\- Indicating of TMA alarms and optionally controlling the gain of TMAs
remotely from the O&M Network and locally from the Node B;
\- Interfacing a mix of RET antennas, TMAs and Node Bs from different vendors;
\- Providing RET or TMAs functionality in the UTRAN/E-UTRAN accompanied by an
appropriate set of signalling commands and control parameters
\- Support of error and alarm handling.
## 4.4 Iuant interface characteristics
_The Iuant interface has a protocol structure_ as shown below in figure 4.4.1.
Figure 4.4.1: Protocol structure for Iuant interface
As the Iuant and the Implementation Specific O&M are different interfaces with
e.g. different addressing schemes a mediation function is needed. This
mediation function uses on one side a protocol that uses the implementation
specific O&M bearer (e.g. IP) and on the other side the Iuant protocol.
# 5 Functions of the Iuant interface protocols
## 5.1 Physical layer functions
The physical layer provides a multi drop broadcast link between the primary
device (Node B/eNB) and all secondary devices (RET antennas or TMAs). Any
message transmitted will be received by all other devices. If two devices
transmit at the same time, their messages will be garbled.
The connection requires a half duplex communication, which requires an
appropriate scheme for the timing and access control of the connection.
## 5.2 Data link layer functions
The data link layer provides:
\- A data packet communication format;
\- An addressing scheme;
\- A master/slave relationship whereby the primary device controls the half
duplex timing;
\- A message checksum scheme to protect from transmission errors;
\- A message sequence numbering scheme which protects layer 7 from:
\- Duplicated messages;
\- Deleted messages;
\- Receiving messages in the wrong order.
\- A flow control mechanism protecting each device from being overrun by
messages.
These functions provide layer 7 with a safe full-duplex connection between the
primary device and any secondary device. This full duplex connection allows
both the primary and secondary device to transmit layer 7 messages to the
opposite device of the connection, whenever they need to. Actual delivery time
on layer 2 will depend on the layer 2 polling frequency, which is chosen by
the primary device.
## 5.3 Application layer functions
The list of functions on the Iuant interface is the following:
\- Control of RET antennas;
\- Application software and configuration data download;
\- Alarm Reporting;
> \- Operator specific data storage;
>
> \- Control of Tower Mounted Amplifiers (TMAs).
### 5.3.1 Control of RET antennas
A RET device provides means to adjust the electrical tilt of one or multiple
antennas. The set of procedures to control RET antennas provides means to
control the electrical tilt of one or more RET antennas remotely. The
procedures are defined in TS 37.466 [7].
### 5.3.2 Application software and configuration data download
The interface provides means for downloading new application software and
configuration data to a secondary device.
The support of application software download to a secondary device is
optional. If a secondary device supports application software download, it
shall reset itself and start running the new application software
automatically after the completed download. Further details on the software
download procedure (e.g. the different states of the secondary device and the
supported elementary procedures in these states) are described in subclause
6.1 of TS 37.466 [7].
### 5.3.3 Alarm reporting
The secondary device reports every change in error status after subscription
for alarm reporting by transmitting alarm messages to the primary device.
Alarm information can also be interrogated in the application layer.
### 5.3.4 Operator specific data storage
The secondary device provides means for storage of operator specific data,
e.g. inventory information.
### 5.3.5 Control of Tower Mounted Amplifiers (TMAs)
The TMA device provides means to indicate alarms and optionally to adjust the
gain of TMAs. The set of procedures to control TMAs are defined in TS 37.466
[7].
# 6 Other Iuant interface specifications
## 6.1 Iuant interface: Layer 1 (TS 37.461)
TS 37.461 [2] specifies the standards allowed for implementation of Layer 1
(physical layer) on the Iuant interface.
## 6.2 Iuant interface: Signalling Transport (TS 37.462)
TS 37.462 [3] specifies the signalling transport related to RETAP and TMAAP
signalling to be used across the Iuant interface.
## 6.3 Void
Void.
## 6.4 Summary of Iuant interface Technical Specifications
The relationship between the technical specifications that define the Iuant
interface is shown in figure 6.4.1.
Figure 6.4.1: Iuant Interface Technical Specifications
## 6.5 Iuant interface: Application part specification (TS 37.466)
TS 37.466 [7] specifies protocols for application part to be used over the
Iuant interface.
###### ## Annex A (informative): OSI model overview
{width="3.422222222222222in" height="2.0569444444444445in"}
Figure A.1: Relevant OSI model layers
Figure A.1 shows the relevant OSI model layers and the communication paths
between the primary and secondary device.
The two important aspects of the OSI model are:
\- It defines a layered structure for the communication software;
\- It provides each layer with an apparent direct link to the same layer at
the other device.
However, in real life, the only actual message path between the two devices is
through the physical connection between the two layer 1 entities.
The layer 2 entities appear to communicate directly. In actual fact, a message
passed from the first device to the second device takes the following path:
\- Layer 2 at the first device passes the message down to Layer 1;
\- Layer 1 transmits the message across the physical connection (for instance
a wire) to layer 1 at the second device;
\- Layer 1 at the second device passes the message up to Layer 2 at the second
device.
Likewise, layer 7 entities appear to communicate directly. In actual fact, a
message passed from the first device to the second device takes the following
path:
\- Layer 7 at the first device passes the message down to Layer 2;
\- Layer 2 at the first device passes the message down to Layer 1;
\- Layer 1 transmits the message across the physical connection (for instance
a wire) to layer 1 at the second device;
\- Layer 1 at the second device passes the message up to Layer 2 at the second
device;
\- Layer 2 at the second device passes the message up to Layer 7 at the second
device.
#