# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards allowed to implement layer 1 on
the Iuant interface for UTRA & E-UTRA.
The specification of transmission delay requirements and O&M requirements are
not in the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
● References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
● For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
● For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 37.462: \"Iuant interface: Signalling transport\".
[2] ISO/IEC 8482 (1993-12): \"Information technology - Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems - Twisted pair multipoint
interconnections\".
[3] TIA/EIA TSB89: "Application guidelines for TIA/EIA-485-A".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**On-Off-Keying:** A modulation system in which a carrier is switched between
two states, ON and OFF.
**Common feeder cable:** Feeder cable where some antenna line devices (e.g.
RET, TMA) are connected via the same feeder cable.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BS Base Station
DC Direct Current
DL Downlink
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
ISB Idle-State Biasing
OOK On-Off-Keying
RET Remote Electrical Tilting
RF Radio Frequency
TMA Tower Mounted Amplifier
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
# 4 Iuant layer 1
## 4.1 General
There are two layer 1 options:
\- RS485 option: A screened multicore cable, which supports a conventional
RS485 serial multi-drop bus.
\- Modem option: A connection to a RET and/or a TMA control unit by way of a
coaxial cable which is shared with DC supply and RF signals.
Both layer 1 options support the connection of two-way serial data and DC
power to the RET and/or TMA antenna device.
At least one of these two layer 1 options shall be supported.
The default data rate for both layer 1 options shall be 9.6 kbps. Higher data
rates of 38.4 kbps for both layer 1 options and 115.2 kbps only for the RS485
layer 1 option may optionally be supported. Each unit communicates on one of
the three data rates, but different units on the same interface may use
different data rates.
After a reset, a secondary device shall alternate between supported data
rates. When alternating between data rates, the data rate shall be held
constant for 300 ms. After every correctly received device scan command (see
TS 37.462 [1]) independent of whether it matches or not, at one of the
supported data rates, that data rate shall be held constant for 1.5 seconds.
After successful reception of an address assignment frame, the secondary
device shall use that data rate until it is reset.
Data rates:
\- 9.6 kbps ± 3 %
\- 38.4 kbps ± 3 %
\- 115.2 kbps ± 3 %
The format of the data octet shall be as shown in figure 4.1.1:
Figure 4.1.1: Format and order of transmitted data
## 4.2 RS485 option
This option is constituted by a two wire bi-directional multi-drop
configuration conforming to ISO/IEC 8482 [2]. The mapping of mark/space to
logical one and zero as referred to in ISO/IEC 8482 [2] shall be according to
figure 4.1.1.
The use of ISB, also called idle-line failsafe in TIA/EIA TSB89 [3], is
mandatory. The bias voltages shall be applied only by the primary device to
any separate RS485 bus. The polarity of the idle-state bias is defined as a
transmitted 1.
The RS485 transmitter shall be set to drive the bus before the first start bit
is sent and held active until the last stop bit is sent. The RS485 transmitter
shall stop driving the bus within 20 bit-times after the last stop bit is
sent.
If an antenna modem is used ISB shall be implemented by the antenna modem.
## 4.3 Modem option
The connection to a RET and/or a TMA control unit by way of a coaxial cable
which is shared with DC supply and RF signals is provided by two modems, a BS
modem and an antenna modem. The BS modem shall be either connected to the
antenna connector of the BS or integrated in the BS. It provides signal
transmission to the antenna modem and signal reception from the antenna modem
over the antenna feeder cable. The antenna modem is located between the
antenna feeder cable and the antenna. Modem configurations and reference
points for modem characteristics are specified in figure 4.3.1 and figure
4.3.2. Unless otherwise stated, requirements in this section apply to both BS
modem and antenna modem.
Figure 4.3.1: Modem configuration and modem reference points for a BS without
BS modem
Figure 4.3.2: Modem configuration and modem reference points for\ a BS with
integrated BS modem
### 4.3.1 Interference with existing systems
The modem circuit shall be capable of managing its transmitting characteristic
according to subclause 4.3.5.
#### 4.3.1.1 Carrier frequency and frequency stability
The following carrier frequency shall be used for this application:
2.176 MHz ± 100 ppm
#### 4.3.1.2 Modem isolation and modem emissions
The external BS modem shall provide minimum attenuation according to figure
4.3.1.2.1 between reference point 2 and reference point 1 to protect the BS
from emissions of the antenna modem.
External BS modem emissions at reference point 1 shall be attenuated at least
according to the modem attenuation in figure 4.3.1.2.1 below the levels
specified for the modem spectrum emission mask in subclause 4.3.4.2 to protect
the BS from emissions of the BS modem.
The antenna modem shall provide minimum attenuation according to figure
4.3.1.2.1 between reference point 3 and reference point 4 to protect other
radio systems from emission of the BS modem.
Antenna modem emissions at reference point 4 shall be attenuated at least
according to the modem attenuation in figure 4.3.1.2.1 below the levels
specified for the modem spectrum emission mask in subclause 4.3.4.2 to protect
other radio systems from emission of the antenna modem.
Figure 4.3.1.2.1: Modem attenuation
#### 4.3.1.3 Modem intermodulation attenuation
The modem intermodulation attenuation is specified in terms of the power in
intermodulation products of WCDMA modulated carriers present at reference
point 1 or reference point 3.
For 2 downlink carriers of 43 dBm the power of third order intermodulation
products in the UL operating bands for the external BS modem and antenna modem
shall not exceed:
\- -- 130 dBm/100 kHz for frequencies \ 10 dB;
\- Return loss in external BS and antenna modem operating bands > 20 dB.
### 4.3.4 Modulator characteristics
#### 4.3.4.1 Levels
ON-Level: +3 dBm ± 2 dB
OFF-Level: ≤ -40 dBm
#### 4.3.4.2 Spectrum emission mask
The modem spectrum emission mask is specified in figure 4.3.4.2.1.
Intermediate values may be obtained by linear interpolation between the points
shown. The corresponding measurement bandwidths are specified in table
4.3.4.2.1. For modem configurations according to figure 4.3.1 the BS modem
emissions shall not exceed the limits of the spectrum emission mask at
reference point 2. For modem configurations according to figure 4.3.2 the BS
with integrated BS modem emissions shall not exceed the limits of the spectrum
emission mask at reference point 2 only for frequencies below 20 MHz. Antenna
modem emissions shall not exceed the limits of the spectrum emission mask at
reference point 3.
Figure 4.3.4.2.1: Modem spectrum emission mask.
Note 1: For frequencies \<1GHz the general emission limit is -108dBm, except
modem operating band UL frequencies where the emission limit is -135 dBm.\ For
frequencies ≥1GHz the general emission limit is -98dBm, except modem operating
band UL frequencies where the emission limit is -125 dBm.
Table 4.3.4.2.1: Modem spectrum emission mask measurement bandwidth
* * *
Band Measurement Bandwidth 9 kHz - 150 kHz 1 kHz 150 kHz - 30 MHz 10 kHz 30
MHz - 1 GHz 100 kHz 1 GHz - 12.75 GHz 1 MHz
* * *
### 4.3.5 Demodulator characteristics
The demodulator shall fulfil the requirement in subclause 4.3.6 for a carrier
ON-Level within +5 dBm to -12 dBm and a carrier OFF-Level less than -18 dBm.
The levels within --12 dBm to --18 dBm are undefined.
### 4.3.6 Duty cycle variation
In order to guarantee proper transmission of data bits through the processes
of modulation and demodulation, the following limit shall be met for the duty
cycle variation:
∆DC~SYSTEM~ = \|DC~RX~ -- DC~TX~\| ≤ 10 %
Where: ∆DC~SYSTEM~ is the difference between the duty cycles of the
transmitted and received bit streams,
DC~TX~ = Duty cycle for the input bit stream, and
DC~RX~ = Duty cycle for the output bit stream.
Figure 4.3.6.1: Duty cycles of the bit stream and OOK modulated subcarrier
For transmission through a coaxial cable, two converters are required, one
from a bit stream to OOK (modulator) and one from OOK back to a bit stream
(demodulator). Therefore half of the total duty cycle tolerance is available
for each converter.
For an input bit stream with a duty ratio of 50 %, the cascaded modulator and
demodulator shall provide an output bit stream with a duty ratio within the
limits 40 % - 60 %, measured in each case at 0.5 times peak amplitude (see
figure 4.3.6.1).
### 4.3.7 Operating bands
A UTRA/FDD BS, UTRA/TDD BS, E-UTRA BS or antenna modem is designed to operate
in one or several of the following frequency bands:
Table 4.3.7.1: Frequency bands
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UTRA Operating | E-UTRA | UL operating | DL operating | | Band | Operating Band | band\ | band\ | | | | UE transmit, | UE receive, BS | | | | BS receive | transmit | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | 1 | 1920 -- 1980 | 2110 -- 2170 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | II | 2 | 1850 --1910 | 1930 -- 1990 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | III | 3 | 1710 -- 1785 | 1805 -- 1880 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IV | 4 | 1710 -- 1755 | 2110 -- 2155 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | V | 5 | 824 -- 849 MHz | 869 -- 894 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | VI | 6 ^Note\ 1^ | 830 -- 840 MHz | 875 -- 885 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | VII | 7 | 2500 -- 2570 | 2620 -- 2690 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | VIII | 8 | 880 -- 915 MHz | 925 -- 960 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IX | 9 | 1749.9 -- | 1844.9 -- | | | | 1784.9 MHz | 1879.9 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | X | 10 | 1710 -- 1770 | 2110 -- 2170 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XI | 11 | 1427.9 - | 1475.9 - | | | | 1447.9 MHz | 1495.9 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XII | 12 | 699 -- 716 MHz | 729 -- 746 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XIII | 13 | 777 -- 787 MHz | 746 -- 756 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XIV | 14 | 788 -- 798 MHz | 758 -- 768 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XV | 15 | Reserved | Reserved | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XVI | 16 | Reserved | Reserved | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XVII ^Note\ 2^ | 17 | 704 -- 716 MHz | 734 -- 746 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XVIII | 18 | 815 -- 830 MHz | 860 -- 875 MHz | | ^Note\ 2^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XIX | 19 | 830 -- 845 MHz | 875 -- 890 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XX | 20 | 832 - 862 MHz | 791 - 821 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XXI | 21 | 1447.9 - | 1495.9 - | | | | 1462.9 MHz | 1510.9 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XXII | 22 | 3410 -- 3490 | 3510 -- 3590 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- | 23 | 2000 -- 2020 | 2180 -- 2200 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- | 24 | 1626.5 -- | 1525 -- 1559 | | | | 1660.5 MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XXV | 25 | 1850 -- 1915 | 1930 -- 1995 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XXVI | 26 | 814 -- 849 MHz | 859 -- 894 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- | 27 | 807 -- 824 MHz | 852 -- 869 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- | 28 | 703 -- 748 MHz | 758 -- 803 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- | 29 ^Note\ 3^ | N/A | 717 -- 728 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- | 30 | 2305 -- 2315 | 2350 -- 2360 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- | 31 | 452.5 -- 457.5 | 462.5 -- 467.5 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XXXII | 32 ^Note\ 3^ | N/A | 1452-1496 MHz | | ^Note\ 4^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | a) | 33 | 1900 -- 1920 | 1900 -- 1920 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | a) | 34 | 2010 -- 2025 | 2010 -- 2025 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | b) | 35 | 1850 -- 1910 | 1850 -- 1910 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | b) | 36 | 1930 -- 1990 | 1930 -- 1990 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | c) | 37 | 1910 -- 1930 | 1910 -- 1930 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | d) | 38 | 2570 -- 2620 | 2570 -- 2620 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | f) | 39 | 1880 -- 1920 | 1880 -- 1920 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | e) | 40 | 2300 -- 2400 | 2300 -- 2400 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 41 | 2496 -- 2690 | 2496 -- 2690 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 42 | 3400 -- 3600 | 3400 -- 3600 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 43 | 3600 -- 3800 | 3600 -- 3800 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 44 | 703 -- 803 MHz | 703 -- 803 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 45 | 1447 -- 1467 | 1447 -- 1467 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 46 ^Note\ 6^ | 5150 -- 5925 | 5150 -- 5925 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 48 | 3550 -- 3700 | 3550 -- 3700 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 65 | 1920 -- 2010 | 2110 -- 2200 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 66 ^Note\ 5^ | 1710 -- 1780 | 2110 -- 2200 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 67 ^Note\ 3^ | N/A | 738 -- 758 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- | 68 | 698 -- 728 MHz | 753 -- 783 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- | 69 ^Note\ 3^ | N/A | 2570 MHz -- | | | | | 2620 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - | 70 ^Note\ 7^ | 1695 -- 1710 | 1995 -- 2020 | | | | MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: Band 6 | | | | | is not | | | | | applicable. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: UTRA | | | | | Operating Band | | | | | XVII and XVIII | | | | | are Reserved. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | Restricted to | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | operation when | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation is | | | | | configured. | | | | | The downlink | | | | | operating band | | | | | is paired with | | | | | the uplink | | | | | operating band | | | | | (external) of | | | | | the carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | configuration | | | | | that is | | | | | supporting the | | | | | configured | | | | | Pcell. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | Restricted to | | | | | UTRA operation | | | | | when dual band | | | | | is configured | | | | | (e.g., | | | | | DB-DC-HSDPA or | | | | | dual band | | | | | 4C-HSDPA). The | | | | | down link | | | | | frequenc(ies) | | | | | of this band | | | | | are paired | | | | | with the | | | | | uplink | | | | | frequenc(ies) | | | | | of the other | | | | | FDD band | | | | | (external) of | | | | | the dual band | | | | | configuration. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: The | | | | | range | | | | | 2180-2200 MHz | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | is restricted | | | | | to E-UTRA | | | | | operation when | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation is | | | | | configured. | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: This | | | | | band is an | | | | | unlicensed | | | | | band | | | | | restricted to | | | | | lic | | | | | ensed-assisted | | | | | operation | | | | | using Frame | | | | | Structure Type | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | | | Note 7: The | | | | | range | | | | | 2010-2020 MHz | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | is restricted | | | | | to E-UTRA | | | | | operation when | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation is | | | | | configured and | | | | | TX-RX | | | | | separation is | | | | | 300 MHz. The | | | | | range | | | | | 2005-2020 MHz | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | is restricted | | | | | to E-UTRA | | | | | operation when | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation is | | | | | configured and | | | | | TX-RX | | | | | separation is | | | | | 295 MHz. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The operating bands of the BS modem or antenna modem shall be declared by the
manufacturer.
### 4.3.8 Time delay and accuracy
The time delay in the operating bands shall be declared by the manufacturer
with ± 1 ns accuracy. The time delay shall not exceed 30 ns. This requirement
is only applicable to external BS modem and antenna modem.
### 4.3.9 Insertion Loss
The insertion loss in the external BS modem or antenna modem operating band
shall be ≤ 0.3 dB.
The actual insertion loss shall be declared by the manufacturer.
### 4.3.10 DC port isolation
The isolation between DC port and RF ports shall meet the minimum values in
figure 4.3.10.1 and 4.3.10.2. Figure 4.3.10.1 is valid for antenna modems
between reference point 5 and 4 as well as 5 and 3 and for BS modems without
integrated power supply between reference point 6 and 2 as well as 6 and 1.
Figure 4.3.10.2 is valid as additional requirement for antenna modems between
reference point 5 and 3 and for BS modems without integrated power supply
between reference point 6 and 2.
Figure 4.3.10.1: DC port isolation
Figure 4.3.10.2: DC port isolation
### 4.3.11 RET control unit spurious emission
Void.
### 4.3.12 Control unit spurious emission
The control unit, or a combination of control units, shall not generate
spurious emission, at reference point 5, above a level that will violate the
spectrum emission mask requirement according to chapter 4.3.4.2. The DC port
isolation according to chapter 4.3.10 shall be taken into account.
## 4.4 DC power supply
### 4.4.1 Power consumption
The DC supply requirements refers to reference points 3 and 5 in subclause
4.3.
BS modem and an antenna modem shall be able to operate with a DC supply
voltage range of 10 V -- 30 V.
Power consumption modes are specified in table 4.4.1.1. and table 4.4.1.2.
Table 4.4.1.1: Power consumption modes for RET
* * *
RET Power mode Maximum power consumption High \< 13 W Low \< 2 W
* * *
Table 4.4.1.2: Power consumption modes for TMA
* * *
TMA Type Maximum power consumption Single Unit \< 7,5 W Multi Unit (N) \< N *
7,5 W
* * *
BS modem and antenna modem maximum power consumption shall be \< 2 W.
BS modem and antenna modem shall impose a voltage drop less than 2 V between
reference point 3 and 5.
A Single Unit considers one RF amplifier in one TMA. A Multi Unit considers N
RF amplifiers in equal or less than N TMAs.
### 4.4.2 Conducted emission
The levels of generated conducted noise and ripple on DC Power supply shall be
within the limits given in table 4.4.2.1.
Table 4.4.2.1: Noise and ripple
* * *
Item Limit Frequency Remarks RET power mode High 70 mV~pp~ 0.15 - 30 MHz Only
one operating unit a time RET power mode Low 20 mV~pp~ 0.15 - 30 MHz  
TMA 20 mV~pp~ 0.15 - 30 MHz  
Antenna modem, RF port 15 mV~pp~ 0.15 - 30 MHz Generated Noise and Ripple at
RF feeder (in RX mode) Antenna modem, DC port 20 mV~pp~ 0.15 - 30 MHz Allowed
Noise and Ripple at external DC port (in TX mode)
* * *
All units connected to a DC supply bus shall exhibit full performance up to
the limit of 112 mVpp total noise and ripple within 0.15 - 30 MHz.
### 4.4.3 Power-up characteristics
A BS modem, antenna modem or RET/TMA control units shall have a power-up
period of 3 s.
During the power-up period a BS modem, antenna modem or a RET control unit
shall exhibit the circuit equivalent of a DC power consumer with a current
consumption of maximum 400 mA in parallel with a capacitor of maximum 0.5 µF.
During the power-up period the TMA control unit shall exhibit the circuit
equivalent of a DC power consumer with a current consumption of maximum 1A in
parallel with a capacitor of maximum 0.5 µF.
After the power-up period, the unit shall be fully functional and the power
consumption requirement as described in subclause 4.4.1 applies.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Test procedures
Test pattern
Spectrum mask and emission requirement shall be tested both with a consecutive
series of "0" and an alternating sequence of "0" and "1".
Emission requirement below noise floor
As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment should
be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement
accuracy and sensitivity when measuring close to or below the noise floor, the
resolution bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the result
should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the
equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
Conversion between modulated and CW for IM measurement
The requirement for IM3 below 1 GHz shall be relaxed 15 dB and tested with CW
interferers at the specified levels.\ The requirement for IM3 above 1 GHz
shall be relaxed 5 dB and tested with CW interferers at the specified levels.
The requirement for IM5 or higher below 1 GHz shall be relaxed 10 dB and
tested with CW interferers at the specified levels.
The requirement for IM5 or higher above 1 GHz shall be relaxed 0 dB and tested
with CW interferers at the specified levels.
Example: A --130 dBm/100 kHz requirement below 1 GHz with two WCDMA-modulated
carriers at 43 dBm is converted to a --115 dBm requirement with two CW
carriers at 43 dBm.
#