# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
> The present document is part 5 of a multi-part TS:
>
> **3GPP TS 37. 571-1: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 1: Conformance test specification.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37. 571-2: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 2: Protocol conformance.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37. 571-3: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 3: Implementation Conformance
> Statement (ICS).**
>
> **3GPP TS 37. 571-4: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 4: Test suites.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37. 571-5: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 5: Test scenarios and assistance
> data.**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the t**est scenarios and assistance data**
required for the conformance test for FDD or TDD mode of UTRA and E-UTRA for
the User Equipment (UE) that supports one or more of the defined positioning
methods. For UTRA these are Assisted Global Positioning System (A-GPS) and
Assisted Global Navigation Satellite System (A-GNSS). For E-UTRA these are
A-GNSS, Observed Time Difference of Arrival (OTDOA), Enhanced Cell ID (ECID),
Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), Metropolitan Beacon Systems (MBS) and
Bluetooth.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document unless the context in which the reference is
made suggests a different Release is relevant (information on the applicable
release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case title,
description or applicability, message description or content).
> [1] to [23] (void)
[24] 3GPP TS 37.571-5 Release 15: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA)
and Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
conformance specification for UE positioning; Part 5: **Test scenarios and
assistance data** \"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 General
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 37.571-5
Release 15 [24].
# 5 to 10 Void
###### ## Annex A to B: Void
#