# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the Multi-Band Base Station
testing with three or more bands work item which was approved at TSG RAN #70
[2]. The objective of the present document is to provide specification support
for Multi-Band Base Station testing with three or more bands.
The present document provides motivation, requirements and a list of
recommended changes to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-152205, \" New Work Item proposal: Multi-Band Base Station testing with
three or more bands\".
[3] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Task description
### 4.1.1 Objective of Core part WI
Identify the necessary changes, if any, to the existing multi-band BS
requirements for BS capable of operation in three or more bands. **In
addition, identify additional band combinations** beside Band (8+20+28) for
feasible implementation of multi-band BS capable of operation in three or more
bands**.**
### 4.1.2 Objective of Performance part WI
To specify multi-band BS testing with three or more bands in the RAN4
specifications, using the existing multi-band BS testing with two bands as a
base. The work will focus on the following steps:
1\. Conclude whether a generic testing approach can be applied to all the
identified band combinations or separate testing approaches are necessary.
2\. In case a generic testing approach cannot be applied to all the identified
band combinations with an initial focus on the completion of testing for Band
(8+20+28).
3\. Specify multi-band BS testing for all the identified band combinations. In
particular, to decide:
1\. The RF bandwidth location and carrier placement within the operating bands
and frequency ranges supported by the BS.
2\. Conclude on the multi-band combinations to be tested out of the supported
ones for BS that supports multiple multi-band combinations.
3\. Other aspects of multi-band BS testing that are necessary to complete the
specification.
## 4.2 Band combinations
The following band combinations are considered feasible for implementation of
multi-band BS capable of operation in three or more bands:
1\. Bands (8+20+28) in Europe.
2\. Bands (1+3+7).
3\. Bands (25+4+7).
Only these band combinations will be considered in the present document.
# 5 Necessary changes to the core requirements
## 5.1 Symbols
Figure 3.2-3 in TS37.104 illustrates a dual-band BS only. As the figure is
only used for illustration of the Radio Bandwidth and the figure would
**become cumbersome as the number** of supported bands continue to increase in
the future with advance in technology, it is agreed to simply clarify the
title of the figure as follows:
Figure 3.2-3 of TS 37.104 [3]: Illustration of Radio Bandwidth related symbols
and definitions for Multi-band Multi-standard Radio (Dual-band Base Station)
## 5.2 Operating band unwanted emissions
It has been discussed in RAN4 that the existing specification text in the
Operating band unwanted emissions clause (extracted below from clause 6.6.2 of
TS 37.104 [3]) may implicitly hint that it is a singular band. It has been
agreed that there may be ambiguity, and propose to clarify the phrase as
follows:
_For BS capable of multi-band operation where multiple bands are mapped on the
same antenna connector, the operating band unwanted emission limits apply also
in a supported operating band without any carriers transmitted, in the case
where there are carriers transmitted in other supported operating band(s). In
this case where there is no carrier transmitted in an operating band, the
operating band unwanted emission limit, as defined in the tables of the
present subclause for the largest frequency offset (∆f~max~), of a band where
there is no carrier transmitted shall apply from 10 MHz below the lowest
frequency, up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the supported downlink
operating band without any carrier transmitted. And no cumulative limits are
applied in the inter-band gap between a supported downlink band with
carrier(s) transmitted and a supported downlink band without any carrier
transmitted._
Moreover, the following bullets should be deleted to avoid confusion:
_\- In case the inter-band gap between a supported downlink operating band
with carrier(s) transmitted and a supported downlink operating band without
any carrier transmitted is less than 20MHz, f_offset~max~ shall be the offset
to the frequency 10 MHz outside the outermost edges of the two supported
downlink operating bands and the operating band unwanted emission limit of the
band where there are carriers transmitted, as defined in the tables of the
present subclause, shall apply across both downlink bands._
_\- In other cases, the operating band unwanted emission limit of the band
where there are carriers transmitted, as defined in the tables of the present
subclause for the largest frequency offset (∆f~max~), shall apply from 10 MHz
below the lowest frequency, up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the
supported downlink operating band without any carrier transmitted._
## 5.3 Clarification of multi-band operation
Multi-band transmitter/receiver is presently defined in all BS core and test
specifications as a Transmitter/Receiver \"characterized by the ability to
process two or more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously,
where at least one carrier is configured at a different operating band (which
is not a sub-band or superseding-band of another supported operating band)
than the other carrier(s) \". In case of a BS with three or more bands, there
could be cases where some bands use a common RF, while at least one other band
is in a separate RF. In the specifications, it is presently not clear what
requirements that would apply for such a band with separate RF.
For such a case where transmitted or received carriers are not processed in
active RF components together with carriers in any other band, it is therefore
clarified that single-band requirements should apply. The following text would
provide such an explanation in the subclauses that describe \"Requirements for
BS capable of multi-band operation\":
> _For a band supported by a Base Station where the transmitted carriers are
> not processed in active RF components together with carriers in any other
> band, single-band transmitter requirements shall apply. For a band supported
> by a Base Station where the received carriers are not processed in active RF
> components together with carriers in any other band, single-band receiver
> requirements shall apply._
Without the clarification, it would remain unclear what requirements that
apply for bands that use active RF components separate from other bands.
## 5.4 Requirements for BS capable of multi-band operation
The statement (extracted from clause 4.8 of TS 37.104 [3]) below means that
the listed single-band requirements apply to each antenna connector, even when
multiple bands (e.g. two out of three supported bands) are mapped on one
antenna connector while the other supported band is mapped on another
connector. Indeed in this case exclusions or provisions for multi-band capable
BS are applicable to the antenna connector that is mapped to multiple bands.
_In the case where multiple bands are mapped on separate antenna connectors,
the following applies:_
_\- Single-band transmitter spurious emissions, operating band unwanted
emissions, ACLR, transmitter intermodulation and receiver spurious emissions
requirements apply to each antenna connector._
Moreover, the first phrase in the statement (extracted from clause 4.8 of TS
37.104 [3]) below \'_If the BS is configured for single-band operation,_ \'
would lead to ambiguity for the case when the BS is configured for multi-band
operation, but some of the antenna connectors are configured for single-band
operation.
_\- If the BS is configured for single-band operation, single-band
requirements shall apply to the antenna connector configured for single-band
operation and no exclusions or provisions for multi-band capable BS are
applicable. Single-band requirements are tested separately at the antenna
connector configured for single-band operation, with all other antenna
connectors terminated._
Note that this would only be an issue for BS that supports more than two
bands, otherwise only one of the two supported bands is mapped or configured
on each antenna connector.
To solve the identified issues, it is proposed to update the statements above
into the following to clarify that the listed single-band requirements apply
only to each antenna connector that is mapped to single-band or configured for
single-band operation:
_In the case where multiple bands are mapped on an antenna connector, the
exclusions or provisions for multi-band capable BS are applicable to this
antenna connector. In the case where a single band is mapped on an antenna
connector, the following applies:_
_\- Single-band transmitter spurious emissions, operating band unwanted
emissions, ACLR, transmitter intermodulation and receiver spurious emissions
requirements apply to this antenna connector that is mapped to single-band._
_\- If the BS is configured for single-band operation, single-band
requirements shall apply to this antenna connector configured for single-band
operation and no exclusions or provisions for multi-band capable BS are
applicable. Single-band requirements are tested separately at the antenna
connector configured for single-band operation, with all other antenna
connectors terminated._
# 6 Necessary changes to the test requirements
## 6.1 Testing approach
Considering the identified band combinations, the 3^rd^ order IMD products
caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 1, Band 3 and Band 7 downlink (DL)
carriers have been studied and it has been shown that the 3^rd^ order IMD
products will not fall into the BS receive band of Band 1, 3 or 7.
On the other band, it has been shown that the 3^rd^ order IMD products caused
in the BS by transmitting of Band 2, Band 4 and Band 7 DL carriers may fall
into the BS receive band of Band 7. Since Band 25 is a superseding-band of
Band 2, it can be deduced that the 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS
by transmitting of Band 25, Band 4 and Band 7 DL carriers may fall into the BS
receive band of Band 7. Hence one may argue that a special testing approach is
required for MB BS supporting Bands (25+4+7), e.g. the test configuration
would need to ensure that the 3^rd^ order IMD products of the BS
transmitter(s) under test will fall into its receiver of Band 7. However, this
issue is not specific to this band combination and would also happen for
single band (SB) BS operating in certain frequency range, e.g. in Band 2 and
Band 3, and currently there is no specific test approach defined in the RAN4
specifications for such SB BS. Therefore, one may also argue that no special
testing approach is required for MB BS supporting Bands (25+4+7).
In view of the above discussion, it is agreed that a generic testing approach
can be applied to the three identified band combinations, while separate
testing approaches may still be considered if found necessary for testing of
some requirements.
## 6.2 RF bandwidth position
As seen in the IMD analyses for CA band combinations, the frequency range with
problematic IMD issue depends on the band combinations. Therefore, to allow BS
implementation to avoid frequency range with problematic IMD issue, it is
agreed that the supported frequency range(s) together with the corresponding
maximum Base Station RF Bandwidth(s) of the middle band(s) should be declared
by the BS manufacturer, and the declared maximum Base Station RF Bandwidth(s)
should be used as the RF bandwidth in the corresponding frequency range(s) of
the middle band(s) in the BS testing as follows:
_For BS capable of multi-band operation, unless otherwise stated, the test
shall be performed at B~RFBW~_T'~RFBW~ and B'~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ defined as
following:_
_\- B~RFBW~_ T'~RFBW~: the Base Station RF Bandwidths located at the bottom of
the supported frequency range in the lowest operating band and at the highest
possible simultaneous frequency position, within the Maximum Radio Bandwidth,
BW~max,~ in the highest operating band. The Base Station RF Bandwidth(s) are
located at the bottom of the supported frequency range(s) in the middle
band(s)._
_\- B'~RFBW~_T~RFBW:~ the Base Station RF Bandwidths located at the top of the
supported frequency range in the highest operating band and at the lowest
possible simultaneous frequency position, within the Maximum Radio Bandwidth,
BW~max,~ in the lowest operating band. The Base Station RF Bandwidth(s) are
located at the top of the supported frequency range(s) in the middle band(s)._
_NOTE: B~RFBW~_T'~RFBW~ = B'~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ = B~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ when the declared
Maximum Radio Bandwidth BW~max,~ spans all operating bands. B~RFBW~_T~RFBW~
means the Base Station RF Bandwidths are located at the bottom of the
supported frequency range in the lowest operating band and at the top of the
supported frequency range in the highest operating band, and the Base Station
RF Bandwidth(s) are located at the bottom of the supported frequency range(s)
in the middle band(s) in the first test and then at the top of the supported
frequency range(s) in the middle band(s) in the second test._
## 6.3 Multi-band combinations to be tested
One of the potential usages for BS to support multiple multi-band combinations
is when a higher maximum output power can be declared when fewer bands are
configured for operation. In such case, it should be advantageous to test all
supported multi-band combinations with different declared parameters (e.g.
different maximum output power when three bands and two-out-of-three bands are
configured for operation), in order to ensure that the BS will perform
satisfactorily with the different declared parameters.
On the other hand, it may not enhance the test coverage to test for every
supported multi-band combination with identical declared parameters (e.g. same
maximum output power when any two-out-of-three bands are configured for
operation). In this case, it should be sufficient to test only the most
stringent multi-band combinations out of those with identical parameters,
which should normally be the multi-band combination covering the widest radio
bandwidth among the supported ones. Therefore, the following principles should
be used to test BS that supports multiple multi-band combinations:
1) The supported multi-band combination covering the widest radio bandwidth
should be tested.
2) Among the remaining supported multi-band combinations, the following ones
should also be tested:
\- Those with a larger rated total output power (per band or per band
combination).
\- Those with a larger total number of supported carriers (per band or per
band combination).
\- Those with a larger Maximum Base Station RF Bandwidth (per band).
# 7 Project plan
To facilitate the discussion and simulation work, the work plan is proposed as
follows:
\- RAN4#78 (February 2016):
\- Approve skeleton TR
\- Approve project work plan
\- Identify band combinations
\- RAN4#78bis (April 2016):
\- Identify the necessary changes, if any, to the existing multi-band BS
requirements
\- Conclude whether a generic testing approach can be applied to all the
identified band combinations
\- RAN4#79 (May 2016):
\- Discuss and decide multi-band BS testing for all the identified band
combinations
\- RAN4#80 (August 2016):
\- Discuss and decide multi-band BS testing for all the identified band
combinations
\- RAN4#80bis (October 2016):
\- Resolve any remaining open issues
\- RAN4#81 (November 2016):
\- Approve Core and Performance CRs
#