# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In this technical report, the needed modifications to measurement parameters
for LTE devices will be studied and applicability of the existing measurement
procedures, e.g. TRP and TRS will be evaluated for LTE devices with multiple
receive antennas TDD-LTE and FDD-LTE terminals (as it is expected that the
same issues are applicable independent of RAT). As UMTS devices with multiple
receive antennas are still needing test methodology, it is easy to extend to
this study item contribution to UMTS terminals with, due to similar situation
and technical issue. UMTS TRP and TRS test methods should also be updated in
the same way.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a Technical Report of the Study Item for OTA TRP and
TRS requirement of LTE terminals, which was approved at TSG RAN #55 [2]. The
report provides the measurement procedure of Over The Air TRP and TRS
requirements for LTE terminals. It will make a simple extension to the UE OTA
TRP and TRS test methods TS34.114[3] for LTE UE with multiple receive
antennas, without considering all of the aspects associated with spatial
channels. The work should utilise the existing environments in TR25.914[4].
The results of the UE OTA test method with Head and Hand Phantoms study item
can be considered later on once finalized. The report also provides some
future extensions and work items after LTE TRP and TRS methods mature.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-120412, \"New study item proposal: Measurements of radio performances
for LTE terminals - conformance testing methodology\".
[3] 3GPP TS 34.114: \"User Equipment (UE) / Mobile Station (MS) Over The Air
(OTA) antenna performance\".
[4] 3GPP TR 25.914: \"Measurements of radio performances for UMTS terminals in
speech mode\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) User
Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: conformance testing\".
[7] RP-120368, \"Verification of radiated multi-antenna reception performance
of UEs in LTE/UMTS WID\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Void
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
θ Zenith angle in the spherical co-ordinate system
φ Azimuth angle in the spherical co-ordinate system
Ω Solid angle defined at the phase centre of the DUT
Gψ(θ,φ,f) Antenna gain pattern in the ψ-polarization as function of the
spherical co-ordinates and the carrier frequency
F Carrier frequency
Ptr Transmitted power
Qψ(θ,φ,f) Angular power distribution in the ψ-polarization as function of the
spherical co-ordinates and the carrier frequency
dB decibel
dBm dB referenced to one milliwatt
m meter
mm millimetre
kbps kilobit per second
ms millisecond
MHz megahertz
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
3G 3rd Generation
3GPP 3G Partnership Project
3-D Three Dimensional
16QAM 16 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
BS Base Station
CN Core Network
DL Downlink
DUT Device Under Test
ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
LME Laptop Mounted Equipment
LEE Laptop Embedded Equipment
LTE Long Term Evolution
MPR Maximum Power Reduction
MS Mobile Station
NB Node B
QoS Quality of Service
QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying (modulation)
RAB Radio Access Bearer
RAN Radio Access Network
RB Resource Block
RF Radio Frequency
Rx Receiver
RBstart RB number where a RB allocation begins within the channel
SAM Specific Anthropomorphic Mannequin
Tx Transmitter
TRP Total Radiated Power
TRS Total Radiated Sensitivity (also: Total Isotropic Sensitivity)
UL Uplink
UE User Equipment
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
# 4 General
The present document is a Technical Report of the Study Item for OTA TRP and
TRS requirement of LTE terminals, which was approved at TSG RAN #55 [2]. The
report provides the measurement procedure of Over The Air TRP and TRS
requirements for LTE terminals. It will make a simple extension to the UE OTA
TRP and TRS test methods TR 25.914[4] for LTE UE with multiple receive
antennas, without considering all of the aspects associated with spatial
channels. The work should utilise the existing environments in TR 25.914[4].
The results of the UE OTA test method with Head and Hand Phantoms study item
can be considered later on once finalized. The report also provides some
future extensions and work items after LTE TRP and TRS methods mature.
## 4.1 Scope
The measurement procedure explained in this document applies to all LTE
devices, which are already satisfied the standard 3GPP LTE RF minimum
performance requirements and conformance testing defined in 3GPP TS 36.101:
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio
transmission and reception[5] and 3GPP TS 36.521-1: Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Radio transmission and reception; Part 1: conformance
testing[6], respectively.
The testing methodology applies to any 4G LTE handset, USB-dongle and LEE etc,
with internal or external antenna. 3GPP TR 25.914[4] has done many meaningful
studies for evaluating antenna performance of UMTS and GSM terminals. In this
document, the majority work will be focus on the LTE TRP and TRS test. A
simple test methodology for LTE devices without channel emulator will be
studied.
The radio tests considered here are:
1\. The measurement of the radiated output power (TRP)
2\. The measurement of the radiated sensitivity (TRS)
The test procedure described in this document measures the performance of the
transmitter and the receiver, including the antenna and also the effects of
the user.
The purpose of this document is to serve as a standard test procedure for
radio performance testing of 4G LTE mobile terminals. It is the intention that
this procedure is going to be used by test houses, network operators, mobile
terminal and antenna manufacturers, research institutes etc. The motivation
for the development of this document is the lack of standards in this area in
3GPP.
During RAN4 #62bis following proposal were agreed.
> **Proposal 1** : LTE TRP test method is the same for all LTE UEs independent
> of release, including e.g. LTE CA, UL TX Div or UL MIMO capable UEs
>
> **Proposal 2** : LTE TRS test method is the same for all LTE UEs independent
> of release, including e.g. LTE CA, UL TX Div or UL MIMO capable UEs
>
> **Proposal 3** : In the first phase re-use test environments including
> phantoms available already in TS34.114 for LTE TPR and TRS purposes as well.
> Once new methods like hand phantom based test environments are defined for
> UTRA TRP and TRS, then also LTE TRP and TRS testing should be extended to
> these additional environments.
During RAN4 #63 following proposal were agreed.
> **WF 1** : Select one channel bandwidth per band for TRP and TRS tests for
> LTE FDD and TDD. Default channel bandwidth is 10 MHz but another bandwidth
> can be considered on case by case basis.
>
> **WF2** : For TRS select the reference measurement channel configuration for
> LTE FDD and TDD as defined for the conducted REFSENS minimum requirements
> and adopt UL allocation per band as defined in 36.101 Table 7.3.1-2 [5]. TRS
> is measured on low, mid and high channel.
>
> **WF3** : For TRP select the UL reference measurement channel configuration
> as in conductive maximum output power test and the UL allocation for LTE FDD
> and TDD per band as shown in a table 1 below. Bands that are not covered in
> Table 1 will be addressed as well.
>
> **WF4** : Select combined LTE TRS measurement in order to make the test
> method available for all LTE devices starting from Release 8. (Note: further
> enhancements for radiated UE receiver verifications are developed under the
> MIMO OTA WI in RP-120368 [7] and therefore combined LTE TRS test method may
> eventually be revisited.)
>
> **WF5** : Given that existing TRP and TRS measurement procedures for UMTS
> terminals in speech mode specify two alternate testing methodologies (i.e.
> anechoic and reverb) [4], the standardization of two TRP/TRS testing
> methodologies for LTE UEs may be one eventual outcome, and RAN4 shall take
> the view to avoid differences in the absolute test results.
## 4.2 Device Under Test definition
Handset: the UE/MS used under the \"Speech mode\" or "Browsing mode"
conditions that correspond to predefined positions (see Chapter 5.1.6 in [4]
for "Speech mode" and Chapter 5.1.7 in [4] for "Browsing mode") for voice or
data application when the handset is held close to the user.
Laptop Embedded Equipment : the equipment with a wireless device embedded
inside, e.g. notebook and tablet .The corresponding predefined positions for
"data mode" application are defined in Chapter 5.3.1 in [4] for notebooks and
Chapter 5.3.2 in [4] for tablets.
Laptop Mounted Equipment : the plug-in type device that host on the laptop,
e.g. USB-dongle, that correspond to predefined positions (see Chapter 5.1.4 in
[4]) for "data mode" application.
# 5 Measurement environment condition
## 5.1 Chamber environment constraints
Chamber environment constraints shall be the same as described in TR25.914[4]
unless otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only defines differences compared
to TR25.914[4].
## 5.2 Positioning Requirements and Coordinate system
Positioning Requirements and Coordinate system shall be the same as described
in TR25.914[4] unless otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only defines
differences compared to TR25.914[4].
## 5.3 DUT Test Positions and Phantom Specifications
### 5.3.1 Phantom Specifications
Phantom Specifications shall be the same as described in TR25.914[4] unless
otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only defines differences compared to
TR25.914[4].
### 5.3.2 DUT Test Positions
DUT Test Positions shall be the same as described in TR25.914[4] unless
otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only defines differences compared to
TR25.914[4].
# 6 Measurement parameters
Measurement parameters shall be the same as described in TR25.914[4] unless
otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only defines differences compared to
TR25.914[4].
## 6.1 Definition of the Total Radiated Power
This definition will be used to calculate the TRP value of LTE DUT. See
section 6.1 and E.2.1 in TR25.914[4].
## 6.2 Definition of Total Radiated Sensitivity
### 6.2.1 Total Radiated Sensitivity
This definition will be used to calculate the TRS value of LTE DUT. See
section 6.5 and E.2.2 in TR25.914[4].
### 6.2.2 Alternate measurement parameter
## 6.3 Sampling grid and independent samples
For the anechoic chamber based measurement procedures the measurement of TRP
is basically based on the measurement of the spherical radiation pattern of
the Device Under Test . The power radiated by the DUT is sampled in far field
in a group of points located on a spherical surface enclosing the DUT. The
samples of TRP are taken using a constant sample step of 15° both in theta (θ)
and phi (φ) directions.
The measurement of TRS is basically based on the measurement of the spherical
sensitivity pattern of the Device Under Test. The sensitivity values of the
DUT at a predefined BLER level are sampled in far field in a group of points
located on a spherical surface enclosing the DUT. The samples of TRS are taken
using a constant sample step of 30° both in theta (θ) and phi (φ) directions.
All the samples are taken with two orthogonal linear polarizations, $\theta$-
and $\phi$-polarisations. It is also possible to measure some other
polarisation components, if it is possible to recover $\theta$- and
$\phi$-polarisations from the measured data by some technique.
For the reverberation chamber based measurement procedures the measurement of
TRP is basically based on sampling the radiated power of the Device-Under-Test
for a discrete number of field combinations in the chamber. The average value
of these statistically distributed samples is proportional to the Total
Radiated Power, and by calibrating the average power transfer function in the
chamber, an absolute value of the TRP can be obtained. The samples of TRP are
taken so that a minimum of 100 independent Rayleigh faded samples are
measured, as per section 5.1.3 in TS34.114[3].
The measurement of TRS is basically based on searching for the lowest power
received by the Device Under Test for a discrete number of field combinations
in the chamber. The power received by the DUT at each discrete field
combination that provides a BLER which is better than the specified target
BLER level shall be averaged with other such measurements using different
field combinations. By calibrating the average power transfer function, an
absolute value of the TRS can be obtained when the linear values of all
downlink power levels described above have been averaged. The samples of TRS
are taken so that a minimum of 100 independent Rayleigh faded samples are
measured, as per section 6.1.3 in TS34.114[3].
## 6.4 Measurement frequencies
This section defines the LTE-FDD and LTE-TDD TRP and TRS measurement
frequencies allocations.
Table 6.4-1: TRP allocations (FDD)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DL | UL | Ch | DL | UL | DL | DL | UL | UL | | E | E | annel | Ca | Ca | C | RB~S | C | RB~S | | ARFCN | ARFCN | BW | rrier | rrier | ~LRB~ | tart~ | ~LRB~ | tart~ | | | | | Freq | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | uency | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 50 | 18050 | 10 | 2115 | 1925 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 300 | 18300 | 10 | 2140 | 1950 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 550 | 18550 | 10 | 2165 | 1975 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 650 | 18650 | 10 | 1935 | 1855 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 900 | 18900 | 10 | 1960 | 1880 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1150 | 19150 | 10 | 1985 | 1905 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1250 | 19250 | 10 | 1810 | 1715 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1575 | 19575 | 10 | 1 | 1 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | 842,5 | 747,5 | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1900 | 19900 | 10 | 1875 | 1780 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2000 | 20000 | 10 | 2115 | 1715 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2175 | 20175 | 10 | 2 | 1 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | 132,5 | 732,5 | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2350 | 20350 | 10 | 2150 | 1750 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2450 | 20450 | 10 | 874 | 829 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2525 | 20525 | 10 | 881,5 | 836,5 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2600 | 20600 | 10 | 889 | 844 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2800 | 20800 | 10 | 2625 | 2505 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3100 | 21100 | 10 | 2655 | 2535 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3400 | 21400 | 10 | 2685 | 2565 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3500 | 21500 | 10 | 930 | 885 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3625 | 21625 | 10 | 942,5 | 897,5 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3750 | 21750 | 10 | 955 | 910 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5060 | 23060 | 10 | 734 | 704 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5095 | 23095 | 10 | 737,5 | 707,5 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5130 | 23130 | 10 | 741 | 711 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 13 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5230 | 23230 | 10 | 751 | 782 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5230 | 23230 | 10 | 751 | 782 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5230 | 23230 | 10 | 751 | 782 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5330 | 23330 | 10 | 763 | 793 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5330 | 23330 | 10 | 763 | 793 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5330 | 23330 | 10 | 763 | 793 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 17 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5780 | 23780 | 10 | 739 | 709 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5790 | 23790 | 10 | 740 | 710 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5800 | 23800 | 10 | 741 | 711 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 19 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6050 | 24050 | 10 | 880 | 835 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6075 | 24075 | 10 | 882.5 | 837.5 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6100 | 24100 | 10 | 885 | 840 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6200 | 24200 | 10 | 796 | 837 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6300 | 24300 | 10 | 806 | 847 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6400 | 24400 | 10 | 816 | 857 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6525 | 24525 | 15 | 1 | 1 | NOTE | NOTE | 16 | 0 | | | | | 503.4 | 455.4 | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6525 | 24525 | 15 | 1 | 1 | NOTE | NOTE | 16 | 29 | | | | | 503.4 | 455.4 | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6525 | 24525 | 15 | 1 | 1 | NOTE | NOTE | 16 | 59 | | | | | 503.4 | 455.4 | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 22 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 23 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 24 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8065 | 26065 | 5 | 1 | 1 | NOTE | NOTE | 8 | 0 | | | | | 932.5 | 852.5 | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8365 | 26365 | 5 | 1 | 1 | NOTE | NOTE | 8 | 8 | | | | | 962.5 | 882.5 | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8665 | 26665 | 5 | 1 | 1 | NOTE | NOTE | 8 | 17 | | | | | 992.5 | 912.5 | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 26 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 27 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 28 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9260 | 27260 | 10 | 763 | 708 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9410 | 27410 | 10 | 778 | 723 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 19 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9610 | 27610 | 10 | 798 | 743 | NOTE | NOTE | 12 | 38 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: As | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | | | 36. | | | | | | | | | | 521-1 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [6], | | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | 6.2 | | | | | | | | | | (UE | | | | | | | | | | Ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | O | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | Po | | | | | | | | | | wer), | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | | | 3.2.A | | | | | | | | | | (Dow | | | | | | | | | | nlink | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | TX | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | harac | | | | | | | | | | teris | | | | | | | | | | tics) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | S_01 | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | TRP | | | | | | | | | | tests | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 6.4-2: TRP allocations (TDD)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DL | UL | Ch | DL | UL | DL | DL | UL | UL | | E | E | annel | Ca | Ca | C | RB~S | C | RB~S | | ARFCN | ARFCN | BW | rrier | rrier | ~LRB~ | tart~ | ~LRB~ | tart~ | | | | | Freq | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | uency | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 33 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36100 | 36100 | 20 | 1910 | 1910 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 41 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 35 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36450 | 36450 | 20 | 1860 | 1860 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36650 | 36650 | 20 | 1880 | 1880 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 41 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36850 | 36850 | 20 | 1900 | 1900 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 82 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 36 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37050 | 37050 | 20 | 1940 | 1940 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37250 | 37250 | 20 | 1960 | 1960 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 41 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37450 | 37450 | 20 | 1980 | 1980 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 82 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37650 | 37650 | 20 | 1920 | 1920 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 41 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37850 | 37850 | 20 | 2580 | 2580 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38000 | 38000 | 20 | 2595 | 2595 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 41 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38150 | 38150 | 20 | 2610 | 2610 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 82 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 39 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38350 | 38350 | 20 | 1890 | 1890 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38450 | 38450 | 20 | 1900 | 1900 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 41 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38550 | 38550 | 20 | 1910 | 1910 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 82 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38750 | 38750 | 20 | 2310 | 2310 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39150 | 39150 | 20 | 2350 | 2350 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 41 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39550 | 39550 | 20 | 2390 | 2390 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 82 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39750 | 39750 | 20 | 2506 | 2506 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 40620 | 40620 | 20 | 2593 | 2593 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 41 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41490 | 41490 | 20 | 2680 | 2680 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 82 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41690 | 41690 | 20 | 3410 | 3410 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 42590 | 42590 | 20 | 3500 | 3500 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 41 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43490 | 43490 | 20 | 3590 | 3590 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 82 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43690 | 43690 | 20 | 3610 | 3610 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 0 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 44590 | 44590 | 20 | 3700 | 3700 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 41 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 45490 | 45490 | 20 | 3790 | 3790 | NOTE | NOTE | 18 | 82 | | | | | | | 1 | 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: As | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | | | 36. | | | | | | | | | | 521-1 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [6], | | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | 6.2 | | | | | | | | | | (UE | | | | | | | | | | Ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | O | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | Po | | | | | | | | | | wer), | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | | | 3.2.A | | | | | | | | | | (Dow | | | | | | | | | | nlink | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | TX | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | harac | | | | | | | | | | teris | | | | | | | | | | tics) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | S_01 | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | TRP | | | | | | | | | | tests | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 6.4-3: TRS allocations (FDD)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DL | UL | Ch | DL | UL | DL | DL | UL | UL | | E | E | annel | Ca | Ca | C | RB~S | C | RB~S | | ARFCN | ARFCN | BW | rrier | rrier | ~LRB~ | tart~ | ~LRB~ | tart~ | | | | | Freq | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | uency | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 50 | 18050 | 10 | 2115 | 1925 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 300 | 18300 | 10 | 2140 | 1950 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 550 | 18550 | 10 | 2165 | 1975 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 650 | 18650 | 10 | 1935 | 1855 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 900 | 18900 | 10 | 1960 | 1880 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1150 | 19150 | 10 | 1985 | 1905 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1250 | 19250 | 10 | 1810 | 1715 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1575 | 19575 | 10 | 1 | 1 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | | | | | 842,5 | 747,5 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1900 | 19900 | 10 | 1875 | 1780 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2000 | 20000 | 10 | 2115 | 1715 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2175 | 20175 | 10 | 2 | 1 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | | | | | 132,5 | 732,5 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2350 | 20350 | 10 | 2150 | 1750 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2450 | 20450 | 10 | 874 | 829 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 25 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2525 | 20525 | 10 | 881,5 | 836,5 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 25 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2600 | 20600 | 10 | 889 | 844 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 25 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2800 | 20800 | 10 | 2625 | 2505 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3100 | 21100 | 10 | 2655 | 2535 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3400 | 21400 | 10 | 2685 | 2565 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3500 | 21500 | 10 | 930 | 885 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 25 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3625 | 21625 | 10 | 942,5 | 897,5 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 25 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3750 | 21750 | 10 | 955 | 910 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 25 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5060 | 23060 | 10 | 734 | 704 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 30 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5095 | 23095 | 10 | 737,5 | 707,5 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 30 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5130 | 23130 | 10 | 741 | 711 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 30 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 13 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5230 | 23230 | 10 | 751 | 782 | 50 | 0 | 15 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5230 | 23230 | 10 | 751 | 782 | 50 | 0 | 15 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5230 | 23230 | 10 | 751 | 782 | 50 | 0 | 15 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5330 | 23330 | 10 | 763 | 793 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5330 | 23330 | 10 | 763 | 793 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5330 | 23330 | 10 | 763 | 793 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 17 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5780 | 23780 | 10 | 739 | 709 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 30 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5790 | 23790 | 10 | 740 | 710 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 30 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5800 | 23800 | 10 | 741 | 711 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 30 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 19 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6050 | 24050 | 10 | 880 | 835 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6075 | 24075 | 10 | 882.5 | 837.5 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6100 | 24100 | 10 | 885 | 840 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6200 | 24200 | 10 | 796 | 837 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 30 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6300 | 24300 | 10 | 806 | 847 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 30 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6400 | 24400 | 10 | 816 | 857 | 50 | 0 | 20 | 30 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6525 | 24525 | 15 | 1 | 1 | 75 | 0 | 25 | 0 | | | | | 503.4 | 455.4 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6525 | 24525 | 15 | 1 | 1 | 75 | 0 | 25 | 0 | | | | | 503.4 | 455.4 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6525 | 24525 | 15 | 1 | TBD1 | 75 | 0 | 25 | 0 | | | | | 503.4 | 455.4 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 22 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 23 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 24 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8065 | 26065 | 5 | 1 | 1 | 25 | 0 | 25 | 0 | | | | | 932.5 | 852.5 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8365 | 26365 | 5 | 1 | 1 | 25 | 0 | 25 | 0 | | | | | 962.5 | 882.5 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8665 | 26665 | 5 | 1 | 1 | 25 | 0 | 25 | 0 | | | | | 992.5 | 912.5 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 26 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 27 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 28 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9260 | 27260 | 10 | 763 | 708 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9410 | 27410 | 10 | 778 | 723 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9610 | 27610 | 10 | 798 | 743 | 50 | 0 | 25 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Refer | | | | | | | | | | to TS | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | | 6.521 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [6], | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | | | 3.2-1 | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | Fixed | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | (F | | | | | | | | | | DD)), | | | | | | | | | | 10MHz | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | S_01 | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | TRS | | | | | | | | | | tests | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nless | | | | | | | | | | expli | | | | | | | | | | citly | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | S_03 | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Bands | | | | | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 23 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | S_06 | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Bands | | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 17 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | S_08 | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | 19 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | S_09 | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 6.4-4: TRS allocations (TDD)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DL | UL | Ch | DL | UL | DL | DL | UL | UL | | E | E | annel | Ca | Ca | C | RB~S | C | RB~S | | ARFCN | ARFCN | BW | rrier | rrier | ~LRB~ | tart~ | ~LRB~ | tart~ | | | | | Freq | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | uency | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 33 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36100 | 36100 | 20 | 1910 | 1910 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 35 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36450 | 36450 | 20 | 1860 | 1860 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36650 | 36650 | 20 | 1880 | 1880 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36850 | 36850 | 20 | 1900 | 1900 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 36 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37050 | 37050 | 20 | 1940 | 1940 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37250 | 37250 | 20 | 1960 | 1960 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37450 | 37450 | 20 | 1980 | 1980 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37650 | 37650 | 20 | 1920 | 1920 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37850 | 37850 | 20 | 2580 | 2580 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38000 | 38000 | 20 | 2595 | 2595 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38150 | 38150 | 20 | 2610 | 2610 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 39 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38350 | 38350 | 20 | 1890 | 1890 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38450 | 38450 | 20 | 1900 | 1900 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38550 | 38550 | 20 | 1910 | 1910 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38750 | 38750 | 20 | 2310 | 2310 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39150 | 39150 | 20 | 2350 | 2350 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39550 | 39550 | 20 | 2390 | 2390 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39750 | 39750 | 20 | 2506 | 2506 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 40620 | 40620 | 20 | 2593 | 2593 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41490 | 41490 | 20 | 2680 | 2680 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41690 | 41690 | 20 | 3410 | 3410 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 42590 | 42590 | 20 | 3500 | 3500 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43490 | 43490 | 20 | 3590 | 3590 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43690 | 43690 | 20 | 3610 | 3610 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 44590 | 44590 | 20 | 3700 | 3700 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 45490 | 45490 | 20 | 3790 | 3790 | 100 | 0 | 100 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Band | | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Refer | | | | | | | | | | to TS | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | | 6.521 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [6], | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | | | 3.2-2 | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | Fixed | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | | | DD)), | | | | | | | | | | 20MHz | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | S_01 | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | TRS | | | | | | | | | | tests | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 7 Measurement procedure -- transmitter performance
This section describes the specifics of the radiated power measurement
procedure.
Measurement procedure -- transmitter performance shall be the same as
described in TR25.914[4] unless otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only
defines differences compared to TR25.914[4].
## 7.1 General measurement arrangements
A radio communications tester or a corresponding device is used as a NB/BS
simulator to setup calls to the DUT. The NB/BS simulator may also measure the
radiated power samples. Alternatively, a measurement receiver or spectrum
analyzer may be used for that purpose.
As section 4.2 definition, the measurements are performed for Handset, Laptop
Embedded Equipment and Laptop Mounted Equipment.
1) The DUT of Handset should be placed against a head phantom. The measurement
of the DUT is performed both on the left and right ears of the head phantom.
And the scenario of placed against a head phantom and hold by the hand phantom
is suggested to test. The measurement of the DUT is performed both on the left
and right ears of the head phantom. Meanwhile, Hand phantom only is also
suggested to test. The measurement of the DUT is performed both on the left
and right hand phantom. The characteristics of the phantoms are specified in
section 5.3.
2) The DUT of laptop embedded equipment should be placed in the following
environment: free space for notebook devices (detailed positioning and
specification refer to section 5.3.1 in [4]) and free space for tablet devices
(detailed positioning and specification refer to section 5.3.2 in [4]).
3) The DUT of laptop mounted equipment should be using laptop ground plane
phantom for testing scenario. Detailed phantom positioning and specification
refer to section 5.3.
The measurements will be performed for the different antenna configurations of
the DUT. For example in the case of a retractable antenna, for both antenna
extended and antenna retracted configurations. In future, more specific test
configurations for each major type of terminals may be added in this part.
More detail description of the BS simulator or spectrum analyser sees section
7.2 below and Annex A System Parameters.
## 7.2 Procedure for radiated power measurement
1\. Set the initial conditions as per section 6.2.2 of 3GPP TS 36.521-1, with
the following exception: configure the system simulator and the DUT as per
section 5, and set the carrier frequency, channel bandwidth, RB length and RB
location as per Table 6.4-1 and Table 6.4-2 respectively for FDD and TDD
modes.
2\. Follow steps 1 and 2 in section 6.2.2.4.2 of 3GPP TS 36.521-1 and ensure
that the DUT transmits with its maximum power.
3\. For the anechoic chamber based methodologies, measure the spherical
effective isotropic radiated power (EIRP) pattern. And following the sampling
grid specified in section 6.3 is suggested. For TDD slots with transient
periods are not under test. The uplink downlink configuration and the special
subframe configuration in TDD is set as per Table 8.2.2-1 of 3GPP TS
36.521-1.Calculate the TRP using the EIRP pattern data as per section 6.1.\ \
For the reverberation chamber based measurement methodologies, sample the
radiated power of the Device Under Test (DUT) for a discrete number of field
combinations in the chamber. Follow the guidelines about independent samples
in section 6.3. For TDD slots with transient periods are not under test. The
uplink downlink configuration and the special subframe configuration in TDD is
set as per Table 8.2.2-1 of 3GPP TS 36.521-1.Calculate the TRP using the power
samples as per section 6.1.
4\. In the case of handset DUT, repeat steps 1 through 3 using the head
phantom only, head and hand phantom, and hand phantom only. The head phantom
only, head and hand phantom, hand phantom only testing are as per section 5.3.
For laptop mounted equipment DUT, the laptop ground plane phantom is used. For
laptop embedded equipment notebook DUT, free space test is used For laptop
embedded equipment tablet DUT, free space test is used; the test configuration
may be enhanced once definitions of new testing conditions related to the
tablet device categories become available (see Chapter 5.3.2 in [4])..
## 7.3 Calibration measurement
Calibration measurement shall be the same as described in TR25.914[4] unless
otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only defines differences compared to
TR25.914[4].
# 8 Measurement procedure -- receiver performance
This section describes the specifics of the radiated sensitivity measurement
procedure.
Measurement procedure -- transmitter performance shall be the same as
described in TR25.914[4] unless otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only
defines differences compared to TR25.914[4].
## 8.1 General measurement arrangements
A radio communications tester or a corresponding device is used as a NB/BS
simulator to setup calls to the DUT. The NB/BS simulator is also used to send
test signals to the UE and measure the BLER levels of the radio link and the
information on the dedicated channel needed to extract the DUT receiver
performances.
As section 4.2 definition, the measurements are performed for Handset, Laptop
Embedded Equipment and Laptop Mounted Equipment.
1) The DUT of Handset should be placed against a head phantom. The measurement
of the DUT is performed both on the left and right ears of the head phantom.
And the scenario of placed against a head phantom and hold by the hand phantom
is suggested to test. The measurement of the DUT is performed both on the left
and right ears of the head phantom. Meanwhile, Hand phantom only is also
suggested to test. The measurement of the DUT is performed both on the left
and right hand phantom. The characteristics of the phantoms are specified in
section 5.3.
2) The DUT of laptop embedded equipment should be placed in the following
environment: free space for notebook deivces (detailed positioning and
specification refer to section 5.3.1 in [4]) and free space for tablet devices
(detailed positioning and specification refer to section 5.3.2 in [4]).
3)The DUT of laptop mounted equipment should be using laptop ground plane
phantom for testing scenario. Detailed phantom positioning and specification
refer to section 5.3.
The measurements will be performed for the different antenna configurations of
the DUT. For example in the case of a retractable antenna, for both antenna
extended and retracted configurations. In future, more specific test
configurations for each major type of terminals may be added in this part.
More detail description of the BS simulator see section 8.2 below and Annex A
System Parameters.
## 8.2 Procedure for radiated sensitivity measurement
1\. Set the initial conditions as per section 7.3 of 3GPP TS 36.521-1, with
the following exception: configure the system simulator and the DUT as per
section 5, and set the carrier frequency, channel bandwidth, RB length and RB
location as per Table 6.4-3 and Table 6.4-4 respectively for FDD and TDD
modes. For DUTs with more than one receiver port, all the tests should be
performed using both (all) antenna ports simultaneously.
2\. Follow steps 1 through 4 in sections of 7.3.4.2 of 3GPP TS 36.521-1, with
the following exception: measure the receiver sensitivity by adjusting the
downlink signal level to 95 % throughput of the maximum throughput of the
reference channel (maximum throughput is per Appendix A of 3GPP TS 36.521-1).
3\. For the anechoic chamber based methodologies, repeat step 2 with 3-D
sampling grid specified in section 6.3. The minimum RF power level resulting a
data throughput greater than or equal to 95 % throughput of the maximum
throughput for each test shall be recorded for integration pursuant to section
6.2 to calculate TRS.\ \ For the reverberation chamber based methodologies,
repeat step 2 for a number of independent samples as specified in section 6.3.
The minimum RF power level resulting in a data throughput greater than or
equal to 95 % throughput of the maximum throughput for each test shall be
recorded for averaging pursuant to section 6.2 to calculate TRS.
4\. In the case of handset DUT, repeat steps 1 through 3 using the head
phantom only, head and hand phantom, and hand phantom only. The head phantom
only, head and hand phantom, hand phantom only testing are as per section 5.3.
For laptop mounted equipment, the laptop ground plane phantom is used. For
laptop embedded equipment notebook DUT, free space test is used For laptop
embedded equipment tablet DUT, free space test is used; the test configuration
may be enhanced once definitions of new testing conditions related to the
tablet device categories become available (see Chapter 5.3.2 in [4])..
## 8.3 Calibration measurement
Calibration measurement shall be the same as described in TR25.914[4] unless
otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only defines differences compared to
TR25.914[4].
###### ### Annex A: System Parameters
# A.1 Definition and applicability
This test is aimed at measuring the output power radiated and receiver
sensitivity by a LTE DUT in max transmit power.
Radio measurements are performed in the so-called open area mode in such as
way to be as close as possible to the free space conditions.
# A.2 Establishing the connection
In order to be as close as possible to the real conditions of use, it is
necessary to establish the connection between the UE/MS under test and the
eNodeB simulator. It makes thus possible to set up the communication
parameters to simulate a data link.
# A.3 Uplink RB allocation for reference sensitivity
This section is just providing the uplink RB allocation table for information,
and Table A.3-1 is same as Table 7.3.1-2 in TS36.101.[5]
Table A.3-1 (for information): Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / NRB | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | -UTRA | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | uplex | | Band | | | | | | | Mode | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 50 | 501 | 501 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 50 | 501 | 501 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 251 | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | | | 25 | 251 | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | | | 25 | 50 | 751 | 751 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 251 | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | | | 25 | 50 | 501 | 501 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | | | 25 | 251 | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | 6 | 15 | 201 | 201 | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | | | 201 | 201 | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | | | 151 | 151 | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | | | 201 | 201 | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 18 | | | 25 | 25^1^ | 25^1^ | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19 | | | 25 | 25^1^ | 25^1^ | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | 25 | 20^1^ | 20^3^ | 20^3^ | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 21 | | | 25 | 25^1^ | 25^1^ | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 22 | | | 25 | 50 | 501 | 501 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 23 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 50 | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 24 | | | 25 | 50 | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 50 | 501 | 501 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 26 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 251 | 251 | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 25^1^ | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 28 | | 15 | 25 | 25^1^ | 25^1^ | 25^1^ | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 33 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 34 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 35 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36 | 6 | 15 | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 40 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 42 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43 | | | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 44 | | 15 | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | TDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | ^1^ | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | close | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | pos | | | | | | | | | sible | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | dow | | | | | | | | | nlink | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | 6-1). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | sup | | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 11 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | FFS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | ^3^ | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 20; | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 15MHz | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | RB~s | | | | | | | | | tart~ | | | | | | | | | 11 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 20MHz | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | RB~s | | | | | | | | | tart~ | | | | | | | | | 16 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
###### ### Annex B: Measurement Uncertainty
Measurement Uncertainty shall be the same as described in TR25.914[4] unless
otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only defines differences compared to
TR25.914[4].
###### ### Annex C: Anechoic chamber specifications and validation method
Anechoic chamber specifications and validation method shall be the same as
described in TR25.914[4] unless otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only
defines differences compared to TR25.914[4].
###### ### Annex D: Reverberation chamber specifications and validation method
Reverberation chamber specifications and validation method shall be the same
as described in TR25.914[4] unless otherwise defined in this TR. This TR only
defines differences compared to TR25.914[4].
#