# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report for the Work Item on Base Station
(BS) radiated Radio Frequency (RF) requirements for Active Antenna System
(AAS), which was approved at TSG RAN#71 in [2]. The present document captures
the background and the decisions on the specification of radiated RF
requirements that are applicable to AAS BS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-160940 "Work Item Description for Enhancements of Base Station (BS) RF
and EMC requirements for Active Antenna System (AAS)"
[3] 3GPP TS 37.105 "Active Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS) transmission
and reception"
[4] 3GPP TR 37.842 "Frequency (RF) requirement background for Active Antenna
System (AAS) Base Station (BS)"
[5] 3GPP TR 36.942, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios"
[6] 3GPP TR 37.840, "Study of Radio Frequency (RF) and Electromagnetic
Compatibility (EMC) requirements for Active Antenna Array System (AAS) base
station"
[7] 3GPP TS 37.104, "E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**active antenna system base station:** BS system which combines an a _ntenna
array_ with an _transceiver unit array_. An AAS BS may include a radio
distribution network
**array element:** subdivision of a passive _antenna array_ , consisting of a
single radiating element or a group of radiating elements, with a fixed
radiation pattern
**antenna array:** group of radiating elements characterized by the geometry
and the properties of the _array elements_
**array factor: radiation pattern of an array antenna when each _array
element_ is considered to radiate isotropically**
NOTE: When the radiation pattern of individual _array elements_ are identical,
and the _array elements_ are congruent under translation, then the product of
the _array factor_ and the _array element_ radiation pattern gives the
radiation pattern of the entire array.
**angle of arrival:** is the direction of propagation of electromagnetic wave
incident on an AAS BS _antenna array_
**beam:** beam (of the antenna) is the main lobe of the radiation pattern of
an _antenna array_
NOTE: For certain AAS BS _antenna array_ , there may be more than one beam.
**beam centre direction:** direction equal to the geometric centre of the
half-power contour of the beam
**beam direction pair:** data set consisting of the _beam centre direction_
and the related _beam peak direction_
**beam peak direction:** direction where the maximum EIRP is found
**beamwidth:** beam which has a half-power contour that is essentially
elliptical, the half-power beamwidths in the two pattern cuts that
respectively contain the major and minor axis of the ellipse
**cell specific beam:** _Cell specific beam_ is a beam which is intended to
facilitate communication for multiple UEs within a cell
**cell splitting:** division of the cell\'s coverage in a sector into multiple
subsectors.
NOTE: The subsectors may be divided into the vertical and/or horizontal plane.
**demodulation branch:** single input to the demodulation algorithms.
NOTE: For UTRA a _demodulation branch_ is referred to as a receive diversity
branch or a UL MIMO branch. For E-UTRA a _demodulation branch_ is referred to
as an RX Antenna in the performance requirement tables.
NOTE: The term \"RX antenna\" in chapter 8 of the E-UTRA specification 3GPP TS
36.104 [7] does not refer to physical receiver antennas, but to the
_demodulation branches_.
**directions diagram:** two dimensional Cartesian diagram showing φ on the
horizontal axis and minus θ on the vertical axis
**directivity: ratio of the radiation intensity in a given direction from the
antenna to the radiation intensity averaged over all directions**
NOTE: If the direction is not specified, the direction of maximum radiation
intensity is implied.
**EIRP accuracy directions set:** _beam peak directions_ for which the EIRP
accuracy requirement is intended to be met.
NOTE: The _beam peak directions_ are related to a corresponding contiguous
range or discrete list of _beam centre directions_ by the _beam direction
pairs_ included in the set.
**equivalent isotropic radiated power:** in a given direction, the relative
gain of a transmitting antenna with respect to the gain of an isotropic
radiating element multiplied by the net power accepted by the antenna from the
connected transmitter
NOTE: For an AAS BS the EIRP can be seen as the equivalent power radiated from
an isotropic radiating element, producing the same field intensity as the
field intensity radiated in the declared beam pointing direction of the active
antenna system being considered.
**equivalent isotropic sensitivity:** power level relative to an isotropic
antenna that is required to be incident on the AAS BS array from a specified
azimuth/elevation direction in order to meet a specified receiver sensitivity
requirement
NOTE: EIS is directly related to field-strength via free-space impedance and
effective aperture antenna area. EIS is expressed as the receiver power that
would be collected by an isotropic antenna if it were subject to a uniform
field around the whole sphere as the AAS BS array experiences in the specified
azimuth/elevation direction.
**front-to-back ratio: ratio of maximum directivity of an antenna to its
directivity in a specified rearward direction**
**gain: ratio of the radiation intensity, in a given direction, to the
radiation intensity that would be obtained if the power accepted by the
antenna were radiated isotropically**
NOTE: If the direction is not specified, the direction of maximum radiation
intensity is implied.
**multi-band TAB connector:** _TAB connector_ supporting operation in multiple
operating bands through common active electronic components(s)
_NOTE: For common TX and RX TAB connectors, the definition applies where
common active electronic components are in the transmit path and/or in the
receive path._
**radiating element:** basic building block of an _array element_
characterized by its radiation properties
**radiation pattern:** angular distribution of the radiated electromagnetic
field or power level in the far field region
**radio distribution network:** passive network which distributes radio
signals generated by the active _transceiver unit array_ to the _antenna
array_ , and/or distributes the radio signals collected by the _antenna array_
to the active _transceiver unit array_.
NOTE: The number of transmission outputs from the RDN should be greater than
or equal to the number of transmission inputs for a single frequency.
NOTE: In the case when the active _transceiver units_ are physically
integrated with the _array elements_ of the _antenna array_ , the radio
distribution network is a one-to-one mapping.
**OTA sensitivity directions declaration:** set of manufacturer declarations
comprising an EIS value and the directions where it applies
**receiver target:** angles of arrival in which reception is performed
**receiver target redirection range:** union of all the _sensitivity RoAoA_
achievable through redirecting the _receiver target_ related to the OSDD
**receiver target reference direction: direction, inside the _receiver target
redirection range_ declared by the manufacturer for conformance testing.**
NOTE: For an OSDD without _receiver target redirection range_ , this is a
direction inside the _sensitivity RoAoA_.
**reference beam direction pair: declared _beam direction pair_ , including
reference _beam centre direction_ and reference _beam peak direction_ where
the reference _beam peak direction_ is the direction for the intended maximum
EIRP within the EIRP accuracy compliance directions set**
**sensitivity RoAoA: RoAoA within which the declared EIS of an OSDD is
intended to be achieved at any** instance of time **for a specific AAS BS
direction setting**
**Single-band TAB connector:** _TAB connector_ supporting either operation
only in a single operating band, or operation in multiple operating bands
without any common active electronic component(s)
**TAB connector:** transceiver array boundary connector
**TAB connectors beam forming group:** group of _TAB connectors_ associated
with an EIRP beam declaration, comprising of the complete set of _TAB
connectors_ from which a declared beam is transmitted
_**transceiver unit:** active unit consisting of transmitter and/or receiver
which transmits and/or receives radio signals, and which may include passive
RF filters_
_**transceiver unit array:** array of_ transceiver units _which generate radio
signals in the transmit direction and accept radio signals in the receive
direction_
NOTE: Multi-word definitions are treated as linguistic expressions and printed
in italic font throughout this requirement specification. Linguistic
expressions may not be split and are printed in their entirety.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
{width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} The composite
_antenna array_ pattern in dB
{width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} The _array
element_ pattern in dB
BeW~Θ~ The Beam width in Θ
BeW~ϕ~ The Beam width in ϕ
Ci Weighting coefficient
_E~FF\ ~_ Far field pattern
_E~meas~_ Measured near field
_F~basis~_ Basis functions (near field to far field transformation)
{width="0.17083333333333334in" height="0.2076388888888889in"} The _array
factor_.
{width="0.1527777777777778in" height="0.18055555555555555in"} The azimuth
angle (defined between -180° and 180°).
{width="0.1388888888888889in" height="0.19375in"} Elevation angle of the
signal direction (defined between -90° and 90°, 0° represents the direction
perpendicular to the _antenna array_)
σ Standard uncertainty
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.18055555555555555in"} The signal
correlation coefficient.
φ The angle in the reference coordinate system between the x-axis and the
projection of the radiation vector onto the x/y plane defined between -180°
and 180°.
Θ The angle in the reference coordinate system between the projection of the
x/y plane and the radiation vector defined between -90° and 90°. 0° represents
the direction perpendicular to the y/z plane. The angle is aligned with the
down-tilt angle.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AA Antenna Array
**AAS BS Active Antenna System Base Station**
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
**AoA Angle of Arrival**
**BS** Band Category
**CA Carrier Aggregation**
**CATR Compact Antenna Test Range**
**CS Capability Set**
**DTT Digital terrestrial television**
**DUT Device Under Test**
**EIRP Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power**
**EIS Equivalent Isotropic Sensitivity**
**EMC Electromagnetic compatibility**
FF Far Field
**FOM Figure of Merit**
**IL** Insertion Loss
**ISD Inter-Site Distance**
LA Local Area
LPDA Log-Periodic Dipole ArrayAA Antenna Array
**MCL Minimum Coupling Loss**
MR Medium Range
NF Near Field
**OSDD OTA Sensitivity Direction Declaration**
**OTA Over-the-Air**
QZ Quiet Zone
**RDN Radio Distribution Network**
**RE Radiating Element**
**RoAoA Range of Angles of Arrival**
**RSS** Root Square Sum
**RXU Receiver Unit**
**SGH Standard Gain Horn**
**TAB Transceiver Array Boundary**
**TAE Time Alignment Error**
**TRXU Transceiver Unit**
**TRXUA Transceiver Unit Array**
TXU Transmitter Unit
VSWR Voltage Standing Wave Ratio
WA Wide Area
# 4 General
## 4.1 Work Item scope
This Work Item (WI) is to specify radiated Radio Frequency (RF) requirements
for Active Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS) covering single Radio Access
Technology (RAT) capable BS supporting UTRA or E-UTRA, and multi-RAT capable
BS operating in Band Category (BC) 1 and BC3, for Wide Area (WA), Medium Range
(MR), and Local Area (LA) coverage to ensure necessary coexistence. Wide Area
BS class will be prioritized.
## 4.2 Work Item objectives
The radiated AAS BS specification will be based on translating the existing
release 13 AAS BS conducted requirements [3] to over the air requirements
which provide the same level of performance and protection as the release 13
AAS BS requirements do.
It is composed of the following work tasks:
a) Core RF requirements
b) Conformance testing requirements, derived from the core RF requirements,
and demodulation testing requirements.
Due to the necessary study required to arrive at requirement that does not
require excessive measurement and will be practical (i.e. easy to measure) and
robust, it is decided to include a study phase to identify the OTA core and
conformance concepts before writing the specification text
Detailed WID texts are presented in [2].
## 4.3 Relationship to REL13 AAS conducted and radiated requirements
## 4.4 General AAS BS RF architecture
## 4.5 Specification organization
# 5 Radiated transmitter characteristics
## 5.1 General
## 5.2 Base station output power
## 5.3 Output power dynamics
## 5.4 Transmit ON/OFF power
## 5.5 Transmitted signal quality
### 5.5.1 General
\
### 5.5.2 Frequency Error
\
### 5.5.3 Time Alignment Error
\
### 5.5.4 Modulation Quality
#### 5.5.4.1 General
The conducted EVM requirement is applied per TAB connector, this is to be
translated to an ORA requirement.
EVM is defined on TS 36.104 [xx]as
> _The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the ideal
> symbols and the measured symbols after the equalization. This difference is
> called the error vector. The equaliser parameters are estimated as defined
> in Annex E. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the ratio of the
> mean error vector power to the mean reference power expressed in percent_.
Although EVM is expressed in terms of a percentage it is a ratio of 2 powers,
that of the error vector and the reference power. As with ACLR whilst the
reference (or wanted) signal may be subjected to beam forming the error vector
power has unknown correlation level between transmitter units and hence may be
beam formed or not.
If the error vector power is correlated then the EVM will be constant over the
OTA angular range, however if it is not correlated then it will vary, as shown
in Figure 5.5.4-1.
{width="3.5034722222222223in"
height="2.6277777777777778in"}{width="3.5034722222222223in"
height="2.6277777777777778in"}
Figure 5.5.4.1-1. 10 Element array, beam pattern and non-correlated EVM
distribution (8% EVM)
#### 5.5.4.2 Core Requirement
The EVM requirement however is important only between the BS and its intended
UE. Hence the EVM is only of importance in directions where the BS intends to
communicate with the UE's. It is the therefore in a set of specific directions
from the AAS BS which is of interest rather than the average or total EVM over
the entire sphere. In this respect the EVM requirement is different in nature
to the ACLR requirement.
The range of directions which the AAS BS meets the EVM requirement is declared
by the manufacturer as an EVM directions range.
{width="5.5in" height="2.7708333333333335in"}
Figure 5.5.4.2-1. Example of EVM directions range and 5 conformance points
The manufacturer is to declare the EVM directions range and the EVM must be
met across the range of directions.
How the OTA EVM requirements apply with respect to the existing (REL13) EIRP
directions set and the beam declarations is FFS.
How to apply EVM requirements for AAS with multiple transceivers but without
the ability to user beam steer is FFS.
#### 5.5.4.3 Conformance Requirements
For conformance testing the centre direction and the 4 extreme directions in θ
and ϕ of the EVM directions range, as shown in Figure 5.5.4.2-1 are declared
and tested.
## 5.6 Unwanted emissions
### 5.6.1 General
\
### 5.6.2 Adjacent Channel Leakage Radio (ACLR)
#### 5.6.2.1 Background information on the conducted requirement
The Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered
mean power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean
power centred on an adjacent channel frequency. expressed in dB. ACLR is
defined for both the first adjacent channel and the second adjacent channel.
The Wide Area BS ACLR was originally derived by means of co-existence
simulations as documented in the TR 36.942 [x.1]. The coexistence simulations
captured DL network throughput loss due to interference from an aggressor
network in the downlink vs so-called ACIR. ACIR incorporates power in the UE
receive band due to the transmitter unwanted emissions (ACLR) and the receiver
(ACS), and is calculated as:
$\text{ACIR} = \frac{1}{\frac{1}{\text{ACLR}} + \frac{1}{\text{ACS}}}$
(assuming linear terms)
The coexistence simulation result for ACIR was split into ACLR and ACS,
resulting in for wide area a BS ACLR of 45dB and a UE ACS of 33dB.
An AAS BS may consist of multiple transmitters that perform beamforming. If
the adjacent channel interference is not necessarily beamformed in the same
manner as the wanted channel, hence ACLR may vary in space. Before setting a
conducted requirement in the Release 13 AAS specification 37.105 [3], further
co-existence simulations were performed in the AAS SI TR 37.840 [x.2] and WI
TR 37.842 [4]. These simulations revealed that it is the total power and not
the spatial distribution of unwanted emissions (i.e. the correlation of
adjacent channel noise between transmitter units) that impacts co-existence
KPIs. Hence an ACLR based on total wanted channel and adjacent channel power
was defined at TAB connectors.
In addition to the ACLR ratio of 45dB, an absolute level of adjacent channel
emissions is defined. The basestation must fulfil whichever is the less
stringent of the ACLR ratio or the absolute level. The definition of an
absolute level avoids specifying unnecessarily low levels on any BS that
operate with a low wanted carrier transmit power. For wide area BS, the
absolute level is defined in 37.104 [x.3] as either -13dBm/MHz for category A
or -15dBm/MHz for category B emissions requirements, relating to regulatory
frameworks.
In the AAS specification 37.105 [3] the ACLR requirement is set on the ratio
of the total wanted signal power at all TAB connectors to the total power at
all connectors of adjacent channel power. For the absolute requirement, the
non AAS requirement forms a _basic limit_ , which is scaled up to an AAS
requirement according to the number of _active transceiver units,_ up to a
maximum 8 times for E-UTRA (4 for UTRA), in the same manner as the scaling
applied to other unwanted emissions requirements.
For medium range and local area BS, the ACLR requirement of 45dB was retained
in 37.104 [x.3] without any further simulation investigations. For 37.105 [3],
the 45dB ACLR was also retained for the other basestation classes.
In the non AAS specifications, the absolute limits for adjacent channel
emissions are adjusted for the medium range and local area BS classes. For the
local area BS class, the absolute limit are adjusted to -32dBm/MHz. The limit
of -32dBm/MHz corresponds to an ACLR of roughly 45dB for a local area BS with
a 10MHz carrier operating at the maximum permitted output power.For the medium
range BS, the absolute limit are also adjusted. The absolute limit is set to
-25dBm/Mhz. This again roughly corresponds to an ACLR of 45dB for a medium
range transmitting a 10MHz carrier near to maximum allowable output power, and
also matches to the WCDMA SEM.
The absolute unwanted emissions requirements for medium range and local area
BS were also used as _basic limits_ in 37.105 [3], with the scaling mechanism
applying in the same way as for wide area.
In addition to ACLR, a requirement on so-called Cumulative ACLR (CACLR) is
applied for multicarrier and multiband BS. The CACLR requirement considers
adjacent channel emissions falling onto a carrier that is adjacent to 2 active
carriers; one at a lower frequency offset and one a higher frequency offset.
The CACLR requirement is also 45dB.
The CACLR requirements also apply in 37.105 [3] in the same manner as ACLR.
#### 5.6.2.2 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio OTA requirement
Based on the findings of the simulation work done in [TR 37.842] the effect of
adjacent channel interference on the throughput of adjacent networks is
dependent on the total radiated adjacent channel power rather than the power
in the main beam.
As the number of active transceiver units generating the beam and the
coherence level of the adjacent channel noise from each active transceiver
unit is unknown it is not possible to derive a relationship between the ACLR
of a single point in the centre of the main beam (i.e. as ratio of 2 EIRP
values) and the ACLR of the total radiated power.
The ACLR requirement is hence based on a ratio of the total radiated filtered
mean power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the total radiated
filtered mean power centred on an adjacent channel frequency.
In order that the requirement is measurable the total power is defined as the
sum of the EIRP at a number of discrete directions around the sphere and the
ACLR is defined as follows:
> $\text{ACLR}_{\text{OTA}} = \frac{P_{d}}{P_{e}}$, where
>
> $P_{d} \approx \frac{\pi}{2N_{d}M_{d}}\sum_{n = 0}^{N_{d} - 1}{\sum_{m =
> 0}^{M_{d} - 1}\left( \text{EIRP}_{d,p1}\left( \theta_{d,n},\phi_{d,m}
> \right) + \text{EIRP}_{d,p2}\left( \theta_{d,n},\phi_{d,m} \right)
> \right)}\text{sin}\left( \theta_{d,n} \right)$, where EIRP~d~ is the
> filtered mean power within the desired signal channel bandwidth.
>
> $P_{e} \approx \frac{\pi}{2N_{e}M_{e}}\sum_{n = 0}^{N_{e} - 1}{\sum_{m =
> 0}^{M_{e} - 1}\left( \text{EIRP}_{e,p1}\left( \theta_{e,n},\phi_{e,m}
> \right) + \text{EIRP}_{e,p2}\left( \theta_{e,n},\phi_{e,m} \right)
> \right)}\text{sin}\left( \theta_{e,n} \right)$, where EIRP~e~ is the
> filtered mean emission power in the neighbouring channel bandwidth.
>
> To capture properly EIRP, EIRP~d,\ p1~ and EIRP~e,\ p2~ is associated to two
> orthogonal polarizations.
The number of discrete points required for conformance is FFS.
## 5.7 Transmitter intermodulation
# 6 Radiated receiver characteristics
## 6.1 General
## 6.2 Reference sensitivity level
#### 6.2.1 Background information on the conducted requirement
The conducted reference sensitivity serves two purposes. The first purpose is
as a minimum RF performance requirement for sensitivity. The second purpose is
as a reference level from which other RX requirements are defined.
The wide area sensitivity requirement has been derived based on estimation and
assumption of the achievable noise figure in the BS receiver and the SNR
requirement for the reference measurement channel.
For the medium range BS class, system simulations were conducted based on 2
network layers of which one was a macro layer and a second a micro layer. The
micro sensitivity is set such that the macro layer is not significantly
degraded due to large power UL transmissions in the micro layer, whilst the
micro layer sensitivity is somewhat relaxed due to the fact that interference
from the macro layer renders achieving the same sensitivity level not useful.
Based on the simulations, a different sensitivity level than for the wide area
BS class was decided.
For the local area BS class, system simulations and calculations of
interference to the pico cells due to other network layers was calculated. The
presences of potentially strong interference due to UEs transmitting to micros
or macros means that a tight sensitivity for a pico cell does not make sense
from a performance or cost perspective.
Thus in effect the wide area sensitivity is based on achievable performance,
whilst the sensitivity for the other layers is based on interference
conditions in a heterogeneous network.
### 6.2.2 Minimum EIS
#### 6.2.2.1 General
In the Rel-13 AAS BS specification [3] there are 2 requirements related to
minimum sensitivity:
  * Sub-cause 7.2 Reference sensitivity level
Part of the conducted receiver requirements; applies per _TAB connector._
  * Sub-cause 10.2 OTA sensitivity
Part of the radiated receiver requirements; applies in far field at declared
RoAoA. EIS values and RoAoA are both declared.
The Rel-13 OTA sensitivity requirement currently is based on meeting a
declared EIS value over a declared RoAoA. To provide a minimum EIS value which
can replace the conducted reference sensitivity level, the EIS value is not
declared but a minimum requirement is set based on the existing conducted
minimum requirement.
The minimum EIS value depends on the equivalent non-AAS directivity of the UL
radiation pattern and can be calculated as follows:
> Minimum EIS = Conducted reference sensitivity -- D + L + Off-peak Margin
Where:
  * L is a loss factor accounting for antenna losses, distribution losses, integration losses, etc.
  * Conducted reference sensitivity is the conducted reference sensitivity value in the Rel-13 TS 37.105.
  * D is the estimated antenna directivity of a non-AAS BS, which has a beam pattern related to the AAS BS RoAoA.
  * Off-peak Margin is to allow coverage for the RoAoA other than just in the peak direction, using the same estimated antenna pattern used to derive the estimated antenna directivity D.
The method of setting values of D, L and Off-peak Margin are FFS.
## 6.3 Dynamic range
## 6.4 In-band selectivity and blocking
## 6.5 Out-of-band blocking
## 6.6 Receiver spurious emissions
## 6.7 Receiver intermodulation
## 6.8 In-channel selectivity
# 7 Performance Requirements
# 8 EMC requirements
# 9 Manufacturer declarations
# 10 Conformance testing aspects
# Annex xx (Informative): Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D |** TSG | **TSG | * | ** |** Su | ** | ** | | ate**| #** | D | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| bject | Old_ _| New_ _| | | | oc.__| | | /Comm | | | | | | | | | ent_ * | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-1 | | | Ske | N/A | 0.0.1 | | 16-08 | AN4# | 68871 | | | leton | | | | | 80bis | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-17 | | | App | 0.0.1 | 0.1.0 | | 17-02 | 4#81 | xxxxx | | | roved | | | | | | | | | text | | | | | | | | | prop | | | | | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | docu | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | were | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pleme | | | | | | | | | nted: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-160 | | | | | | | | | 9938, | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .843: | | | | | | | | | Backg | | | | | | | | | round | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | ucted | | | | | | | | | RX | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-161 | | | | | | | | | 0393, | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR3 | | | | | | | | | 7.843 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | EVM | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-161 | | | | | | | | | 0400, | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.843 | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | abb | | | | | | | | | revia | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-161 | | | | | | | | | 0799, | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .843: | | | | | | | | | Rema | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | eAAS | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-161 | | | | | | | | | 0802, | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .843: | | | | | | | | | Backg | | | | | | | | | round | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | ucted | | | | | | | | | ACLR | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-161 | | | | | | | | | 0803, | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.843 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | ACLR | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-161 | | | | | | | | | 0808, | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.843 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | min | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+