# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document covers the assessment of UTRA TDD, UTRA FDD, E-UTRA and
Multi-Standard Radio (MSR) Active Antenna Systems Base Stations in respect of
Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC).
NOTE: Whenever the UTRA AAS BS is referred in the following section, UTRA TDD
and UTRA FDD shall be considered.
The present document specifies the applicable test conditions, performance
assessment and performance criteria for base stations and associated ancillary
equipment in the following categories:
\- Active Antenna System Base Station for UTRA, E-UTRA and MSR meeting the
conducted requirements of 3GPP TS 37.105 [2], with conformance demonstrated by
compliance to 3GPP TS 37.145-1 [3],
\- Active Antenna System Base Station for E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR meeting the OTA
requirements of 3GPP TS 37.105 [2], with conformance demonstrated by
compliance to 3GPP TS 37.145-2 [10].
The present document does not specify test conditions, performance assessment
and performance criteria for the Narrow-Band Internet of Things (NB-IoT) in
band, NB-IoT guard band, or standalone NB-IoT operation, for AAS BS in _single
RAT E-UTRA operation_ as defined in 3GPP TS 36.113 [6], or for AAS BS in _MSR
operation_ using E-UTRA as defined in 3GPP TS 37.113 [4].
The present document does not specify test conditions, performance assessment
and performance criteria for Band 46 operation as it is not supported by AAS
BS.
The scope of the present document is twofold:
\- Requirement, procedures and values of an AAS BS with _TAB connectors_ for
every transceiver unit at the _transceiver array boundary_ (TAB) , subject to
conducted requirements,
\- Requirements, procedures and values of an AAS Base Station without TAB
connectors are not covered by the Rel-13 version of this document and are FFS.
The environment classification used in the present document refers to the
residential, commercial and light industrial environment classification used
in IEC 61000‑6-1 [7] and IEC 61000-6-3 [8].
The EMC requirements have been selected to ensure an adequate level of
compatibility for apparatus at residential, commercial and light industrial
environments. The levels, however, do not cover extreme cases which may occur
in any location but with low probability of occurrence.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] 3GPP TS 37.105: \"Active Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS)
transmission and reception\"
[3] 3GPP TS 37.145-1: \"Active Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS)
conformance testing; Part 1: Conducted conformance testing \"
[4] 3GPP TS 37.113: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)\"
[5] 3GPP TS 25.113: \"Base Station (BS) and repeater ElectroMagnetic
Compatibility (EMC)\"
[6] 3GPP TS 36.113: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) and repeater ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC)\"
[7] IEC 61000-6-1: 2016: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6-1:
Generic standards - Immunity standard for residential, commercial and light-
industrial environments\"
[8] IEC 61000-6-3: 2006/AMD1:2010: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) -
Part 6-3: Generic standards - Emission standard for residential, commercial
and light industrial environments\"
[9] 3GPP TR 37.842: \"Radio Frequency (RF) requirement background for Active
Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS)\"
[10] 3GPP TS 37.145-2: \"Active Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS)
conformance testing; Part 2: radiated conformance testing\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 37.113 [4] and the following apply. A term defined
in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or 3GPP TS 37.113 [4].
NOTE: Multi-word definitions are treated as linguistic expressions and printed
in italic font throughout this requirement specification. Linguistic
expressions may not be split and are printed in their entirety.
**active antenna system base station:** BS system which combines an Antenna
Array with an Active Transceiver Unit Array and a Radio Distribution Network
(RDN)
**antenna array:** group of radiating elements characterized by the geometry
and the properties of the _array elements_
**NB-IoT In-band operation:** NB-IoT is operating in-band when it utilizes the
resource block(s) within a normal E-UTRA carrier
**NB-IoT guard band operation:** NB-IoT is operating in guard band when it
utilizes the unused resource block(s) within a E-UTRA carrier's guard-band.
**NB-IoT standalone operation:** NB-IoT is operating standalone when it
utilizes its own spectrum, for example the spectrum currently being used by
GERAN systems as a replacement of one or more GSM carriers, as well as
scattered spectrum for potential IoT deployment.
**radio distribution network:** linear passive network which distributes the
RF power generated by the transceiver unit array to the antenna array, and/or
distributes the radio signals collected by the antenna array to the
transceiver unit array
NOTE: In the case when the active transceiver units are physically integrated
with the array elements of the antenna array, the _radio distribution network_
is a one-to-one mapping.
**TAB connector:** _transceiver array boundary_ connector
**transceiver array boundary:** conducted interface between the transceiver
unit array and the composite antenna
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAS Active Antenna System
**AAS BS AAS Base Station**
EMC ElectroMagnetic Compatibility
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
NB-IoT Narrowband -- Internet of Things
RDN Radio Distribution Network
TAB Transceiver Array Boundary
# 4 Test conditions
Where the AAS BS has multiple _TAB connectors_ which are declared to be
equivalent then it is sufficient to perform EMC tests on a single
representative TAB connector. For the definition of the TAB connector
equivalence declaration (D6.70), refer to 3GPP TS 37.145-1 [3].
EMC test shall not be performed with the AAS BS antenna array radiating, all
_TAB connectors_ shall be disconnected from the _radio distribution network_
(RDN)/antenna array as specified in 3GPP TS 37.105 [2] and terminated in an
appropriate load impedance. For the description of the general AAS BS radio
architecture and relations between the RDN/antenna array and the Transceiver
Array Boundary, refer to 3GPP TR 37.842 [9].
For UTRA AAS BS the test conditions from 3GPP TS 25.113 [5] apply.
For E-UTRA AAS BS the test conditions from 3GPP TS 36.113 [6] apply.
NOTE: The receiver exclusion band defined in 3GPP TS 36.113 [6] for Band 46
operation is not applicable for AAS BS, as the Band 46 operation is not
supported by AAS BS.
For MSR AAS BS the test conditions from 3GPP TS 37.113 [4] apply.
NOTE: The receiver exclusion band defined in 3GPP TS 37.113 [4] for Band 46
operation is not applicable for AAS BS, as the Band 46 operation is not
supported by AAS BS.
# 5 Performance assessment
For UTRA AAS BS the performance assessment from 3GPP TS 25.113 [5] applies.
For E-UTRA AAS BS the performance assessment from 3GPP TS 36.113 [6] applies.
For MSR AAS BS the performance assessment from 3GPP TS 37.113 [4] applies.
# 6 Performance criteria
For UTRA AAS BS the performance criteria from 3GPP TS 25.113 [5] apply.
For E-UTRA AAS BS the performance criteria from 3GPP TS 36.113 [6] apply.
For MSR AAS BS the performance criteria from 3GPP TS 37.113 [4] apply.
# 7 Applicability overview
For UTRA AAS BS the applicability overview from 3GPP TS 25.113 [5] applies.
For E-UTRA AAS BS the applicability overview from 3GPP TS 36.113 [6] applies.
For MSR AAS BS the applicability overview from 3GPP TS 37.113 [4] applies.
# 8 Emission
For UTRA AAS BS the emission requirement from 3GPP TS 25.113 [5] applies.
For E-UTRA AAS BS the emission requirement from 3GPP TS 36.113 [6] applies.
For MSR AAS BS the emission requirement from 3GPP TS 37.113 [4] applies.
# 9 Immunity
For UTRA AAS BS the immunity requirement from 3GPP TS 25.113 [5] applies.
For E-UTRA AAS BS the immunity requirement from 3GPP TS 36.113 [6] applies.
For MSR AAS BS the immunity requirement from 3GPP TS 37.113 [4] applies.
#