# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the findings of the study item \"Study on Indoor
Positioning Enhancements for UTRA and LTE\" [1]. The purpose of the present
document is to help TSG RAN WG1 and WG4 to properly model and evaluate the
performance of new and existing indoor positioning techniques using 3D indoor
channel models.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] RP-141102: "Revised SID: Study on Indoor Positioning Enhancements for UTRA
and LTE".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.071: "Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage 1".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.873: "Study on 3D channel model for LTE".
[5] 3GPP TR 36.819: "Coordinated multi-point operation for LTE physical layer
aspects".
[6] 3GPP TR 36.872: "Small cell enhancements for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN - Physical
layer aspects".
[7] 3GPP TR 36.814: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Further advancements for E-UTRA physical layer aspects".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.133: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.214: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer; Measurements".
[10] R1-103410: "Chairman's note on simulation assumptions for UTDOA".
[11] R1-152516: "Updated Baseline Evaluation Results of OTDOA", Ericsson.
[12] R1-152517: "Revised Simulation Results on Impact from Imperfect Network
synchronization", Ericsson.
[13] R1-153218: "Further Evaluation for OTDOA and hybrid for indoor
positioning without synchronization error", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[14] R1-153219: "Further Evaluation for OTDOA and hybrid for indoor
positioning with synchronization error", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[15] R1-152634: "Summary of System Level Analysis for Indoor User
Positioning", Intel Corporation.
[16] R1-154779: "Updated baseline performance for indoor positioning", LG
Electronics.
[17] R1-152799: "Indoor Positioning Simulation Results", Qualcomm.
[18] R1-152800: "Impact of Network Synchronization Error on OTDOA Baseline
Performance", Qualcomm.
[19] 3GPP TS 36.355: \"LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP)\".
[20] 3GPP TS 36.455: \"LTE Positioning Protocol A (LPPa)\".
[21] R1-153887: \"Evaluation Results and Text Proposal for TBS\", Qualcomm.
[22] R1-153381: "MBS Initial Simulation Results", NextNav.
[23] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Physical channels and modulation\".
[24] R1-153075 "MBS description and configuration parameters", NextNav.
[25] 3GPP TS 36.133 "Requirements for support of radio resource management".
[26] 3GPP TS 23.271 "Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)".
[27] 3GPP TS 36.305 "Stage 2 functional specification of User Equipment (UE)
positioning in E-UTRAN".
[28] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol Specification\".
[29] 3GPP TS 25.453: \"UTRAN Iupc interface Positioning Calculation
Application Part (PCAP) signalling\".
[30] 3GPP TS 25.413: "UTRAN Iu interface Radio Access Network Application Part
(RANAP) signalling"
[31] 3GPP TS 25.305: "Stage 2 functional specification of User Equipment (UE)
positioning in UTRAN".
[32] OMA-TS-LPPe-V1_0-20150414-C, \"OMA LPP Extensions (LPPe) 1.0\", 14 April
2015.
[33] IEEE P802.11-REVmc/D3.3, October 2014.
[34] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[35] 3GPP TS 29.171: "Location Services (LCS); LCS Application Protocol (LCS-
AP) between the Mobile Management Entity (MME) and Evolved Serving Mobile
Location Centre (E-SMLC); SLs interface".
[36] R2-153761: "Additional details of TBS protocol impacts", NextNav.
[37] R1-154921: "Additional Simulation Results for TBS Option #2", NextNav.
[38] FCC CSRIC WORKING GROUP 3 E911 Location Accuracy - Indoor Location Test
Bed Report
http://transition.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric3/CSRIC_III_WG3_Report_March_%202013_ILTestBedReport.pdf
[39] R1-154417: "MBS (TBS Option #2) simulation results", TeleCommunication
Systems, Inc.
[40] R1-153958: "TBS Option #2 Simulation Results" , BROADCOM CORPORATION.
[41] R1-153594: "Text proposal on evaluation assumptions for D2D aided
positioning", LG Electronics, III, Intel Corporation.
[42] 3GPP TR 36.843: "Study on LTE Device to Device Proximity Services; Radio
Aspects".
[43] R1-153594: "Text proposal on evaluation assumptions for D2D aided
positioning", LG Electronics, III, Intel Corporation.
[44] R1-153992: "Analysis of D2D-Based Proximity Detection for User
Positioning", Intel Corporation.
[45] R1-154280: "System level evaluation results for D2D aided positioning",
LG Electronics.
[46] R1-153991: "Analysis of D2D-Aided User Positioning", Intel Corporation.
[47] 3GPP TR 36.855: \"Feasibility of positioning enhancements for E-UTRA\".
[48] R1-151446: "Discussion on Potential Enhancement of Positioning
Techniques", Intel Corporation.
[49] R1-152934: "Opportunities for RSTD estimation error reductions", Acorn
Technologies.
[50] R1-151446: "Discussion on Potential Enhancement of Positioning
Techniques", Intel Corporation.
[51] R1-151540: "Discussion on enhancement technologies for indoor
positioning", LG Electronics.
[52] RP-141644: "New SID Proposal: Study on Elevation Beamforming/Full-
Dimension (FD) MIMO for LTE", Samsung, Nokia Networks.
[53] R1-153989: "OTDOA Performance for Intra-Band Contiguous CA Operation",
Intel Corporation.
[54] R1-154771: "Text Proposal on updating Enhancements for OTDOA", Huawei,
Hisilicon.
[55] R1-153990: "Evaluation of PRS-IC Techniques for OTDOA Based Positioning",
Intel Corporation.
[56] R2-152595: \"Field-test results of device-based hybrid Indoor positioning
solution\", Apple, Broadcom.
[57] R3-151797: "RAN3 Agreements on Indoor Positioning Enhancements for UTRA
and LTE".
[58] R4-154425: "TBS Option 2 downlink blocking analysis", NextNav.
[59] R4-154426: "TBS Option 2 uplink blocking analysis", NextNav.
[60] R4-154427: "Band 5 UE Rx Blocking with TBS Option 2 beacon as aggressor
-- measurement results", Intertek, NextNav.
[61] R4-112261: "Legacy UE RX Blocking with Band 23 LTE UE as interferer --
measurement results", Elektrobit.
[62] R4-155379: "On performance with TBS deployment", Ericsson, Aug. 2015.
[63] Lyu-Han Chen, et.al, \"Intelligent Fusion of Wi-Fi and Inertial Sensor-
Based Positioning Systems for Indoor Pedestrian Navigation,\" Sensors Journal,
IEEE , vol.14, no.11, pp.4034,4042, Nov. 2014.
[64] R1-153742: "Evaluation Results and Text Proposal for OTDOA with
Enhancements", Ericsson.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[2].
**Location Server:** a physical or logical entity (e.g., E-SMLC or SUPL SLP)
that manages positioning for a target device by obtaining measurements and
other location information from one or more positioning units and providing
assistance data to positioning units to help determine this. A Location Server
may also compute or verify the final location estimate.
**Reference Source:** a physical entity or part of a physical entity that
provides signals (e.g., RF, acoustic, infra-red) that can be measured (e.g.,
by a Target Device) in order to obtain the location of a Target Device.
**Target Device:** the device that is being positioned (e.g., UE or SUPL SET).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[2] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [2].
A-GNSS Assisted-Global Navigation Satellite System
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
CRS Cell-specific Reference Signal
D2D Device-to-Device
E-CID Enhanced Cell Identification
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
IE Information Element
IMU Inertial Measurements Unit
LCS LoCation Services
LCS-AP LCS Application Part
LPP LTE Positioning Protocol
OTDOA Observed Time Difference of Arrival
PCAP Positioning Calculation Application Part
PCI Physical Cell Identity
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PRS Positioning Reference Signals
RANAP Radio Access Network Application Part
RFPM Radio Frequency Pattern Matching
RRC Radio Resource Control
RSTD Reference Signal Time Difference
SCE Small Cell Enhancements
SET SUPL Enabled Terminal
SRS Sounding Reference Signal
SUPL Secure User Plane Location
UTDOA Uplink Time Difference of Arrival
TBS Terrestrial Beacon System
UL-RTOA Uplink Relative Time of Arrival
# 4 General description of indoor positioning for UTRA and LTE
Positioning mechanisms were specified in 3GPP as a key feature for UTRA and
EUTRA networks since Release-99 and Release-9, respectively; e.g., A-GNSS,
OTDOA, E-CID, UTDOA. On-going enhancements to the US FCC Enhanced 911
capability are focusing on in-building positioning. It is therefore beneficial
for the 3GPP ecosystem to explore this area, studying the performance of the
existing methods, potential enhancements, and potential introduction of new
capabilities in 3GPP to support indoor positioning within E-UTRA and UTRA.
A general description of location services and service requirements are given
in TS 22.071 [3].
# 5 Evaluation methodology for indoor positioning
## 5.1 System model for positioning
### 5.1.1 Evaluation scenarios
For evaluating baseline performance, scenarios (with various
options/configurations) are defined below for RAT-dependent positioning
techniques for indoor environments:
Table 5.1.1-1: Case 1: Outdoor macro + outdoor small cell deployment scenarios
and outdoor macro-only deployment scenario (outdoor small cells = 0)
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Outdoor macro cell | Outdoor small cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Layout | Hexagonal grid, 3 | Same as SCE scn.1 | | | sectors per site, 7 | | | | or 19 Macro sites, | | | | ISD = 500m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System BW per | 10MHz | 10MHz | | carrier | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2.0GHz | 2.0GHz (optionally, | | | | 3.5 GHz) -- Note 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier number | 1 | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total BS TX power | 46dBm | 30dBm | | (P~total~ per | | | | carrier) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distance-dependent | 3D-UMa [referring | 3D-UMi [referring | | path loss | to Table 7.2-1 in | to Table 7.2-1 in | | | TR36.873 [4]] - | TR36.873 [4]] - | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Penetration | For outdoor UEs: | For outdoor UEs: | | | 0dB\ | 0dB\ | | | For indoor UEs: | For indoor UEs: | | | 20dB+0.5din (din : | 20dB+0.5din (din : | | | independent uniform | independent uniform | | | random value between | random value between | | | [ 0, min(25,d) ] | [ 0, | | | for each link) | min(25,UE-to-eNB | | | | distance) ] for | | | | each link) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | 3D-UMa [referring | 3D-UMi [referring | | | to Table 7.3-6 in | to Table 7.3-6 in | | | TR36.873 [4]] - | TR36.873 [4]] - | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna pattern | 3D, referring to | 2D Omni-directional | | | TR36.819 [5] | baseline.\ | | | | Optional: 3D, | | | | referring to | | | | TR36.819 [5] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna Height: | 25m + α, where | 10m + β, where | | | α\~uniform[-5, 25] | β\~uniform[-5, 10] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Height | hUT=3(nfl -- 1) + | | | | 1.5 m | | | | | | | | where, nfl \~ | | | | uniform(1,Nfl) and | | | | Nfl = 8 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain + | 17 dBi | 5 dBi | | connector loss | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain of UE | 0 dBi | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fast fading channel | 3D-UMa [referring | 3D-UMi [referring | | between eNB and UE | to Table 7.3-6 in | to Table 7.3-6 in | | | TR36.873 [4]] - | TR36.873 [4]] - | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna | 2Tx2Rx in DL, | | | configuration | Cross-polarized | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of | 1 | | | clusters/buildings | | | | per macro cell | | | | geographical area | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of floors per | 8 | | | building | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of small | 0, 4, 10 | | | cells per cluster | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of small | {0, 4,10}*Number of | | | cells per Macro cell | clusters per macro | | | | cell geographical | | | | area | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE dropping | 2/3 UEs randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | within the clusters, | | | | 1/3 UEs randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | throughout the macro | | | | geographical area. | | | | 20% UEs are outdoor | | | | and 80% UEs are | | | | indoor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radius for small | 50m | | | cell dropping in a | | | | cluster | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radius for UE | 70m | | | dropping in a | | | | cluster | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum distance (2D | Small cell-small | | | distance) | cell: 20m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Small cell-UE: 5m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Macro --small cell | | | | cluster center: 105m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Macro -- UE : 35m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | cluster | | | | center-cluster | | | | center: 2*Radius | | | | for small cell | | | | dropping in a | | | | cluster | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE noise figure | 9dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | Perfectly | | | synchronization | synchronized for | | | error | baseline. | | | | | | | | Additionally, | | | | network | | | | synchronization | | | | error case can be | | | | optionally | | | | simulated. If | | | | included, the | | | | network | | | | synchronization | | | | error, per UE | | | | dropping, is defined | | | | as a truncated | | | | Gaussian | | | | distribution of (T1 | | | | ns) rms values | | | | between an eNB and a | | | | timing reference | | | | source which is | | | | assumed to have | | | | perfect timing, | | | | subject to a largest | | | | timing difference of | | | | T2 ns, where T2 = | | | | 2*T1 | | | | | | | | -- That is, the | | | | range of timing | | | | errors is [-T2, | | | | T2] | | | | | | | | -- T1: Default: 50ns | | | | (for the additional | | | | performance | | | | evaluation) | | | | | | | | -- Each individual | | | | company can further | | | | pick other values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Calibration Error | Perfectly calibrated | | | -- Note 3 | for baseline.\ | | | | Additionally, UE | | | | calibration error | | | | can be optionally | | | | simulated. If | | | | included, the UE | | | | calibration error, | | | | per UE dropping, is | | | | defined as a | | | | truncated Gaussian | | | | distribution of (T1 | | | | ns) rms values, | | | | subject to a largest | | | | timing difference of | | | | T2 ns, where T2 = | | | | 2*T1 | | | | | | | | -- That is, the | | | | range of timing | | | | errors is [-T2, | | | | T2] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: For the | | | | optional case of the | | | | macro and outdoor | | | | small cells are on | | | | different carrier | | | | frequencies, i.e., | | | | 2GHz macro + 3.5GHz | | | | outdoor small cells, | | | | the penetration loss | | | | models are specified | | | | as part of Rel-12 | | | | small cell study | | | | [6]. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Within | | | | 3D-UMa modelling, | | | | 3D-UMa O-to-I is | | | | used for indoor UEs; | | | | 3D-UMa LOS or 3D-UMa | | | | NLOS, depending on | | | | LOS probability, is | | | | used for outdoor | | | | UEs. Within 3D-UMi | | | | modelling, 3D-UMi | | | | O-to-I is used for | | | | indoor UEs; 3D-UMi | | | | LOS or 3D-UMi NLOS, | | | | depending on LOS | | | | probability, is used | | | | for outdoor UEs. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Only | | | | applicable for the | | | | optional case where | | | | the macro and | | | | outdoor small cells | | | | are on different | | | | carrier frequencies. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 5.1.1-2: Case 2: Outdoor macro + indoor small cell deployment scenario
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Outdoor macro cell | Indoor small cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Layout | Hexagonal grid, 3 | Same as SCE scn.2b | | | sectors per site, 7 | dense, except the | | | or 19 Macro sites, | following 4 cell | | | ISD = 500m | locations per floor | | | | | | | | {width=" | | | | 3.142361111111111in" | | | | height="1. | | | | 4166666666666667in"} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System BW per | 10MHz | 10MHz | | carrier | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2.0GHz | 2.0GHz (Optionally, | | | | 3.5GHz) -- Note 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier number | 1 | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total BS TX power | 46dBm | 24dBm | | (P~total~ per | | | | carrier) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distance-dependent | 3D-UMa [referring | For indoor UEs in | | path loss | to Table 7.2-1 in | the same building: | | | TR36.873 [4]] - | ITU InH [referring | | | Note 2 | to Table B.1.2.1-1 | | | | in TR36.814]. For | | | | outdoor UEs and | | | | indoor UEs in | | | | another building, | | | | ITU UMi [referring | | | | to Table B.1.2.1-1 | | | | in TR36.814 | | | | [7][5]]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Penetration | For outdoor UEs: | For indoor UEs on | | | 0dB\ | the same floor in | | | For indoor UEs: | the same building: | | | 20dB+0.5din (din : | 0dB | | | independent uniform | | | | random value between | For indoor UEs on | | | [0, min(25,d)] for | another floor in the | | | each link) | same building: | | | | | | | | ITU InH 15+4(n-1) | | | | where n is the | | | | number of penetrated | | | | floors | | | | | | | | For outdoor UEs: | | | | 20dB+0.5din (din: | | | | independent uniform | | | | random value between | | | | [0, | | | | min(25,UE-to-eNB | | | | distance)] for each | | | | link) | | | | | | | | For indoor UEs in | | | | another building: 40 | | | | dB+0.5(din_1+ | | | | din_2) (din_1 and | | | | din_2 are | | | | independent uniform | | | | random value | | | | between[0, | | | | min(25,UE-to-eNB | | | | distance)] for each | | | | link) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | 3D-UMa [referring | ITU InH [referring | | | to Table 7.3-6 in | to Table A.2.1.1.5-1 | | | TR36.873 [4]] - | in TR36.814 | | | Note 2 | [6][7]] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna pattern | 3D, referring to | 2D Omni-directional | | | TR36.819 [5] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna Height: | 25m + α, where | 3(nfl -- 1) + 2.5m, | | | α\~uniform[-5, 25] | where nfl∈{1,2,3,4} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Height | hUT=3(nfl -- 1) + | | | | 1.5m, where nfl \~ | | | | uniform(1,4) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain + | 17 dBi | 5dBi | | connector loss | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain of UE | 0 dBi | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fast fading channel | 3D-UMa [referring | For indoor UEs: ITU | | between eNB and UE | to Table 7.3-6 in | InH\ | | | TR36.873 [4]].- | For outdoor UEs: ITU | | | Note 2 | InH NLOS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna | 2Tx2Rx in DL, | | | configuration | Cross-polarized | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of buildings | 1 | | | per macro cell | | | | geographical area | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of floors per | 4 | | | building | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | L | 4*(number of | | | ayout/Density/number | floors), single | | | of small cells per | strip model. | | | floor per building | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum distance (2D | Small cell-UE: 3m | | | distance) | | | | | Macro --building | | | | center: 100m | | | | | | | | Macro -- UE: 35m | | | | | | | | building | | | | center-building | | | | center: 130m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Dropping Model | • 2/3 UEs randomly | | | | and uniformly | | | | dropped within the | | | | hotzone buildings, | | | | 1/3 UEs randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | throughout the macro | | | | geographical area | | | | (including hot | | | | zones). | | | | | | | | • A UE is an indoor | | | | UE if it is located | | | | within a hot zone | | | | building. | | | | | | | | • Additionally, a UE | | | | not located within a | | | | hot zone building is | | | | classified as an | | | | indoor UE with x% | | | | probability, where | | | | x>=0. Companies | | | | should indicate the | | | | value x when | | | | presenting the | | | | results. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE noise figure | 9dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | Perfectly | | | synchronization | synchronized for | | | | baseline. | | | | | | | | Additionally, | | | | network | | | | synchronization | | | | error case can be | | | | optionally | | | | simulated. If | | | | included, the | | | | network | | | | synchronization | | | | error, per UE | | | | dropping, is defined | | | | as a truncated | | | | Gaussian | | | | distribution of (T1 | | | | ns) rms values | | | | between an eNB and a | | | | timing reference | | | | source which is | | | | assumed to have | | | | perfect timing, | | | | subject to a largest | | | | timing difference of | | | | T2 ns, where T2 = | | | | 2*T1 | | | | | | | | -- That is, the | | | | range of timing | | | | errors is [-T2, | | | | T2] | | | | | | | | -- T1: Default: 50ns | | | | (for the additional | | | | performance | | | | evaluation) | | | | | | | | -- Each individual | | | | company can further | | | | pick other values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Calibration Error | Perfectly calibrated | | | -- Note 3 | for baseline.\ | | | | Additionally, UE | | | | calibration error | | | | can be optionally | | | | simulated. If | | | | included, the UE | | | | calibration error, | | | | per UE dropping, is | | | | defined as a | | | | truncated Gaussian | | | | distribution of (T1 | | | | ns) rms values, | | | | subject to a largest | | | | timing difference of | | | | T2 ns, where T2 = | | | | 2*T1 | | | | | | | | -- That is, the | | | | range of timing | | | | errors is [-T2, | | | | T2] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: For the | | | | optional case of the | | | | macro and indoor | | | | small cells are on | | | | different carrier | | | | frequencies, i.e., | | | | 2GHz macro + 3.5GHz | | | | indoor small cells, | | | | the penetration loss | | | | models are specified | | | | as part of Rel-12 | | | | small cell study | | | | [6]. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Within | | | | 3D-UMa modelling, | | | | 3D-UMa O-to-I is | | | | used for indoor UEs; | | | | 3D-UMa LOS or 3D-UMa | | | | NLOS, depending on | | | | LOS probability, is | | | | used for outdoor | | | | UEs. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Only | | | | applicable for the | | | | optional case where | | | | the macro and | | | | outdoor small cells | | | | are on different | | | | carrier frequencies. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The assumptions as shown in Table 5.1.1-2 apply to the Outdoor macro + sparse
indoor small cell deployment scenario. However, the following simulation
assumptions for the sparse indoor small cells supersede the values shown
above:
Table 5.1.1-3: Case 2a: Outdoor macro + sparse indoor small cell deployment
scenario
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Indoor small cells | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Layout | Based on dual-strip urban model | | | TR36.814 [7]. | | | | | | {width="1.7604166666666667in" | | | height="1.7291666666666667in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Density/number of small cells | 2 small cells randomly located | | per floor per building | on 2 of the 4 floors, i.e., 1/6 | | | probability of the following | | | floor combinations {1, 2}, {1, | | | 3}, {1, 4}, {2, 3}, {2, 4} and | | | {3, 4} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Penetration | Penetration loss modelling as | | | per TR 36.814 [7] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.1.2 OTDOA assumptions and parameters
The deployment scenarios and assumptions as shown in Tables 5.1.1-1, 5.1.1-2
and 5.1.1-3 are applicable to the OTDOA-based approach.
For OTDOA, the following simulation assumptions also apply:
Table 5.1.2-1: OTDOA assumptions
* * *
Parameter Value Cell Planning PCI planning for macro and small cells Duplex
Modes FDD Cyclic Prefix Normal DRX OFF Number of antenna ports PRS 1 (antenna
port 6), CRS 2 Number of receive antennas 2 Number of consecutive positioning
sub-frames in one occasion 1 and 6 PRS periodicity 160 ms. PRS and measurement
bandwidth: Full system bandwidth PRS muting PRS muting pattern indicated by
individual companies, if used PRS Power Boosting 10log6 dB (Optional, no power
boosting) PDSCH transmission No PDSCH transmission in PRS transmission
occasions RSTD report quantization Modelled as in 36.133 [8] section 9.1.10.3
* * *
### 5.1.3 UTDOA assumptions and parameters
The deployment scenarios and assumptions as shown in Tables 5.1.1-1, 5.1.1-2
and 5.1.1-3 are applicable to the UTDOA-based approach.
For UTDOA, the following additional simulation assumptions apply:
Table 5.1.3-1: UTDOA assumptions
* * *
Parameter Value UE power class 23dBm Resource block allocation for UL-RTOA
measurement Periodic SRS, 48RBs (288 sequence length), 100 SRS transmissions
where these SRS transmissions follow a periodic configuration of 10ms
periodicity [8]. SRS power control pSRS-Offset = 0dB or 12dB Quantization
error Defined for UTDOA as part of the backhaul information exchange UL
loading and interference Existing methodology in R1-103410 [10].
* * *
### 5.1.4 D2D aided positioning - assumptions and parameters
The deployment scenarios and assumptions as shown in Tables 5.1.1-1, 5.1.1-2
and 5.1.1-3 are also applicable to the D2D aided positioning evaluations.
For D2D aided positioning, the following simulation assumption framework in
Table 5.1.4-1 additionally applies:
Table 5.1.4-1: D2D aided positioning assumptions outline
* * *
Parameter Value D2D Channel Models Channel models defined in [42] Proximity
Detection  
Number of UEs dropped 150, same as for discovery in [42] Number of Anchor UEs
Provided by a proponent. Anchors are randomly assigned. Proximity detection
algorithm Provided by a proponent, e.g. coordinates of UE with max RX power
are used Multilateration  
Number of dropped UEs Same as agreed for all deployment cases. Number of
Anchor UEs (see section 7.1.2) Provided by a proponent. Anchors are randomly
assigned among dropped UEs. Number of Assisting UEs (see section 7.1.2)
Provided by a proponent. Assisting UEs are randomly assigned among dropped
UEs. Signals for timing measurements Provided by a proponent. Positioning
algorithm Provided by a proponent.
* * *
## 5.2 Performance metrics
For evaluating performance of indoor positioning technologies, the following
metrics should apply.
### 5.2.1 Horizontal accuracy
Horizontal accuracy is the difference between the calculated horizontal indoor
position and the actual horizontal indoor position of a UE. For simulations,
the horizontal accuracy should be reported as a CDF across a percentage of
indoor users where an accuracy threshold of 50 meters is being met. The
following percentiles should be used in a simulation performance summary
table: 40%, 50%, 70%, 80%, and 90%.
### 5.2.2 Vertical accuracy
Vertical accuracy is the difference between the calculated vertical position
and the actual vertical position of a UE. For evaluation results, the vertical
accuracy should be reported as a CDF across a percentage of indoor users where
an accuracy threshold (in meters) is being met. The following percentiles
should be used in a simulation performance summary table: 40%, 50%, 70%, 80%,
and 90%.
# 6 Baseline performance of existing positioning techniques in indoor
environments
## 6.1 Simulation results for horizontal positioning accuracy
The simulation results are taken manually from the contributions shown below
[11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18]. The values in the tables are the positioning
error in meters. The last table in each subsection belongs to the modelled
synchronization error with T1 = 50 ns. PRS muting is applied to all of the
results, unless otherwise noted (one example in R1-152634 [15]). Positioning
errors above the horizontal threshold of 50 meters are marked in red font.
Only one valid example of PRS no-muting results are reflected in the OTDOA CDF
figures. Other valid results submitted by participating companies are not
reflected. The curves without PRS muting are not tabulated in the performance
tables corresponding to the figures.
### 6.1.1 Case 1: Outdoor macro + outdoor small cell deployment scenarios
#### 6.1.1.1 Case 1.A. Outdoor macro + 0 small cells
Table 6.1.1.1-1: CID horizontal positioning error [m]
* * *
Contribution 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 187 212 268 308 404 Intel
Corporation 71 90 136 168 220 Qualcomm Inc. 105 133 245 317 448
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.2340277777777775in"}
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.113888888888889in"}
Table 6.1.1.1-2: OTDOA horizontal positioning error with perfect
synchronization [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 13 17 27 36 60 Huawei, HiSilicon 22 28 40
49 70 Intel Corporation 15 18 26 32 42 LG Electronics 16 19 27 35 48 Qualcomm
Inc. 21 26 36 43 57
* * *
Table 6.1.1.1-3: OTDOA horizontal positioning error with modelled
synchronization error (T1 = 50ns) [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 16 20 30 40 59 Huawei, HiSilicon 25 30 43
55 82 Qualcomm Inc. 23 27 38 46 58
* * *
#### 6.1.1.2 Case 1.B. Outdoor macro + 4 small cells
Table 6.1.1.2-1: CID horizontal positioning error [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 47 64 124 177 250 Intel Corporation
(E-CID) 34 44 73 102 148 Qualcomm Inc. 37 51 83 119 172
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.220138888888889in"}
Table 6.1.1.2-2: OTDOA horizontal positioning error with perfect
synchronization [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 11 14 21 28 40 Huawei, HiSilicon 20 24 35
43 59 Intel Corporation 14 16 22 27 35 LG Electronics 11 13 20 26 38 Qualcomm
Inc. 15 17 24 27 36
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.267361111111111in"}
Table 6.1.1.2-3: OTDOA horizontal positioning error with modelled
synchronization error (T1 = 50ns) [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 13 15 23 30 42 Huawei, HiSilicon 21 26 37
45 61 Qualcomm Inc. 16 19 26 30 40
* * *
#### 6.1.1.3 Case 1.C. Outdoor macro + 10 small cells
Table 6.1.1.3-1: CID horizontal positioning error [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 34 42 86 122 184 Intel Corporation
(E-CID) 25 31 55 79 118 Qualcomm Inc. 24 31 68 101 156
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.220138888888889in"}
Table 6.1.1.3-2: OTDOA horizontal positioning error with perfect
synchronization [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 11 13 19 25 36 Huawei, HiSilicon 18 20 30
38 50 Intel Corporation 12 15 21 25 33 LG Electronics 10 12 18 23 35 Qualcomm
Inc. 14 17 23 27 35
* * *
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="4.267361111111111in"}
Table 6.1.1.3-3: OTDOA horizontal positioning error with modelled
synchronization error (T1 = 50ns) [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 12 15 22 27 38 Huawei, HiSilicon 20 24 33
42 54 Qualcomm Inc. 15 18 25 31 40
* * *
### 6.1.2 Case 2: Outdoor macro + indoor small cell deployment scenarios
#### 6.1.2.1 Outdoor macro + dense small cells
Table 6.1.2.1-1: CID horizontal positioning error [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 13 15 20 24 31 Intel Corporation (E-CID)
14 17 24 29 52 Qualcomm Inc. 14 15 21 23 27
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.153472222222222in"}
Table 6.1.2.1-2: OTDOA horizontal positioning error with perfect
synchronization [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 5 6 9 12 16 Huawei, HiSilicon 13 21 26 32
46 Intel Corporation 9 11 17 21 29 LG Electronics 9 12 20 27 45 Qualcomm Inc.
7 9 15 20 29
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.19375in"}
Table 6.1.2.1-3: OTDOA horizontal positioning error with modelled
synchronization error (T1 = 50ns) [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 7 9 12 14 18 Huawei, HiSilicon 15 24 29
37 50 Qualcomm Inc. 12 14 21 27 37
* * *
#### 6.1.2.2 Case 2a: Outdoor macro + sparse small cells
Table 6.1.2.2-1: CID horizontal positioning error [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Intel Corporation (E-CID) 16 27 87 121 170
Qualcomm Inc. 28 41 70 93 289
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.153472222222222in"}
Table 6.1.2.2-2: OTDOA horizontal positioning error with perfect
synchronization [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Huawei, HiSilicon 20 25 36 46 66 Intel Corporation
13 16 24 29 39 Qualcomm Inc. 16 20 28 34 44
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.19375in"}
Table 6.1.2.2-3: OTDOA horizontal positioning error with modelled
synchronization error (T1 = 50ns) [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Huawei, HiSilicon 23 28 42 54 74 Qualcomm Inc. 18
22 30 37 48
* * *
### 6.1.3 Summary for 50m Horizontal Error
Table 6.1.3-1: OTDOA CDF percentiles for 50m horizontal positioning error [%]
* * *
Scenario Ericsson Huawei, HiSilicon Intel Corporation LG Electronics Qualcomm
Inc. Case 1.A -- Macro only 86% (85%) 80% (78%) 94% 91% 86% (85%) Case 1.B --
4 Small Cells 93% (92%) 86% (85%) 97% 94% 97% (97%) Case 1.C -- 10 Small Cells
97% (96%) 90% (88%) 97% 96% 96% (95%) Case 2 -- Single Stripe 99% (99%) 92%
(90%) 97% 92% 97% (97%) Case 2A -- Dual Stripe - 82% (79%) 95% - 93% (92%)
Note: The values in the parenthesis correspond to scenarios with modelled
synchronization error (T1 = 50ns).
* * *
Observations:
\- The simulation results for the OTDOA simulation assumptions show that
horizontal positioning accuracy for indoor positioning can be achieved within
the 50 meter threshold.
\- The simulation results for the CID (and E-CID) simulation assumptions show
that horizontal positioning accuracy for indoor positioning can be achieved
within the 50 meter threshold for dense indoor small cells, but not for sparse
indoor small cell scenarios.
## 6.2 Simulation results for vertical positioning accuracy
The simulation results are taken from the following contributions
[11][13][14][15][17]. PRS muting is applied to all of the results, unless
otherwise noted (one example in R1-152634 [15]).
Only one valid example of PRS no-muting results are reflected in the OTDOA CDF
figures. Other valid results submitted by participating companies are not
reflected. The curves without PRS muting are not tabulated in the performance
tables corresponding to the figures.
### 6.2.1 Case 1: Outdoor macro + outdoor small cell deployment scenarios
#### 6.2.1.1 Case 1.A. Outdoor macro + 0 small cells
Table 6.2.1.1.1: CID vertical positioning error [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 22 25 31 35 39 Intel Corporation (E-CID)
10 13 16 19 22 LG Electronics 20 23 29 33 37 Qualcomm Inc. 18 21 27 30 35
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.153472222222222in"}
Table 6.2.1.1.2: OTDOA vertical positioning error with perfect synchronization
[m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 5 7 11 13 16 Intel Corporation 9 10 16 19
21 Huawei 26 28 34 37 42 Qualcomm Inc. 75 93 135 161 213
* * *
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="4.19375in"}
#### 6.2.1.2 Case 1.B. Outdoor macro + 4 small cells
Table 6.2.1.2.1: CID vertical positioning error [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 7 9 16 23 31 Intel Corporation 5 7 10 13
16 LG Electronics 8 10 16 22 30 Qualcomm Inc. 7 9 14 18 26
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.153472222222222in"}
Table 6.2.1.2.2: OTDOA vertical positioning error with perfect synchronization
[m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 5 7 11 13 16 Huawei, HiSilicon 12 16 21
26 37 Intel Corporation 5 7 12 14 18 LG Electronics 8 10 16 22 30 Qualcomm
Inc. 26 34 57 70 97
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.19375in"}
#### 6.2.1.3 Case 1.C. Outdoor macro + 10 small cells
Table 6.2.1.3.1: CID vertical positioning error [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 5 7 12 15 24 Intel Corporation (E-CID) 4
6 10 12 16 LG Electronics 7 9 14 18 27 Qualcomm Inc. 7 8 12 16 24
* * *
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="4.220138888888889in"}
Table 6.2.1.3.2: OTDOA vertical positioning error with synchronization error
[m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 5 7 11 13 16 Intel Corporation 5 7 11 13
18 Huawei, HiSilicon 10 12 16 22 32 Qualcomm Inc. 27 35 54 65 87
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.267361111111111in"}
### 6.2.2 Case 2: Outdoor macro + indoor small cell deployment scenarios
#### 6.2.2.1 Outdoor macro + dense small cells
Table 6.2.2.1.1: CID vertical positioning error [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 1 1 1 1 1 Intel Corporation (E-CID) 1 1 1
3 14 LG Electronics 1 1 1 1 1 Qualcomm Inc. 1 1 1 1 1
* * *
{width="281.8097222222222in" height="4.220138888888889in"}
Table 6.2.2.1.2: OTDOA vertical positioning error with perfect synchronization
[m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Ericsson 1 2 3 4 6 Huawei, HiSilicon 1 1 23 23 23
Intel Corporation 1 1 3 6 11 Qualcomm Inc. 4 6 12 16 22
* * *
{width="281.8097222222222in" height="4.267361111111111in"}
#### 6.2.2.2 Case 2a: Outdoor macro + sparse small cells
Table 6.2.2.2.1: CID vertical positioning error [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Intel Corporation (E-CID) 3 13 16 19 22 Qualcomm
Inc. 16 21 28 32 37 LG Electronics 16 23 30 36 40
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.153472222222222in"}
Table 6.2.2.2.2: OTDOA vertical positioning error with perfect synchronization
[m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Intel Corporation 3 4 9 13 17 Huawei, HiSilicon 14
17 23 23 23 Qualcomm Inc. 20 28 52 88 135
* * *
{width="6.513888888888889in" height="4.19375in"}
Observations:
\- For outdoor macro + outdoor small cell scenarios, existing CID (and E-CID)
and OTDOA methods are able to provide vertical accuracy on the order of 10 to
30 meters with 80%. For outdoor macro + indoor small cell scenarios, results
show that increasing indoor small cell amounts significantly improve vertical
positioning accuracy.
# 7 Studied positioning technology enhancements
## 7.1 RAT-dependent positioning technologies
### 7.1.1 OTDOA enhancements
Various solutions for OTDOA indoor positioning enhancements are summarized
below (but not limited to):
  * Enhanced Positioning reference signals (PRS)
  * More dense PRS in time domain
  * New PRS, e.g. new PRS pattern, legacy PRS with CRS, DRS and etc.
  * PRS transmission enhancements for the same PCI case
  * PRS or PRS-like transmission in un-license band
  * CRS together with PRS for RSTD measurement
  * EB/FD-MIMO based positioning enhancement
  * Enhanced RSTD measurements
  * Reduce RSTD quantization error
  * Measurement performance enhancements under Wide-band PRS
Note that possible enhancements on OTDOA are also studied in TR36.855 [47].
#### 7.1.1.1 Enhanced Positioning Reference Signals (PRS)
For purposes of evaluation, potential enhancements related to PRS include the
following candidates; increased density of PRS in time domain, new PRS
pattern(s), and PRS transmission enhancements for the same PCI case.
##### 7.1.1.1.1 Randomization of frequency shift
PRS has been designed as a 6-tone stride pattern in every PRS OFDM symbol of a
PRS subframe. The offset of the stride is determined by _mod(PCI,6)_ , where
PCI is the physical cell ID of the cell transmitting the PRS. This means that
two cells with the same _mod(PCI,6),_ for example PCI's 0 and 6, will collide
in the frequency domain and create interference to each other.
Since the frequency offset is determined by the PCI, the PRS pattern is a by-
product of the network PCI planning. In practice, PCI network planning is done
for communication purposes, and positioning often plays a secondary role.
But even for a perfectly _mod(PCI,6)_ planned network, there will always be
two or more cells interfering each other, and this interference is static
(apart from fading phenomena). If a neighbour cell cannot be heard at the UE
because of colliding PRS pattern, the cell usually remains non-hearable for
the whole positioning measurement time (LPP response time).
If the static property of the interference is removed, the UE can potentially
hear more neighbour cells (or more cells with better measurement geometry).
One way to remove the static PRS interference would be to change the PRS
offset factor (_vshift_) per positioning occasion (or per subframe within a
positioning occasion), i.e., to make each cell to hop to a different frequency
bin from one PRS subframe (or positioning occasion) to another. Such a
\"frequency hopping\" can be realized by a different pseudo-random sequence
for each cell. That is, the PRS offset (_vshift_) will no longer be based on
_mod(PCI,6)_ value, but based on a random number generator distributed in the
[0-5] range that can hop to a new value in every PRS subframe or in every
positioning occasion (it may be preferred to hop to a new value even in
different subframes of the same occasion to benefit from frequency selectivity
of the channel). This random number generator could be similar to the
scrambling code generator and could be initialized with a seed value known at
the UE (e.g., via OTDOA assistance data), thus enabling the UE to replicate
the same pattern and decipher the PRS signal.
Such a dynamic PRS pattern may improve hearability and should remove \"blind
spots/clusters\" that may persistently exist in the network with a static PRS
pattern. If a cell is blocked from detection due to PRS collision in frequency
domain in one occasion, it is highly unlikely that it will be blocked again in
the next occasion or the one after it.
Further, it would significantly simplify network planning (essentially, no
special PRS network planning would be needed anymore).
###### 7.1.1.1.1.1 Evaluation Results
To evaluate the improvements with a random _vshift_ , we consider Case #1a
(macro only) (see Table 5.1.1‑1). The baseline results for this scenario were
obtained with a _mod_(PCI,6) network planning (see Table 5.1.2‑1). With a
random _vshift_ no special PCI network planning would be required.
The Figure 7.1.1.1.1.1‑1 below summarizes the evaluation result for Case#1
with 0 small cells. The blue solid line corresponds to the baseline results
for this scenario [17]. The baseline results were obtained with a 16-bit
muting pattern, 10log6 dB power boosting, and _mod(PCI,6)_ network planning
(Table 5.1.2‑1). The dashed blue line corresponds to the same scenario, but
without muting.
The red solid line corresponds to the case where no _mod(PCI,6)_ network
planning is used. The PCIs were assigned randomly to each cell. Otherwise, the
parameters are the same as for the baseline results (i.e., 16-bit muting
pattern and 10log6 dB power boosting). The dashed red line corresponds to the
case where no PCI network planning is used and no muting.
As can be seen from the Figure 7.1.1.1.1.1‑1 by comparing the blue and red
curves, no network planning results in a performance degradation; i.e., the
red curves are shifted to the right compared to the blue curves.
The green curves show the results with no network planning and random _vshift_
; solid green line uses a 16-bit muting pattern and dashed green lines are the
results without muting.
It can be observed from Figure 7.1.1.1.1.1‑1, that the green dashed line is
already close to the baseline results. That is, random _vshift_ without muting
and without PCI network planning results in almost the same performance as the
baseline. Muting on top of the random _vshift_ provides a small additional
improvement, but the difference between muting and no muting in case of random
_vhsift_ is less compared to the existing PRS pattern based on the PCI (blue
and red curves).
{width="4.434722222222222in" height="3.326388888888889in"}
Figure 7.1.1.1.1.1‑1: Case #1a (0 small cells) results with and without random
_vshift_ (Qualcomm).
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | **PCI |** PCI | **No |** No | **No |** No | | | pl | pl | PCI | PCI | PCI | PCI | | | anning\ | anning\ | pl | pl | pl | pl | | | m | no | anning\ | anning\ | anning\ | anning\ | | | uting**| m | m | no | muting\ | no | | | | uting** | uting**| m | random | muting\ | | |**(base | | | uting**| v | random | | | line)** | | | | shift**| v | | | | | | | | shift** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 40-% | 21 | 26 | 23 | 28 | 21 | 22 | | error | | | | | | | | [m] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 50-% | 26 | 31 | 28 | 33 | 25 | 27 | | error | | | | | | | | [m] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 70-% | 36 | 44 | 40 | 46 | 36 | 39 | | error | | | | | | | | [m] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 80-% | 43 | 53 | 47 | 57 | 43 | 46 | | error | | | | | | | | [m] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 90-% | 57 | 66 | 58 | 71 | 56 | 59 | | error | | | | | | | | [m] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Success | 99.42 | 98.60 | 99.42 | 98.71 | 99.42 | 99.53 | | rate | | | | | | | | [%] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | \% \ 503 would be used for the RRHs/TX points, but still in a backwards
compatible manner. I.e., the CRS information within a positioning occasion
would not be lost (Note, OFDM symbols 0 and 4 contain the CRS [23] in a
positioning subframe).
_N_ ~RRH~ may also be identical to the \"Cell Portion ID\" defined in LPPa
[20]. A Cell Portion is a geographical part of a cell and uniquely identified
by its \"Cell Portion ID\". The \"Cell Portion ID\" has been introduced in
Rel-12 in order to obtain Cell-ID location to a finer granularity in case of
RRHs are deployed [20].
Therefore, the PRS sequence depends on the physical cell ID (PCI,
$N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{cell}}$), and on the RRH/TX point ID. This would enable
legacy UEs still to measure the macro cell PRS and CRS; new UEs which are able
to understand the additional assistance data could measure the RRH
transmission points in addition.
The _vshift_ of the PRS pattern may be defined based on the sum of PCI and
RRH/TX point ID; e.g.,\ _vshift_ = ($N_{\text{ID}}^{\text{cell}}$+ _N_
~RRH~)mod 6. By this, the TX points are separated in code- and frequency
domain, which should not create additional interference for legacy UEs which
can measure only the macro cell.
##### 7.1.1.1.7.1 Evaluation results
The benefit of using the additional transmission points for OTDOA has already
been studied in [47] for outdoor scenarios.
For evaluation in indoor scenarios, we consider Case #1 with 4 small cells per
cluster (see Table 5.1.1-1), where the small cells share the same PCI as the
macro cell.
The current solution in such deployment scenarios is to transmit PRS from the
macro cell only (and not from the associated small cells). However, this would
reduce the number of possible UE measurements for positioning, since the small
cell transmission points would not be exploited. Therefore, the performance is
the same as for the macro only scenario, as shown in Figure 7.1.1.1.7.1-1
below.
If a different PRS sequence/pattern can be generated for the associated small
cells, the small cells could be used in addition for OTDOA positioning. In
that way, the macro cell could continue to transmit the legacy PRS
sequence/pattern, and legacy UEs would continue to measure the macro cell PRS
only.
However, new UEs would be able to measure the small cells in addition, since
they transmit a different PRS sequence with a different _vshift_ , which
results in improved performance, as shown in Figure 7.1.1.1.7.1-1 below. I.e.,
the performance would be the same as if separate PCIs are assigned to each
small cell.
{width="4.115972222222222in" height="3.0909722222222222in"}
Figure 7.1.1.1.7.1-1: Horizontal positioning error CDF for Case#1b but where
the small cells share the same PCI as the macro cell. Blue curve: legacy
behaviour; red curve: improvement with \"virtual PCIs\" for the small cells
(Qualcomm).
Observations:
\- Decoupling the PRS sequence/pattern from the PCI would allow the location
server/UE to distinguish PRS transmission points in het-net scenarios, where
the additional transmission points (e.g., RRHs, small cells) have the same PCI
as the associated macro cell.
\- Defining the \"virtual PCI\" as PCI + RRH-ID could build on the existing
concept of a \"Cell Portion ID\" in LPPa, and would allow a simple and
backwards compatible introduction of a \"virtual PCI\" in LPP.
\- In shared PCI scenarios, OTDOA performance can be improved if the
transmission points sharing the same PCI can be distinguished by the location
server/UE.
##### 7.1.1.1.8 Enhancements for the same PCI case (method-2)
When multiple network nodes have the same physical identification number
(PCI), the PRS sent from them have the same PRS sequence and OFDM resource
locations according existing specification, and UE has no way to derive the
ranging information that is specifically applicable to one specific network
node. One solution is to assign to each PRS signal a separate identification
number independently from physical cell identification for PRS sequence
generation and/or PRS resource allocation. This solution also directly works
for the case where the network node (such as PRS-only beacon) does not have
any network-planned physical cell identification.
It is noted that, it can be a UE implementation issue whether to use CRS (at
least the CRS REs in the first OFDM symbol per slot) jointly with PRS for RSTD
measurement. However, when CRS signals are sent from network nodes with the
same physical cell identification number, UE should be indicated not to use
CRS any more for RSTD measurement. The same or similar indication could be
considered for the case where the network node (such as PRS-only beacon) does
not transmit CRS at all.
##### 7.1.1.1.9 Additional enhancements for the same PCI case (method 3)
For indoor small-cell scenarios, low-power remote radio heads (RRHs) or
distributed antennas are popularly deployed to enhance the spectral
efficiency. However, the TPs belonging to the same eNB share the same PCI.
Therefore, they are not distinguishable for the purpose of UE positioning
based on OTDOA.
For positioning purpose, it would be desirable to be able to receive
individual positioning signals from each TP separately, and to perform TOA
estimation based on the best signals from the selected TPs. It is hence
necessary to enable the eNB to separate the PRS from each TP in time or
frequency domain, and to add higher layer signalling that indicates the
separation to the UE. With such enhancements, it is possible for UE to measure
and report PRS from each TP separately. Two categories of methods for
separating PRS from multiple TPs in one cell are:
1) Time--domain separation of transmissions from different TPs in the same
shared cell.
2) TP-specific signal sequences.
Considering the potentially large number of TPs in a cell and the inefficient
resource utilization of (a), it is preferable that (b) TP-specific signal
sequences are defined.
Note: Possible enhancements on OTDOA for the same PCI case are also given in
TR 36.855 section 7.2. [47].
##### 7.1.1.1.10 Enhanced PRS using Tx antenna diversity
In the systems where multiple antennas are equipped at transmission and/or
receiver side, antenna diversity techniques are often used to reduce multipath
interference and improve radio link reliability.
In current specification, PRS is transmitted from a single antenna port, port
6. For Tx diversity schemes, PRS is transmitted alternatively from different
Tx antenna or antenna ports at each positioning occasion.
The antenna switching scheme can be enabled by either of the following
options:
Option A. Continue to use only antenna port AP=6 for PRS, but defining
different transmit patterns for each physical antenna port that map to AP=6.
The transmit pattern for each physical antenna port is defined in subframe
indices, similar to the muting pattern.
Option B. Define additional antenna ports for PRS transmission, with different
antenna port transmitting orthogonal PRS patterns.
In order to detect and measure each RSTD from each Tx antenna port properly,
it should be defined how to select positioning occasions to be measured for
each RSTD. Therefore, the network may inform the UE of whether the transmit
diversity for PRS transmission is utilized. Accordingly, the time windows for
RSTD measurements corresponding to different transmit patterns may need to be
defined and the related signalling may be indicated by the network.
The feasibility and possible candidates for enhancements on downlink Tx
diversity for PRS are also studied in TR 36.855 section 6 [47].
##### 7.1.1.1.11 Positioning Reference Signals (PRS) in unlicensed bands
Positioning Reference Signals (PRS) may be transmitted on the same or
different carriers and in the same or different band as the data carrier,
including licensed and unlicensed bands.
##### 7.1.1.1.12 Dynamic PRS configuration adaptation
The PRS configuration, muting pattern and PRS power assignment to cells is
usually static and optimized for good average performance over the network.
However, there are usually locations where the muting pattern is less optimal
compared to other locations in the network (e.g. inside some buildings or on
the fringes of the network). For some high-priority uses cases (such as
emergency calls, for example) it may be beneficial to locally optimize the PRS
configuration, muting pattern or PRS power boost levels for an individual UE.
For example, if the a-priori location of the target UE is known (serving
cell), the muting pattern and PRS power levels of the assistance data cells
could be optimized for this particular UE (location). The muting pattern and
power boost levels for the cells in the assistance data list may then
dynamically be adjusted (e.g., via LPPa [20]) to provide the optimal
combination of muting and PRS power levels for that particular UE. Also, the
number of PRS subframes in a positioning occasion may temporarily be increased
to serve high priority uses case with an optimal PRS configuration.
This adjustment would also impact UEs at other locations which use any of such
dynamically optimized cells in the assistance data at the same time as well.
However, only a subset of the cells for those UEs would usually be affected
which may be acceptable and may not degrade overall performance.
##### 7.1.1.1.13 CRS together with PRS for RSTD measurements [48][49]
A common PRS pattern for each CRS port has been designed between normal and
MBSFN subframes to alleviate UE implementation having a common PRS pattern in
between, while PRS is not defined in OFDM symbols potentially carrying CRS. By
using CRS in addition to PRS, the RSTD measurement accuracy can be improved.
This would require a few specification update to enable "PRS+CRS" to be used
together. For instance, CP length for CRS would need to be clarified. In [19],
_cpLength_ field in _OTDOA-ReferenceCellInfo_ field specifies the cyclic
prefix length of the assistance data reference cell PRS if the _prsInfo_ field
is present; otherwise this field specifies the cyclic prefix length of the
assistance data reference cell CRS. Also, _cpLength_ field in _OTDOA-
NeighbourCellInfoElement_ field specifies the cyclic prefix length of the
neighbour cell PRS if PRS are present in this neighbour cell; otherwise this
field specifies the cyclic prefix length of CRS in this neighbour cell. In
short, if PRS are present, there is no information about CP for CRS. As
another example, QCL assumption between PRS and CRS would need to be clarified
to utilize both for RSTD measurement. If it could be further clarified to
assume the same antenna ports between PRS and CRS, even coherent accumulation
between PRS and CRS would be possible.
Figure 7.1.1.1.13-1 illustrates the benefit of using legacy PRS antenna port 6
along with legacy CRS antenna ports 0, or 0-1, or 0-3 for improved RSTD
estimation performance [49]. The combined metric makes use of cross-
correlation calculations from both positioning and common reference signals.
In this simulation setup, the number of receiver antennas is two, and the
number of positioning occasions is one. Using PRS antenna port 6 alone does
not achieve a 90%ile performance, while using PRS antenna port 6 in
conjunction with CRS antenna port 0 achieves this level of performance at
{width="0.2986111111111111in" height="0.1597222222222222in"}. Making use of
CRS antenna port 1 improves performance to {width="0.2986111111111111in"
height="0.1597222222222222in"}, and making use of all CRS antenna ports 0-3
improves performance further to {width="0.2986111111111111in"
height="0.1597222222222222in"}. The 80%ile performance is improved by around
30%, from {width="0.19444444444444445in" height="0.1597222222222222in"} to
{width="0.19444444444444445in" height="0.1597222222222222in"}, when using
ports {0-1, 6} versus 6 only.
{width="4.858333333333333in" height="3.4430555555555555in"}
Figure 7.1.1.1.13-1: Using PRS antenna port 6 along with CRS antenna ports 0,
or 0-1, or 0-3 improves RSTD estimation performance [49]
##### 7.1.1.1.14 EB/FD-MIMO based positioning enhancement [50][51]
In [52], antenna configuration for 2D antenna array (called Elevation
Beamforming/Full Dimension MIMO) which can exploit the elevation dimension
inherent in a MIMO wireless system as well as the azimuth dimension was
studied. Using 2D antenna array might help vertical domain positioning (i.e.
altitude). Both/Either CSI-RS and/or PRS can be considered to enable EB/FD-
MIMO based positioning enhancement.
Figure 7.1.1.1.14-1 depicts an example of EB/FD-MIMO based positioning
enhancement. Horizontal domain UE location (latitude and longitude) is
calculated based on OTDOA based method by $d'$ from different cells, where $d'
= \sqrt{d^{2} - \left( d\text{cos}\theta \right)^{2}}$. Vertical domain UE
location (altitude) is calculated based on $h$ and $\theta$ from a cell $h' =
h - d\text{cos}\theta$. The multiple cells can be used for vertical domain
positioning. There could be multiple ways to obtain $\theta$ - one example is
to configure multiple CSI-RS/PRS configurations where each PRS configuration
is beamformed with different $\theta$ (e.g. ZoA), so UE can determine/measure
the ZoA.
{width="5.458333333333333in" height="2.8333333333333335in"}
Figure 7.1.1.1.14-1: Illustration of EB/FD-MIMO based positioning enhancement
In Figure 7.1.1.1.14-2, the CDF of the vertical location estimation error for
case 1 (macro + outdoor small cells) is illustrated when the number of small
cells per cluster is 4. For simulations, four beamformed CSI-RS transmissions
with different vertical beam directions are assumed. It is observed that
positioning aided by beamformed CSI RSRP can achieve better vertical location
estimation performance than baseline results with CID-based vertical location
estimation.
{width="4.4319444444444445in" height="4.081944444444445in"}
Figure 7.1.1.1.14-2: CDF of location estimation errors in terms of vertical
domain for Case 1
#### 7.1.1.2 Enhanced RSTD measurements
For purposes of evaluation, potential enhancements related to RSTD
measurements include the following candidates: reduction of RSTD quantization
error, measurement performance enhancements under Wide-band PRS, and UE inter-
frequency RSTD calibration accuracy reporting and usage of PRS-IC techniques.
##### 7.1.1.2.1 UE inter-frequency RSTD calibration accuracy reporting
In case of PRS are configured on two (or more) LTE carrier frequencies, a UE
may need to perform inter-frequency RSTD measurements. Inter-frequency RSTD
measurements are measurements performed on a cell (reference or neighbour)
whose carrier frequency is different from the UE's serving cell frequency
[19]. This is for example the case with the OTDOA evaluation scenarios, where
the macro cells operate on 2 GHz and the small cells operate on 3.5 GHz (see
section 5). Since the TOA measurements are performed on two different carrier
frequencies, the RSTD measurements are affected by an \"inter-frequency bias\"
due to different group delays of the two RF paths.
The location server/position calculation function can solve for any inter-
frequency bias (UE calibration error) in addition to the UE location. The
inter-frequency bias in the RSTD measurement between a pair of carrier
frequencies is a common bias; i.e., all inter-frequency RSTD measurements made
between the same carrier pair have the same bias. This unknown bias can be
added as an additional unknown to the cost function. The minimization of this
cost function (e.g., via Taylor series approximation) would provide the
position of the UE as well as the UE frequency bias (with which the RSTD
measurements could be corrected/compensated).
However, since the solution for the inter-frequency bias requires additional
measurements, the location server should solve for any inter-frequency bias
only when needed (e.g., when the UE calibration error is expected to be
large). This could be accomplished by additional UE signalling. E.g., the UE
could inform the location server of any estimates of the UE calibration error.
The location server may then decide on whether to solve for the frequency bias
or not, and the estimated accuracy of the UE calibration error could be used
for weighting in the WLS solution.
##### 7.1.1.2.1.1 Impact of UE calibration error on OTDOA baseline performance
{#impact-of-ue-calibration-error-on-otdoa-baseline-performance .H6}
Figures 7.1.1.2.1.1-1 and 7.1.1.2.1.1-2 below show the horizontal positioning
error CDFs for Case#1 (outdoor macro and outdoor small cell deployment
scenario) with 4 and 10 small cells, respectively. The macro cells operate on
2GHz carrier frequency and the small cells on 3.5 GHz carrier frequency (see
Table 5.1.1-1).
The impact of UE calibration error on OTDOA baseline performance is shown for
various values of UE calibration error T~1~ for Case #1 with 4 small cells per
cluster (Figure 7.1.1.2.1.1-1) and Case #1 with 10 small cells per cluster
(Figure 7.1.1.2.1.1-2). The Table next to each Figure summarizes the 40-, 50-,
70-, 80- and 90-percentile error values together with the OTDOA success rate
for the different levels of UE calibration error. The Table also shows the
performance degradation in percent (compared to the baseline [17]).
The performance degradation for Case #1 with 10 small cells is somewhat larger
compared to the case with 4 small cells per cluster. This is because with 10
small cells per cluster, more inter-frequency measurements are made by the UE
(compared to the case with 4 small cells per cluster), and therefore, more
RSTD measurements are affected by the inter-frequency bias.
* * *
{width="3.8916666666666666in" height="2.9145833333333333in"}  
T~1~ [ns] : **0 ns** **100 ns** **150 ns** **200 ns** **500ns** 40-% error [m]
14 16 17 19 27 50-% error [m] 17 18 20 22 33 70-% error [m] 23 25 27 30 52
80-% error [m] 27 30 33 36 68 90-% error [m] 34 38 42 48 91 Success rate [%]
99.65 99.30 97.78 96.02 83.39 \% \1_) is used to multiply the value _x_ before the
quantization and is also used to divide the quantization output, the effective
quantization resolution is reduced by _k_ times compared to the direct
quantization on value _x_. With this solution,
\- The specification only needs to have one quantization mapping table for
different quantization resolutions. The eNB maintains only one unified
quantization mapping method.
\- The potential enhancements that require further smaller quantization
resolution in future LTE releases only involve change of value of _k_ , but
rarely the quantization table itself.
\- The value of _k_ configured to UE via LPP can be UE-specific, making it
possible to explore the UE's maximum capability on time-domain sampling
implementation.
It should be noted that the quantization factor _k_ effectively reduces the
maximum value range of RSTD measurement to [-15391/k, 15391/k]T~s~, which
allows the distance between reference eNB and neighbouring eNB as large as
about (150/k)km.
##### 7.1.1.3.3 Enhanced RSTD measurement quality report
The existing RSTD measurement quality reporting is inadequate, since it does
not indicate the nature and statistical properties of the received PRSs and
associated radio conditions. Aspects like SNR and channel dispersion have
critical effects on the estimation. Also indications that the PRS may be
subject to NLOS propagation could help the location server to properly asses
and weight the RSTD measurement in the location algorithm. Hence, the benefits
of alternative and refined RSTD measurement quality assessments should be
evaluated.
##### 7.1.1.3.4 RSTD report via RRC
Currently, RSTD reports are only sent via LPP. However, RSTD via RRC enables
time alignment of (a) information from the UE such as RSTD and (b) information
established in the eNB such as AoA. It also enables multiple RSTD over a
response time window in a resource efficient manner compared to only one RSTD
report. Further it enables coordination of PRS transmissions and low
interference subframes over X2.
There is also another use of RSTDs associated to indoor small cells, and that
concerns time synchronization of the small cell in relation to a macro cell.
Normally, macro cell time synchronization is based on GNSS, but without GNSS
coverage indoors, small cells need a different solution. Therefore, there are
other benefits than positioning improvements associated to RSTD reported via
RRC.
With RSTDs reported via RRC to the eNB, these can be conveyed to E-SMLC via
LPPa as part of E-CID and can thereby be time aligned with other E-CID
information. This enables hybrid E-CID positioning that also can consider
reported RSTD. The assistance information can still be conveyed via LPP, or
alternatively via LPPa+RRC. Hence, the configuration options and benefits of
RSTD reporting via RRC + LPPa should be investigated.
#### 7.1.1.4 Enhancements for wideband PRS [48][53][54]
Enhancements for wideband PRS measurement are also studied and evaluated in
TR36.855 section 5
[47].
It is well known the wide bandwidth of signal can offer the better positioning
accuracy (i.e. RSTD measurement accuracy). This is because of duality between
time and frequency domain. Obtainable time resolution is equivalent to the
inverse of the bandwidth used to observe the signal at baseband in the
granularity of '1/BW'. For example, a 100MHz bandwidth corresponding to 10ns
can provide 3m resolution.
RSTD performance comparison between 20MHz PRS and 100 MHz PRS with intra-band
contiguous CA under ETU70 channel are shown in figure 7.1.1.4-1 [54].
{width="4.503472222222222in" height="2.9652777777777777in"}
Figure 7.1.1.4-1. RSTD performance comparison between 20MHz PRS and 100 MHz
PRS with intra-band contiguous CA under ETU70 channel [54]
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation, PRS can be mapped across the
component carriers so the effective PRS bandwidth can be increased. For
instance, with 20MHz PRS bandwidth for each CC and with 2 CC carrier
aggregations, the effective PRS bandwidth becomes 40MHz. However, the current
specification cannot support this feature and thus the proper assumption
between the consecutive CCs needs to be defined, such as quasi-collocation,
same antenna ports, etc., so effective bandwidth can be increased.
The following scenarios are evaluated [53]:
[- Scenario 1 -- Single 10 MHz CC]{.underline}. This is a baseline assumption
according to the evaluation methodology defined.
[- Scenario 2 -- Single 20 MHz CC]{.underline}. This scenario differs from the
10MHz baseline assumption and reflects performance in case of the maximum LTE
system bandwidth per single CC.
[- Scenario 3 -- Two CCs 2 x 20 MHz = 40 MHz]{.underline}. This scenario
corresponds to intra-band contiguous CA operation with two CCs. Each CC has 20
MHz system bandwidth. For timing estimation, we assume that two CCs operate
synchronously in terms of PRS transmission and that single FFT can be used for
transmission and timing estimation.
The system level results are presented for Case 1A (Macro only) and Case 2
(Macro+Indoor) deployment scenarios in Figure 7.1.1.4-2. Both cases are
evaluated with and without PRS muting assumption and at the sample rates
corresponding to system bandwidth. The transmit power per resource element was
assumed to be the same in all scenarios.
{width="3.446527777777778in" height="2.557638888888889in"}
{width="3.4159722222222224in" height="2.5590277777777777in"}
Figure 7.1.1.4-2 OTDOA positioning performance in case of intra-band
contiguous CA (Case-2).
In current specification, the maximum supported system bandwidth is 20 MHz.
Thus, unless a new system bandwidth is introduced, more than 20 MHz PRS
bandwidth is not supported as a single BW configuration. One way to achieve
the larger BW with minor specification changes would be to perform intra-band
contiguous CA, so that PRS BW is increased (CA with 2 CCs was assumed in the
simulation in Section 2). It further needs to be ensured that PRSs in
different CCs use the same antenna port so a single filtering (e.g. one larger
FFT as described in this Section) can be used.
Another change that needs to be made to support intra-band contiguous CA for
OTDOA based positioning is the enhancement in RSTD reporting granularity,
which is currently limited by 1 Ts granularity. The impact of RSTD reporting
granularity is illustrated in Figure 7.1.1.4-3 for the case 2 x 20 MHz intra-
band contiguous CA operation.
{width="4.136111111111111in" height="3.1284722222222223in"}
Figure 7.1.1.4-3 Impact of RSTD reporting granularity
### 7.1.2 D2D aided positioning
D2D aided positioning should also be evaluated as one of the potential
enhancement techniques for indoor positioning.
#### 7.1.2.1 D2D Aided Positioning Scenarios
At system level, three potential approaches were identified for enhancement of
cellular positioning technology using D2D air-interface:
\- Anchored D2D Aided Positioning.
In case of anchored D2D aided positioning, the part of terminals (called
"anchors") have known geographical coordinates. The geographical coordinates
of anchor UEs may be precisely known a priori (Type-1 assisting UEs) and
utilized for positioning of target UEs. Alternatively, the geographical
coordinates of anchor UEs may be determined by one of the positioning
technologies itself and thus comprise some measurement error (Type-2 assisting
UEs). In both cases, the D2D layer measurements and processing are carried out
over sidelink between the target and anchor UEs. The conducted measurements
and coordinates are used to improve positioning performance of target UEs --
which coordinates need to be determined. The coordinates of anchor UEs may be
known at a location server and/or at an anchor UEs.
\- Non-anchored D2D Aided Positioning.
In case of non-anchored D2D aided positioning, the D2D layer measurements and
processing are conducted between proximate devices regardless of the
availability of geographical coordinates (Type-3 assisting UEs with a priori
unknown coordinates). The measurements of signal location parameters between
target and/or assisting devices with a priori unknown coordinates are used to
improve user positioning by utilizing additional information when solving the
joint system of location equations for multiple UEs.
\- Hybrid D2D Aided Positioning (Anchored and Non-anchored).
In this scenario, the part of UEs participates as an anchors and part of UEs
as assisting nodes with a priori unknown coordinates.
#### 7.1.2.2 D2D aided positioning techniques
D2D-aided positioning technique may utilize the UE-UE range measurements
between the assisting UE and the target UE, and the range measurements among
assisting UEs, based on received power and/or timing estimation.
D2D aided positioning may serve as a complementary solution to existing
location technologies and can be based on one of the following principles:
\- Proximity Detection.
The proximity detection assumes that devices can discover each other and
potentially measure received power in order to estimate how close they are to
each other (e.g. target UE to anchor UE, etc.).
\- Trilateration or Multilateration Based Location.
This type of location is based on the UE-UE range measurement between the
target and anchor UEs or between target and assisting UEs and is based on
timing measurements. The UE-UE range measurement is utilized for positioning
of target UE, e.g. jointly with the cellular RSTD measurements.
\- Combination of Proximity and Trilateration.
In more general case, the combination of proximity and trilateration based
techniques can be applied for user positioning.
The described above techniques can be applicable to any type of assisting UE
listed in section 7.1.2.1.
#### 7.1.2.3 Potential Enhancements
The current LTE Release 12 ProSe specification does not support D2D aided
positioning and may need to be enhanced to support this feature.
For proximity detection, the Rel.12 discovery framework (PSDCH) can be
potentially reused with potential enhancements to specify upper layer
signalling to facilitate UE positioning and improve sidelink power
measurements.
For trilateration based location, the Rel.12 communication framework may be
more appropriate due to possibility to operate over a larger system bandwidth
and thus a potential to achieve more accurate timing and range measurements.
The trilateration based technique may require introduction of new sidelink
measurements and procedures to be used specifically for user positioning. For
trilateration based location, Rel.12 D2D framework can be extended with
wideband reference signals to achieve more accurate timing and range
measurements.
#### 7.1.2.4 Evaluation results for D2D aided positioning
##### 7.1.2.4.1 D2D-aided positioning by proximity detection
This sub-section captures the results provided by [44] and [45]. In [44], the
D2D air-interface is utilized for proximity detection assuming that the number
of anchor nodes per Macro-cell sector varies from 8 to 70 in order to show the
results for different user densities. For positioning estimate, the coordinate
of the UE with maximum RX power is used. The results are provided for two
deployment scenarios Case 1A and Case 2A and shown in figures below for
horizontal and vertical positioning analysis respectively). For the purpose of
comparative analysis, the analysis of the cell ID based proximity detection is
also shown.
* * *
{width="3.5340277777777778in" height="2.4784722222222224in"}
{width="3.3006944444444444in" height="2.48125in"} Case 1A: CDF of horizontal
location error Case 2A: CDF of horizontal location error Figure 7.1.2.4.1-1:
Horizontal error -- D2D proximity analysis.
* * *
* * *
{width="3.359027777777778in" height="2.4805555555555556in"}
{width="3.342361111111111in" height="2.4791666666666665in"} Case 1A: CDF of
vertical error Case 2A: CDF of vertical error Figure 7.1.2.4.1-2: Vertical
error -- D2D proximity analysis
* * *
Based on results in [44], it is observed, that D2D aided proximity detection
performance significantly varies depending on user densities and can
substantially outperform cell based proximity detection due to higher user
densities.
In document [45], for D2D aided positioning based on proximity detection,
assisting UEs are randomly selected among total number of dropped UEs. For
evaluation purpose, case 2A is considered. Two types of assisting UE are
considered as discussed in section 7.1.2.1, where the geographic coordinates
of type-1assisting UEs are precisely known while those of type-2 assisting UEs
are known with some location error. To study the impact of assisting UE's
location error on the positioning performance of other UEs, several values for
the percentage of type-1 assisting UEs among total assisting UEs are selected
such as 100%, 70%, 50%, 30%, and 0%, where 100% and 0% indicate that all
assisting UEs are type-1 and type-2, respectively. The conducted analysis is
summarized in Figure 7.1.2.4.1 -- 3 and Table 7.1.2.4.1-1.
{width="3.922222222222222in" height="3.19375in"}
Figure 7.1.2.4.1 - 3: Vertical error -- D2D proximity analysis
Table 7.1.2.4.1-1: Vertical positioning error of D2D aided positioning based
on proximity detection [m]
* * *
                        Case 2a without assisting UEs   Percentage of type-1 assisting UEs among total assisting UEs                           
                                                        100%                                                           70%     50%     30%     0%
40-percentile error 15.50 1.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00 50-percentile error 22.50
2.00 3.00 3.00 5.00 7.00 70-percentile error 29.50 3.00 6.00 7.00 20.70 24.50
80-percentile error 35.50 6.00 8.00 24.50 28.50 29.50 90-percentile error
39.50 6.00 25.50 33.50 35.50 36.50
* * *
Based on results in [45], it is observed that D2D aided positioning based on
proximity detection can improve vertical positioning accuracy and more
performance gain can be achieved by more assisting UEs and higher location
accuracy of the assisting UEs.
##### 7.1.2.4.2 D2D-aided positioning by multilateration
This sub-section captures the results presented in [46], when D2D air-
interface is utilized to facilitate D2D-aided positioning by multilateration.
Figure 7.1.2.4.2-1 presents the analysis for two deployment scenario Case 1A
and Case 2A. The number of anchor nodes per Macro-cell sector is selected from
the set {10, 30, all outdoor dropped UEs}. For the case when no user
coordinates are available the maximum 1 or 10 assisting nodes selected within
proximity of target UE are used. For analysis, it is assumed that two way
timing protocol is utilized for UE-UE range measurements, assuming 10MHz (50
PRBs) allocation and DMRS for timing estimation under interference free
conditions.
* * *
{width="3.4520833333333334in" height="2.579861111111111in"}
{width="3.4631944444444445in" height="2.5993055555555555in"} Case 1A: CDF of
horizontal location error Case 2A: CDF of horizontal location error Figure
7.1.2.4.2-1: Horizontal error - Analysis of D2D aided multilateration
* * *
Based on results in [46], it is observed, that D2D aided positioning by
multilateration may complement OTDOA only positioning and provide improved
positioning performance.
### 7.1.3 E-CID enhancements
For E-CID positioning, CRS is used for the DL component of the UE Rx-Tx time
difference measurement and CRS sequence is also derived from PCI, for the UL
component, SRS are used. In certain het-net deployments, some non-collocated
RRHs have the identical PCI with the associated Macro cell so that these RRHs
transmit the identical reference signals, and therefore it may cause
ambiguousness on reference signal detection.
The performance and enhancement study of the above problem are given in TR
36.855 clause 7.3. In TR36.855 clause 7.3.2.1, simulation results suggest that
in the het-net scenarios, the methods to distinguish RRHs shall be discussed
for E-CID to achieve higher localization accuracy.
Various solutions for E-CID positioning enhancements from TR36.855 clause
7.3.3.1 are also summarized below.
1) Network solution based on the UL component
2) Using CRS muting to differentiate among TPs
3) Using CSI-RSRP measurements to determine the TP transmitting CRS used for
the UE Rx-Tx
4) Using CSI-RS for UE Rx-Tx
Summary and comparison of these solutions for E-CID enhancements can be found
in TR 36.855 clause 7.3.3.1 [47].
### 7.1.4 Enhancement for UE Rx-Tx measurement over multiple serving cells
The multiple cell UE Rx-Tx measurement could be applied in the case of
multiple serving cells in CA, i.e., when the serving cells are on different
carrier frequencies, where the multiple serving cells are non-collocated and
this includes also dual connectivity scenario. Based on analysis in TR36.855
clause 8, it was concluded that: benefits for E-CID positioning performance
have been observed when the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement is performed
on multiple serving cells in CA, i.e., with the serving cells are on different
carrier frequencies, with cells being co-located or non-collocated.
These solutions can be applied to the indoor environment as well. More
detailed analysis on the solutions from interested companies can be found in
TR36.855 clause 8. RAN2/3/4 might be impacted by applying these solutions from
TR36.855 [47].
## 7.2 RAT-independent positioning technologies
### 7.2.1 Terrestrial beacon systems (TBS)
A Terrestrial Beacon System (TBS) consists of a network of ground-based
transmitters, broadcasting signals only for positioning purposes.
For purposes of evaluation, TBS positioning signals may be GNSS-like signals
(e.g. GPS, GLONASS, BDS, Galileo signals) or PRS/PRS-like signals. The
operating band of TBS may be licensed or unlicensed.
#### 7.2.1.1 TBS evaluation scenarios
For evaluating TBS performance, scenarios are defined below for indoor
environments:
7.2.1.1-1: TBS Evaluation assumptions
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Macro Cell | Outdoor TBS | | | | Transmitter | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Layout | Hexagonal grid, 3 | Hexagonal grid, TBS | | | sectors per site, 7 | transmitter deployed | | | or 19 Macro sites, | at macro cell edge, | | | ISD = 500m | ISD = 500m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System Bandwidth per | 10 MHz | As defined by the | | Carrier | | specific TBS signal | | | | proposal. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | 2.0 GHz | 923 MHz ^Note\ 2^ / | | | | 2.0 GHz ^Note\ 3^ / | | | | 3.5 GHz | | | | | | | | Other carrier | | | | frequencies are not | | | | precluded. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of Carriers | 1 | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total power | 46 dBm | 43/30/46 dBm | | (P~total~ per | | | | carrier) | | Other values are not | | | | precluded. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distance-Dependent | 3D-UMa | 3D-Uma | | Path Loss | | | | | (Table 7.2-1 in TR | (Table 7.2-1 in TR | | | 36.873 [4]) | 36.873 [4]) | | | | | | | Indoor UEs: 3D-UMa | Indoor UEs: 3D-UMa | | | O-to-I | O-to-I | | | (PL~b~=PL~3D-UMa~)\ | (PL~b~=PL~3D-UMa~)\ | | | Outdoor UEs: 3D-UMa | Outdoor UEs: 3D-UMa | | | LOS or 3D-UMa NLOS, | LOS or 3D-UMa NLOS, | | | depending on LOS | depending on LOS | | | probability. | probability. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Penetration | For outdoor UEs: | For outdoor UEs: | | | 0dB\ | 0dB\ | | | For indoor UEs: | For indoor UEs: | | | 20dB+0.5d~in~ (d~in~ | 20/23 dB+0.5d~in~ | | | : independent | (d~in~ : independent | | | uniform random value | uniform random value | | | between [ 0, | between [ 0, | | | min(25, UE-to-eNB | min(25, UE-to-eNB | | | distance) ] for | distance) ] for | | | each link)\ | each link)\ | | | (i.e., PL~tw~ = 20 | (i.e., PL~tw~ = | | | dB; PL~in~ = | 20/23 dB; PL~in~ = | | | 0.5d~in~ (Table | 0.5d~in~ (Table | | | 7.2-1 in TR 36.873 | 7.2-1 in TR 36.873 | | | [4])) | [4])) | | | | | | | | (PL~tw~ selected | | | | according to carrier | | | | frequency used). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | 3D-UMa (Table 7.3-6 | 3D-UMa (Table 7.3-6 | | | in TR36.873 [4] | in TR36.873 [4]) | | | | | | | Indoor UEs: 3D-UMa | Indoor UEs: 3D-UMa | | | O-to-I\ | O-to-I\ | | | Outdoor UEs: 3D-UMa | Outdoor UEs: 3D-UMa | | | LOS or 3D-UMa NLOS,\ | LOS or 3D-UMa NLOS, | | | depending on LOS | depending on LOS | | | probability. | probability. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna Pattern | 3D according to | 2/3D | | | TR36.819 [5] | Omni-directional | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna Height | 25m + α | 25m + α | | | | | | | α \~ uniform(-5,25) | α \~ uniform(-5,25) | | | m | m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Height | h~UT~ = 3(n~fl~ -- | | | | 1) + 1.5 m | | | | | | | | where, n~fl~ \~ | | | | uniform(1,N~fl~) and | | | | N~fl~ = 8 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna Gain + | 17 dBi | 0/6/5 dBi | | Connector Loss | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna Gain of UE | 0 dBi | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fast fading channel | 3D-UMa from TR | 3D-UMa from TR | | between eNB and UE | 36.873 [4] | 36.873 [4] | | | | | | | Indoor UEs: 3D-UMa | Indoor UEs: 3D-UMa | | | O-to-I\ | O-to-I\ | | | Outdoor UEs: 3D-UMa | Outdoor UEs: 3D-UMa | | | LOS or 3D-UMa NLOS, | LOS or 3D-UMa NLOS, | | | depending on LOS | depending on LOS | | | probability. | probability. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna | 2Tx, 2Rx in DL, | | | Configuration | Cross-polarized | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of floors per | 8 | | | building | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Dropping | Same as case 1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE noise figure | 9 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Speed | 3 km/h | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | Perfectly | | | Synchronization | synchronized for | | | | baseline. | | | | | | | | Additionally, | | | | network | | | | synchronization | | | | error case can be | | | | optionally | | | | simulated. If | | | | included, the | | | | network | | | | synchronization | | | | error, per UE | | | | dropping, is defined | | | | as a truncated | | | | Gaussian | | | | distribution of | | | | (T~1~ ns) rms values | | | | between an eNB and a | | | | timing reference | | | | source which is | | | | assumed to have | | | | perfect timing, | | | | subject to a largest | | | | timing difference of | | | | T~2~ ns, where T~2~ | | | | = 2*T~1~ | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note 1: Void | | | | | | | | Note 2: For the | | | | carrier frequency, | | | | this value is an | | | | approximation based | | | | on the US frequency | | | | band allocations. | | | | | | | | Note 3: For baseline | | | | performance, 2 GHz | | | | should be used. | | | | | | | | Note 4: For | | | | eNB-to-UE distance, | | | | 3D distance is | | | | applied unless | | | | stated otherwise. | | | | | | | | Note 5: Propagation | | | | delay is explicitly | | | | modelled. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 7.2.1.2 TBS configuration parameters
For evaluating TBS performance, configuration parameters are defined below for
indoor environments:
7.2.1.2-1: TBS configuration parameters
* * *
Parameter Macro Cell TBS OPTION 1 TBS OPTION 2
System bandwidth 10 MHz 10 MHz Note 1
Cell planning No PCI planning
Network synchronization Synchronous
Duplex modes FDD NA
Cyclic prefix Normal
DRX Off NA
Number of antenna ports PRS 1 (antenna port 6)
                                                                                                                            CRS                                                             2
Number of receive antennas 2
Number of consecutive positioning subframes in one occasion (N~prs~) 1 and 6
1, 6, and all subframes with PRS
PRS periodicity 160 ms 160 ms in case of\  
N~prs~ = 1 and 6
PRS bandwidth Full system bandwidth
Measurement bandwidth Full system bandwidth
PRS muting PRS muting pattern indicated by individual companies, if used
PRS Power boosting 10log6 dB
PDSCH transmission No PDSCH transmission in PRS transmission occasions NA
RSTD report quantization Modelled as in TS 36.133 section 9.1.10.3 [8]
Other TBS Parameters N/A
Note 1: For TBS Option 2, the parameters are according to Table 7.2.1.2-2 TBS
Option 2 Configuration Parameters [24].
* * *
Table 7.2.1.2-2: TBS Option 2 Configuration Parameters
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | TBS | Mode of | ~T~ | F | Set of | Slot | | Option 2 | o | | requency | PRN | al | | | peration | (sec) | Offset | codes | location | | | | | (Hz) | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | Config 1 | m=2, n=1 | 2 | 0 | A | A | | | | | | llocated | ccording | | | (2MHz) | | | sequ | to the | | | | | | entially | beacon | | | | | | from the | number, | | | | | | set of | modulo | | | | | | codes in | 1 | | | | | | Table 3 | 0*~T~. | | | | | | of | | | | | | | [24]. | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | Config 2 | m=5, n=2 | 2 | 0 | A | A | | | | | | llocated | ccording | | | (5MHz) | | | sequ | to the | | | | | | entially | beacon | | | | | | from the | number, | | | | | | set of | modulo | | | | | | codes in | 1 | | | | | | Table 4 | 0*~T~. | | | | | | of | | | | | | | [24]. | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | Config 3 | m=10, | 2 | 0 | A | A | | | n=8 | | | llocated | ccording | | | (10MHz) | | | sequ | to the | | | | | | entially | beacon | | | | | | from the | number, | | | | | | set of | modulo | | | | | | codes in | 1 | | | | | | Table 5 | 0*~T~. | | | | | | of | | | | | | | [24]. | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 7.2.1.3 TBS simulation results
Below are the baseline TBS simulation results [21][22][37][39][40].
Table 7.2.1.3-1: TBS Option 1/TBS Option 2 horizontal positioning error [m]
+-------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Company | 40% | 50% | 70% | 80% | 90% | +-------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Qualcomm | 16 | 19 | 28 | 34 | 45 | | Inc. (TBS | | | | | | | Option 1 | | | | | | | with N~PRS~ | | | | | | | = 6) | | | | | | +-------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | NextNav | 19 | 22 | 28 | 34 | 41 | | (TBS Option | | | | | | | 2 with rx1 | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | 3)^[1]^ | | | | | | +-------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | NextNav | 14/5/2 | 15/6/3 | 20/9/4 | 23/10/5 | 29/12/6 | | | | | | | | | (TBS Option | | | | | | | 2 with | | | | | | | rx2^[1]^) | | | | | | | (Co | | | | | | | nfig1/Confi | | | | | | | g2/Config3) | | | | | | +-------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Broadcom | 15/6/4 | 18/8/5 | 25/11/7 | 30/13/8 | 35/15/10 | | | | | | | | | (TBS Option | | | | | | | 2) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Co | | | | | | | nfig1/Confi | | | | | | | g2/Config3) | | | | | | +-------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | NOTE 1: rx1 | | | | | | | is a | | | | | | | generic | | | | | | | receiver | | | | | | | and rx2 has | | | | | | | receiver | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | advanced | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | processing | | | | | | | capability | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | ranging. | | | | | | +-------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Below are TBS Option #2 simulation results for the additional scenarios
(center frequency of 923 MHz and T1=5ns) and configurations described in
7.2.1.2-2.
Table 7.2.1.3-2: TBS Option 2 horizontal positioning error [m]
+---------------------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Company | 40% | 50% | 70% | 80% | 90% | +---------------------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | NextNav | 13/5/3 | 15/6/3 | 19/8/4 | 24/9/5 | 29/12/7 | | | | | | | | | (Config1/Config2/Config3) | | | | | | +---------------------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | BROADCOM | 12/6/4 | 16/8/5 | 21/11/7 | 26/12/9 | 32/15/11 | | | | | | | | | (Config1/Config2/Config3) | | | | | | +---------------------------+--------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Below are the baseline TBS simulation results with for vertical positioning
error.
Table 7.2.1.3-3: TBS vertical positioning error [m]
* * *
Company 40% 50% 70% 80% 90% Qualcomm Inc. (TBS Option 1 with N~PRS~ = 6) 56 74
108 140 204 NextNav (TBS Option 2) 20 26 44 63 76
* * *
#### 7.2.1.4 Summary for 50m horizontal error
Table 7.2.1.4-1: TBS CDF percentiles for 50m horizontal positioning error [%]
+----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Scenario | Qualcomm, Inc. | NextNav | BROADCOM | | | | | | | | (TBS Option 1) | (TBS Option 2) | (TBS Option2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Baseline | 94% | 96% | >99% | | 10MHz, no | | | | | synch error | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Center | - | 99% | >99% | | Freq=923MHz, | | | | | T1=5ns, | | | | | Config1 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Center | - | 100% | >99% | | Freq=923MHz, | | | | | T1=5ns, | | | | | Config2 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Center | - | 100% | >99% | | Freq=923MHz, | | | | | T1=5ns, | | | | | Config3 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+
Observations:
\- TBS Option 1 with generic receiver has similar performance as TBS Option 2
with generic receiver rx1.
\- Results of TBS Option 1 assumed generic receiver only, while TBS Option 2
has results from both generic receiver and receiver with advanced signal
processing capability. It is unclear if similar accuracy improvement can be
achieved for TBS Option 1 if advanced receiver is also used for TBS Option 1.
\- The simulation results for TBS show that horizontal positioning accuracy
for indoor positioning can be achieved within the 50 meter threshold, with a
significant margin for TBS Option #2, when receiver with advanced signal
processing capability is used.
#### 7.2.1.5 Terrestrial beacon systems (TBS) impacts
For determining specification impacts, TBS positioning technologies may be
classified into 3 categories as follows, based on where the UE location
computation takes place and the origin of the measurements or assistance
information.
\- Standalone positioning (autonomous) -- The UE performs TBS measurements and
location computation without network assistance.
\- UE-assisted positioning -- The UE provides TBS position measurements to the
network for computation of a location estimate by the network. The network may
provide assistance data to the UE (to help or enable position measurements).
\- UE-based positioning -- The UE performs TBS position measurements and
computation of a location estimate. The assistance data for one or both of
these functions may be provided to the UE by the network.
##### 7.2.1.5.1 Architecture impacts
TBS positioning technologies should leverage the existing LCS architecture
defined in TS 23.271 [26], with no impacts to the high-level system
architecture specifications. TBS technologies should also re-use the
interfaces and procedures in TS 36.305 [27] Stage 2 functional specification
of User Equipment (UE) positioning in E-UTRAN with the addition of
identification of TBS as a positioning method.
##### 7.2.1.5.2 Messaging/Protocol impacts
LPP (LTE Positioning Protocol) defines the messaging to support emergency
positioning support. TBS positioning methods should leverage the existing
procedures and messages as described in TS 36.355 [19]. Specification changes
required to support TBS in LPP consist primarily of information elements for
Terrestrial Beacon Systems to support:
\- UE capabilities negotiation, e.g. UE Capabilities indicate support of TBS
(and TBS assistance) for various TBS systems (TBS Option 1, TBS Option 2)
\- Assistance Data specific to TBS-based positioning
\- Identify which technology was used in UE position fix and TBS measurements,
e.g. Provide Location Information indicates that it was calculated using TBS.
\- TBS-based positioning also impacts the LCS-AP specification, i.e. protocol
between the E-SMLC and the MME over the SLs interface. The current 3GPP LCS-AP
procedures and messages in E-UTRAN are examined below and modifications
required to support TBS are proposed for 3GPP TS 29.171.
For specification impacts, see tables below for E-UTRA impacted
specifications, and additional examples of these specification impacts are in
[36]:
^Table\ 9.2.1.2-1:\ TBS\ E-UTRA\ specification\ impacts[1]^
* * *
Impacted Specifications Impacted Sections Proposed change TS 36.355 2.
References Addition of references for TBS supporting information. TS 36.355
3.2 Abbreviations Additional abbreviations added for TBS positioning TS 36.355
6.3 Message Body IEs Addition of TBS IEs for _RequestCapabilities,
ProvideCapabilities, RequestAssistanceData, Provide AssistanceData,
RequestLocationInformation, and ProvideLocationInformation_ TS 36.355 6.5
Positioning Method IEs Additional IEs specific to TBS positioning technologies
TS 36.305 2. References Addition of references for TBS supporting information.
TS 36.305 3.2 Abbreviations Additional abbreviations added for TBS positioning
TS 36.305 8. Positioning methods and Supporting Procedures Information to be
transferred to/from the UE and E-SMLC, re-use of existing Capability transfer
procedure, assistance data transfer procedure, and location information
transfer procedure. TS 29.171 7.4.13 Positioning Data Addition of TBS to the
Positioning Method and Usage IEs, The E-SMLC returns Location Information to
MME, and this should indicate that it was calculated using TBS.
* * *
NOTE 1: Specification impacts apply to TBS Option 2. For TBS Option 1,
existing OTDOA capabilities, assistance data, and location information
transfer may be reused, or extended if needed.
To enable TBS positioning in UMTS control plane location, RRC [28], PCAP [29],
RANAP [30], and TS 25.305 [31] protocols may be updated (e.g., UE
capabilities, assistance data delivery, TBS measurement reporting). Impacted
sections to existing UMTS specifications required to enable TBS are shown
below in table 9.2.1.2-2, and additional examples of these specification
impacts are in [36].
^Table\ 9.2.1.2-2:\ TBS\ UTRA\ specification\ impacts[1]^
* * *
Impacted Specifications Impacted Sections Proposed change TS 25.331 [28] 2.
References, 3.2 Abbreviations Addition of references, abbreviations 9, 10, 11
Positioning Method IEs No new messages or procedures are required, but the
following RRC Positioning Messages will need to be extended to support TBS:
Measurement Control, Assistance Data Delivery, Measurement Report, and the RRC
UE Capability Procedure. TS 25.453 [29] 2. References, 3.2 Abbreviations
Addition of references and abbreviations 9.2.2.55 Positioning Method Add TBS
Positioning Method IE, which contains the Positioning Method used for SAS
centric positioning method selection. TS 25.413 [30] 2. References, 3.2
Abbreviations Addition of references and abbreviations 9.2.3.27 Position Data
Add TBS Positioning Data Set IE to provide data related to the positioning
methods in relation with the Location Report procedure TS 25.305 [31] 2.
References, 3.2 Abbreviations Addition of references and abbreviations 4.3
Standard Positioning Methods (and sub-sections) Addition of TBS as a UE
positioning method, and description. Re-uses existing messages and procedures.
* * *
NOTE 1: Specification impacts apply to TBS Option 1 and TBS Option 2.
##### 7.2.1.5.3 Requirements impact with TBS option 2
At least the following requirements may be needed:
\- Core requirements, including RF requirements (covering co-existence, co-
location, co-siting, etc.) and measurement time requirements
\- Performance requirements, including measurement accuracy
The requirements shall cover all supported TBS deployment types. The
corresponding test cases are to be specified.
A separate specification with all the requirements for TBS deployments can be
justified, one for E-UTRA and one for UTRA. And a separate specification with
all test cases for TBS deployments can be justified, one for E-UTRA and one
for UTRA.
##### 7.2.1.5.4 Requirements impact with TBS option 1
The following observations have been made regarding TBS transmitting PRS
Rel-12:
\- No need to define any new RRM core requirements
\- No need to define any new performance requirements
\- No need to define any new RF requirements.
The observations above are applicable only provided PRS signals are as defined
in Rel-12 and in the existing 3GPP bands.
##### 7.2.1.5.5 TBS option 2 coexistence
##### 7.2.1.4.5.1 TBS option 2 blocking analysis of 3GPP downlinks {#tbs-
option-2-blocking-analysis-of-3gpp-downlinks .H6}
TBS Option 2 (referred to below as MBS) blocking of 3GPP downlinks was
discussed in R4-154425 [58]. The following observations were made:
\- Observation 1: MBS Beacon transmit power and EIRP are lower than the
maximum LTE wide area BS transmit power and EIRP, and DL-DL coexistence is
widely accepted as a non-issue.
\- Observation 2: A Band 5 or Band 26 UE that can meet the in-band blocking
requirement of -44 dBm should have 10 dB of margin to handle a -30 dBm MBS
beacon blocker given the duplex filter will provide at least 24 dB of
attenuation in the M-LMS band.
\- Observation 3: 1900 MHz band testing in R4-112261 [61] showed that UEs can
handle DL blockers of at a minimum of -10 dBm 20 MHz above the upper edge of
the band. This is 20 dB higher than the -30 dBm blocker level calculated for
an MBS Beacon.
In support of the TBS Option 2 to 3GPP downlink blocking analysis, lab
measurements were made for UE blocking and the results were presented in
R4-154427 [60]. The measurements support the DL blocking analysis in
R4-154425. Tests were conducted with a 10 MHz LTE carrier at the top of Band
5, and a CW blocker at 920 MHz, or "GPS" blocker at 920.773 MHz. The following
observations were made:
\- Observation 1: With the desired signal at measured sensitivity, all of the
tested UEs could handle a CW blocker at 920 MHz that was at least 29 dB
stronger than the minimum required blocker specified for a desired signal at
reference sensitivity plus 6 dB.
\- Observation 2: With the desired signal at measured sensitivity, all of the
tested UEs could handle a CW blocker with at least 15 dB of margin relative to
the -30 dBm signal from an MBS beacon assuming 70 dB MCL as described in
R4-154425 [58].
\- Observation 3: With the desired signal 6 dB above measured sensitivity, the
UEs could all handle a CW blocker at least -1 dBm, 43 dB better than the
minimum requirement with the desired signal 6 dB above reference sensitivity.
\- Observation 4: With the desired signal 6 dB above measured sensitivity, the
UEs could all handle an unfiltered "GPS" blocker at 920.773 MHz of at least
-14 dBm, leaving at least 16 dB of margin relative to the -30 dBm that could
be expected from an MBS beacon as described in R4-154425 [58].
##### 7.2.1.4.5.2 TBS option 2 blocking analysis of 3GPP uplinks {#tbs-
option-2-blocking-analysis-of-3gpp-uplinks .H6}
TBS Option 2 (MBS) blocking of 3GPP uplinks was discussed in R4-154426 [59].
The following observations were made :
\- Observation 1: Base stations with Rx filtering to protect their uplink from
co-located Band 5 or Band 26 downlink transmissions also have roughly the same
protection from MBS beacon transmission in the M-LMS band.
\- Observation 2: Base stations that are co-located with MBS beacons in the
M-LMS band need to have uplink protection that exceeds the minimum general
blocker requirements based on MCL analysis.
\- Observation 3: Co-location protection for Band 5/26 will give a 3GPP base
station adequate protection from a co-located MBS beacon in the M-LMS band
based on 30 dB MCL for co-located base stations.
\- Observation 4: An MBS beacon would need to be at least 82 meters away from
a 3GPP BS that only meets the general blocking requirement if the two are in
direct line of sight.
\- Observation 5: 3GPP base stations with co-location protection from the Band
5/26 downlink can operate within 2.4 meters of an MBS M-LMS band beacon even
if the two are in direct line of sight.
\- Observation 6: A UTRA or E-UTRA BS that only meets the general blocking
requirement beacon would need to be at least 206 meters away from a Band 5 or
Band 26 BS if the two are in direct line of sight.
MBS beacon to 3GPP BS coexistence issues may be avoided by proper site
engineering, in addition to the assumptions of a sufficiently large enough
frequency separation and feasibility of the required filtering.
##### 7.2.1.4.5.3 TBS option 2 co-existence simulations {#tbs-option-2-co-
existence-simulations .H6}
Simulation results for co-location and cell-edge deployment strategies with
TBS Option 2 were provided by one company R4-155379 [62].
The following observations were made:
_**Observation 1** : Deploying beacons co-located with eNodeBs is a most
challenging scenario and requires sufficient filtering, assuming the frequency
separation is large enough, and may also require site solutions in some
cases._
_**Observation 2** : For OBIR≥40 dB the figures indicate that the DL
throughput degradation is below 5% and the degradation in the 2^nd^ best DL
SINR is 1 dB or less._
### 7.2.2 Wi-Fi/Bluetooth based positioning
Existing Wi-Fi and/or Bluetooth technologies can be used as potential indoor
positioning enhancement techniques.
Wi-Fi-based positioning systems are widely used for commercial Location Based
Services (LBS). Various smartphones and operating system vendors provide the
ability to provide position estimates using Wi-Fi transceivers. This is
usually accomplished by collecting RSSI and other information from the UE's
Wi-Fi receiver, and applying a location determination algorithm using
databases of the estimated positions or coverage areas of Wi-Fi access points.
In addition, Bluetooth (BT) Low Energy (LE) beacons are realized as a
potential technology to provide location information and relevant contextual
interactions to users. Bluetooth beacons are transmitters that use Bluetooth
Low Energy to broadcast signals that can be heard by compatible smartphones
and other devices. When the device is in a beacon's proximity, the device may
obtain the beacon ID and the device location may be obtained from a database
query.
RAN2 identified the following Wi-Fi/Bluetooth based positioning options which
may operate in the following modes:
\- Standalone/autonomous:\ The UE performs Wi-Fi/Bluetooth position
measurements and location computation without network assistance.
\- UE-assisted, E-SMLC based:\ The UE provides Wi-Fi/Bluetooth position
measurements to the network for computation of a location estimate by the
network. The network may provide assistance data to the UE (e.g. AP IDs,
supported channels, coverage areas) to help or enable position measurements.
\- UE-based, E-SMLC assisted:\ The UE performs Wi-Fi/Bluetooth position
measurements and computation of a location estimate. The assistance data
useful or essential to one or both of these functions (e.g. AP locations) may
be provided to the UE by the network.
\- LPP, RRC and LPPa:\ Wi-Fi and Bluetooth assistance data may be included in
LPP [19], together with corresponding UE capability updates.\ Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth measurements may be included in the RRC measurement configuration
[34]. The UE measurements may be forwarded to the E‑SMLC via LPPa [20].
To enable Wi-Fi/Bluetooth based positioning in UMTS control plane location,
RRC [28] and PCAP [29] protocols need to be updated (e.g., UE capabilities,
assistance data delivery, position measurement reporting).
To enable Wi-Fi/Bluetooth based positioning in LTE control plane location, the
following protocol options have been identified and will be discussed by RAN2:
\- LPP/LPPe:\ Wi-Fi and Bluetooth based positioning is supported in OMA LPPe
protocol [32], for both, UE-based and UE-assisted mode. LPPe is supported in
LPP [19] via an EPDU ID (EPDU-ID 1).
\- LPP updates:\ Wi-Fi and Bluetooth measurements and assistance data may be
included in LPP [19], together with corresponding UE capability updates. The
method used to compute the location estimate may also need to be included in
the UE measurement report (e.g., for standalone/autonomous mode).
\- RRC and LPPa:\ Wi-Fi and Bluetooth measurements and assistance data may be
included in the RRC measurement configuration [34], together with
corresponding UE capability updates. The UE measurements may be forwarded to
the E‑SMLC via LPPa [20]. The server generated assistance data may be provided
to the eNB via LPPa. The method used to compute the location estimate may also
need to be included in the UE measurement report (e.g., for
standalone/autonomous mode).
#### 7.2.2.1 Fine timing measurements (FTM) for Wi-Fi aided positioning
The Fine Timing Measurement (FTM) method [33] can also be used to determine
position. The FTM approach is geometrical, based on estimating the position
using the distances from access points. The distance from each access point is
acquired by measuring the round trip time (RTT) from the mobile device to the
access point and back.
Figure 7.2.2.1-1 shows an example of FTM protocol from [33]. There are four
timing measurements -- two ToA (Time of Arrival) measurements and two ToD
(Time of Departure) measurements, denoted as _t~1~_ , _t~2~_ , _t~3~_ , and
_t_ ~4~. When the measurements are calculated accurately, the ToF (Time of
Flight) is estimated as _ToF_ = [(_t_ ~4~--_t_ ~1~) - (_t_ ~3~--_t_ ~2~)]/2.
Once all the time measurements are available, the range between UE and Wi-Fi
AP can be estimated by trilateration.
{width="4.10625in" height="3.2736111111111112in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1-1: Fine timing measurement
### 7.2.3 Barometric pressure sensor positioning
Barometric sensor information is relevant for this study item, but will not
impact RAN1 specifications.
The use of barometric sensors for identifying height information is motivated
by the fundamental property that atmospheric pressure drops with an increase
in altitude. Barometric sensors have started appearing on smartphones and
other portable devices. As deployment rates improve, barometers represent a
potential solution for accurate vertical location for e.g., E911.
RAN2 identified the following Barometric pressure sensor positioning options
which may operate in the following modes:
\- Standalone/autonomous:\ The UE performs barometric pressure sensor
measurements and altitude computation without network assistance.
\- UE-assisted, E-SMLC based:\ The UE provides barometric pressure sensor
measurements, e.g. air pressure, to the network for computation of altitude
information by the network.
\- UE-based, E-SMLC assisted:\ The UE performs barometric pressure sensor
measurements and uses the measurements (possibly together with other location
measurements) for the computation of altitude information. The assistance data
required for this (e.g., reference atmospheric pressure) may be provided to
the UE by the network.
\- LPP, RRC and LPPa:\ Barometric pressure sensor positioning assistance data
may be included in LPP [19], together with corresponding UE capability
updates.\ Barometric pressure sensor measurements may be included in the RRC
measurement configuration [34]. The UE measurements may be forwarded to the
E‑SMLC via LPPa [20].
To enable barometric pressure sensor positioning in UMTS control plane
location, RRC [28] and PCAP [29] protocols need to be updated (e.g., UE
capabilities, assistance data delivery, sensor measurement reporting).
To enable barometric pressure sensor positioning in LTE control plane
location, the following protocol options have been identified and will be
discussed by RAN2:
\- LPP/LPPe:\ Barometric pressure sensor positioning is supported in OMA LPPe
protocol [32], for both, UE-based and UE-assisted mode. LPPe is supported in
LPP [19] via an EPDU ID (EPDU-ID 1).
\- LPP updates:\ Barometric pressure sensor positioning (e.g., sensor
measurements and assistance data) may be included in LPP [19], together with
corresponding UE capability updates. The method used to compute vertical
location may also need to be included in the UE measurement report (e.g., for
standalone/autonomous mode).
\- RRC and LPPa:\ Barometric pressure sensor positioning (e.g., sensor
measurements and assistance data) may be included in the RRC measurement
configuration [34], together with corresponding UE capability updates. The UE
barometric pressure measurements may be forwarded to the E-SMLC via LPPa [20].
The server generated assistance data may be provided to the eNB via LPPa. The
method used to compute vertical location may also need to be included in the
UE measurement report (e.g., for standalone/autonomous mode).
\- LPP, RRC and LPPa:\ Barometric pressure sensor positioning assistance data
may be included in LPP [19], together with corresponding UE capability
updates.\ Barometric pressure sensor measurements may be included in the RRC
measurement configuration [34]. The UE measurements may be forwarded to the
E‑SMLC via LPPa [20].
Assistance data can be used to further improve the positioning accuracy of the
barometric pressure sensor, including information regarding the relationship
between air pressure and altitude (e.g. humidity, temperature, reference
atmospheric pressure), or the information regarding to the relationship
between altitude and floor number (e.g. altitude and floor number for the
cells located in the building).
### 7.2.4 Specification impacts for Wi-Fi, BT and barometric pressure sensor
positioning
#### 7.2.4.1 Information to be transferred between SMLC and UE
The information transferred from SMLC (E-SMLC and SAS) to the UE usually
consists of assistance data, which is useful or essential for the UE to
perform location measurements and position calculation. The assistance data
that may be sent from SMLC to the UE is summarized in Table 7.2.4.1-1 below.
For Wi-Fi positioning, the assistance data may include a neighbour list of APs
available for measurements (e.g., for RTT measurements). For a minimal UE-
assisted version (in particular for Cell-ID only location), this assistance
data may not be needed, and the UE may provide the measurements based on the
scan performed by the UE. For UE-based mode, the assistance data may include
(in addition) the AP 3D-locations.
BT-LE positioning is based on proximity information and may not require
assistance data for UE-assisted mode. For UE-based mode, the BT-LE beacon 3D
locations would be required in the assistance data.
For Barometric Sensor Positioning, no assistance data may be required for UE-
assisted mode. For UE-based mode, reference pressure measurements would be
required either alone or together with terrain/topographic data, depending on
whether height above MSL or local ground level is needed.
Table 7.2.4.1-1: Information that may be transferred from the SMLC to the UE
+---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | Assistance Data | UE-Assisted | UE-Based | Standalone/\ | | | | | Autonomous | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | **Wi-Fi Positioning** | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | WLAN AP List | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - BSSID | Yes^(2)^ | Yes | No | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - SSID | Yes^(2)^ | Yes | No | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - AP Type Data^(1)^ | Yes^(2)^ | Yes | No | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - AP 3D-Location | No | Yes | No | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | **BT-LE Positioning** | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | BTLE AP List | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - AP ID (MAC Address) | No | Yes | No | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - AP 3D Location | No | Yes | No | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | **Barometric Sensor | | | | | Positioning** | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | Sensor Assistance Data | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - Reference atmospheric | No | Yes | No | | pressure at sea level | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - topographic data | No | Yes^(3)^ | No | | (e.g., contour and | | | | | building height data) | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: WLAN AP Type Data | | | | | may include WLAN Type | | | | | (e.g., | | | | | 802.11a/b/g/n/ac/ad, | | | | | etc.), transmit power, | | | | | antenna again, coverage | | | | | area, etc. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The Assistance | | | | | Data for UE-assisted mode | | | | | may provide a \"neighbour | | | | | list\" to the UE to help | | | | | AP measurements (e.g., | | | | | identifies suitable | | | | | neighbours for ranging | | | | | measurements (such as | | | | | RTT)). For a \"minimal | | | | | UE-assisted\" version, | | | | | this Assistance Data may | | | | | not be needed (e.g., the | | | | | UE just reports what a | | | | | scan provides). | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Topographic data | | | | | is needed to calculate | | | | | height above/below local | | | | | ground level but is not | | | | | needed for height | | | | | above/below MSL. | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+
The information transferred from the UE to the SMLC (E-SMLC and SAS) usually
consists of capability information and location measurements or coordinates.
The information that may be signalled from the UE to the SMLC is summarized in
Table 7.2.4.1‑2 below.
Table 7.2.4.1-2: Information that may be transferred from the UE to the SMLC
+---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | Information | UE‑assisted | UE‑based | Standalone/\ | | | | | Autonomous | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | **UE Capabilities** | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - Support for WLAN | Yes | Yes | Yes^(1)^ | | Positioning | | | | | (UE-assi | | | | | sted/UE-Based/Standalone; | | | | | measurements | | | | | supported, etc.) | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - Support for BTLE | Yes | Yes | Yes^(1)^ | | Positioning | | | | | (UE-assi | | | | | sted/UE-Based/Standalone; | | | | | measurements | | | | | supported, etc.) | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - Support for Sensor | Yes | Yes | Yes^(1)^ | | Positioning | | | | | (UE-assi | | | | | sted/UE-Based/Standalone; | | | | | measurements | | | | | supported, etc.) | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | **WLAN Location | | | | | Information** | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - BSSID | Yes | No | No | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - SSID | Yes | No | No | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - Received Signal | Yes | No | No | | Strength (RSSI) | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - Round Trip Time (RTT) | Yes | No | No | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | **BTLE Location | | | | | Information** | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - BTLE AP ID (MAC | Yes | No | No | | Address) | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - Received Signal | Yes | No | No | | Strength (RSSI) | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | **Sensor Location | | | | | Information** | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - Atmospheric pressure | Yes | No | No | | measurement | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | **UE Location | | | | | Information** | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - UE 3D Location | No | Yes | Yes | | Estimate | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - Time Stamp | No | Yes | Yes | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | - Location Source | No | Yes | Yes | | (method(s) used to | | | | | compute location) | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: Because an SMLC | | | | | does not need to provide | | | | | assistance data or | | | | | request specific | | | | | measurements for | | | | | standalone/autonomous | | | | | positioning, detailed | | | | | capabilities | | | | | distinguishing different | | | | | types of | | | | | standalone/autonomous | | | | | positioning may not be | | | | | required | | | | +---------------------------+-------------+----------+--------------+
#### 7.2.4.2 E-UTRAN specifications impact
The required protocol changes can be summarized as shown in the Table below.
This Table also gives some indication on the possible work load for RAN2 and
RAN3 if Wi-Fi/BT/Sensor positioning is added to the specifications using any
of the protocol options identified in section 7.2.2 and 7.2.3.
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | UE-Assisted | UE-Based | Standalone/\ | | | | | Autonomous | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Option #1: | | | | | Existing | | | | | LPP/LPPe** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Capability | None | None | New | | > Transfer | | | positioning | | | | | capability for | | | | | UE autonomous | | | | | location | | | | | (\"device | | | | | based | | | | | hybrid\") may | | | | | need to be | | | | | added to LPPe | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Assistance | None | None | None | | > Data | | | | | > Transfer | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Location | None | None | > New or | | | | | > extension of | | > Information | | | > existing | | > Transfer | | | > location | | | | | > request for | | | | | > UE | | | | | > autonomous | | | | | > location | | | | | > (\"device | | | | | > based | | | | | > hybrid\") | | | | | > may need to | | | | | > be added to | | | | | > LPPe | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Option #2: | | | | | LPP Updates** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Capability | New | New | New | | > Transfer | positioning | positioning | positioning | | | capabilities | capabilities | capability for | | | for | for | UE autonomous | | | Wi | Wi | location | | | -Fi/BT/Sensors | -Fi/BT/Sensors | (\"device | | | need to be | need to be | based | | | added to LPP | added to LPP | hybrid\") may | | | | | need to be | | | | | added to LPP | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Assistance | None^(1)^ | New Assistance | None | | > Data | | Data for | | | > Transfer | | Wi-Fi, BT, | | | | | Sensor | | | | | positioning | | | | | need to be | | | | | added to LPP | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Location | New | New location | New or | | | positioning | request and | extension of | | > Information | measurement | report for | existing | | > Transfer | request and | Wi | location | | | report for | -Fi/BT/Sensors | request and | | | Wi | need to be | report for UE | | | -Fi/BT/Sensors | added to LPP | autonomous | | | need to be | | location | | | added to LPP | | (\"device | | | | | based | | | | | hybrid\") may | | | | | need to be | | | | | added to LPP | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Option #3: | | | | | RRC+LPPa** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Capability | New LPPa | New LPPa | New LPPa | | > Transfer | mes | mes | mes | | | sage/procedure | sage/procedure | sage/procedure | | | is needed. | is needed. | is needed. | | | | | | | | Extensions to | Extensions to | Extensions to | | | RRC UE | RRC UE | RRC UE | | | capability | capability | capability | | | transfer are | transfer are | transfer are | | | needed. | needed. | needed. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Assistance | None^(1)^ | New LPPa | None | | > Data | | mes | | | > Transfer | | sage/procedure | | | | | is needed. | | | | | | | | | | New RRC | | | | | mes | | | | | sage/procedure | | | | | is needed. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Location | Wi-Fi, BT, | Wi-Fi, BT, | UE autonomous | | | Sensor | Sensor | Location | | > Information | Measurement | Location | Estimate | | > Transfer | Request and | Estimate | Request and | | | Report need to | Request and | Report | | | be added to | Report need to | (\"device | | | LPPa ECID | be added to | based | | | procedure (or | LPPa ECID | hybrid\") need | | | new | procedure (or | to be added to | | | procedure). | new | LPPa ECID | | | | procedure).\ | procedure (or | | | Wi-Fi, BT, | Location | new | | | Sensor | request and | procedure).\ | | | Measurement | report need to | UE autonomous | | | Request and | be added RRC | location | | | Report need to | measurement | request and | | | be added RRC | configuration. | report need to | | | measurement | | be added to | | | configuration. | | RRC | | | | | measurement | | | | | configuration. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Option #3a: | | | | | LPP, | | | | | RRC+LPPa** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Capability | New | New | New | | > Transfer | positioning | positioning | positioning | | | capabilities | capabilities | capability for | | | for | for | UE autonomous | | | Wi | Wi | location | | | -Fi/BT/Sensors | -Fi/BT/Sensors | (\"device | | | need to be | need to be | based | | | added to LPP | added to LPP | hybrid\") may | | | | | need to be | | | | | added to LPP | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Assistance | None^(1)^ | New Assistance | None | | > Data | | Data for | | | > Transfer | | | | | | | Wi-Fi, BT, | | | | | Sensor | | | | | positioning | | | | | need to be | | | | | added to LPP | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Location | Wi-Fi, BT, | Wi-Fi, BT, | UE autonomous | | | Sensor | Sensor | Location | | > Information | Measurement | Location | Estimate | | > Transfer | Request and | Estimate | Request and | | | Report need to | Request and | Report | | | be added to | Report need to | (\"device | | | LPPa ECID | be added to | based | | | procedure (or | LPPa ECID | hybrid\") need | | | new | procedure (or | to be added to | | | procedure). | new | LPPa ECID | | | | procedure).\ | procedure (or | | | Wi-Fi, BT, | Location | new | | | Sensor | request and | procedure).\ | | | Measurement | report need to | UE autonomous | | | Request and | be added RRC | location | | | Report need to | measurement | request and | | | be added RRC | configuration. | report need to | | | measurement | | be added to | | | configuration. | | RRC | | | | | measurement | | | | | configuration. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Assuming | | | | | \"minimal | | | | | UE-assisted\" | | | | | version | | | | | without | | | | | assistance | | | | | data. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Some key observations can be summarized as follows:
\- Signalling protocol option #1 (existing LPP/LPPe) does not require any
Stage 3 changes for UE-assisted and UE-based positioning (i.e., can be
implemented/used already today). UE autonomous location (\"device based
hybrid\") may need LPPe updates for positioning capabilities and location
request but this impacts OMA and not 3GPP RAN.
\- Signalling protocol option #3 (RRC+LPPa) has the biggest impact to Stage 3
specifications. Not only existing messages and procedures would require
updates, but also new LPPa and RRC procedures (for UE-based) would be needed.
\- Among the three positioning modes (UE-based, UE-assisted, Standalone), UE-
based Wi-Fi/BT/Sensor positioning has the biggest impact to Stage 3
specifications (excluding Option #1, where there is no impact).
\- Use of UE-assisted mode is implied by the FCC Report and Order for Indoor
E911 location in the US due to specific requirements on providing
uncompensated barometric pressure to PSAPs and on using a central National
Emergency Address Database (NEAD) to derive a dispatchable UE location from
measurements of Wi-Fi/BT-LE APs and small cells. Therefore, this mode should
be supported at a minimum.
#### 7.2.4.3 UTRAN specifications impact
The required protocol changes can be summarized as shown in the Table below.
This Table also gives some indication on the possible work load for RAN2 and
RAN3 if Wi-Fi/BT/Sensor positioning is added to the specifications.
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | UE-Assisted | UE-Based | Standalone/\ | | | | | Autonomous | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **RRC | | | | | Changes** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Capability | New | New | New or | | > Transfer | positioning | positioning | extension of | | | capabilities | capabilities | existing | | | for | for | positioning | | | Wi | Wi | cap | | | -Fi/BT/Sensors | -Fi/BT/Sensors | abilities^(1)^ | | | need to be | need to be | need to be | | | added to RRC | added to RRC | added to RRC | | | UE Positioning | UE Positioning | UE Positioning | | | Capability | Capability | Capability. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Assistance | None^(2)^ | > New | None | | > Data | | > Assistance | | | > Transfer | | > Data for | | | | | > Wi-Fi, BT, | | | | | > Sensor | | | | | > positioning | | | | | > needs to be | | | | | > added to RRC | | | | | > Measurement | | | | | > Control and | | | | | > Assistance | | | | | > Data | | | | | > Delivery | | | | | > p | | | | | rocedures^(3)^ | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Location | New | New location | > The existing | | | positioning | request and | > standalone | | > Information | measurement | report for | > request in | | > Transfer | request and | Wi | > RRC | | | report for | -Fi/BT/Sensors | > Measurement | | | Wi | need to be | > Control may | | | -Fi/BT/Sensors | added to RRC | > be | | | needs to be | Measurement | > a | | | added to RRC | Control | dapted/re-used | | | Measurement | procedure. | > (i.e., | | | Control | | > standalone | | | procedure. | | > positioning | | | | | > is currently | | | | | > tied to | | | | | > GNSS)^(4)^. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **PCAP | | | | | Changes** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Capability | New | New | None^(1)^ | | > Transfer | positioning | positioning | | | | capabilities | capabilities | | | | for | for | | | | Wi | Wi | | | | -Fi/BT/Sensors | -Fi/BT/Sensors | | | | need to be | need to be | | | | added to PCAP | added to PCAP | | | | Position | Position | | | | Initiation | Initiation | | | | Request | Request | | | | message. | message. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Assistance | None^(2)^ | New Assistance | None | | > Data | | Data for | | | > Transfer | | Wi-Fi, BT, | | | | | Sensor | | | | | positioning | | | | | need to be | | | | | added to PCAP | | | | | Information | | | | | Exchange and | | | | | Position | | | | | Activation | | | | | procedure. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | - Location | W | W | New location | | | i-Fi/BT/Sensor | i-Fi/BT/Sensor | request and | | > Information | measurements | location | report for UE | | > Transfer | need to be | request needs | autonomous | | | added to PCAP | to be added to | location | | | Position | Position | (\"device | | | Calculation | Activation | based | | | and Position | procedure. | hybrid\") need | | | Activation | | to be added to | | | procedure. | | PCAP Position | | | | | Activation | | | | | p | | | | | rocedure^(4)^. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: An | | | | | extension of | | | | | the existing | | | | | support | | | | | indication for | | | | | standalone | | | | | positioning in | | | | | [13] may be | | | | | sufficient. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Assuming | | | | | \"minimal | | | | | UE-assisted\" | | | | | version | | | | | without | | | | | assistance | | | | | data. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Assuming there | | | | | is no need for | | | | | including the | | | | | assistance | | | | | data in System | | | | | Information | | | | | Blocks. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | Alternatively, | | | | | a new location | | | | | request and | | | | | report for UE | | | | | autonomous | | | | | location | | | | | (\"device | | | | | based | | | | | hybrid\") may | | | | | be added to | | | | | RRC | | | | | Measurement | | | | | Control | | | | | procedure. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
In addition to the above summarized protocol impacts, RANAP [29] may need to
be updated to enable location information reporting in civic address format
and to enable reporting of uncompensated barometric pressure measurements (as
required by the FCC Report and Order for Indoor E911 location in the US).
Some key observations can be summarized as follows:
\- No new messages and procedures are required to support Wi-Fi/BT/Sensor
Positioning in UMTS control plane architecture. Existing messages would need
extensions to support the new positioning methods.
\- Among the three positioning modes (UE-based, UE-assisted, Standalone), UE-
based Wi-Fi/BT/Sensor positioning has the biggest impact to Stage 3
specifications.
\- Use of UE-assisted mode is implied by the FCC Report and Order for Indoor
E911 location in the US due to specific requirements on providing
uncompensated barometric pressure to PSAPs and on using a central National
Emergency Address Database (NEAD) to derive a dispatchable UE location from
measurements of Wi-Fi,/BT-LE APs and small cells. Therefore, this mode should
be supported at a minimum.
### 7.2.5 IMU sensor based positioning
Inertial measurement unit (IMU) sensor can be used as potential indoor
positioning enhancement techniques. An IMU can measure and report the
velocity, orientation, and gravitational forces of a device, using a
combination of accelerometers and gyroscopes, sometimes also magnetometers.
IMU can be found in many existing devices/UEs in the market. It has been
widely reported that IMU sensor information can be used for positioning
purposes, in particular for indoor positioning.
IMU sensor information is relevant for this study item, but will not impact
RAN1 specifications.
RAN2 identified the following Inertial measurement unit (IMU) based
positioning options which may operate in the following mode:
\- Standalone/autonomous:\ The UE performs IMU related sensor measurements and
computation without network assistance.
The only protocol impact would be for the UE in the measurement/location
report message to indicate that IMU as method has been used to enhance the
positioning calculation.
For specification impact, the following specifications would be affected, for
E-UTRA, 36.355 and 36.305, and for UTRA, 25.331, 25.305, 25.453 and 25.413.
Main chapters affected would be, references, abbreviations, and Information
Element (IE) chapters related to positioning methods to be used in
measurement/location report message, and optionally in capability signalling.
# 8 Conclusions
This study focused on the following positioning enhancements in LTE/UMTS (the
list below does not reflect any prioritization):
\- OTDOA enhancements
\- E-CID enhancements;
\- Wi-Fi/BT based positioning;
\- Barometric Pressure Sensor positioning;
\- TBS (TBS Option 1, TBS Option 2);
\- D2D Aided positioning
For LTE, the evaluation results have shown that existing positioning
techniques (e.g., OTDOA, E-CID) can satisfy a 50 meter horizontal accuracy
requirement under the studied simulation scenarios and simulation assumptions.
Technologies which have been sufficiently evaluated, have shown promise in
improving positioning accuracy, and were shown to meet/exceed regulatory
mandate are recommended for inclusion in the Work item.
It is recommended the work item should move forward.
#