# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The coexistence of Multiple RATs introduces many operational coordination
problems for network operators. The co-existence of various RATs (i.e.
LTE/UMTS/GSM/CDMA/WLAN) is an obvious reality and it will remain relevant in
the future. This raises important issues for operators in terms of
coordination across the RATs to achieve better user experience (QoE),
efficient resource usage, higher network capacity and easier maintenance,
especially in a multi-vendor environment. For an operator with multi-RAT
networks, frequent updated information from all RATs (radio resource
management, mobility and traffic load) is required in order to enable
efficient coordination by the network. It will be beneficial to consider a
general Multi-RATs coordination from RAN perspective.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides descriptions and possible solutions of use cases
for the multi-RAT joint operation, and also provides analysis of these
solutions. Considerations with regards to requested functionality in scope of
other 3GPP groups, if any, may be captured in this document as well.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.852: \"Study on S2a Mobility based on GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
(GTP) and Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) access to the Enhanced Packet
Core (EPC) network (SaMOG)\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.861: \"Network based IP flow mobility\"
[4] 3GPP TR 23.865: \"Study on Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) network
selection for 3GPP terminals\"
[5] 3GPP TR 23.890: \"Optimized offloading to Wireless Local Area Network
(WLAN) in 3GPP Radio Access Technology (RAT) mobility\"
[6] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via
non-3GPP access networks\"
[7] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.312: \"Access Network Discovery and Selection Function (ANDSF)
Management Object (MO)\"
[9] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\"
[10] RP-132086 \"New SID: Study on Multi-RAT joint coordination\" CMCC, China
Unicom, Huawei
[11] http://techliberation.com/2013/02/11/fcc-incentive-auction-will-the-fcc-
pick-a-winner-among-mobile-technologies/
[12] http://www.telecomstechnews.com/blog-hub/2013/apr/03/arceps-refarming-
decision-presents-operators-with-a-4g-opportunity/
[13] Carlos M. Gutierrez, SECRETARY, \"Improving International Spectrum
Management Policies and Framework\", 2008-03
[14] Tamara Lee, "Spectrum Licensing in Australia",
http://acma.gov.au/webwr/_assets/main/lib310474/spect_licensing_in_aust.pdf
[15] RP-132101 \"New Work Item Proposal: WLAN/3GPP Radio Interworking\", Intel
Cooperation,
[16] SP-120847 \"WID for WLAN Network Selection for 3GPP Terminals\", Intel
Cooperation
[17] Wi-Fi Alliance® Technical Committee, Hotspot 2.0 Technical Task Group
Hotspot 2.0 (Release 2) Technical Specification Version 3.11.
[18] IEEE Std 802.11TM-2012, IEEE Standard for Information technology-
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems-Local and
metropolitan area network.
[19] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\"
[20] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; \"
[21] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and
procedures for cell reselection in connected mode\"
[22] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\"
[23] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 Application Protocol (X2AP) \"
[24] EU FP7 project SEMAFOUR (Self-management for unified heterogeneous radio
access networks), http://www.fp7-semafour.eu
[25] EU FP7 project SEMAFOUR (Self-management for unified heterogeneous radio
access networks), \"Deliverable 4.1: SON functions for multi-layer LTE and
multi-RAT networks, \" 2013
[26] J. Baumgarten, A. Eisenblätter, T. Jansen, T. Kürner, D. M. Rose and U.
Türke, "SON laboratory: A multi-technology radio network simulation
environment for the SON analysis," in 2nd International Workshop on Self-
Organising Network (IWSON), Paris, 2012
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Spectrum re-allocation:**
Assignment of spectrum from one RAT to another, in a reversible manner, for a
period of time (temporal) or in an area (spatial).
It consists of these categories:
Temporal Spectrum re-allocation:
The re-allocation is for a time period that is _dynamic_ , _semi-static_ or
_static_.
_Dynamic_ should be understood in terms of seconds or minutes;
_Semi-static_ should be understood in terms of hours or days and based on
planned configurations that guarantee system stability and improve system
throughput in each scenario;
_Static_ (also known as _spectrum refarming_) should be understood in terms of
months or years and based on planned configurations that guarantee system
stability and improve system throughput in each scenario.
Spatial Spectrum re-allocation
The re-allocation is for a particular area, which is smaller than a whole
geographic region. Both spatial and temporal re-allocation may be combined.
**Traffic steering between 3GPP and WLAN**
The traffic offloading of served/camping UEs between one RAT and WLAN at APN
level. It is assumed that the UE is in EMM-REGISTERED mode.
**Operator-managed WLAN nodes**
WLAN nodes under the control of a cellular operator and its partners (e.g.,
the operator controls the backhaul QoS settings and who can access the AP),
either directly or through e.g. an agreement.
**Spectrum Hole**
The spectrum hole is a portion of the spectrum licensed to the operator which
for some reasons at some time in some places is not used.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAA Authentication Authorization Accounting
ANDSF Access Network Discovery and Selection Function
AC Access Controller
AP Access Point
BBF Broadband Forum
BSS load Basic Service Set load
CN Core Network
Eb/No Bit Energy over Spectral Noise Density
IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
Multi-RAT Multiple Radio Access Technologies
PTID Pseudo Terminal ID
RCPI Received Channel Power Indicator
RSNI Received Signal to Noise Indicator
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
SR Spectrum reallocation
TrSteer Traffic Steering
WT Wireless LAN Termination
Xw Interface between RAN and WLAN nodes
# 4 General Requirements
## 4.1 Requirements
### 4.1.1 Requirements from the SID
The requirements in the objectives of the SID [10] are shown here numbered for
reference:
1\. Identify the potential scenarios and use cases where Multi-RAT
coordination would be useful; including LTE, UMTS, GSM, CDMA and WLAN.
a. Identify and evaluate potential benefits and functionalities for joint
operation among different RATs, including:
b. Steering of UEs among different RATs, taking into account service type,
user experience, processing capacity, backhaul constraints and/or traffic
load, and consequent mobility enhancement.
2\. Efficient multi RAT joint radio resource coordination to improve load
balancing and for an operator to enable, e.g. spectrum re-farming.
3\. Investigate the potential enhancements of RAN interfaces and procedures to
support the joint operation among different RATs as described above, taking
into account the following:
a. Reuse existing RAN interfaces and procedures as much as possible;
b. No impact on UE operation and air interfaces;
c. Possibility to support different architectures/implementations.
### 4.1.2 Requirements for Study
The requirements to guide the study are shown in Table 4.1.2.1.
Table 4.1.2.1 Requirements
* * *
      Requirement                                                                                                                        Justification                                                                                                                                                                 Comment
1 Consider these RATs: LTE, UMTS, GSM, CDMA, WLAN From SID: 1, these are the
basic RATs mentioned.  
2 No architectural changes or internal interface changes to the CN. This is a
RAN SI so internal changes to CN are out of scope.  
3 No impact on UE operation and air interfaces. From SID: 3b.  
4 Reuse existing RAN interfaces and where possible existing procedures From
SID: 3a which says 'where possible'. Reuse existing interfaces and avoid
creating new interfaces for legacy RATs that would make upgrade of existing
deployments difficult. 5 Both dynamic solutions and longer term solutions
(e.g. UE Steering, load balancing after spectrum re-farm) should be
considered. From SID: 2a and 2b. UE steering requires some per call
operations, whereas introduction of new RAT deployments and spectrum re-
farming may require some long term changes.  
6 No adverse impact on legacy systems performance. Legacy network performance
should not be negatively impacted.  
7 Consider the inter-RAT co-ordination Interactions scenarios in Tables 4.2.1
and 4.2.2. Based on information in the SID and motivational document  
8 Focus on non-integrated 3GPP/WLAN nodes Integrated 3GPP/WLAN node is a
matter of implementation, and is not in the scope of this SI.  
9 Focus on operator-managed WLAN nodes The operator has control over e.g. AP
access and backhaul QoS, so this greatly reduces uncertainty over possible
user experience. Non-operator managed WLAN nodes are not considered
* * *
## 4.2 Interactions
The study covers multiple RATs and not all interactions between every RAT are
either useful or in scope.
Two aspects are considered:
\- Traffic Steering
\- Spectrum reallocation
Table 4.2.1 Interaction Scenarios for Traffic/UE steering
* * *
From To LTE UMTS GSM CDMA WLAN LTE x TrSteer TrSteer TrSteer ^Note\ 1^ TrSteer
^Note\ 2^ UMTS TrSteer X TrSteer TrSteer ^Note\ 1^ TrSteer ^Note\ 2^ GSM
TrSteer TrSteer X Out of Scope Out of scope CDMA TrSteer ^Note\ 1^ TrSteer
^Note\ 1^ Out of scope x Out of Scope WLAN TrSteer ^Note\ 2^ TrSteer ^Note\ 2^
Out of scope Out of scope x
* * *
NOTE 1: CDMA is not under 3GPP responsibility.
NOTE 2: RAN2/SA2 progress on WLAN interworking has to be considered.
Table 4.2.2 Interaction Scenarios for Spectrum Reallocation
* * *
From To LTE UMTS GSM CDMA WLAN LTE x SR SR SR ^Note\ 1^ Out of Scope UMTS SR X
SR SR ^Note\ 1^ Out of Scope GSM SR SR x Out of Scope Out of Scope CDMA SR
^Note\ 1^ SR ^Note\ 1^ Out of scope x Out of Scope WLAN Out of scope Out of
scope Out of scope Out of scope x
* * *
NOTE 1: CDMA is not under 3GPP responsibility.
# 5 Potential Deployment Scenarios and Use Cases
## 5.1 Coordination involving 3GPP-WLAN
### 5.1.1 Use cases for 3GPP-WLAN Interworking
#### 5.1.1.1 Estimation of UE throughput in WLAN
The UE may face throughput degradation after accessing the WLAN AP. Currently,
there is no information in RAN to help estimate such degradation (if present).
It is beneficial to investigate which information (if any) is helpful to be
exchanged between 3GPP and WLAN in such a scenario.
#### 5.1.1.2 Improvement of eNB/NB broadcast performance
Not all the WLAN identifiers configured in the eNB/NB and broadcasted over the
air interface may be active in the eNB/NB coverage area (e.g., because some
WLAN nodes are switched off). If interfaces are established between the RAN
and the WLAN nodes in its coverage area, it is possible for the RAN to
autonomously maintain the list of broadcasted WLAN identifiers. This is likely
to have a positive impact on Rel-12 WLAN interworking.
### 5.1.2 Solution for parameters exchange
#### 5.1.2.1 Parameters exchanged from the WLAN to 3GPP nodes
The following list of parameters would be considered for exchange from the
WLAN to the eNB/RNC for the purpose of WLAN-3GPP RAT coordination.
Table 5.1.2.1-1 Potential parameters to be exchanged.
* * *
Parameter Description Usage Availability in the AP Applicable to use case BSS
Load Provides information about current over-the-air traffic levels; it may be
typically used for vendor-specific AP-selection algorithms. It has a "Channel
Utilization" field, which indicates the amount of time that the AP senses the
medium as busy. It is broadcasted by the AP. May be used to get an indication
of expected data rate for the WiFi over-the-air connection, in order to make
more accurate traffic steering decisions, including e.g. setting RAN
thresholds for each UE. It is standardized in MIB in [17] and configurable in
AP for over-the-air broadcasting according to implementation. 5.1.1.1 UE
Average data rate Average data rate (in uplink / downlink) for a UE connected
to the AP, calculated by the AP (not standardized by IEEE, implementation-
specific). The RAN may compare the UE average data rate of each AP with the
throughput obtained in the serving cell to determine if the AP is a candidate
for offloading. Seems to require UE-associated signaling. May not be available
in the AP according to implementation 5.1.1.1 WLAN identifiers (e.g. SSID,
BSSID, HESSID) As defined in [18] The eNB/RNC should know which WLAN APs are
around them in order to perform traffic steering and HO, including filtering
the list which is broadcasted to UEs. 5.1.1.1, 5.1.1.2 BSS Average Access
Delay / BSS AC Access Delay As defined in [18] A long BSS Average Access
Delay/BSS AC Access Delay indicates that an incoming UE might not achieve a
high QoE in that AP. It is standardized in MIB in [17] and configurable in AP
for over-the-air broadcasting. 5.1.1.1 WAN Metrics Provides information about
the uplink/downlink WAN (backhaul) speed and load for the AP. Can be enquired
from the AP by the UE. Vendor-specific metric defined in[17]. The eNB/RNC will
know the latest load status of the WLAN backhaul and could make more accurate
traffic steering decisions, including e.g. setting RAN thresholds for each UE.
It is standardized in MIB in [17] and configurable in AP for over-the-air
broadcasting. 5.1.1.1
* * *
#### 5.1.2.2 Considerations on parameters exchanged from the WLAN to 3GPP
nodes
Some considerations apply to the following parameters:
1\. UE Throughput/Data rate, if available, may be provided to the eNB/RNC, via
3GPP RAN-WLAN interface. This could bring some advantage at the cost of
frequent information exchange. How to calculate the UE throughput is outside
of the scope of this Study Item.
2\. Node load information is beneficial to enable efficient offloading
decision by the eNB/RNC.
3\. It is beneficial to reuse the concept of Composite Available Capacity
(CAC) from TS 36.423 [23] and adopt it as baseline for WLAN load indication.
More in detail, the following information would be sent from WLAN to an
eNB/RNC:
a. The _Capacity Value_ , indicating the amount of available resources in the
WLAN node with respect to the total resources on a 0-100 scale;
b. Optionally, the _Capacity Class Value_ , indicating the capacity with
respect to other WLAN nodes on a 1-100 scale.
NOTE: An absolute reference indication (e.g., to be exchanged at interface
setup) seems to be needed for interpretation of the signalled capacity values.
Notice that due to the fact that the WLAN physical layer is TDD, it is not
feasible to report separate values for uplink and downlink.
#### 5.1.2.3 RAN-WLAN Interface and Architecture Model 3GPP
In case an interface between the RAN and the WLAN needs to be deployed, a
suitable architecture model needs to be defined as follows. We will refer to
such an interface as Xw.
On the RAN side, Xw is terminated in the eNB/RNC. On the WLAN side, also
looking at the parameters in Sec. 5.1.2.1 and 5.1.2.2, it is unclear where in
the WLAN this interface may terminate. One possibility might be to consider
the WLAN side of Xw as a "reference point", i.e. not terminated in a logical
node. In this way, however, the WLAN side cannot be defined in a 3GPP
specification but would rely on 3^rd^ party specifications (e.g. IEEE, BBF,
etc.)
An alternative solution is to define a suitable "Wireless LAN Termination"
(WT) as the WLAN termination for Xw. This can be defined as a logical node in
3GPP terms, and its behavior can be specified by RAN3. WT implementation,
including its placement in the WLAN, is out of 3GPP scope. The resulting
architecture for Xw is shown in the figure below.
{width="3.384027777777778in" height="1.8194444444444444in"}
Figure 5.1.2.3-1 Terminating Xw between the eNB and the WLAN Termination.
The analysis above is also applicable to UTRAN. In that case, the termination
point on the 3GPP side would be in the RNC. The flexibility of the
architecture studied in this TR can address potential specific scalability
implications (if any) with respect to UTRAN case.
The RAN-WLAN information exchange discussed so far seems to justify a CP-only
interface. However, from past experience with X2, it seems wise not to
preclude future non-CP functionality (e.g. packet forwarding for seamless
offloading).
#### 5.1.2.4 Correlating UE Identity between eNB/RNC and WT
In case the WT reports UE-associated information to the eNB/RNC, a suitable UE
identifier (an "Xw UE ID") needs to be signaled. This is needed in order for
the eNB/RNC to correlate the UE-associated information with the UE identity it
already knows. We can envisage three possible candidates for such a UE
identifier: (1) the UE IMSI, (2) the UE WLAN MAC address and (3) a new UE
identifier.
**Using the UE IMSI as Xw UE ID**
Adopting the UE IMSI would require the UE to signal its IMSI to the WLAN node
over the air interface so that it could be signaled over Xw (WLAN has
currently no knowledge of the IMSI). This has a number of serious
implications: it requires changes in the WLAN air interface (out of 3GPP
scope), and furthermore it is not considered good security practice to signal
IMSI over a network interface (in particular involving a non-3GPP node).
**Using the UE WLAN MAC Address as Xw UE ID**
Adopting the WLAN MAC address, on the other hand, has the added benefit of
reusing already available information from the WLAN, and of not requiring any
changes in the WLAN air interface node (it is already signaled by the UE when
it attaches to the WLAN). This may also help to limit WT complexity. In
principle the WLAN MAC address might be used for WLAN authentication and
access control, but such usage does not seem relevant for operator-deployed
WLAN. In any case, a security analysis should be performed by more appropriate
WGs in the normative phase.
Currently a UE does not signal its WLAN MAC address to the eNB/RNC. Without
this information it is not possible for the eNB/RNC to correlate this
identifier with the UE identity it already knows. Sending the WLAN MAC address
over Uu, however, will involve new UE-eNB/RNC signaling, which is under RAN2
responsibility and therefore out of scope for the current SI.
**Using the PTID as Xw UE ID**
Adopting a new UE identifier (such as the Pseudo Terminal ID -- PTID) would
require changes in the 3GPP air interface as well and, similarly to the UE
WLAN MAC address based method, it will involve UE-eNB/RNC signalling (which is
out of the scope of the current SI). Notice that the PTID would be sent from
the UE to the WLAN by re-using the existing _EAP-Identity Response_ message,
and therefore seems applicable only for a limited set of authentication
mechanisms.
On the WLAN side, besides UE behaviour changes, some AP behaviour changes are
also required, since the AP would need to be able to read such field
(currently the EAP message is transparently forwarded to the AAA). In any
case, a more detailed assessment might be needed in the normative phase. The
PTID based method would
\- not affect the current security level of 3GPP RAN and WLAN, neither TMSI
nor UE MAC address would be shared out of their original system, and
\- similarly to the other methods, allow RAN to block unauthorized WLAN access
(user manually selecting WLAN).
This analysis is summarized in the table below.
Table 5.1.2.4-1 Comparison table for potential Xw UE ID candidates.
* * *
                                                     UE WLAN MAC Address as Xw UE ID   UE IMSI as Xw UE ID   PTID as Xw UE ID
Impacts Uu (out of RAN3 scope but in 3GPP scope) **Yes** **No** **Yes**
Impacts WLAN air interface (out of 3GPP scope) **No** **Yes** **No** Impacts
on AP behavior **No** **Yes** **Yes**
* * *
## 5.2 Use cases for spectrum re-allocation
It should be analyzed whether the following uses cases, which produce spectrum
holes, require dynamic spectrum allocation functionality. This scenario can be
better understood by looking at the following statistics, if available:
1\. expected frequency/relevance of this scenario;
2\. expected amount of LTE and 3G users in a certain time frame (e.g.
2016-2020);
3\. expected amount of GSM-only users in a certain time frame (e.g.
2016-2020);
4\. expected number of involved GSM-only users.
### 5.2.1 Spectrum Hole in Long Term
With the development of 3GPP networks, mobile subscribers transferring from
GSM/UMTS to LTE will be a global phenomenon, and usually the procedure may
last about 10 years. However, the transfer progress varies in different areas.
It is impossible to have a uniform prediction of such progress, as different
operators have different plans for spectrum refarming according to their own
predictions. The accuracy of such predictions may also vary. Furthermore, the
traditional static approach to spectrum refarming cannot keep up with the
reduction in spectrum requirements of GSM and UMTS, and thus needs to wait a
long time (usually 1\~2 years) until a specific spectrum portion is empty. In
this period, when the legacy system cannot make sufficient use of the owned
spectrum, a "spectrum hole" occurs as shown in Fig. 5.2.1-1. Such "spectrum
hole" may limit the network performance.
{width="3.3354166666666667in" height="1.7159722222222222in"}
Figure: 5.2.1-1 Spectrum hole in long term
If the spectrum available for sharing may be allocated in smaller or irregular
"chunks" (e.g. narrow bandwidth configurations possible for some RATs), this
may help to alleviate the "spectrum hole", at least locally, provided that the
involved RATs are able to efficiently use it.
For instance, within a 20 MHz GSM band an operator can release as many GSM
hopping carriers as needed for the required LTE carrier, which can be
increased step by step. It is noted that minimum spectrum holes of, e.g., 1.4
MHz when refarming to LTE cannot be avoided neither with legacy nor with
dynamic spectrum refarming.
Depending on the characteristics of the involved RATs and on local regulatory
policy, it may be possible to refarm portions of spectrum without waiting for
a band to be completely empty. Based on that, the timing of refarming for
spectrum holes mitigation can be defined by operators according to their
evolution plans.
### 5.2.2 Spectrum Hole in Short Term
The load distribution over cells varies all the time due to e.g. work/rest
time period in business vs. residential areas or due to differences in
customer usage over time periods and business groups. Spectrum holes may be
found in some periods within the same day, where the legacy system cannot make
sufficient use of the owned spectrum yet the more advanced RAT is in an
overload situation. CS and PS traffic could vary significantly as shown in
Fig. 5.2.2-1 (data from a real network). It is assumed that most PS traffic is
carried by LTE, and most CS traffic is carried by legacy GSM/UMTS in the
future. This spectrum hole may occur in a short time interval as well.
NOTE: In case PS traffic peaks overlap with CS traffic peaks, the short term
spectrum re-allocation would bring limited benefit.
{width="3.238888888888889in" height="2.329861111111111in"}
Figure: 5.2.2-1 Spectrum hole in short term
### 5.2.3 Spectrum Hole in Space
In real networks, the highly loaded cells are only in a small portion of the
network; for example, in a commercial network in 2013 it was found that most
cells (>70%) have a load below 30%; the hotspot cells with load above 70% are
only less than 5%. It seems possible for most cells to share out spectrum to
LTE. In hotspots, spectrum sharing with legacy RATs may not be possible due to
high load, but this situation can be improved by site densification or by
adding LTE small cells (as shown for the urban area in Fig. 5.2.3-1). On the
other hand, most of the suburban area could obtain enough spectrum by sharing
it from GSM/UMTS with much less investment.
{width="3.058333333333333in" height="2.2222222222222223in"}
Figure: 5.2.3-1 Spectrum hole in space
### 5.2.4 Local vs. Large-Scale Averages
The "spectrum hole" effect mentioned above (both in space and in time) needs
to be put in perspective with respect to local averages. For example, the
possible gain due to dynamic spectrum reallocation may vary significantly
according to the particular area, due to the various traffic patterns. In
particular, with respect to a coverage area, if we consider e.g. a border
region between the coverage areas of different RATs, the possible spectrum
"pool" available for reallocation may be more limited than if we were to
consider a larger multi-RAT coverage area. In the same way, the "spectrum
hole" may significantly vary according to the particular time frame with
respect to the traffic pattern and the available spectrum resources. This may
limit the potential benefit of dynamic spectrum reallocation.
### 5.2.5 Potential solutions for spectrum holes
#### 5.2.5.1 Descriptions
Spectrum reallocation should satisfy capacity and coverage requirements among
different RATs. In order to satisfy the service quality, interference should
be taken into account when spectrum reallocation is applied, since if not
coordinated it may also cause resource waste in some or all of the involved
RATs.
#### 5.2.5.2 Solutions
The following potential solutions are considered: static spectrum reallocation
(i.e., Spectrum Re-farming) and semi-static spectrum re-allocation.
**Option 1: Static spectrum reallocation**
Static spectrum reallocation, known as spectrum refarming, is used by
operators to reallocate a certain amount of spectrum from a legacy RAT to an
advanced RAT permanently in a whole network or in a certain geographical area,
when the difference between them in terms of traffic demand reaches a certain
level. It is understood that spectrum refarming needs a careful network
planning including network analysis, parameter audit, neighbour planning,
frequency plan, network optimization and drive test. To avoid interference
between refarmed area and unrefarmed area, usually some buffer zones should be
planned.
The refarming granularity is relevant to the type of RAT. For instance, within
a 20 MHz GSM band an operator can release as many GSM hopping carriers as
needed for the required LTE carrier, which can be increased step by step. It
is noted that the minimum size of a spectrum hole can be of, e.g., 1.4MHz.
**Option 2: Semi-static spectrum re-allocation**
Semi-static reallocation requires that some planned radio resource usage
schemes are configured in the network, where, e.g. each plan is used for a
particular capacity requirement (in this case, when the capacity requirement
changes, the network would apply a new plan). Each plan defines a particular
allocation of spectrum resources to each RAT. In a particular plan, a spectrum
resource (defined in space, frequency and time) is allocated to one RAT only.
The shared area is defined as the area where the spectrum may be allocated to
more than one RAT under different plans.
\- Each plan may also include a buffer zone around the geographical RAT
boundaries to avoid interference between different RATs using the shared
spectrum. However, such buffer zones in some cases may also result in
inefficient use of spectrum.
\- If the plan assumes existence of shared areas, it may also coordinate
spectrum resource usage schemes (e.g. in frequency or time domains). One of
the RATs (e.g. the legacy RAT) could be given priority according to e.g.
operator policy.
\- The planned schemes are set in a centralized manner (e.g. by OAM).
Triggering of the scheme change could be initiated in a centralised manner
(e.g. by OAM), or in a distributed manner (e.g. as a scheme change
notification exchanged among peer network entities like BSC, RNC and eNB).
#### 5.2.5.3 Evaluations
##### 5.2.5.3.1 Interaction with RAN Mechanisms
If two different RATs are deployed over the same spectrum in a particular
area, there are some practical issues which the operator should consider
before deploying spectrum reallocation in that area:
1) The involved RAN nodes cannot be considered independently from the
surrounding coverage area. Spectrum reallocation may impact the coverage in
the surroundings, possibly causing areas of suboptimal performance. This might
require additional planning beforehand.
2) We could envisage an open-loop spectrum reallocation and a closed-loop
spectrum reallocation. Open-loop spectrum reallocation could be based on, e.g.
a fixed schedule, possibly via OAM coordination. Closed-loop spectrum
reallocation could operate according to information exchanged between the RAN
nodes and/or OAM. Open-loop mode is going to be slower and less responsive to
unforeseen variations, while closed-loop mode is going to be more signaling-
intensive and highly dependent on implementations.
3) There may be issues in case of an emergency. Considering the requirements
for emergency services may result in additional constraints on spectrum
reallocation.
4) Spectrum reallocation will also interact with Mobility Load Balancing
(MLB), Inter-Cell Interference Coordination (ICIC), User Plan Congestion
management (UPCON), and other functionality. Convergence across relevant RAN
nodes will not be trivial (and implementation-dependent), especially
considering the various time scales for all these functionalities.
##### 5.2.5.3.2 Different RAT Architectures
Some RATs (i.e. GSM, UMTS) allocate resources from nodes which control many
base stations (i.e. the BSC and the RNC, respectively) while LTE operates in a
distributed manner (e.g. ICIC). This can be an issue: resource allocation
mechanisms in different RATs operate according to their respective
architectures. Information exchange between different RATs can take place
through e.g. RIM or the respective OAMs. The implications of such interaction
are also unknown.
##### 5.2.5.3.3 Complementing Coverage with Unlicensed Spectrum
Spectrum reallocation applies to licensed spectrum only. However, it may be
beneficial to consider using unlicensed spectrum (e.g. deployment of WLAN) as
a complementary solution to spectrum reallocation in extremely dense areas.
## 5.3 Use cases for Intra 3GPP deployment scenario
### 5.3.1 Consideration of user experience consistency
Currently, user experience with services based on non-GBR bearers is left up
to node implementation. That often means the user is allocated the best
throughput allowed in the given load situation. Therefore at, inter-RAT
handover the user experience may change. Using different implementation based
solutions to apply the same treatment to non-GBR bearers may not always
provide an adequate solution.
Inter-RAT mobility parameters are currently set separately in each involved
RAT. It may be desirable for an operator to make parameter determination and
configuration more practical and efficient, especially for the case of multi-
vendor deployments.
### 5.3.2 Impacts due to CN upgrading
Current inter-RAT mobility mechanisms rely on core network functionality.
There may be cases, especially where the core network and the different RAN
RATs are from different vendors, where upgrading the core network may not be
feasible according to operator policy, e.g. due to the fact that one minor
error may cause significant operational problems in several parts the network.
### 5.3.3 Potential solution
A partial solution consists in using GBR bearers, for those services that
suffer significantly from user experience change across RATs and that can be
transported using GBR bearers.
# 6 Conclusions
## 6.1 Coordination Involving 3GPP\WLAN
RAN3 has discussed the issue of 3GPP-WLAN interworking enhancements. The
solution based on a 3GPP-WLAN direct interface has been presented in section
5.1.2.3. Such solution would allow an exchange of parameters between WLAN and
3GPP which are currently not provided by the UE. This can assist the eNB and
RNC with information on WLAN available capacity in order to take better
decisions in terms of 3GPP-WLAN traffic steering. Further specification work
for this interface may involve liaising the appropriate Standard Developing
Organizations.
## 6.2 Spectrum re-allocation
RAN3 has discussed the scenario and possible solutions for spectrum holes. It
was concluded that the planned schemes for static or semi-static spectrum
reallocation can be configured via OAM, as described in section 6.1.2. The
inter-RAT interference should be taken into account when spectrum reallocation
is applied especially if no (or a small) buffer zone is planned. However, RAN3
could not assess the impacts of the inter-RAT interference as they are out of
its scope, nor conclude on possible solutions. Interference aspects could be
evaluated in more appropriate RAN WGs.
## 6.3 Intra-3GPP UE/traffic steering
The SI has investigated the traffic steering in Intra-3GPP multi-RATs
deployment scenario. RAN3 has identified some Intra-3GPP traffic steering
issues that may arise. These issues may bring some sub-optimal network
deployment and mobility optimization solutions to operators. However, with
current Intra-3GPP multi-RAT architecture, potential standardized solutions to
those issues purely pertinent to this study item could not be identified.
###### ### Annex A: Current status of RAN2 and SA2 work
# A.1: Summary of WLAN/3GPP radio interworking in RAN2
Information on RAN2 work can be found in TS 36.304[9], TS 36.331[19], TS
36.300 [20], TS 25.304[21] and TS 25.331[22].
# A.2: Summary of other WLAN related topics in SA2
Information on SA2 work can be found in TR 23.852[2], TR 23.861[3], TR
23.865[4], TR 23.890 [5], TS 24.302 [6], TS 23.402 [7] and TS 24.312[8].
###### ### Annex B: Regulatory View on Dynamic Spectrum Re-allocation
Technology neutral spectrum is a global trend, where the licensees are free to
deploy different radio technologies in the licensed spectrum. The initial
survey results of some regions are presented below:
\- United States
In United States, the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) has adopted
"flexible use" mobile policies since 1993 with the Broadband PCS band and
continuing through 2007 with the 700 MHz band. Now these flexible usage
policies allow spectrum licensees to decide the services they will provide and
the technologies they will use. Switching between technologies on the licensed
spectrum for different RATs is allowed [11].
\- Nordic and Baltic Countries
There has been no limitation on which technology to be allocated to the
spectrum since 2007. In other words, also it is possible to shift licensed
spectrum freely between technologies e.g. UTRAN and E-UTRAN. Hence, in Nordic
and Baltics, this kind of spectrum sharing is allowed.
\- France
The French communications regulator, has announced that Bouygues Telecom [12]
will be permitted to refarm its spectrum in the 1800MHz band in order to
provide 4G services from October 1, 2013, and _all spectrum licenses in the
country will become technologically neutral_ from May 2016\. So the switch
between technologies on any licensed spectrum is also allowed from that date.
\- United Kingdom
The United Kingdom does not explicitly support or forbid a policy for the
spectrum technology neutrality, but lets the market determine this. This would
allow the market to drive spectrum harmonization, leaving the government to
facilitate rather than plan, therefore, when the market requires the spectrum
technology neutrality, the market can do it [13].
\- Australia
The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) announced that the
flexible use of the spectrum is allowed, to choose technologies and type of
services by licensee [14].
\- China
Although not all the spectrum bands are technologically neutral, the flexible
RAT shift of TD-SCDMA and TD-LTE in the 1880MHz\~1900MHz and 2320MHz\~2370MHz
bands is allowed.
###### ### Annex C: Spectrum Re-allocation Functionality
Semi-static spectrum re-allocation functionality may be divided into three
stages, see in Figure C-1.
Figure C-1: Semi-static spectrum re-allocation functionality
**Data collection and Problem detection** is defined as the process where the
spectrum hole can be detected based on UE and eNB measurements and performance
measurements.
**Decision-making** is defined as the process where spectrum re-allocation
scheme can be defined according to the problem detection output. This stage
may be different in different stages of network deployment. It should be noted
that intra-system and inter-system reconfigurations can be simultaneously
performed.
**Scheme Scheduling** is defined as the process that receives and analyses the
spectrum re-allocation decisions and triggers the corresponding
reconfigurations of the involved base stations. Once all reconfigurations are
completed, the updated cell configuration information is acknowledged by the
neighbouring cells.
###### ### Annex D: Interference Analysis on Spectrum Re-allocation
**Inter-RAT Interference in GSM/LTE spectrum Reallocation**
In order to prevent the spectrum resource waste in the shared spectrum, inter-
RAT interference coordination can be used as depicted in Figure D-1. Each LTE
cell in the buffer zone area can make use of the overlapped spectrum in a
coordinated manner with the neighbouring GSM cells within the buffer zone. For
those LTE cells close to Cluster B (e.g. Cell 3) with more GSM cells involved
in the coordination area, fewer resources are available. And for those LTE
cells further away from Cluster B (e.g. Cell 2), fewer GSM cells need to be
coordinated and more resources are available for LTE. After a certain distance
(usually the buffer zone width), all the overlapped spectrums can be used by
LTE, similarly to LTE cells within Cluster A (e.g. Cell 1).
Figure D-1: Inter-RAT coordination with neighbour cell
According to this coordination manner, inter-RAT information may be exchanged
between GSM and LTE. As an example, each GSM cell within Cluster B is assigned
with the fixed Traffic Channel (TCH) configuration and its assigned resources
in the frequency domain or the time domain. With this type of information
exchange, LTE eNB can combine the GSM frequency usage by the involved cells
and their planed allocations.
**Inter-RAT Interference in UMTS/LTE spectrum Reallocation**
The main idea of this option is to extend the uplink inter-cell interference
control in UMTS and LTE to the inter-RAT domain. Since UMTS UEs and LTE UEs do
not have a big difference in terms of maximum output power level, the only new
additional action is to require the neighbouring inter-RAT cell to restrict
the output power of the UEs causing the interference. It may be possible to
use a new inter-RAT message for this option, which is shown in Figure D.2
(Options for exchanging the information include using a direct interface or
reusing RIM information). When UMTS Received Total Wideband Power (RTWP) or
LTE IoT (Interference over Thermal) reaches the threshold, the interfered RAT
may request the other RAT to decrease the UL transmit power in the
neighbouring cell. This solution can easily solve the inter-RAT interference
unbalance problem in UMTS/LTE semi-static spectrum reallocation, while
preventing spectrum waste. The performance is also related to the frequency of
the information exchange, i.e., the more frequent the information exchange,
the better performance. The exchanged information may reuse the existing
parameters already used in intra-RAT scenarios, e.g. the RTWP value in UMTS
system, and IoT (Interference over Thermal) value in LTE system.
Figure D-2: Example of U/L inter-RAT interference coordination
###### ### Annex E: Example of parameter exchange from WLAN to 3GPP
The LTE-WLAN TS SON scheme studied within SEMAFOUR [24] builds upon the
Release 12 RAN assisted WLAN radio interworking. That is, the eNB adjusts the
Wi-Fi Received Signal Strength Indication (RSSI) Threshold
(Thresh~BeaconRSSIWLAN,\ High~, cf. TS 36.304 [9]) in a dynamic and per cell
fashion. At connection setup, the UE selects the Wi-Fi access if the measured
RSSI is above the RSSI Threshold. Otherwise the LTE access is selected.
Further details on the investigated TS schemes are reported in [25].
In the following the performance of the TS scheme is compared when the WLAN
load information assumed available at the eNB is as follows:
a) _No WLAN load information available_ : This case is referred to as _LTE-
WLAN TS with No WLAN Load_. The threshold adjustment is performed based on the
local information available at the eNB only;
b) _BSS Load available_ : This case is referred to as _LTE-WLAN TS with BSS
Load._ The threshold adjustment is performed based on the local information
available at the eNB and _on a per-second basis periodic reporting_ of BSS
Load, i.e. channel utilization. The channel is considered as busy if either
the AP or a UE is transmitting;
c) _WLAN CAC available_ : This case is referred to as _LTE-WLAN TS with WLAN
CAC._ The threshold adjustment is performed based on the local information
available at the eNB and _on a per-second basis periodic reporting_ of WLAN
CAC. The definition of the CAC metric per AP assumed in the study is in [25].
An LTE/WLAN system level simulator operating in a realistic environment is
used for the analysis. Details of the simulator implementation can be found in
[26]. Figure E.1 shows the realistic Outdoor Hot Zone deployment scenario and
the stationary users whose locations are selected to cover high traffic
density areas according to the traffic intensity map. The deployment includes
28 co-sited outdoor LTE micros and WLAN Access Points (APs) in addition to 4
LTE macro sites. Omni-directional antennas of the co-sited micro/APs are
installed on lampposts at 5 m height. User traffic is generated by User
Datagram Protocol (UDP), i.e., file downloading with a deterministic call size
of 5 MB. Poisson distributed calls arrive with _λ = 8-16_ calls/s in the
simulated area of 1.2 x 1.2 km^2^. Note that 8 and 16 calls/s correspond to
low and high offered load scenarios respectively.
Figure E-1: Outdoor hot zone scenario: network deployment layout and user
locations.
The average and 10^th^ percentile user session throughput is illustrated in
Figure E.2 for the simulated offered load range.
Figure E-2: Average and 10^th^ percentile session throughput at different user
arrival rates with and without information exchange between LTE and Wi-Fi.
Considerable gains in average and 10^th^ percentile user throughput are
observed under any offered load level when assuming that WLAN load information
is available. Compared to the case with _no WLAN load information_ , the
average throughput gain when assuming the reporting of BSS Load is 10% to 20%
and the 10^th^ percentile throughput gain is 50% to 150%. Similarly, when
assuming the reporting of WLAN CAC the average throughput gain is 15% to 25%
and 10^th^ percentile throughput gain is 90% to 170%.
The CAC metric seems superior to the BSS Load metric at lower offered load
levels. This is because even in the case when a single greedy user is being
served by an AP, the BSS Load metric will indicate that the channel
utilization reaches the level of 100% and ignore the level of satisfaction
which could be achieved by further users connecting to the same AP. On the
contrary, at higher load levels, the defined CAC metric may over-estimate the
available resources. I.e., the per-UE estimated air time fraction does not
account for e.g. backoff/collision which occurs in case multiple users are
served simultaneously. Improvements of the CAC definition could be envisioned
to overcome this limitation^1^.
It can therefore be observed that steering users between 3GPP and WLAN with
the knowledge of the WLAN load information leads to considerable benefits**.**
Therefore reporting of WLAN load information metrics should be enhanced via
the WLAN - 3GPP RAN interface in order for the 3GPP RAN to make more efficient
offloading decisions. This brings significant user performance improvements.
NOTE 1: The research leading to these results was carried out as part of the
SEMAFOUR project [24] and has received funding from the European Union,
Seventh Framework Programme (FP7/2007-2013) under grant agreement n° 316384.
#