# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and
interrogation of call barring supplementary services within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# Introduction
The present document includes references to features which are not part of the
Phase 2+ Release 96 of the GSM Technical specifications. All subclauses which
were changed as a result of these features contain a marker (see table below)
relevant to the particular feature. GSM 10.01 defines the correspondence
between these features and GSM yearly releases.
The following table lists all features that were introduced after Release 96.
* * *
Feature Designator CAMEL Phase 2 \$(CAMEL2)\$
* * *
# 0 Scope
This Technical Specification (TS) specifies the procedures used at the radio
interface (reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and
interrogation of call barring supplementary services. Provision and withdrawal
of supplementary services is an administrative matter between the mobile
subscriber and the service provider and cause no signalling on the radio
interface.
In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004, GSM 02.8x and GSM 02.9x‑series.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS
23.011, GSM 03.8x and GSM 03.9x‑series.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary services belong to the call restriction
supplementary services and are described in this specification:
\- Barring of outgoing calls (clause 1):\ \- Barring of all outgoing calls
(BAOC) (Barring program 1);\ \- Barring of outgoing international calls (BOIC)
(Barring program 2);\ \- Barring of outgoing international calls EXCEPT those
directed to the home PLMN country\ (BOIC-exHC) (Barring program 3).
\- Barring of incoming calls (clause 2):\ \- Barring of all incoming calls
(BAIC) (Barring program 1);\ \- Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside
the home PLMN country\ (BIC-Roam) (Barring program 2);
\- Anonymous Call Rejection (ACR) (Barring program 3).
## 0.1 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access reference
configuration\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) Supplementary Service; Stage 2\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this specification are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
## 0.3 Cross phase compatibility
For the following supplementary services, a number of changes exist between
this specification and the protocol version 1 specification:
\- Barring of outgoing calls;
\- Barring of incoming calls.
The main body of this specification assumes that all network entities comply
with this version of the service. In each case an additional subclauses 1.7
and 2.7 defines the additional requirements for when one or more network
entities or the MS complies with the protocol version 1 specifications for the
supplementary service procedures.
# 1 Barring of outgoing calls
## 1.1 Normal operation
When a barring program relating to outgoing calls is active and operative for
a basic service, each call set up related to that basic service and not
allowed by the barring program will be refused by the network. In this case a
NotifySS operation containing the SS-Status indicating that a barring program
relating to outgoing calls is currently active and operative will be sent to
the served mobile subscriber in a clearing message (see figure 1.1). For SMS,
RP cause "Call barred" shall be sent to MS (see figure 1.2).
MS Network
SETUP
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE
\
RP-ERROR (RP-cause)
\
Facility (Invoke = ActivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode))
> Password procedure according to 3GPP TS 24.010
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = DeactivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode))
> Password procedure according to 3GPP TS 24.010
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (SS-Code))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = ActivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode))
> Password procedure according to 3GPP TS 24.010
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = DeactivateSS (SS-Code, BasicServiceCode))
> Password procedure according to 3GPP TS 24.010
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (SS-Code))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\ New Version Subject/Comment Apr 1999 GSM
04.88 6.0.1 Transferred to 3GPP CN1 CN#03 24.088 R99 3.0.0 Approved at CN#03
CN#11 24.088 3.0.0 Rel-4 4.0.0 Approved at CN#11 CN#16 24.088 4.0.0 Rel-4
4.0.1 References updated CN#16 24.088 4.0.1 Rel-5 5.0.0 Rel-5 created after
CN#16 CN#19 24.088 5.0.0 0001r2 Rel-6 6.0.0 Introducing SMS Call Barring in PS
domain CT#36 24.088 6.0.0 Rel-7 7.0.0 Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6 CT#42
24.088 7.0.0 Rel-8 8.0.0 Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7 2009-12 24.088 8.0.0 -
Rel-9 9.0.0 Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)